Well, we're going to start a new series today in our preaching, and we're going to go back to 2 Kings back in the Old Testament. We finished up Revelation. We worked on Revelation for a couple years. And we went all through the 22 chapters of Revelation. And we were in the New Testament and prophecy for the future Now we're going to switch gears and go back in the past to 2 Kings back to the Old Testament. And the Old Testament, we really need to be in the Old Testament a lot. It's the foundation for the New Testament. And so many churches today ignore the Old Testament, and they call themselves New Testament churches. And are proud of that. But you know, three-fourths of the Bible is Old Testament. And there's three times as much stuff in the Old Testament as there is in the New Testament. And the New Testament just builds upon the foundation of what is back in the Old Testament. And we Presbyterians, we have covenant theology. And covenant theology recognizes the integrity of the Bible, Old Testament and New Testament. Things, covenants going from the Old Testament to the New Testament And that's as opposed to dispensationalism, which I believe uh chops up the Bible too much and uh dispensations and can tends to minimize the Old Testament somewhat. But anyway, here we have 2 Kings. And actually what we want to start out with here is 1 Kings, the very end of 1 Kings. And let's get our glasses on. The very end of First Kings, and we got Uh 1 Kings chapter 22 and verse 51, just the very end there. And it says, Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, began to reign over Israel in Samaria the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, and reigned two years over Israel. And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Gebat, who made Israel to sin, for he served Baal and worshipped him. and provoked to anger the Lord God of Israel according to all that his father had done. And then you go up to verse one of chapter one of Second Kings, then Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab. So there's the intro to chapter 1 of 2 Kings. And the beauty here back in Kings and Chronicles, you know we have four books here, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles. Is that this is a broad panorama of history in the past. And the history covered in these books is hundreds of years, like 400 years of history Or 300 years of history. And uh it it it has all these broad expanses of time. And you see God working in time and in Israel, and we see how God works And how he does things. And we can see what God thinks about things. It gives us the divine commentary on history here, the history of Israel. What God does and what God thinks of things going through history. And we have a broad conflict here in Kings and Chronicles, between God and the ungodly rulers of Israel, the ungodly kings, mainly ungodly. And we have God sending his prophets to give his messages to the kings and to the people of these countries. And so it's a very interesting history here, an inspired history So here we have Ahaziah. We come up with Ahaziah here as we come to 2 Kings. And here we have Ahaziah, he's the son of Ahab. And you remember what kind of guy Ahab was. He was a very ungodly king, and Elijah fought with him. Well, here we have his son, and uh and his the son Ahaziah had for parents Ahab and Jezebel. And he had some very bad parents. You know, just uh uh just recently there was uh somebody in a church and the uh uh the girl's name was Jezebel and I thought that was quite an interesting name to name your child. But anyway, Ahab and Jezebel were not very godly people, very ungodly. And Elijah reproved them. And then you notice here in uh uh verse here, verse 51 of 1 Kings there, uh it talks about Jehoshaphat. And it's interesting that Jehoshaphat, he was a godly king, one of the few godly kings, but he had a problem. And his problem was he wanted to get together with the ungodly to do big deals. And he wanted to go to war with the ungodly, with Ahab, along with him. And he wanted to send ships with Ahab and with Israel. And he wanted to do all these things. And then he went so far as to marry his son To the daughter of Ahab and Jezebel, Athaliah. And that was the worst possible thing he could have done He was a godly king, but he had that problem. He wanted to do big things, and he wanted to unite with the ungodly. So he's mentioned right here, and he's kind of like the Billy Graham of the Old Testament. You know, Billy Graham, he loved to do great big things, have huge crusades and go set the world on fire. And he did some good things. He preached some gospel, and people did get saved, some, but he just loved to work with all the ungodly. And he'd get together with the Roman Catholics and have Roman Catholic priests on the platform with him. And he would go over to Russia. And he would go over there. Hey, buddy up with the communists over there. And he said, Well, you know, if the communists let me preach the gospel in their churches over there, I'll go But all he was was just lending credence to the communists and showing the whole world that don't you know that the communists have freedom of religion over there? They're letting Billy Graham come over there And of course he just preached to one church over there or a couple of 'em. And you know, when he was preaching, uh people put uh some some some of the true Christians there put up banners back in the back about how he was how they were persecuted there and of course they were taken away to Siberia or wherever. uh because they dared to protest the but against the communists and of course Billy Graham therein with them But anyway, Jehoshaphat was a godly king, basically, but he loved to unite with the ungodly, and here it re references him here. And as he was at that same time with Ahab. Well, here we have Ahaziah. And we're told here he did evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother. In the way of Ahab and Jezebel, and in the way of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. And what did Jeroboam do? Well remember when the kingdom was divided after Solomon, Jeroboam took the ten northern tribes and he set up idols at Dan and Bethel And he set up that false worship up in the northern kingdom of Israel. And so that sin is always referred to over and over and over, the sin of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. You know, this is a lot of history here. It's a lot of detail. It's a lot of names. It's a lot of those things. But you know, God loves history. God is always all through the Bible. God has given us history and given us all these names and all these details. And He wants us to learn things from history. Because history is how God has worked in the past. The blessings that God has given in the past. The messages, the judgments that God has given in the past. And we're supposed to learn how God operates today. Through that. Of course, the old saying is: he that will not learn from history is doomed to repeat it. And there's a lot of truth to that. So, you know, you know, sports fans, they have their sports, and they can recount every detail of the sports. And they can go back 25 years and tell you how this guy batted back then, or how this guy, how many touchdowns he had, and all that. And it's never too many details for them because they love it. And we need to love the details of God's word. But anyway, here we have Ahaziah. And he followed in the sins of Ahab and Jezebel and Jeroboam the son of Nebat. And he served Baal and worshipped him and provoked to anger the Lord God of Israel. You know, not all gods are the same. You know, God is a jealous God, and it makes a big difference who we worship and how we worship. And provoked to anger God when he worshipped Baal. Let me go over to chapter 1 of 2 Kings. And we have a problem that Ahaziah has here. We read the responsive reading. We won't read the whole passage here, the first ten verses. But Ahaziah fell down through a lattice in his chamber and was sick. He was injured and in bad shape in bed. And Ahaziah was there, laying there. Number one, we can see the kings and the high-ups in society They suffer the same sickness and the same disease and the same problems, the same accidents, the same death that each one of us suffer And so He is I being the king. And these were all powerful kings. They could send people to death on the spur of the moment. He fell down, he was sick, and the problem was he was laying there in the sick bed, and he wanted to know if he was going to recover. You know, everybody always wants to know the future. Everybody wants to know the future. And of course, if you knew the future, you could get rich in a second. If you knew what the stock market was going to do, you could get rich in a second. And I believe Frederick the Great, he said that if if I knew my enemy's plans, I would always win, if he knew what he was going to do. And uh so the thing is, he wanted to know the future. But he didn't worship the God of Israel, he worshiped Baal, Baalzebub, the God of Ekron of the Philistines there. And so he sent a messenger over to the priests of Beelzebub to ask if he would recover of his sickness. You know, back in the old time days they had a lot of different ways of telling the future. They used to take apart an animal And it says in the Bible that uh uh Nebuchadnezzar, when he was there looking to where he should go attack, he was looking at the fork in the road, should he attack here or attack there We're told that he looked in the liver. They used to take a take a goat apart, and depending on how the liver looks, they'd know what the future would be. And uh so anyway, they wanted the this King Ahaziah, he wanted to know what the future would be. Would he recover? So he sent off this messenger But you notice here, verse 3, I like it here. I like the butts in the Bible. You got all everybody going their own way, doing their own thing, but But God has something to say about it. But God is going to do something else. You have that with Jonah when he flew. And toward Tarshish, toward Spain. And it says, but God sent a storm. God sent a fish and all those things. And here it is, but the angel of the Lord said unto Elijah. Now this could have been Jesus here A lot of times in the Old Testament it's it's uh clear that the angel of the Lord, that terminology is Jesus. It's not so clear here. But anyway, the angel of the Lord said to Elijah. Elijah is still on the scene here at the beginning of 2 Kings. He's been on the scene in 1 Kings. He's about ready to pass off the scene. And pass on his fiery chariot to heaven. But the Lord says to him, Go meet the messenger of Ahaz. And give him a message. The message was, is it because there's no God in Israel that you've gone to inquire of Baal? And so, you know, it's interesting here, here we have the pro and so often through Kings and Chronicles, prophets will pop up suddenly. All of a sudden, a prophet will pop up. God will give the prophet a message to deliver to the king or to others, and then the prophet disappears. Of course, Elijah was always pretty much there, but other prophets just come for a second and disappear many times. But anyway, here we have this message to Elijah. And you see the timing of things. It's right while the messenger is journeying there, God tells Elijah to go out and meet him right on the spot, right when he's journeying to go over and inquire of Baal. And God uses timing. You know, we can see really the hand of God around us through the timing of things, many times. The timing of things. I remember my dad died on the very day he was going to move into his new house. The very day. And I always thought that there must have been a message in that. I never quite figured out totally what the message is, but I think I know. But anyway, you can see timing. And many times you can see the message of God. Timing And so he meets him on the way. He gives a message. And the message is that how come you're going to inquire of Baal when there's God, the God of Israel? And the message is that you're going to surely die. You're going to surely die. And so he reproved the king there through the messenger. And you know, another thing we see here in Kings and Chronicles is who is more important? Who is more powerful? The prophet or the king? Well, in this passage, we're going to see very clearly that the prophet Through the power of God is much more powerful than the king is. The kings, they were lifted up in their pedestal, everybody looked up to them. But they and today we have our elites in society, we have our rich and famous, powerful. But who's more important? The man of God? Or the high up in society, the principalities, the powers, the rulers of this darkness of this world. Who's more important? Well, the men of God are more important. When you go into a hospital and somebody's sick there, who's more important? The preacher who comes in to to uh uh pray with the person or the doctor who's working on it? Who's more important? Well when you get right down to it, the preacher is more important. Because the pr God is the one that has to do the healing. And a lot of times uh when in the hospital the the the doctors uh you know push the preacher out and uh how come he's getting in the way and you know uh we don't need him around here But he's more important. And I heard of a preacher that he just doesn't let the d them push him around in the hospital because he's more important. Of course today it's hard to go in the hospital with all the China flu stuff But anyway, the message was given to the messenger here. And so the messenger came back to Ahaziah. And Ahaziah asked, How come you came back? I gave you an order to go inquire. And they said, A man came to meet us. And so then he asks, What kind of man was this man who came to meet you? And it says, and they answered him, verse 8. He was an hairy man, and girt with a girdle of leather about his loins. That's quite a description. Does that remind you of anybody else in the Bible? Reminds you of John the Baptist. John the Baptist was just the same. John the Baptist was a great prophet. We're told he was as great a prophet as any prophet in history. And so here we have these two prophets, John the Baptist and Elijah. And were they dressing for success? There was a a book years ago, Dress for Success. And people in the church were preachers were reading it. And they had and they want to dress for success. And you don't you know that you have to impress people right? You know you have to have a a new car if you're a preacher, because you gotta impress people with with you know that that you're uh you're somebody somebody important. Well, what about Elijah? What about John the Baptist? They were not interested in those things. They had the simplest possible outfit that you could imagine. Just a bare leather girdle there. Simple, modest. And so what can we learn from that? Of course, with Jesus being born in the manger. What can you learn from that? That things are not important. That appearances are not important. That spiritual things are what are important. And uh and so here we have I I'm not saying we all should dress like Elijah or whatever, but The Bible says that we're supposed to dress modestly. And that modest there is the same modest with I have a modest house, a modest income, a modest retirement. And we're supposed to be modest in our dress, not with costly array and pearls and gold and all that. And so here we have Elijah. We're told he was a hairy man And uh and immediately the king said, he didn't have to wonder about it, and he said, It is Elijah the Tishbite. He knew it was Elijah. So, what was the reaction of the king to this message? What was the reaction usually to the message of God through prophets? They didn't like it. They uh and you know people naturally don't like it when you tell the tell them something that they're doing wrong. to correct them or whatever. They generally do not like it. And people generally did not like prophets. And that was basically what a prophet was. He told people what they didn't want to hear And so that's what he's doing here, telling the king what he doesn't want to hear. And so many times the prophets were put to death. Many times they were stoned. And the Bible refers to that. Well, anyway, what was the reaction of the king here? The reaction of the king was perhaps to try to put him to death or put him in prison or whatever. He sends 50 men after Elijah with their captain. Well, you would think that 50 men would be plenty to go take one profit, you know, but it wasn't plenty. And so he said, uh the captain goes there to Elijah and he says, the king has said, come down. And Elijah said, If I be a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and devour you and your fifty. And that's exactly what happened. Fire came down from heaven and devoured them. Now, you know that poor captain and that poor 50, weren't they just doing what they were ordered to do? But they got killed on the spot because they were accessories to the crime of persecuting Elijah. And so, just like down through history, you know those that were in the Inquisition and torturing Christians, well, weren't they just uh following orders? Uh weren't the Nazis just following orders when they killed all the Jews and did all the things with Hitler? Well, that was the defense of Nuremberg. But it wasn't accepted. God doesn't accept it. And so here these 50 guys are killed Then we go on here. Verse 11. Verse 11. Again also he sent unto him another captain of fifty with his fifty, and he answered and said unto him, O thou man of God. Thus hath the king said, Come down quickly, and Elijah answered and said unto them, If I be a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume thee in thy fifty. And the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him in his fifty. Well, here we go twice in a row. We got 50 guys sent out, and they're consumed by the fire. Then we keep going. And you notice here we have a set of three things just like we had in in Sunday school. You know, Peter was asked, lovest thou me three times. He denied the Lord three times, and here we have these three groups of fifty. Verse 13. And he sent again a captain of the third fifty with his fifty. And the third captain of fifty went up and came and fell on his knees before Elijah. And besought him and said unto him, O Dom, man of God, I pray thee, let my life and the life of these fifty thy servants be precious in thy sight. Behold, there came fire down from heaven and burnt up the two captains of the former fifties with their fifties. Therefore, let my life now be precious in my sight. And the angel of the Lord said unto Elijah, Go down with him, be not afraid of him. And he arose and went down with him unto the king. And he said unto him, For thus saith the Lord, forasmuch as thou hast sent messengers to inquire of Bealzebub, the God of Ekron, is it not because there is no God in Israel to inquire of his word? Therefore, thou shalt not come down from off that bed on which thou art gone up, but shalt surely die So he died, according to the word of the Lord which Elijah had spoken, and Jehoram reigned in his stead in the second year of Jehoram, the king of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, because he had no son Now the rest of the Acts of Ahaziah which he did, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? So, two captains of 50s and their 50s are burned up. So the king doesn't get the message, and he sends a third group of 50. Well, the captain, he gets the message. And so when he goes out, he doesn't just say come down. He goes up and falls down on his hands and knees before Elijah and asks not to be killed. And the angel of the Lord told Elijah that he could go with him and to fear not. And so here this third fifty is spared. You know, a lot of Pentecostal churches they like to talk about in their services they call down fire from heaven. Well, most of the time in the Bible, that's judgment, burning up the ungodly, and that's what we have here. And so he gives the message to the king. Because he's worshipped Baal, he is going to not recover. He's going to die of the disease. that he has. And you notice it says it uses the word for as much there in verse 16. And it's directly a result of his worship of Baal that he's going to die. And God does judge sin. And here we have, even with the king, God judges sin. And sickness is one of the main judgments. Sickness and death. And that's what we have with the king. And then verse 17. So he died, according to the word of the Lord. And as we go through Kings here and Chronicles, it's over The person lives their life of fifty years and he died. And the next one lives his life of thirty years and he died. And the cycle of history, the cycle of life repeating itself over and over and over again. And as Ecclesiastes said, that which has been is that which will be, and there is no new thing under the sun. And in the long term, nothing changes. It's like Kings and Chronicles. In the short term, everything changes, but in the long term, nothing changes. We come on this earth, we live a while, and we die. We pass off the scene. And so this king, he served Baal, so he died with these cycles. Well, let's go back to those captains of 50 with their 50s. What should they have done? Should they have gone after Elijah? No, they shouldn't have. And they should have refused to go, even though it might have cost them their lives. They should have refused because it definitely cost them their lives the first 250s going after him. And so just saying I'm following orders is not a good enough excuse. We have to have individual responsibility in our lives. We need to study the scriptures ourselves. And this week is New Year's. New Year's. And New Year's is a time when there's always New Year's resolutions they talk about. And this new year of 2022, we're going to do something different. We're going to do something different in our lives. Well, what should be a new year's resolution for us this year? It would be to get into the Word of God and assume individual responsibility for what we believe and what we follow. Find it in the Bible. We had that in our call to worship earlier. As the Bereans were more noble in that they searched the scriptures daily whether these things were so. And so what we need to do in this year of 2022 that is coming, we need to be searching the scriptures every day. Every day. We need to be in this Bible, at least some, every day. Trying to find out what God has to say. Not, you know, some people they res resolve in 2022 to read the entire Bible through in 2022. A lot of people do that. And I I mean that's good. It's a way of reading the Bible. But I think that's uh a little bit too much skipping through it and you're not concentrating on it and studying it And we need to concentrate on the Bible, study it, and learn it, put it into practice in our lives, and let us make a New Year's resolution that we're going to study the Bible, that we're going to have individual responsibility. You know a lot of people say, well. I believe this because that's how my parents raised me. You know, I use the King James Bible because that's what I was brought on, brought up on. Well, that's okay, except we should use the King James Bible because it's the best. Because it sticks closest to the Greek and to the Hebrew. And it's not just because we were brought up that way, and with other things. And it's not just because our pastor told us to do this. Or our church told us to do this. No, we have individual responsibility to study the scriptures for ourselves. It's just like with economics and with communism and capitalism. Capitalism believes that we have individual responsibility for our lives. But communism and socialism have the government taking responsibility for our lives and controlling everything. No, we believe in individual responsibility and economics. We believe it in the church as well. So let's be like the Bereans this year. Let's study the scriptures daily Whether the things that we have in our church, that we have in our lives, are so. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou bless these thoughts to our hearts. Help us to take individual responsibility. Help us to study the scriptures in Jesus' name. Amen.