Open your Bible. Luke's second letter, as it were. Acts 1, and follow along if you would, please. I'll read first eight verses. The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach. Until the day in which he was taken up, after that, he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen. to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God, and, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem. But wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye shall ye shall ye have heard of me For John truly baptized with water, but he shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence. When they therefore were come together, They asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power, but ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, in all Judea, and in Samaria, and to the uttermost part of the earth We'll end our reading here. Our Father, we thank you for the joy and privilege that is ours to walk with those of times past and to see the work of the Spirit of God. not only through the book of Acts, but on into the church age and all the way even to this very time. We thank you, Father, for the beauty that it lies before us, that the commands that are given The promises that are spread throughout our Scriptures and that which is enabling us even today to meet together as your children to thank you for what you've done and to challenge us for that which is in the future. May Father these things that we share here this day be a prophet of the kingdom. Glory to your name. And we pray it in Christ's name. Amen. Well growing up in western New York and a little evangelical and reformed church there along the along the creek side, uh I recall one year where our missions expenditures went to send pigs to Venezuela. Yes. And to be honest with you, for the first twenty some years of my life I never recall anything of that church of doing anything for foreign missions as far as spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we didn't think anything of it, to be honest with you. I don't ever recall that church being burdened with taking the saving gospel to their own community, much less people who are on the other side of the world. Now that may sound strange, but there has been a substantial shift in the past 50, say 100 years in the attitude of churches Seriously questioning the need for foreign involvement, we might say, the sending of our sons and daughters overseas to be missionaries, to support financially the works of the gospel overseas Far from us. And congregations will say, well, that has no direct return to us. Why should I commit to that? What do we get out of it? There's nothing in coming back into my hands I mean, what do we get out of foreign missions? So I have no problem with foreign missions, some will say. Yet they hold to that fact. That should be for somebody else. I don't mind missions, you know. I don't mind sending the gospel overseas, but that should be somebody else's responsibility, not me. Not my family, not my money. I mean, shouldn't our church be dealing with problems that we're facing today? Shouldn't we consider the things that we're dealing with on our own community Our own country, our own congregation. Why should it be more important for people 20,000 miles from here than it is for us today? And for many, the relevancy of foreign mission service ends before it could ever start. I asked myself the reason, the question, why do foreign missions seem so irrelevant to people? And I came up with just some general topics which I kind of think ball it up. One, it's way too out there. It's too national geographic. As people think about foreign missions, they see pictures and so forth, and they'll see the huts, and they'll see the insects, and they'll see the diseases, and they'll see the harsh conditions of poverty and life and so forth. They say that That's so far from me, that's so far from who I am, so far in distance I think it's also irrelevant because of my involvement is often disconnected. It's irrelevant to me because I don't personally know anything that's going on. Mm we have contacts with communities or businesses or or social organizations and our communities. I have personal contact with them And all of a sudden what keeps me from being connected? Well, it's out of sight, out of mind. Yeah, it's difficult to get missionaries to come by uh their schedules, their timing and so forth, you know, and we've had some that have come through here, but oftentimes my involvement is disconnected because I don't have any connection with them. We don't see ourselves as missionaries also. We don't see ourselves doing mission work. Whatever whatever mission work is, I don't see myself doing it. I have my regular schedule of my occupation, my family, uh my church time, uh I but I don't see myself as being involved in missions whatsoever. And then we personally don't know anybody who's lost in Rwanda or Cambodia or Atlanta, you know. I don't know anybody over there, so uh I in that I don't know them, I don't feel b uh a burden for them. Uh it's here and now. I think obviously none of these excuses or responses are biblical whatsoever. It has nothing to do with the command that Christ has given in this great commission. And the reality is to change our attitudes with one little sermon, it's not going to happen. I have to be able to come to my knees and to be able to say from my heart, Lord, speak to me. Uh there's a hymn that's not in either one of these symbols, and I know I really would have clobbered Bob with that one if I would have found that out, you know. But it's give me a passion for souls, dear Lord. Give me a passion for the lost. You know, give me such a passion within my heart to do that, and that's the responsibility that we have. My point is, I'm not talking about four missions. I'm talking about a passion for the lost. I'm talking about a heart passion for the souls of men and women and boys and girls in this world. We distance ourselves and we say, well, that's foreign missions and they're out there saving souls out there. And that's fine, that's their job. But we talk about those who are lost all around. In my family, in my neighborhood. It's a matter that begs or look at the scriptures and causes me to ask the Lord to help me to rediscover, to open my eyes to the reality of why the redeemed are here Why have we been saved? Well, just to punch our ticket and say, I'm on my way to heaven? There's a purpose that God has called us to, and it's to bring the gospel message to the lost. It begs us to pray for his mercy, to bring our spiritual eyes in the clarity for why he has called just a few in this world's population, just a few. why he has called us to such a task. We're going to be looking at the book of Acts for some answers to this. And I found what I like to refer to as four lessons out of Luke's second work in the book of Acts here that makes missions relevant. First lesson, missions is relevant if we understand the term missions. We often use it, throw it around rather frequently, but what is missions? And I don't mean the word singular as a military mission, but missions in the overall picture of what we would have in the context of the church. Is it even a biblical word? Do we find it in the New Testament? No. We often use it frequently, but have no idea of its context. Maybe we should just eliminate the word. Missions is often used to refer to something that we would say is here or there. We'll make a reference to missions and they say, well that's over there, but it's not here And we've divided the calling that God has given to us. Ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. unto me, both in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and to the uttermost part of the earth. This is the answer that Jesus gave the disciples. forlorn looks upon their faces. You know. What's going to happen now? You're gone, or you will be going. He says, you are to be witnesses of the truth. And that was the lesson that Jesus presented at them. The resurrection of the Son of God and all of the ramifications that that that means. Everything that was involved in it. He says, you're going to be a witness Just not eyewitness, I've seen that, but a testimony witness. I think the key here is according to Jesus is to be a witness. Whether it means to be in Jerusalem or the Galapagos Islands or wherever. He says that is the command that he's presented to us. It's irrelevant. No, we understand missions. All four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, end with a commission that they have presented that God had given through Christ In Matthew, he says, go and make disciples of all nations. Marx says, go into all the world and preach. Luke says, repentance and forgiveness of sins shall be preached in his name to all nations. You are witnesses of these things. And then in John, as the Father has sent me, so have I sent you. Man after man hears the words. He puts them down and presents it. This is what Jesus has commanded And we come to the book of Luke, and Luke says, we saw in the very first verse, he says, I'm continuing the story of my first writing in Luke. I'm continuing. Jesus has died. He's been resurrected. But now this is the continuation of that very work. That's the book of Acts presentation for us. To how they were obedient to the command of Christ. And from here we see the definite challenge that Jesus gives anybody to be a witness of Him. Bottom line is that these men were willing to do such because the Spirit of God had commanded them. So how then do we do missions? And how are we being obedient to this command? The disciples didn't hear the words of Jesus and say, boy, those sound like great recommendations. You know, John, do you hear that? Boy, I like the way he was talking about that. That last words that he said, those were encouraging. You know, I wish more people could hear words like that. No, it was a command. They heard what Christ gave them, born in their souls, and they were men who were changed, their lives were changed, different from all of the times before, even that they spent with Jesus Himself. They simply received it and they obeyed. Second lesson out of Acts is that missions is relevant if we can look beyond ourselves. Missions is relevant if we look beyond ourselves. The story of the early church proceeds in the book of Acts. We know that the disciples waited in Jerusalem for the coming of the Holy Spirit. That was Jesus' command He says, I want you to abide here. They were there for the feast. Abide here until the Spirit of God comes and you will know the difference. We read in uh in Acts of Peter's powerful message, he preached, and over 3,000 were saved. And what happened? and the multitude of them that believed were of one heart, one soul, and neither said any of them of that not I'm sorry, that aught of the things that they had possessed was his own, but they had all things in common. The church enjoyed tremendous growth The Spirit of God came and saved thousands and saved thousands. And all of a sudden there was a tremendous growth amongst each other. They were of one mind and one spirit. And I'm oh this is mine. This is mine. No, it wasn't It was a communal attitude of the purest form. The rest begins in Jerusalem, but their Judea and Samaria and the ends of the earth weren't touched. So God understands this. Acts chapter 8, first four verses. And Saul was consenting unto his death. And at the time there was a great persecution against the church, which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered abroad throughout all of the regions of Judea and Samaria except the apostles. And devout men carried Stephen to Bisburial, and they made lamentation over him, as for Saul, which is Paul. He made havoc to the church, entering into every house and he and hail hailing men and women committed to the m prison. Therefore, they that were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the word. You might say that the early church decided that staying in the megachurch in Jerusalem was the best thing for them We're growing. Everything is just doing uh marvelously. We had all things in common, great unity, great power, but it wasn't the fulfillment of the Great Commission. And all of a sudden Jesus words come to them, persecution was that which the Father uses to take them from Jerusalem to Judea and Samaria and to the uttermost parts of the earth. If you look on those early chapters, the countries that the people were from were a thousand-mile radius from Jerusalem. These were Jews who had come for the feast, thousand miles, all the way centered on Jerusalem. And all of a sudden persecution comes. Those who were believers had the gospel with them, and where did they go? went back to their own homes. How is the gospel spread without schools, without seminaries, without radio, without anything? They bore the truth of the resurrection of Jesus within their hearts, and what happened in their lives, all of a sudden, we're being driven back to our homes, and what would they do? They would tell their own people about it The gospel was spread to the regions beyond. A powerful work of the Spirit of God, which brings forth his praise and his glory to all that has been accomplished. Many of our Presbyterian ancestors left Scotland, the surrounding countries, because of persecution. We could say that God used persecution to drive them from their Jerusalem to over here and other places in the world where the gospel went. 1943, a man by the name of Ben Edse told his father that he wanted to be a teacher. Canadian, uh Manitoba, if I'm not mistaken, he uh dad told him, he says, no, I don't want you to be a teacher, I don't want you to be any civil servant, I don't want you to be doing anything like that Well, Ben went ahead and he attended Bible college. Ben became convicted of becoming a missionary and he turned to his dad and he says, Dad, the Lord's called me to be a missionary. His father responded, a missionary? I'd rather have you be a teacher than a missionary. Ended up Ben and his wife moved to what is today the Congo And they established a work over 80 churches were behind their their testimony, translations, uh health ministries, and so forth. It was a mighty work that God has done. Dr. Gary Dreyer written, It is beyond my understanding why we haven't given our sons and daughters to live and die for this task I can't understand why we will send them. Yea, we will make them feel obligated to go to every corner of the world under the banner of patriotism. to kill, to cripple, and to destroy in defense of the American way of life. And yet we will discourage them from going to the same place to teach love and joy and peace and patience, the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have sent them to the tropical jungles of Vietnam, the deserts of Arabia, the cold Eastern Europe for months and years. And yet we cry and we kick and we scream and we fuss and we beg and we plead for them to do anything they can. Please don't encourage my son to preach. It doesn't make sense. But it's the reality of our attitude. The lesson of chapter 8 in Acts is that of our own history. We have to look beyond ourselves We have to look beyond our three, score, and ten years, beyond the nests that we've made, beyond the works that we found ourselves built in to see what the commission of God has laid before us. It's an attitude of foreign missions is irrelevant. Well, Jesus said go. The words of Christ are not irrelevant. The commands of Christ are not irrelevant either. Third lesson out of Axe here is that it's irrelevant if we don't send missionaries. The principle of missions, the principle of foreign work, is irrelevant if missionaries are not sent. As the gospel goes through Judea and Samaria, and the church went to Antioch, all of a sudden the text reads that God had called two men The Spirit of God had worked in Acts chapter 13, man by the name of Barnabas and a man by the name of Saul. Missionaries, if you want to call them that, but they weren't referred to that at the time. Acts 13, verses 2 and 3. And they ministered to the Lord and fasted, and the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, they laid their hands upon them and they sent them away. The number of principles in this particular passage stand out very clear. First, it becomes clear that the principle of worship and fasting and prayer was that which the Church of Antioch was doing. They were looking for God's guidance And the Spirit of God spoke to the hearts of everybody in the church to make it obvious there's two men in here that I am calling, that I want to use, and that I will go and send and I will equip. The book of Acts is replete with the works of Barnabas and Paul. The work of the Spirit of God in their lives is marvelous. The entire book of Acts teaches us that the work of the Spirit of God is an agency, in essence, used through even mission agencies today. Our independent board does the administrative work, but ultimately it is the Holy Spirit who calls. Years ago I went ahead and I wrote to missionaries and asked them, how were you called to missions? And one rope back, she says, well, I was sitting in a meeting and a missionary challenged me. And another one says I was listening to a radio broadcast. And the other one says I was reading through works and I would just challenge. This is God calling me. And if God called them, God equipped them and God provided. But it was the church that sent them, the church that moved them forward. Principle for Saul and Barnabas, or Paul and Barnabas, was that the church prayed and fasted and they laid hands on them and they sent them. We can't send people to Guatemala or we can't send people to Bala or even Atlanta, Georgia, if we don't pray and we don't continue to pray for such a calling. It's the church that does the sending. The church is responsible as the body of Christ to send forth individuals. They can't do it on their own. There is no lone rang in the missions. There's no lone ranger work to go to the foreign field or even to be called even here in this country to serve Even the Lone Ranger had a Tonto for his assistance, and I think we could say that the tribe of Tonto was there providing that greater work. When I was ordained by the laying out of hands of the Great Lakes Presbytery, it was the church that confirmed me and my family in sending us. We met with the board of the independent board, the board of trustees, and they questioned us and they commissioned us to go with a recognition that it was the Spirit of God who had called, the Spirit of God who will equip, the Spirit of God who will provide. And such it must be even in our case, even if we are to be witnesses of such truth. We pray. We pray for each other. We pray for the names that come before us that God would use them and call them. Fourth lesson to share out of Acts here is that it's irrelevant. Missions is irrelevant unless we see ourselves as missionaries. The whole principle is irrelevant. It means nothing. It does nothing unless we see ourselves as such. Very end of the book of Acts, 28, verses 30 and 31. And Paul dwelt two years in his hired house and received all that came unto him. Preaching the kingdom of God and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence, no man forbidding. One preacher said this, this is how the book of Acts ends. Note that it does not end with Paul's death. or with the word being snuffed out. There is not really a conclusion to this letter. This is because we are the continuing story of Acts. You are the continuing story of Acts. It's an unusual ending. It's possible that Luke had expected to add some more things on the way. But somehow the Spirit of God forbid him to do that. It is ended with this idea that it began with the Spirit of God calling these disciples to go and it concludes in a sense with Paul fulfilling all of those tasks and the baton being passed. The work continues on in every way. I don't know if this is how Luke intended for it, but it's the way it looks. Just as missions is not a biblical term, neither is the word missionary. We come to the idea of we think missionary, you say, well, that's somebody else. That's the person who goes someplace, and it's not me. And it separates the call, the work that we've been uh accustomed to thinking about. I think it becomes using the word missionary stumbling block. It makes uh these men or women heroes of the faith leaving the comforts of home to go to some uh harsh lands and harsh conditions in order to serve the Lord. But it's no different than anybody else that God is called. If the God is called, he equips them and he supplies for them in their particular needs in life. The perspective is wrong. It's a blind perspective on our behalf unless we see ourselves as missionaries. You must see yourself as a missionary. We are witnesses of the truth You know the truth. You're bound within the truth. You have to speak those truths. We go to locations, as mentioned in Acts 1. 8, our Jerusalem. Then our Samaria and Judea and then to the uttermost parts of the earth. Foreign missions is irrelevant if this church is not doing its work in missions in its Jerusalem, in its Judea, in its Samaria And it's in its uttermost parts of the earth. Local missions is irrelevant if we don't look beyond ourselves and meet the needs of those who are abroad also I think in some sense, in some degree, you are doing it. Your own Jerusalem, to be able to see that in Kingsville and Edgemont and Perry Hall and Bel Air, the very communities that you call home That's the place that God has called you and sent you to. Those are the communities that He has equipped you, that the Spirit of God is using you for, to be able to bring the gospel to somebody else in order that they might hear the truth. What about a personal witness to the person that's that the store you frequent, or a word of encouragement to somebody you see is really not doing well? A prayer on the phone for somebody who's had a rough week and uh let me pray with you, okay? Can I help you out? You know, can I share with you a Bible verse? Here's a gospel track for a particular need that you have. These sheik who are in the midst of where we are, they need the love of the Lord Jesus Christ are Judea and Samaria. I think ministries like choose hope, or even the work that goes through with the police. Even beyond that, in a certain sense sermons uh uh uh out of the the pitiful pastors that present this is a way that reaches out to our Judea and our Samaria. It's a presentation of truth that people can hear and feel and touch. It's an outreach. We pray, Lord, how can you use me in my particular region? To the ends of the earth? Your support for the independent board. Because there you have your rack on the back there, prayer letters. And I'll admit there are times when you don't meet people that it's hard to know what's going on. Judas last letter. There'll be one more letter that'll come out and we'll be able to describe her testimony. uh being called as a school teacher up in Canada, Nova Scotia, and uh sent overseas and we'll we'll add to that. But the work continues We have an obligation to pray for those seeds that have been sown and the people who have come to know Christ as their Savior? Obviously we do Because we've prayed in the past, does that mean now that he's in glory, that we all of a sudden we say, I have no longer any spiritual obligation to consider those that have been there Jonathan Janathara. Not met them. But Jonathan and Jeanette uh uh have three children. All three are going through college now, actually one just finishing up time down in Pensacola. They're in the same town as Jim and Melody Buer Uh they are in the southern part of Rica Chile, Jim and Melody are in the northern part of the city. Uh they have a a marvelous church Uh Jeanette went through some difficulties of stomach cancer a number of years ago. Yet she is a prime example of great encouragement to the ladies' ministry in that particular church. Jonathan oversees this church and then there's another church near the border of uh or near the ocean that he oversees and there once a month and goes over and helps them out. Um Here's a guy who loves gospel tracks. You know who that is? Philciful, but at times Canonera. Uh and yet uh these will give you an idea of what's going on in their life, but of the past they're yours in in Cameroon and they're yours in Brazil and they're yours here in the United States. Daniel and Elizabeth Matamala. They want to go to Kenya. And Daniel needs to be able to have his ordination completed. He's a member of the church in Chile. And that uh particular denomination requires that he spends two years in preparation. So he's at the very bottom, Puenta Arenas, the very bottom of Chile, uh almost with the just where the penguins are And they are working out, starting a church, vacation bible school, uh home t teaching and so forth. They tell you about what Daniel and Elizabeth and their three children are doing. uh a responsibility. He says, after two years, if the Lord wants us, he says, we plan, they're both nurses, we plan to go to Kenya and to enter into the ministry over there Ms. Enyung Bei, teacher at the Bible College in Nairobi. Ms. Bei is a sweetheart. She spent half of her last furlough learning Swahili Uh and just uh uh just the treasure, this particular letter she talks about her ministry with the women of the church. And she said there was one case and and her letters are just very personal. She said, uh there was one lady who who sat with me and asked questions and this and that and we went on and we finished our conference and and and just kind of went our separate ways And I think it was like one week later that she found that the lady committed suicide. You know. Poor lady, she says, I I I I w I if if I would only spend more time with her, you know, or uh the rest of the ladies that they'd only spend more time with her, you know Second guessing yourself, obviously you feel bad about that. But but you read of her heart and you read of the situation is that is that is there. Reverend Mr. Mark Kim was one of the of since nineteen ninety one has been the the principal at the Bible College in Nairobi, but for about the past five years now, uh they started a new school in in Kigali, Rwanda. And uh uh they are there uh with a school that is probably the prime school of all the Rwanda, a Bible school. And they're just waiting for the government to grant permission. They've built a facility that is second to none Uh they have an outreach to the Maasai in uh southern part of Kenya. Uh great work. Uh Caleb and Deborah Khan. uh same country as as hell hell ricker. Uh but the Kongs are working with uh education for uh for kids. Uh Um Dr. Park and his wife and daughter, uh Tanzania, another Bible college is there. Uh Jim and Melody Buer. Uh you know the Buers. Uh and and um Stephen and Lydia Choi in Cambodia. Uh the list goes on. And I I don't what I'm trying to say is that I can't go anywhere. You know, my my my inability or I just don't care to travel or or my extensions for bringing the gospel overseas, I I I just can't do that But you can because we have a primal obligation to pray. To pray for them. Well, I don't know about them. Well, the letters reveal something. And many of the times they'll say, here's a praise for you to understand. This is what's taking place. This is what we are doing representing you. Or this is a a request or this is a you know uh the things that God has been doing. It brings my vision farther beyond what uh what I'm experiencing my in my little world. And your our little worlds are important But that isn't what Christ wants us to do. He wants us to take that next step. You know, our Jerusalem, our Judea, our Samaria. into the uttermost parts of the earth. Well that's too far. That's that's National Geographic stuff. No, it's not. No, it's not The disciples, they ended up, Thomas all went all the way to to China. I mean Thomas is known as a dis apostle in India, but the gospel went all the way to China in those first hundred years. We can't be limited by that. It requires us to pray. Now that Judith has entered into her reward and she's um she's uh Standing before the Lord, uh there's gonna be a service next um next Saturday up in Bala. We have to be able to get her casket and her body up to Bala, which is no small task because of the heat and because of the distance, but But it'll be up there, that's where she's wanted to go, and they're gonna have a fine service for her. But who's gonna take her place? Maybe for this particular case, maybe there's nobody, you know No, as the it's been twenty years since the school started and maybe that's the time for a shift to be on their own, you know, time knows. Uh Hell Ricker, you know, coming up to 102, I think it is. uh 101 in in August, August 4th, you know. Uh Hell's not a spring chicken anymore, but you know, he'll he'll continue on as long as he can. But who is going to take Hell's place or or feel a challenge by that? Those are the things that we pray for. I can't go, you know. I can't do anything about that. But God, you know, put it upon my heart, a burden for the souls of the lost and also for those to whom you would call. It's not a bad thing. That's how our participation is. That's the validity, the value of mission, of missions in this world today Let's pray. Sometimes, Lord, we think if we actually heard your words heard your voice and and giving a command looking at us straight in our face we would we would understand better or we would respond more fully And yet your spirit is alive and well and works within our hearts to bring to our hearts' attention things that you would have us to know. and do. And you don't have to be here uh looking at us. Your word speaks truth. May we uh Have a new vision for our life. May we commit 10 minutes or 15 minutes to pray for the lost. Um and if we don't know that many people, Lord, bring to our hearts' attention the lost in our community, in our Jerusalem, in our Judea and Samaria. Give us five minutes a day to pray for those who are overseas that represent this same testimony, this same witness. that we might be refreshed to know that we're walking with them in their times of hardships and their disappointments and their victories. um cause our our hearts to be uh strangely warmed when we know that we've participated in such a work. And uh there'll be a day, Lord, of accounting and And you will ask us, what have you done with your time? What have you done with your talents? What have you done with what I gave you to do? And may we uh be able to hear your words to us in those occasions. Well done, good and faithful servant. Uh you were faithful in a few things and I will make you ruler over many. Bless these thoughts to our hearts in Christ's name. Amen.