Matthew chapter one, please, our scripture reading for this morning. Matthew one And I thank Karen for her offer toy. It fits in well with the uh the the message today, so Matthew 1, follow along familiar verses at this time of the year. By the way, Timothy, he is on vacation. He should be back at the beginning of the year. Okay, just in case you wondered Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When as his mother Mary espoused to Joseph before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. And Joseph, her husband, being a just man, not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a Son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now, all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of of the Lord by the prophet, saying Behold a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and he took unto him his wife. and knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Shall we pray? Father, we're thankful what a joyous time of the year it is for those who know the Lord Jesus Christ personally, as a Savior, as a Redeemer, as a soon-coming King. And what joy it brings us to go back and to look at passages that speak of this very precious time. And although they may be very familiar to us, we pray that a freshness might uh be filling our hearts with these truths, and that we might again express unto you the thanks not only for our salvation but the continuing work of your spirit in our lives. Thank you again for each one here as your word is provided to us truth. Praise that we'll handle it indeed as it is truth from the Word of God. In Christ's name. Amen. Back in around this time of the year, nineteen eighty-eight, uh Millie and I were thinking about uh name of a son. Um we already had one child, Jeffrey, and so we were thinking of that. Uh he was to be born in May of the following year and So with the J of Jeff, we wanted a J to go along with it, and and so we picked a Joel, uh Jehovah is God. Uh we wondered that as uh would lead him in truth uh his name uh into his walk with the Lord Jesus Christ, and we're just thank the Lord that both boys uh know the Lord in such a way Um do you have a name? Do you know what it means? That comes along, yeah. Um uh and do you ever think about that, what your name is and what it means Um, I know for some of you it's kind of an easy thing, you know. Faith, uh everybody knows that one, you know. But uh our brother Robert He's escaped right now. Comes from the Germanic Hobert, which means bright frame. You remind him of that, okay? Brother Greg in the back there from the Latin Gregorius, okay? Glad Dad didn't give you Gregorius. The name means um watchful alert. I think that fits great, doesn't it? You know, quite a My sweetheart there, Milan, it's a Slavic name. She didn't realize that one. Not Italian, not Filipino, but Slavic. And it means gracious dear. Today I really doubt that we really think much about our names and what they mean. you know, especially in life. You know, I was given this name and this is how I oughta go along with it. And there are some names that parents give their children I really don't think they went over it very hard, you know. Why why would they name their child that? Remember uh Johnny Cash His song, A Boy Named Sue. Remember that one? You know? He had to live not only with that but the fights adding, and he says, and in the end he says, I named you that so you'd be tough, you know. Uh kind of uh interesting But I really doubt we do think too much about names and meanings. Um for the most part I think we take a name and we associate it with a person, like a number, uh a color, you know, of whom that's so-and-so, so and that's about as far as it gets But as we get into the Bible, there are some significant truths about names that come for us, and I thought it'd be interesting to chew on that this morning. For example, there are some names that speak of the birth of the person, the birth of the child. And we'll share a couple of those. Genesis 17. Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed. And said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old? And shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear? And then verse 19, God said, Sarah, thy wife, shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name Isaac, Isaac. And I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant and with his seed after him. At 99, he says, you you laugh at me for that He literally fell on his face laughing with the idea of that uh uh occurring in his life. But God tells him not only that you will indeed have a son, but he's going to be a special son. And his name's going to be reminding of you in your doubting all those years. Isaac, laughter. So every time he would call them, you know, or Dan, why did you name me laughter, you know, that's because I doubted God and in his faithfulness in giving his commands. Later on in Exodus chapter 2. And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself by the river, and her maidens walked along by the riverside And when she saw the ark amongst the flags, she sent her maids to fetch it. Verse 10 And the child grew, and brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name. Moses. Moses. Because I drew him out of the water. At three months old, you know, after Miriam had Taken the child and nursed them for a bit, puts them in the basket, you know, and down the and and she fetches him out of the water. And so all through life he goes along with that name, Moses, you know, out of the water. And it reminded him of God's special care in his life and the things that went along with all of that drawn out of the water. Other names tell us about some special aspects of individuals. Alexander III of Mastodon. But what about Alexander the Great? His name is understood because of the conquering that he did, you know. Alexander the Great, William the First of England, better known as William the Conqueror You know, the name given to him, a title given to him because of the exploits and the things that they did in life. John, a man by ministry and history, became general as John the Baptizer You know, he was a Presbyterian, by the way. I don't want to confuse any of that. And then in Mark 3, there's an interesting one. We read of Jesus giving James and John the names of sons of thunder. You know, I've known some families that have some difficult children, you know. But for Jesus to view these young men and look at them and says, I'm going to call you sons of thunder, I think their reputation preceded them. What that meant, we don't know. But it gives you an idea, you know a conqueror, uh you know, a magnificent, a a baptizer and sons of thunder, you know. Those are attached to that. But for us today, there's the name of Jesus. Here in the Old Testament form Joshua, we sometimes have sons named today Joshua. And if you had a Hispanic family, they would often name their child Jesus, you know, Jesus, uh a New Testament form of such Outside of the church, Jesus is a name that is very frequently used. Sometimes as a matter of surprise, Jesus, you know, and sometimes as a matter of disgust. And nevertheless, as you look at the people who say those things in such a way who don't know the Lord, we who do find it painful to hear. Because we have an association with this name that goes far beyond what those people who express it, whether in disgust or dismay or anger or as a curse, they have no clue what that is. Now for the son of Mary, Jesus was given that name, and probably during that period of time, it would have been attached to her husband, Joseph. So it would have put along probably something like Yeshua ben Yosef. Yeshua, Jesus, Ben the son of Joseph. And like all of the other sons, you wouldn't have a first name, middle name, and last name. You would be name, and your association is with your father. That's how the link. So-and-so bends so-and-so. And that's probably how he lived for many years. Jesus, Joshua, Yeshua, and they're all derivatives that mean to rescue or to deliver. We don't think of our names being fulfilled in any form, and yet when we come to this particular name, we see not only a powerful and a beautiful name But in reality, one that has come to fulfill his name's meaning in our lives. A rescuer Oh, how we have been rescued from him, the things of the world by him, how he has delivered us from the power of sin in misery, and how he continues to work in our lives in such marvelous ways. Yet beyond his given name, the Bible provides numerous other names and titles that I think guide us into the fullness of the character of this, as we think of, Christ's child. We have Isaiah 7. 14, which came out of our scripture today. Therefore the Lord Himself shall give you a sign, behold, virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and ye shall call his name. Emmanuel. If you look, if you go over to Bethlehem and you go to the record department and you go down those records and you go way back there and you look up Jesus It's nothing written in there about Emmanuel, is it? Not on any work form or anything like that, but that's who he is. Later on in Isaiah 9, 6, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. The government shall be on his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. None of those names ever appear on any document Yet, if we look at him and we study him and know him, those characteristics, those qualities fill the character of Jesus Christ and relate to my heart. In my steps, in my hands, in my eyes, and my ears, my whole being. That's who he is to me. So in prophetic writ, it comes out and it pours out such beauty. Actually, there are so many names and titles given in scriptures, some more familiar than others. Messiah, bread of life. Bridegroom, the Good Shepherd, the King of Kings, the Lamb of God, the door, the way, the truth, and the life, the true vine, and many more. It's like looking at a a diamond, putting it in the light, and as the light passes around that diamond, the facets of light shine through, and it brings us, oh look at that, oh look at that, look at that, look at that. Studying the character of Christ is one thing, but knowing him and understanding who he is in all of these names and all of these titles bring forth such a beauty, a resplendent beauty, that there's nothing on earth that can match it. There's nothing in life that we can hold a candle to in such a description. One of my most favorite passages in the New Testament is John chapter 9. The story of a blind man given sight by Jesus, and then he comes to be hauled into the court, and uh uh it's an interesting progression. I'll hit the highlights for you Um this man receives his sight. And in verse 11 of the chapter it says Jesus, uh he's referring to Jesus. He says, the man called Jesus. So Gitzite in his first expression refers to, this is the man with the name of Jesus. The passage goes on a little later, and he's questioned by the authorities rather thoroughly, and he then refers to Jesus in verse 17 as a prophet. Somewhat of an elevation. Sees not only this man Jesus, but now we have Jesus the prophet. And everybody understood what a prophet was, what a prophet did. And then there's no confusion that many, many called him such, easily associated. But then finally in verse 38, The interrogation is over. Parents were finished interrogating them. And he's released and he goes back out and he finds Jesus once again. In verse 38, he says, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. Just within that man's span of time, and I'm not saying any more about what took place in his heart and so forth, I know that he received sight And that in his own defense, he says, he was a man, he's a prophet. Now he says, he's my Lord. He's my Lord. A transition took place and changed him. and caused him to have not only physical sight, but tremendous spiritual sight. Today I would think probably the most common title for Jesus after the resurrection is Lord. As a matter of fact, if you go through and don't do it because it takes a long time, around 700 times the title Lord is given in the New Testament alone, just referring to Jesus Christ. It's a title that gives him some special clarification, and I think it's profitable to put it together for us. Now the word Lord is not unique to just New Testament literature. In Greek the word Lord is kurios So you could find it in other Greek literature or other literature of the time, and it gives you an idea of what it is more about There's five care categories of this, and one is in a domestic setting. There's an an Old Testament uh translation into Greek called a Septuagint, and we have it carried over into our English where Sarah calls Abraham Lord Now, husbands, don't try and make your wife call you Lord. It's not going to work. You know? But Sarah says, you know, Abraham is Lord. Also, there's a category listed for a master as opposed to a slave or a servant. There are many passages in the New Testament. Servant, slave, and the one who is over that one because he owns him is called the Lord. There is also the undisputed owner of property. In the parable in Luke 20, Jesus refers to the Lord of the vineyard. That means he not only owns it, but he owns everything in that vineyard, and that's his. That's his property. The people that work in there are his He is the Lord of the Vineyard. And there's the authority to make decisions, like in the military, campaigns where we fight. And also those who are in a position to bring forth a death penalty, that person is the Lord over those situations. And then finally, there's a matter of moral authority. It's a common word to be used in speaking to an elder or to superior. uh somebody coming before uh Caesar or whatever, uh some upper crust person, they refer to them as Lord. uh we would say sir in in Tagalog we use the word pole or whole to refer to somebody in in honor and respecting them in such a relationship They even use the word Lord when they would refer to an idol or even like the emperor as a god. So why is this important? Why is the title Lord and Lord Jesus important for us? Because it really talks about when we use it, we're really saying, I'm turning my Self, turning the controls over, turning who I am over to him, because he, according to those definitions and our understanding of it, is my Lord. He alone is my authority. In the first century, in the Roman Empire, this was the rub. um use of the word Lord. Let me read to you a paragraph from commentary by William Barclay. He says, Once a year a man had to come and burn a pinch of incense to the Godhead of the emperor and say, Caesar is Lord. That was a test of his loyalty as to a citizen of the Roman Empire. Having done that all that he could to go away and worship any other kind of God that he liked, but it was his affirmation of faith in Caesar, and that must be made This is precisely what the Christians would not do. They would not take the name of Kurias and give it to anyone else in earth or in heaven. For them, meaning these first century Christians, for them Jesus was Lord, and nothing could make them say Caesar is Lord And so to die, in choosing to die for their faith, they did it in the agonies of the cross, the flames, the arena, and the rack. Listen to this. Kurios is the one word creed for which Christians were ready to lay down their lives. Lord. Authority. The one I'm responsible to. This occurred as more recently in Korea, Japanese occupation from 1910 to 1945. The Japanese basically said you can worship anything you want, but you have to bring an offering to the Shinto shrine. Once you make that offering, once you do that, then you can go on and do your worship to whatever god that you have and so forth. Then they refused. And many of them suffered imprisonment and torture and beatings and even death. Because they, holding the same principles as these Christians in the first century, said, I only have one Lord I only have one allegiance, one strong relationship. You might think that that's kind of an extreme case, not something that would ever occur in our lifetime. Yet as you scan across the globe, we find Christians in Syria and Afghanistan and Pakistan and Somalia and North Korea and many other places who refuse to be Under any other Lord than Jesus Christ, then they have suffered as such. However, brethren, the issue is not about dying, but living. And so the question is: who are you living for? You may not be asked to die in order to make your allegiance known to the Lord Jesus Christ, but who is the Lord of your life? Again, lordship means ownership. Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 5. 15 And that he died, meaning Christ for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him Which died for them and rose again. It's a matter of ownership, Paul says. If I was bought by the precious blood of Christ, Purchase price, his life for mine, he has ownership over me. Hence he is my Lord. Paul also says in Romans 14, verse 8, For whether we live, we live unto the Lord. And whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Whether we live, therefore, or die, we are the Lord's. Well, since that's life. Living, dying? It doesn't matter. Because my relationship hasn't been settled in heaven It's not my choice, it's what God had brought me to. It is a matter of ownership we belong to Him Paul says the great objective for believers is not a a life of self, but it's a life of Christ. The objective, the direction that my heart is to live in, the direction, the place that I'm going, the goals that are set before me, the things that are there, it's Christ. thinking of uh our oldest granddaughter and she's at an age, I think ninth grade or something like that, wasn't it? uh struggles of life of where am I going? What am I going to do? You know. And parents and and grandparents, you know, kind of guide 'em like that And and someday she'll have to come to the place where she understands Jesus is her Savior, but she has to understand and make those choices that all of the directives and and objectives in her life is for Jesus Christ. Where she goes, who she marries, uh what what occupation she is, everything around that. And all of a sudden, once that's put in place, it makes sense. There's no question about it after that So then two important questions we have to deal with. Who am I living for, and who's in control? Who am I living for? What are the objectives of my life? And who's in control? And to be honest with you, it's really the same thing. They are both two in one. I've shared this illustration before, but I think it's most appropriate. Juan Carlos Ortiz had written a book entitled Call to Discipleship. And he helps us give an exact understanding to the meaning of what it is to be Lord or having Jesus Christ in our life as Lord. He writes. When a man finds Jesus, he marvels at such a pearl and says, I want this pearl. How much does it cost? The seller says, it costs everything you have. No more, no less. So anybody can buy it. He says, I'll buy it He says, what do you have? Let's write it down. I have $10,000 in the bank. Hmm, that's good. $10,000. What else? I have nothing else. That's all I have. Well, where do you live? I live in a house. That too. Do you mean I must live in my car then? You have a car? Oh, I have two. Both have become mine. Both cars. What else I have nothing else. What do you mean? Are you alone in the world? No, I have a wife and two children. Your wife and children too. I have nothing else. I am now left alone. Oh, you too, everything. Everything becomes mine: wife, children, house, garage, cars, money, clothing, everything. And you too. Now you can use all of these things here, but don't forget that they are mine as you are mine. When I need any of these things that you are using, you must give them to me because now I am the owner. You see, we cling to certain things in life because we feel we deserve it, that we've earned a certain status or a certain certain level. And I think part of what And seeing her husband like that, you know. But the Lord can say, This is his time. I'm calling him back. I'm calling him home. Five points or four points to be able to close this off. You know, when we call him Lord, what does it mean? When I make that statement. First of all, we affirm our allegiance. When I say Jesus is my Lord, I'm making an affirmation, a statement of truth that I find within there, which is the actual definition affirmation and his assertion that something exists or is true. I pledge allegiance to the Christian flag and to the Savior from for whose kingdom stands, one Savior, crucified, risen, and coming again with life and liberty to all who believe. Christian school children do that every single day. And it's a a statement of truth. It exists, and I'm saying this is what I hold to. These are the things that are there. Secondly, we bow to Christ's authority. We not only make an affirmation statement, but bowing to his authority is really proving or showing the things that I say are true. I'm putting them into action. Bowing is done in many Asian countries as a sign of respect. Approach somebody, you bow to them, various degrees depending on the particular country, and it originates with the idea of your weakness to the one that you recognize as an authority This person, I recognize their authority, I bow, and I'm showing my weakness to them to show that same relationship. It's a matter of submission. You know Paul's letter to the Philippians, chapter 2, wherefore God hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, of things in earth, of things under the earth. In every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It's hard to think of that reality in the world that we live today. And yet, Paul says there is a day coming When all of all times, of all history, of all situations, will come and will do this, showing that He is the authority. No question. He is Lord over all. Thirdly, we commit to him all that we have, all that we are, and all that we hope to be. We make that commitment. So these are yours. We saw that with that little story about the pearl. Commitments are often very difficult to make because of our fear of the unknown, our misunderstanding of what takes place, the up the opportunities of loss Too many couples today would prefer to live together because they're afraid of some commitment, you know. So we can sample what married life is just in case it doesn't work out that I haven't made a commitment. But they've already made such a commitment. Commitment is something the Lord brings to us. And it is in his commitment that he makes all things possible. He has committed to us He says, I have provided unto them, being confident of this very thing, that he which has begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Paul says, I have an absolute confidence that the one who brought me to this place of salvation will continue to perform, develop, mold and shape me until the day of Jesus Christ. That's the Lord's commitment in my life. And sometimes it takes a tube before to the side of the head to get me back on the track Other times it's a gentle nudge, a soft word, sometimes a few strong words, but he's committed. And the understanding is when I call him Lord, I'm saying that you are the one who is faithful to me. As his children, you are constantly faithful. And with that in mind, I have nothing to fear, such in making a commitment to him. Because he has never failed. Not once. None of us can ever say, the Lord failed me here, the Lord let me down there. Commitment to Him, all that we are, have, and hope to be. And then finally, to dethrone our own will and way. We used to have a um bible club on on a Friday afternoon when we were back in the church in Apollo and get the kids from the neighborhood and one of the flannel graphs we had was uh a picture of a a a heart and then a little chair like a throne in the middle and and the story was about who sat on the throne in your heart. You know, who is ruler? Who is who who is there? Who have you given it to? What about today or tomorrow or next month? It's kind of like uh who is the one that I'm there? Is Jesus sharing the throne of your heart with somebody else? I'm a believer. I've trusted Christ as my Savior. And yet I also have some other things that are sharing the throne of my heart. So things that, you know, are kind of Y you ever see the musical chairs, you know, and and they've got it all lined up and then one chair goes out and the music goes and all of a sudden it stops And the kids run in there and and there's one chair, but there's two kids there jamming each other, getting in that same chair. Sometimes that's the commitment of saying, Lord, you are, and nothing else uh sits on the throne of my heart. Just you. Just you alone. Who sits on the throne of your heart today What has first place, or what attempts to share your heart with Christ? Pride, I think, is a big one. I think pride often displaces Christ, kind of pushes him off the chair a little bit and says, I think I know what's better in this situation, what fits better for me What about worry or fear? If there's worry and fear on the throne of my heart, that means there is no loving, sovereign God who can do anything at any time according to his will. You know? If fear sits there and worry controls it, what about the idols of self-sufficiency or laziness or greed or blank fill it in? You know, we have to ask ourselves, if if there if I'm saying Christ is Lord, if Jesus is Lord of my life, He is all of those things, He is it's as simple as one, two, three, four. Or if you've seen the the across the we've just talked about, it's A, B, C, or D, you know. You see the practical implications of calling Jesus my Lord For 99% of our world, Christmas is seen as in a dozen forms of a baby Jesus and a manger scene. Parked right next to a uh a a plastic blow goal of of uh Santa Claus or uh uh some frosty the snowman He's a little girl's doll that has been used in a time-honored pageant for the kids to participate in. And those kids will do it until they get about eight or nine. And you say, this is boring. This is nothing at all He's the subject of only one of a hundred Christmas songs played on the radio, and that's sung by Elvis Presley or Maria Carey. Hardly Christian godly testimonies. The practical implications of calling Jesus my Lord and living it is that he is indeed my Lord. And one of the clearest ways people honor the Lord Jesus Christ is by saying that He is, and we honor Him. I affirm my allegiance to him, I bow to his authority, I commit to him all that I am and have and hope to be, and ultimately dethroning my own will for his will. my own way for his way. And we become, when we do that, a channel of blessing. We find confidence in life. We find encouragement. We find his hand leading. We find him directing our path and steps. Things don't seem confusing anymore. All of a sudden it starts to make sense. This is the Lord's will. Jesus as Lord. Does it occur overnight? You know, this is one of those things like uh uh you know we wake up and oh wow I've got it all in place. No. Because all of us have walked through this path for X number of years, some of us longer than others. Learning about Jesus being Lord is a step-by-step process. But it doesn't come until I say, Lord help me in this. I've got a problem with this area. I'm struggling in here. Lord, give me the strength, give me the wisdom, give me the understanding of how to deal with it. We say it, and we understand it. Jesus says, my Lord, but let's make it practical. Let's make it part of who we are. Let's pray. Father, we offer up ourselves unworthy vessels. Looking at ourselves, we see nothing good in us. And yet you redeemed us. Yet uh at a time and place that you knew best, and you're continuing to work on us to mold us and shape us to be the people that you would have us to be. We profess an allegiance that you are our Lord. And yet, Father, we confess right readily that Jesus is not always uh applied as the Lord of our life. And we know this isn't good. It's weak. It brings us to places of despair and and burdens and and and the like So, Father, if you would guide us, that your Spirit would bring us to a better understanding day by day of your ownership. and your authority in our life, and that it would give us clarity of where our feet should be walking and where our hands should be involved in, what our eyes should be looking at, and what our ears should be taking in, and what our hearts Yes, Lord, our hearts, who sits on the throne of our hearts. May it always be Jesus. Thank you for this glorious time of the year. It's not a tiny baby in a manger. It is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is ruling and reigning in us, even today in Christ's name. Amen.