But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry, for I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought the good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day. And not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing. May God bless to our ears and our hearts his holy and infallible word. Shall we pray? Father, as we approach this, your word, we recognize there are matters of instruction and truth that are here. And yet it's the matter of application that we so desire. Our humble prayer is that your Spirit will work grace in and through this your word to our hearts. to our hands and to our feet, to our eyes, to our ears, our whole being, that we as your servants, ambassadors for the Holy God, soldiers of Jesus Christ, servants. might be better equipped in our service to you. And Lord, we readily confess, proclaim with clear understanding that we are unworthy and unable in and of ourselves. So Lord do the work. And as we finish, we'll give you the praise in Christ's name. Amen. It seems like the Summer Olympics are gonna take place in Japan. I know there was talk about uh uh you know not Outsiders even coming in depending on how the virus went, but uh looks like July is still scheduled. Emily and I do enjoy watching the competition. both winter and summer Olympics, the agony of defeat, you know, the thrill of victory. Um and and it's it's just a lot of fun time. Uh one of the most agonizing moments for the United States team was the most recent when they botched a uh a baton exchange in the Olympics in 2008 in Beijing Tyson Gay and Devius Patton had the four by one hundred exchange and it got to the two of them and they went like that and down it went. And y uh just the gasp and the pain that went on with that. That wasn't the first time and I hate to say that I doubt if it's going to be the last time for that to take place uh baton dropping is most difficult. They're just given a certain p uh piece of of real estate there that they have to do it properly That simple task, when not done correctly, makes losers out of winners. It can bring defeat to the most uh confident of athletes or even principals in life. I know you've heard the term of passing the baton. By definition it says, quote, to bestow one's responsibility or job upon someone else. My cousin wrote me the other week. and said that I think he's about five years younger than I am, maybe four. And he says he's about to turn over his uh landscaping business to his oldest daughter And and he was one who, you know, I'll never quit, you know. And he says that it's time for me to pass the baton onto her. He says it'll be slowed probably throughout the year I've heard testimonies from restaurant owners from the old country and uh or there'll be a picture on the wall and the current owner says, well that's my grandfather. And he gave the business to my dad, and then it's on to me. And it's a passing on the baton of of those recipes and responsibilities of that particular restaurant In a relay race, in business, in relationships and life, if baton passing isn't done properly, it can lead to failure. It can lead to a loss. It can lead to struggles throughout life. What we have before us here today in our scripture reading comes to a sort of a passing on of the baton from Paul to Timothy. Now if you look at the whole book, you say, well this entire book is that. Uh I don't know how long it took Paul to write this epistle or have it written and he signs it. But um uh you could say that in this entire epistle he is preparing Timothy for taking his place in in in a fashion He writes in such a way that he's expressing, uh and as we we saw in the second part of our reading today, uh he says, life is just about finished My last chapter is about to go. And he says, Timothy, there are hardships and there are struggles and there are going to be conflicts and all these things. But he says, now it's your turn And you can see as he sees Timothy uh there waiting in his handout and he says he coming up to him in this particular section of the book is really the actual uh exchanging of the baton. I think you'll see how important his wording is as we look at it. So please look at verse 1 again I charge ye therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead, at his appearing and at his kingdom. I charge you graduation speeches, you heard those, you know, there'll be somebody can get up and they charge the the graduates. You know, you're going to leave this institution and you're going out into the world. And I charge you to do your best, to use the things that you learned in this coming life. uh charging in other other a areas it'd be a solemn admonishment. Um it's a very strong and a very powerful picture. And he says, Timothy, what I'm saying to you right now I'm charging you, I'm presenting unto you, and who also is in the presence of the Lord. He's listening to the words, he's listening to this exchange of challenges. He's seeing the responsibilities that are going from me to you. And God himself is watching. God himself is watching. I charge you. Just like when we take an oath or a vow, uh if you're in court, or uh marriage vows, or uh signing up in the military, or our two uh deacons last week. You know. Before God, they make a statement, a profession, uh of responsibility, an oath, a vow. And God is witness to these things. And we say, well, it didn't really matter, they're just words. No Paul tells Timothy these things are important, and God understands that he will hold us to these words. Here Paul says, Timothy, I charge you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ who shall judge the quick, those who run fast. No. Those who are still living at the time that this is being when Jesus returns. Or the dead, those who have passed on at this time. When the Lord returns. shows how powerful the statement he has presented to Timothy in this particular exchange. The next verse, verse 2, gives us the charge in and itself. What is Timothy charged with to do? Be a good pastor, be a a competent apostle. Look what he says in verse two. And there's five imperatives. Five things that Timothy is charged to do, and they're easy to see. First, preach the word. Secondly, be instant in season out of season. Third, reprove. Fourth, rebuke. Fifth, exhort. Timothy, God is our witness. This is the baton passing. These are the things that you are to take charge of to be understanding what your task is. So the first one, preach the word. Timothy, I charge you to preach the word. Timothy, I'm not looking for your opinion. Timothy, I'm not looking for you to give some rah-rah speech. Timothy, I'm not looking for you to even give a travelogue of what's being presented in our old missionary travels. You don't remember when we went on to this place and that place, and remember what happened? He said, I'm not asking to do that. He says, Timothy, before God, I'm charging you to preach the word of God. Preacher is a word that Brother Tim used earlier. It's herald. And herald is defined as an official messenger bringing news. Not just behind the pulpit to preach, but it is a message to be brought. In medieval Europe, a herald was a person who was usually an officer, and he took the message from one general to the opposing general Those of you familiar with uh Henry VIII, Henry V in Shakespeare, there's a main character in there called Harold. And he takes the word from the king of France to Henry V, back and forth, you know, and and uh near the end he almost lost his life because Henry was pretty upset with them. Herald is to bring a glorious message, a powerful message, a clear message that is of most importance Paul is saying that this is more than standing behind the pulpit, that we often think of presenting the word. It is bringing forth the good news of the gospel to the believer and the unbeliever. We often think of the message of the gospel, that's for the unbeliever, the one who doesn't know Christ as the Savior. But this is encompassing that all of us have the need to grasp upon the truth of the Word. Paul writes in Romans 10, how then shall they call upon him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach, except he be sent, as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things. Timothy, your message is the herald of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the most powerful, clear, giving message that has ever been presented in all of history. As we studied chapter 3, we saw the excellence of the scriptures in verses 16 and 17. We had our Swiss army knife picture that was with us there. the word of God was profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Why? That the man of God would be completely equipped for every good work, that he's provided for, everything that's necessary in his or her life. And so that's the message that is of clearness, of truth, of powerful, of excellence that Timothy is to preach. Listen to the psalmist. He says, I have preached righteousness in the great congregation. Lo, I have not refrained my lips, O Lord, thou knowest. The psalmist as the preacher of righteousness, telling truth, bringing those who were of the children of Israel to an understanding of life before a holy God. John the Baptist, simple sermon. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Few words to have memorized. Yet John's words were clear and true to Israel. Repent. The Savior is here. The kingdom is at hand. It's right before you Jonah, talking about short messages. God tells him, Arise and go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee. Later on it says, and Jonah began to enter the city a day's journey, and he cried and said, Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Simple message, but it was a message of righteousness. Forty days and this city will be overthrown. Powerful, clear, but supported by the hand of God. Jesus to his disciples, let the dead bury the dead, but go thou and preach the kingdom of God. Was this just talking? Were they just words or to be giving little sermons and sermonettes? It's much more than that. It is the presentation of Christ in our lives, in the way we live, in the way we interact with everybody. around us, Paul himself, whereof I am made a minister according to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you to fulfill the word of God Whom we preach, warning every man, teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect or complete in Jesus Christ. This is Timothy's task. It wasn't new. Throughout Old and New Testament, we read of this very same thing. Timothy, the word of God is clear as to what it represents, as to what it does, as how it can, as long as it's presented. And so he tells him, Timothy, preach the word. So when is this done? Timothy, preach the word on the Lord's Day. Is that what he says? Look at the next section, the next imperative. He says, it is to be preached, be instant in season and out of season. Timothy, be prepared, be ready, be in hand, like a like a Boy Scout, you know. Be prepared at all times I remember my first, uh probably not quite the first time, but one of the earlier times that I'd gone to Kenya to visit the missionaries and the stations that were around there And they tell you ahead of time, be prepared to preach. You know. Well, they don't tell you how often you have to preach, but they say, well, we're going out to visit this group here today, we're going out to visit this group today We want you to preach, okay? Oh, okay. Then to this group over here, we're going over them. You gotta preach. Oh yeah. Be prepared. Well at the first time it was a little bit of a panic. because I wasn't quite prepared for all of the times I was called on to preach, but he tells us, be prepared. We're brought up with the understanding that pastors are always to be ready. I mean that's their job, isn't it When something spiritually happens, when there's trouble, when there's hardship, uh, when there's difficulties, answers to be found, well, we call the pastor. He'll do it. That's his job, isn't it? And yet, the words that Paul gives to Timothy here aren't specifically for the pastor. It's specifically for all of us as believers. The challenges that we all face, of ethics and immorality throughout our day, all of the things that we hear and see, there are evidences of man's sinful nature. We can sit and talk about it in your community and your office and your uh surroundings. This is happening. Oh, it's terrible to see And yet when we see that, when we hear that and we understand it, what do we do? Let's call the pastor and see what he's going to say, or what he can do. What's happened here is that we are to be ready instant in season and out of season. I mentioned the Boy Scouts, that motto of being prepared. I saw where the motto means, you are always ready in a state of readiness in mind and in body to do your duty. How about that for a spiritual relationship to every child of God? Always be ready to present. It's your duty. No, let's call the pastor and see what he's got to say, or let's call so-and-so, uh the the elders, or let's call the deacons, or something like that. No, all of us in being prepared, instant in-season or out-of-season Because we're all engaged in this reactionary world in which we live in. Not all are preachers, but all are given the opportunity to use God's word. to bring its truth to light in all kinds of situations. Paul writes to the church at Ephesus and he says, Redeeming the time because the days are evil, to redeem, to buy back. What times are you given? What opportunities has God given you? Instant in season and out-of-season? How's it going for you? I'm afraid that more often than not we reduce our testimony or personal ministry to opportunities. We have time slots in our day and throughout our week of what we do. I have a slot where it is my eating time, my sleeping time, go-to-work time, recreational time, time with the kids, time to fix the car, and then my spiritual time. uh I I pigeonhole every activity of life in order to accomplish everything, but I pigeonhole my spiritual life like I do everything else And that's not to be. The instant in-season and out-of-season says it is seven days a week, 24 hours a day, you know, 12 months out of the year, 365 days of the year. It is all of the time. And that's the demand that God has of his children. We can't allocate my spiritual life like it is my work hours or my family time or whatever. It permeates everything Because we've been redeemed by the Lord to this end. Now, the third and fourth imperatives that are given to us in this second verse are really similar. And I think if you recall our illustration with our Swiss Army knife again, the matter of reproof and rebuking. They are familiar. We talked about them. It's something that's accomplished through the Word of God. If God's word is there and it can reprove, Well, how come it doesn't all the time? But a lot of times it has to be applied. So in other words, the preaching of the word, being instant, in season, out of season, causes me to be able to use that God's word to reprove the sinner. To reprove means to convince of error. I found a really good quote from William Hendrickson. He says, sin must be brought home to the sinner's consciousness in order that he may repent. Sin must be brought home to the sinner's consciousness that he can repent. I don't know I'm sinning How do I know that? So reproving is being able to present and convict that person to show him out of God's word the error of the ways that he has found himself in. Today the words of the book of Judges ring true. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. whole book of judges like that. We find also in the the principles of the life that I recall as a youth, if it feels good, do it. There's no conscious thought of sin. Oh, but just what everybody does. That's what everybody's engaged in. The power of the Word of God brings it along and says, no. reproof is conviction of sin to show this person this is not God's way. Good example, let me read to you out of Galatians 2. The Apostle Paul comes and he finds Peter with some others. He says, but when Peter was come to Antioch, I, meaning Paul, withstood him to the face, because he was to be blamed For before that certain came of James, from James, he did eat with the Gentiles. But when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision. Okay. Peter's in a gathering, big tent, you know, and all of a sudden Peter's with one group, and they are the Gentiles, and that's no problem. But then all of a sudden some Jewish believers come in and Peter says, Oh, it's not good for me to be seen with these guys. So he picks up his plate and his silverware and he moves over and he sits down next to the Jewish ones. And it's telling the the the the Gentiles and the non Jews, what's the matter with us? Are there two different groups? So he sees that. And the other Jews disassembled likewise with him. In other words, they got up from the table with the Gentiles and moved over to sit with the Jews. Insomuch that Barnabas also was carried away with their dissimilation. But when I saw that they walked not uprightly according to the truth of the gospel, okay, there's the key, did I know I was sinning? Paul brings him the truth of the gospel. I said to Peter before them all, if thou being a Jew, livest after the manner of the Gentiles, and not as do as the Jews Why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews? Peter, why are you doing this? This is a sin, Peter. And he convinces him of the error of his ways. You know, convincing, showing, bringing home the truth of life in order that that person might understand. Paul reproved Peter convinced him of his sin. Otherwise, if it hadn't been done, Peter probably would have still gone on sinning, making a division within the church. The fourth one is rebuke. And again, this is stronger than reproof, more powerful in its picture. It's a matter of calling for repentance. I think it's possible if Peter had continued in doing the things that he was doing, then Paul would have had to come along and say something like, Peter, if you don't stop this If you don't disengage from this type of action, God's going to bring judgment upon you. Not only uh was reproof clear, and it was and it did work because Peter did repent, but if he hadn't Paul could have come along and says, hey, listen, Peter, this is so serious that there's going to be judgment upon you. Now those may be seeming like strong words. You know, sometimes in our Christian circles we find it difficult to be able to tell people that they're sinning. There are churches today that you would find it very difficult uh one very large church in Texas where the pastor refuses to call out sin as it is sin. And yet it's popular. It's encouraging to people to come and hear such a thing Jesus rebuked the devil and it departed from him. And the child who was cured in that very hour, Jesus rebuked, he stood, he withstood him, and that brought upon the clearness of the word rebuke. Then he arose and he rebuked the winds and the sea, and they were calm. A rebuke, the power that's behind these truths. Noah was a preacher of righteousness. And I guarantee you that there was a strong rebuke to the world's lifestyle where Noah lived and the things that he was engaging in at that time. So we have preaching of the word, we have it being instant, in-season, out-of-season, we have a matter of reproof, we have a matter of rebuke, and then the last one is presented is exhortation. exhortation, the fifth imperative, and it means to encourage or comfort. It's interesting that of these last three the matter of reproof and rebuke. Um they must be understood that the aim of those are to bring the brother who is aired to bring him back to a place of fellowship and love. You don't chew somebody up, you don't tear them down in order that he remains down, but you do that in order that he can be restored to fellowship. And there comes along the word of encouragement. Paul uses the words of the similar sense, 1 Thessalonians 5. 11, wherefore comfort one another together. In other words, encourage one another and edify one another, build them up. even as ye do also. First Timothy five one. Rebuke not an elder, but entreat him, or encourage him, exhort him as a father. Um the the pr principle that Paul lays here is he says, in our relationship to others as there's sin involved and in in discipline that has to be presented It has to be undergirded with encouragement and comfort. You know how that is as parents if we just chide a child Discipline them and there's no love and there's no comfort in in and building up in them, it leaves that child destroyed One pastor commented, resist the nature, the n resist the natural sinful impulse to heap guilt and tear down, but instead correct in order to encourage All Christian correction aims at restoration. All Christian disciplines end up in order to bring that person, that man or that woman, back into the fellowship, the restoration of their walk with the Lord Jesus Christ. Reproving, rebuking, exhorting are all done in order to restore. And all three of those are to be done with long-suffering, as he says, and doctrine. In other words, to properly encourage somebody, we do it with patience and with instruction. I know as a parent to a child there were times that I would have lost my temper and didn't necessarily bring um parental discipline the way I should have. And yet what I knew I should have is not only to help them to understand why they're being disciplined to it, but to instruct them in the reasons why what they did was wrong in order to restore them to the relationship within the family. Reproving and rebuking. In the Corinthian church there was a man who had a physical relationship with his stepmother. And apparently everybody in the church understood this, knew what was going on at that particular time. In First Corinthians, Paul steps in and he reproves and he rebukes the man And it's apparently so obvious that the man is humbled. He confesses the things that he had done, and he brought this man back to a place of discipline and apparently responding with godly sorrow In the second letter Paul gives to this church, he comes and he updates this situation. First Book, things are not too good. Paul tells them this man has to be disciplined. He's actually kicked out of the church. But the second letter comes along and Paul says, sufficient to such a man is this punishment. which was inflicted of many. Okay? He's saying, already to this point, what judgment came, what discipline came on was sufficient. He repented, he was changed, which was inflicted of many, in other words, the church members. So the contrary wise You ought rather to forgive him and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow Wherefore I beseech you, I beg you, that ye would conform your love toward him, thus Satan should get the advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. Paul says that this man had repented of what had taken place, and he says, now it's your responsibility to comfort him and to build him up. to restore this particular one. Paul says, Timothy, this ministry is something that is there. And he says, if we don't, he says, we see how Satan takes advantage of those situations in life. That's the instructional part of this. And I guess we could say at this stage of our morning message, Pastor, what's it all about? What does that have to do with me? What does that have to do with me as far as you know preaching the word or being incident season out of season, reproving, rebuking, exhorting with all long suffering and doctrine? Well, first of all, that's obvious is the way that we look at handle our Bibles. If I don't think and I don't understand the importance and the power of God's Word, I've missed the whole point. I have to take my Bible seriously for my own sake and for the sake of others that are around me. If I don't apply the truth of God's word in my relationship to brothers and sisters in Christ, or even to those who are not then I've missed the entire point. One day I'll have to give an account to the Lord of how I've lived, and the Bible is key to that. I think it's also important that we see how we handle sin in my own life and the life of other people. How do I deal with the lives of others who have hurt me, been offended, or how I have hurt them Can I take discipline as well as I give it? Do I seek to get my pound of flesh because I was right and they were wrong, and we leave it at that because I've won Or do we try and seek to restore that brother or sister in Christ? Sad to say when it comes to matters of discipline in the church. Too often people are like butterflies and they've been here and they find they've been in place of discipline and say, well let just go off, I'll find another place to light And then a little trouble there and find out another place to light. And there's no no restoration, there's no conviction of sin, there's no building up of the life that they need to understand in their walk with the Lord But maybe it's good that we ask the Apostle Paul. Paul in these first two verses, what are you trying to tell me? What are you trying to tell Timothy? Why say these things? Was not Timothy a preacher? No. This is in this position, and the baton is coming down, and he's saying, Timothy, now it's your turn No, why wasn't he? Look in the following verses here. He says, I charge ye therefore I charge ye therefore before God and Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing? Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort Of all long suffering and doctrine. Why? Verse 3. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall keep to themselves teachers, having itching ears, and they will turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables In a cursory study of church history, you will find, all, well, since the time of the resurrection, you will find there are times when the church has fallen apart spiritually and doctrinally. There have been times when it has just been a horrible testimony where men have refused to heed sound doctrine. And I think as we move closer to the consummation of the age, it'll get worse and worse. Where people will absolutely plug their ears and refuse to listen to truth. Sound doctrine uh spiritually healthy teaching rejected because it fails to satisfy. I I'm bothered by the the the uh and maybe it's just me, I'm bothered by the churches that seem to have a very light attitude towards God's Word Um you can listen to online on YouTube or any uh these other stations. Um the the uh uh actually I looked up one one church in our area and um uh uh the and it's not critical of the pastor I don't know him, you know. His long hair, his beard, he's got his guitar and uh he had a uh had his black coat on and his little collared shirt, you know, in the state, Presbyterian church. Um and he says, our pastor is not like any other pastors, you know. And uh and and he went on to listen to some of the sermons and most of it was just talk. Most of it was just discussion about things, and they were interesting. They were, you know, experiences of life and things like that. But and it may have met the needs of the people and and the the camera kind of moved around here and the people just he says any dress coat or anything, he said, no, just come as you are And if he was in shorts, the others elders or whoever they were up there were in shorts also, casual shirts, you know. They were outs outside with an outside service, you know. And I understand the casualness of this But brethren, we're talking about life in eternity, in the seriousness of these things. And Paul says, Timothy, it's your turn. You know, preach the word. And when it comes time to rebuke, how are you going to rebuke somebody who says, well, just however you feel. Come as you are. Think as you think. You know? I'm in some discussion with some other pastors and we're talking about church music. And and I I can understand why you say, well, the Hindles and and the music that we've I trust we enjoy, you know, even challenging new ones, you know. He says, these things are in essence obsolete. You have to come to an understanding of music that is more relevant today. And there are some good things that are there But there's a lot of it that doesn't theologically hit the Word of God. And it doesn't, why is there such an attraction? He says the time is coming when they will not endure sound doctrine Whether it's the preaching of the word or the hymns that are sung or anything else God, they're just not going to do it. Because what happens here? What does he say? And he says they will heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. Now when I first read that, what do you think? He just starts scratching his ears like that, you know? He says, he says there are teachers who are going to be filling the ears of those whose ears are tickling. If you have a tickle about um uh automechanics, you know, or if you have a tickle about, you know, uh bulldozers or whatever like that We're going to talk about bulldozers all the time. We're going to talk about this. Or we're going to talk about whatever it is. Anything that tickles your ears, I'll satisfy that. And that's not God's word. Paul says they're going to come along to keep on themselves such a time. During such times they will search for teachers who are voices of authority that will tell them what they want to hear. They will teach you whatever you want to hear. Feed them the same poison that they enjoy drinking. Jeremiah 5. 31. The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests bear rule by their means I listen to this. And my people love to have it so. Jeremiah says The priests and the prophets are feeding them garbage, and he says, and my people, God says, they love to have that. They're feeding them junk. And they enjoy it. They love to have it. We're running out of time, but there's one more verse here that we can take. And they shall turn away the ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. If you want evolution, we'll give you evolution. And we can support it by the top scientists in the world today. You know, the top scientists. If you want to crave freedom of choice, We'll give you the freedom to choose whatever you want and backed by the laws of the land. We'll change the laws in order that you can have the right to be and think whatever you want to think. You know If you're bothered by hell, don't worry, there is nothing. Marriage is an issue. Don't let that burden you. The best psychologists say that marriage is an unnecessary burden to be shackled. Men and women, just don't even think at all about it. It's wrong. So just dissolve that. Sexual identity? You have to decide for yourself after all. You know best of who you are Truth has been and will continue to be turned from a myth into fables by the people who are eating it up. Is that not happening? It's always happened So what do we do? We stick to that which is right. The word of God is to be heralded. You're not a preacher. I understand that. But it's to be proclaimed the message of truth. And you are to be instant, ready at all times, in whatever it is. Uh Uncle Joe and Aunt Sally, they come by the house and they've got some garbage to feed you. He says, Uncle Joe and Sally Sally, this is wrong. My Bible says this, you know, anytime. And to be reproved and to rebuke, you know, this is wrong. And see, this is what God's word says And and God's, you know, you're not to live like this. You're not to have this relationship. You're not to in in rebuke. He says, there's condemnation, there's judgment for such a lifestyle, you know. And and then we come along and we tell them, you know, but I love you and God loves you. And I want to encourage you to come, you know, let's pray about this. Let's deal with this You know. The the baton comes from Paul to Timothy because he's the initi initial character. But it's not to be outlined like saying It's just you, Timothy, because you're the preacher, but it's the believer. We're all involved in this, and we're all going to be held accountable as one day we can come before the Lord It's not going to be a disaster. God understands that. We'll continue on next week with Paul's testimony because it'll help us, encourage us. He's at his last chapter and he wants Timothy to know something really important. As we go through this, we pray God will cede our hearts to be active involved, actively involved in His work. Let's pray. Father, the struggles of life are ever before us. Even listening to um the preaching of somebody can be at times very challenging because of the events of life, because of our own thinking, because of uh just uh situations. And yet we recognize it is a spiritual war There are things that take place that are beyond our our our vision, beyond our seeing, beyond our understanding. And so we ask that you continue to be gracious to us To forgive us for the errors of our ways, the things that we have done that we should have done, and the things that we did that were wrong in your sight. And that you would restore a joy of our hearts in the relationship that we have with you, redeemed and born again, looking forward to the day that we'll come home to be with you Bless these thoughts to our hearts in Christ's name. Amen