Shall we pause for a word of prayer? Our Father will approach this your time of worship hour as the Word of God has brought to our hearts' attention Knowing that by man nothing can be accomplished, but by your Spirit and the power that works within us, these truths can not only be seated in our hearts, but they can bring forth fruit And Lord, it's our heart's desire that we as your children grow thereby. And may uh we be providing uh a field that is of good soil in order that these seeds may find a place to be planted and deep-rooted and bring forth an abundant harvest to your glory. Forgiving us of our sin we ask for Jesus' sake. Amen. A number of years ago, Millie and I stayed at our oldest son's uh house overnight and the uh oldest granddaughter relinquished her bedroom and her bed for us at that time and um Uh you know, they always like who's gonna give to grandma and grandpa. And so we tucked in for the night and we get in just going to sleep and we uh eek ek ek ek You know, then stopped. Stopped Well, after some prodding and some elbows, I did get up and look around for what it was. Well, it was the little hamster and the hamster wheel, and it was covered over by blank and had no idea it was there and And he'd hop in the wheel and he'd go around and then he'd hop out and he'd go in again, go round and round and round. You know the hamster wheel and that hamster, he spends a lot of his life thinking he's going somewhere, doing something. But the spinning of that wheel and those little legs going and going and going and going didn't profit him at all. Well maybe some exercise But he went nowhere. It was a routine that there was of no profit whatsoever. Round and round he went. It's easy for us at times to feel trapped by the routines of life, like that hamster trapped in his particular routines. And those routines can oftentimes be seen without having a larger purpose as times of difficulty. Times where we feel that in life we're just simply going nowhere. And it can bring on tremendous discouragement. The routine of a student in classes and studies, year after year. We went to a drive-by graduation on Saturday and Cattel, the students were Excited to be finished. But up until that stage, for all those twelve years, or how many it taken, it was rough. I remember those times. Again, another year, that's the same thing. You just view it as the same thing in those routines become difficult The husband off to work, the long and grueling commute, the nine to five hours, and then the commute back home again. And just to look ahead to see what that routine is going to bring them for another day and another day and another day. Same could be said for the wife. Taking care of the children, the laundry, meal preparation, and for many, part-time outside the house in order to see that the financial situation of the home is taken care of. seemingly stuck in that hamster wheel forever. Now in the midst of the current situation, so much of life and uh uh family and individuals seem to be a routine, and it's magnified by the situation that we find ourselves in. I think the same scenario can also be true for a church. We can appreciate our Sunday worship. Yet approaching it, or a Bible study, or various kinds of fellowships with an attitude, it's it's just the same thing. We're doing the same thing, walking down the same steps, going through the same pattern. It's just the same thing, round and round a spiritual wheel goes. And sometimes that it can become discouraging. And for some, it can even be, if we're truthful, looking at it as almost meaningless. For example, millennials. born in the from the early nineteen eighties to the early two thousands, six out of ten that grew up in the church have already dropped out. Six out of ten just gone. And the study also showed that a half of all millennials surveyed said they haven't been to church in the last six months. Yeah, a lot of finger pointing. Uh it's the parents' fault, it's the pastor's fault, it's the church, it's this or that. But the bottom line is the damage was done Or at least the end result of what they saw it as being uh the the end result. It was could be just plain old routine You see, routine becomes lethal when we don't see a purpose in it. Routines are part of life. We have those struggles, we have those situations, but they can become lethal if there's no purpose. If that student doesn't see the fact that those many years that may be seen as a routine equips that young man or that young woman for life ahead. giving them the tools that are necessary in order for them to be productive young men and women in society. If they don't see that, that grade point average eventually drops And for some, they drop out of school. They don't care. Or they flunk out of school. Life is just of no purpose Husband and wife, individuals burdened with that daily standard routine associated with marriage. However, it's looked upon. experience without seeing it as a purpose in that relationship, often look elsewhere. Five years ago there was a huge hack on the Ashley Madison website. Extremely embarrassing for many who would wish to hide from public view. However, this particular website Which is much more than a dating website, boasts for over, quote, fifty million members worldwide. And they say that thousands of cheating husbands and wives sign up for it every day looking for an affair. Sure, a lot of finger pointing, a lot of accusations. And yet, if the routine of life allows it to be seen without purpose, such avenues of destruction are available. In every corner. What about my spiritual life? In truth, when my relationship with Jesus Christ is seen as routine, well, it too can become potentially lethal. The symptoms can be outwardly disguised by going through the motions of church We can get in the pattern. We can follow through those daily routines or weekly routines or monthly routines, carrying my Bible, giving in the offering. singing the hymns, uh meeting with this one and doing that. But inwardly there is a a a vacancy, a void. Inwardly there is not a challenge or purpose It is the hamster wheel going round and round and feeling simply getting nowhere. Boring. I'm out. I pray the same prayer at mealtime, if I pray at all. After five years or ten years or fifteen years, I still struggle finding the book of Habakkuk. Or Joel, without going through real quick like that. The pattern of life really doesn't show that there has been growth whatsoever. And I find the only excitement in gathering together with believers on the Lord's day, at least for certain people, this is the social context that are available. Generally they're nice people. They're kind and helpful. The potluck dinners are really of benefit. But honestly, I'm not really excited about the Bible content. I'm not really excited about the direction of studying it It's really like just punching a time clock. Then I'm done. In the door, out the door. So routine can become lethal if I don't see a purpose in it, if there's none there. This morning I want us to look at the Apostle Paul and how Paul perceived in his own life, in his ministry, in his own walk, How Paul had a vision to reach far beyond what was routine because he saw his spiritual life as a race. It took him beyond the point of saying, oh, I'm just doing this again and again, is the matter that he saw it as a race, and by the grace of God, Paul wanted to keep going until he had crossed the finish line. By his own experience, I think Paul understood that anything, even in his own life, could have become routine. His travels, his preaching, his teaching, even prison life. It's the same thing, day after day, routine, and it just loses purpose, and therefore it can become tragic. Yet Paul believed that he could and did serve Jesus Christ as his Lord in every situation, in every location, in every corner, because that was purposed within his heart. So let's look to the testimony of Paul, and I ask you to open to 1 Corinthians 9. 1 Corinthians 9. And I'm going to time you to see how fast you're able to get there to know that you're. As we look here, I want you to follow in the overall picture as to find that Paul sees nothing as routine and ordinary. This is what he's speaking about. And not for that purpose, but this is what we can glean out of it. 1 Corinthians 9, start at verse 19. For though I be free from all men, what does he mean free? Well, he was a Roman-born citizen. He owed no man anything. He was free, not dependent upon anyone. For though I be free from all men yet have I made myself servant unto all that I might gain the more? That kind of seems strange. I'm a free man, but I put myself in the place of being the servant, the slave of other people. In order that, he says, I may win them to Christ. He has all the privileges in life of being a free man, but he says, I've been relinquishing these in order that benefit others to bring them to Christ. Verse 20. He gets specific. And unto the Jew I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews, to them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law. to them that are without the law, as without law, being not without law to God, but under the law to Christ, that I might gain them that are without the law. to the weak. I as weak, that I might gain the weak. I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some. Paul didn't let anything of himself keep keep it from gaining others There's nothing in him that he's saying is going to keep me from bringing the gospel to others in order that they would say, well, no, he's not right. He's completely transparent here Completely open. And he's boldly honest. He's not trying to hide anything. Now Look at verse twenty three, and he gives the reasons for doing that, all of those things that were listed above in order to gain that. Verse twenty three, and this I do For the gospel's sake, that I might be partaker, therefore, thereof with you. The reason I do this is for Paul's sake. No. For the gospel's sake. There is purpose nailed up in front of him. So there's the the reason there are a lot of uh college football teams that have a little plaque just before they enter the the the stadium. You know, and they'll go up and they'll slap that plaque. That's our that's what we're going out there, yeah, that's what we're doing. And Paul begins every day He says, I'm going here. I'm doing this. I'm in the jail cell, grabbing the mob, or whatever it is. I'm doing this for the gospel's sake. And it's being displayed in the ways he adapts to these others. Back in nineteen twenty-nine, the world fell into what became known as the Great Depression. Uh worldwide it destroyed the economies of both rich and small um in in just leveling the playing fields of all Uh we had a friend who is now with the Lord lived back in western Pennsylvania and he told us of his uncle who owned a butcher shop back there. And he said during his lifetime he grew up in that community and he knew all of his neighbors and all of the things that went on. He said as the depression came on, he recognized that many of those who were his normal customers couldn't pay. And he says, I couldn't refuse them So he says I got their IOUs. And he says I realized as the time years went on that payment wouldn't outcome And so he end ended up dying penniless. Um and he could have demanded, you know, but he didn't He gave of himself in order to see that his his neighbors had. He gave of himself. And I look at this and this is exactly what Paul was doing He says, to this one, to this one, to this one, I am giving of myself in order that, for the gospel's sake, that Christ might be made known unto them, the sacrifice that was made in those days unto uh the glory of God that Paul was serving. The Apostle Paul longed to be effective in making the gospel known. And he wanted the Corinthians to have that same zeal. And I think that's the zeal that the Lord would have of all of us. You know, I'd love to be like that, but I have a lot of things in the way. Look at verse 24 Know ye not, they which run in the race, run all, but one receiveth the prize. So run, that ye may obtain. And there's an analogy here to the Corinthian games. There were apparently, as far as I know, four different cities that hosted the games. And Corinth was was one of those. And they recognize all that went into this. But he's saying that of all who run, really there's just one who receives the prize. Verse 25, and every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do not obtain a corruptible crown, but an incorruptible We think of the effort that puts into professional sports today. I missing baseball. I enjoy summer baseball. It's relaxing just to listen and and watch at times and so forth. But when you think of those individual players and those teams, and the emotional and the physical and the and and the demand that's put upon them, uh it it strives in in any athletic endeavor. They push for it in order that they might be the champions within that uh particular sport. The prize may be a trophy bragging rights of being the best, uh however it's looked upon. Yet in the bottom line, that soon fades away, it disappears. They one day say Well, we're not the champions anymore. We were up last year or the year before or whatever. Of all of the efforts that go on, it eventually we recognize it doesn't last Men puts forth their tremendous efforts in all realms of life in order to win the laurel wreath of the The the gold medal, the Super Bowl ring, the MVP trophy, the House in the Hamptons, another one down in South Beach in Miami, or down along the Malibu coast in a lifestyle that that parallels those homes and parallels that type of attitude from the heart that's there. But it's soon gone. We work exhausting hours, strain our relationships, ruin our health, all in order to obtain that which does not last And I'm not saying that there are not things that are worthy of good effort and good work in order that we can live a life that's peaceable and pleasing. But the effort that's being placed upon us, the purpose of life, if Paul says, you know, there's a real purpose behind the things that I'm doing, if those things are to obtain the worldly things, then all of a sudden we find out it becomes disastrous. The question that we have to ask is, what do I do to obtain that which is eternal? And I'm not speaking of salvation, but I'm speaking of the believer. What do I obtain to do? What was my involvement in order that I might obtain the spiritual benefits of this life in the blessings of those things that are to come. What ought to be our priorities, our effort, our dedication, our focus, our goals. When the crown is one that does not f fades away, that is established in the heavens. And again, I'm not talking about salvation. And talking about what we are to be engaged in as saved people. Look back to our text, verse 26. Paul's continuing on. He talks about his corruptible, incorruptible. Therefore, I do not run like someone running aimlessly. I do not fight like a boxer beating the air. In other words, doing the same old routine again. I'm not doing that. No, I strike a blow to my body and to make it my slave so that after I have preached to others, I myself will not be disqualified for the prize Paul says I bring myself into subjection. I struggle. But I know there are things that I have to deal with in my own personal life I have to gain complete victory over my own sinfulness, over my own wicked desires. And yes, Paul, like all of us, have those same thoughts. And that included the danger of the ordinary routines of life, which could cause him to say, what is the purpose in what I'm doing? It was estimated that some 400 church workers, pastors and elders and deacons resigned because of that Ashley Madison revelation back five years ago. Well, if 400 were found guilty on one website, how many were still guilty from some other website? or from some other sexual sin that was involved in. And if those who were on the the the the the the responsible leadership of churches were found guilty in that? What amongst ordinary people who are not within that? The danger is rampant So Paul says, I strike a blow to my body and make it my slave, so that after I have preached to others, I myself might not be disqualified for the prize. Paul says, I need the discipline. I need the self-discipline. And if Paul did, how much more do we? Paul's vision, Paul's purpose, his goal, allowed him to keep in the race, to strive forth with the prize, the goal that is ahead of him. long past any hardships or responsibilities he faced. Not giving up, but going forward, to keep going until he crossed the finish line. Now listen to this. By including Jesus in every aspect of his life, Paul found meaning even in the routines of life. By keeping Jesus Christ in every aspect of his life, Paul found meaning in the routines of life. Let's change that out here. By including Jesus in every aspect of my life, I find meaning in every routine of life. of the normal, ordinary things of taking care of making those peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, or having to do that law or getting up on the ladder every single day or r ranking a wrench or driving the road and doing the same Bagner and back and forth. If I find Christ in every aspect of my life, I find purpose and meaning in it, in order that I might win them for Christ. And again, it's not me that's doing, but I have to find myself in that particular location. So how do we get there? How do we find ourselves in such a place that I, like Paul, can say, astride for that? I'm not going to get sidetracked. I'm not going to be down that rabbit trail and and find myself, you know, wandering out, oh, even just for a few minutes. I suggest just four simple things. And there it's not rocket science. There are things that you would know. And I'm not saying that if we do these things then it's all under one bag But I think there are helpful things that would help us with it. First of all, spend much time with God in prayer Rocket science? No, but it's truth. God bless this food. Amen. Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep. And if I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. That was the prayer I was taught. Those two prayers I was taught as a little child It was just a word of repetition, meaningless. But it was that which caught my thought saying, I've checked that off, I tick that box. Because there are times that we can fall into such a routine. My pattern of prayer, the same words, repetition, meaningless. Daniel refused to bow in the presence of the idol worship and was caught. In the habit of praying three times a day. Yet what saw Daniel through was the fact that he understood his relationship and in his prayer, in his prayer life He was unable to go through the hardship of the persecution that he experienced in life. Every day of adversity became conquered by prayer. Speak to the Lord honestly about your walk with him. In that prayer life, again, there are times that we can do out of habit. We say certain words and I can tick it off, and I've done it. But if you talk to people normally and those who you come in normal contact with, do you say the same patterns of discussion with them? If I find that Millie and I communicate the the same basic words, we're going to say, what's wrong with you? You know? We express what's on our hearts. We express what's on our minds. We talk about things in the reality of how we feel and how we interact. Why don't we do that with the Lord? Speak to him honestly about my particular situation. Lord, help me with this. Help me see the big picture. Lord, help me to find my purpose in doing this. That I do not lose the reason that you are having me to go through this particular stage of life or this situation or dealing with these people. Speak to him about those things that are on your heart and say, Lord, give me some peace. Give me some direction. Open a door or close a door. May this be an opportunity, Lord, to speak to my heart on that. That which you once viewed as routine and monotonous will be fulfilling and have a God-centered purpose. Lord, if this is what you've brought me to, why? And it's not wrong to ask that. And you may not get an immediate answer, but it becomes part of your prayer life, and He will work with you in that. Secondly, spend more time with him in his word. There we go again. Praying and reading the Bible. You know, we always talk about that. How much time do you spend in the Bible with God's Word? And we're not talking about again ticking the box, I've done my fifteen minutes. Or you read my chapter, or I would it was I'm on with my normal you know but whatever the routine is, work on it a a little more. One minute more, or two minutes, or one chapter more, or just a little bit of an increase What satisfied us as infants or as as as as little kids, we saw the My youngest grandson uh the other day and uh uh this boy can put down his mom comes down, she says Mm-hmm. He made himself a ham sandwich and I turn around and look and he's made himself a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and and they come back a few more minutes and he's got another third a second ham sandwich done You know, he's just he's just going and going and going and and and as time goes on, that particular routine requires more. So as we grow physically, and as we grow in age, and we grow in responsibilities, there needs to be a complementary growth in the understanding of God's particular word. What you know about God you serve directly is what you're serving is directly linked to what you know of Him And the more I know of the Bible, the more I understand of him, and the more I understand of him, the more I understand my responsibilities to him There's a correlation with all of these. And if I don't know more of him, I'm not necessarily knowing more of what I'm supposed to do with him in that relationship, nor how I'm supposed to act in the situations that are around me. The necessity is there. Thirdly, be disciplined about your spiritual life. What I mean is that we need to understand what is, first of all, making a conscious effort to confess sin and to avoid it. Making an overall effort to improve my spiritual life begins with saying, Lord, there is sin in my life. And I need to first of all confess it. And I need to secondly avoid it. The cancerous tumor isn't healed by putting the band-aid on. That sin which so easily besets us isn't taken care of by just saying, well, it'll be better tomorrow It needs to be confessed and it needs to be an operation to see that that's not accomplished again. Make a conscious effort to grow spiritually. I mentioned in prayer and Bible reading already, but those are only two facets of the overall spiritual relationship Growing spiritually means that I can be a productive person in representing Jesus Christ to those who are around me. It's not a shameful thing. It's an opportunity that I can grow. Wow, listen to that person. Can I pray for you? Oh then, whoa, I can do that. It's all part of the growth process that's there. Make a conscious effort to grow spiritually And everything in life, if we want it, we make a conscious effort to obtain it. If they need to lose weight, I have to make a conscious effort to not eat this, to exercise, to eat this Uh if I wanna change jobs, uh wanna get a promotion, make a conscious effort to see that I understand that particular chat task uh that what's required of me here or there. I I do it in everything that I want to obtain to get, I make that conscious effort. So spiritually, it has to be the exact same thing And then fourth, keep your eye on the prize, the finish line. There are still some, and I've had to actually look it up, uh there are still some horses that wear blinders in horse races, you know. uh because of the distractions that that can get them, the the other horses or the crowds or whatever. So they put them on to keep their focus straight ahead. Think of the distractions that we have in life that keep us from that spiritual race that we are in. The sound, the visible Th every part of our senses are are just feeling out, trying to get information from everything, you know? And now so much of it with the restrictions that we have, there's so much other input that comes before our eyes and before our ears, and and we say, Lord, where do I put on my blinders? How do I restrict those things that really don't have profit? It doesn't mean that you can't go to the ball game or you can't do this or what do you can't go to the ballgame, don't worry about that. Still not yes. But but there are times when we have to say, keep those restrictions out. I want to close with reading a couple of stanzas from a famous poem written by C. T. Studd He was a missionary in China, uh served in other other capacities, but I think it's quite appropriate. You've probably heard a couple of the lines in this, but I want you to listen to it. It's actually very long, but I took just certain stances. He writes, Two little lines I heard one day traveling along life's busy way, bringing conviction to my heart. And from my mind would not depart. Only one life twill soon be past. Only what's done for Christ will last. Only one life, yes, only one. Soon will its fleeting hours be done. Then in that day my Lord to meet, and stand before his judgment seat Only one life 'will soon be past. ' Only what's done for Christ will last. Only one life, the still small voice, gently pleads for a better choice. Bidding me selfless aims to leave, And to God's holy will to cleave. Only one life 'twill soon be past, only what's done for Christ will last Only one life, a few brief years, each with its burdens, hopes, and fears. Each with its clays I must fulfill, living for self or in his will. Only when life 'twill soon be past, only what's done for Christ will last. And that's the bottom line. Routines of life can become meaningless if there's not purpose. And the purpose that God has called us to obviously is uh multitudinal. You know, husbands and wives, we have purpose for each other, fulfilling that relationship that zero or to children or to our particular occupations. But Christ must be in it all in order to give those relationships, all of the horizontal pieces of life, in order to give it meaning. Otherwise, it's meaningless. Of all of the the things that we've, you know, this past week, past couple of days, you know, you weep at what you see, what the people are doing, how crazy. But there's no purpose in it It's meaningless because Christ is not there. Of all of the things that you read that are before us, that become newsworthy. There's nothing in there that's honoring to Christ. So in our life, you know, pretty soon it's going to be gone. And so we evaluate from today on uh how often it can take, you know, only one life, twill soon be passed. But only what's done for Christ is going to last because it's going to be the seed that he uses, that he'll plant, that he'll bring forth to his glory. It has purpose, it has meaning, in order that we might too. Let's pray. Father, we'll thank you for um purpose and meaning in life. And without you there is none. Before you opened our spiritual eyes to see you as Savior and Lord Uh our lives were meaningless and without purpose. Uh we were focusing our attention on on all types of things, becoming famous or becoming rich or becoming powerful and Uh none of that happened. And only until you broke us down and caused us to see that we were miserable sinners, without any hope That we found your Son, our Savior, as our righteousness. And as Christ has applied to us his righteousness to ours, we found purpose and meaning in life. So Lord, we leave from this place and go about our business in this coming week, and we'll be challenged again in all areas of our life to see Jesus Christ in there that there is purpose and meaning to what's happening to us as individuals and as a family And as a congregation and as a community, as long as you are there. Keep our hearts from wandering. Help us to grow, be more steadfast in our prayer life and our Bible reading, and the overall picture of our spiritual walk. Thank you for loving us and being patient with us As we make this journey together, even as Paul had his eyes focused on the finish line, he could endure it all, so may our eyes be focused on that finish line too. And we thank you in our Savior's name. Amen.