It was a bit on the wet side this morning and we got down just past uh Edgewood or just before Edgewood and it just came all red and I thought, oh man, there's an accident and there's no place to get off But it was on the other side. They were all rubber knackers. But it was a bus open those small passenger buses spun around, you know, tourism thing. So thank the Lord for safe travel. Don't never forget to ask the Lord no matter how short the trip. You know, Lord, keep me safe as I go. Let's pray. Father, we rejoice in the privilege of having you present with us today. And we thank you as we implore you to uh bend in ear to hear our prayers and to seek the good of our souls, to strengthen our resolve to live for Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior and and Father to grant us access uh continued access to your word, uh illuminate these truths to our heart in order that it may profit uh ourselves, profit the kingdom, and glorify you. We ask, Father, that you will give your servant understanding and wisdom as he presents these truths. May he be hidden in Christ glorified in his name. Amen. I remember as a child, I guess like elementary school, we used to have uh m m summer vacations up in the Thousand Islands up in the St. Lawrence And for me it was an exciting time. It was fishing and swimming and the whole bit, you know. And I remember they uh uh getting up early in the morning, I mean early, we packed the car and off we'd go and down the roads and I had finished all my comic books and consumed all the snacks that I had and how much longer How much farther? You know they lied to me. It's only a little bit yet, you know. And the closer we got finally to the place, the excitement all of a sudden just dissipated, you know. I mean, the farther we kept on going, all of a sudden the excitement to get there just kind of went Ah, you know, finally we got there and I was exhausted doing it. Well, we started our journey and the 7th of January with Joseph, and I trust there was a lot of excitement at that time, anticipation of walking with Joseph and finding him in his travels and his character as is developed in scriptures But it's quite possible that after all these weeks, some are saying, how much longer? How much farther? You know? I mean we we ended up in in in chapter 42 last time and Genesis has 50 chapters with Joseph? That's eight more weeks. You're kidding me So my reply to you is it's not too far now. We're almost there. As a refresher to get our minds back in the right place, I trust you remember the last time we met. was the picture of the famine, the seven years of good preparation and then the seven years of of horrid famine, upon which Jacob's family was notified that there was food in Egypt, and he sent the boys go on and get some supplies for us. Make us uh profitable here It was a time in which the brothers, with the exception of Benjamin, traveled to Egypt to buy food, and as they met with Joseph, they didn't recognize him, twenty years older uh disguised with other costumes, Egyptian forms and so forth. They didn't recognize him. And then it ended up that Joseph decided that in order to prove that they weren't spies, which he called them He says, I want you to go back and pick up your brother, Benjamin, and bring him back. But they were holding one of the brothers. You remember what brother that was? Starts with an S. Simeon. Very good. Get a prize for that one. It was Simeon, and he was held in prison, and it wasn't uh anybody else in order to prove that they weren't spies. Genesis 43 and 44, we find the next trip to Egypt. They ran out of food. Simeon, remember Simeon's still stuck in prison. And they said, well, let's we need food. And so they're send the brothers down again. And this time Benjamin is with them. After a series of twists that included the brothers bowing down to Joseph again. Bowing down to Joseph again, Joseph finally reveals himself to them. Let me read from chapter 45, the first eight verses. I think this is one of the most beautiful passages in this section of Joseph's life. And Joseph could not refrain himself before all of them that stood by him. And he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there stood no man with him While Joseph made himself known unto his brethren, and he wept aloud, and the Egyptians in the house of Pharaoh heard. Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph Doth my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him, for they were troubled by his presence. Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom he sold into Egypt. Now therefore be not grieved nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve life For all these for these two years hath the famine been in the land, and yet there are five years in which the ye in which there shall neither be hearing nor harvest. God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity on the earth and to save your lives by the great deliverance. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and a Lord over all the house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. They were shocked. Can you imagine what's going on in their mind? This is the same guy we saw just a little while ago, totally disguised, totally forgotten anything about this man. This was our brother, the one that we had sought killed, sold into slavery, and everything going from it. But they were not only surprised, they were absolutely overjoyed at the reunification. Their hearts are just filled about the truth of what has taken place. Joseph sends words to the entire family to come. and join them in Egypt to finish out the time of the famine. This is Jacob. This is all the wives of the brothers. This is all of the children. This is the family. Everybody's to come. to bring them in order that they might be saved. I kind of get the picture of this as those folks back in the centuries ago coming to Ellis Island from Europe or whatever, you know, carrying all that they've got, you know, look like vagabonds, and I can't see them coming all the way from uh from Canaan land With Pharaoh's blessing, they settled in a section of Egypt called Goshen, a safe land of plenty, it was called. Goshen, to where they resided. By chapter 48, we read where Jacob gives the blessing on Joseph's two sons. Not Joseph, which you would think blesses all of his sons, but no, I'm doing it to Ephraim and Manasseh. And then chapter 49, Jacob gives a positive and a negative prophetic blessing to each of his sons individually. If you have time, you know, read through these chapters. And it's interesting how Jacob comes and he sees the character. or understands the character of his sons and the various things, responsibilities that they have done and been given for the future. The passage is next where Jacob commands them to bury him in Canaan, not in Egypt. He says, I want to make sure I'm not buried here. He dies at the ripe old age of 147. As Jacob dies, they set aside 40 days for the embalmment, entombment of his body. uh preserving it. It was probably placed like all the other Egyptians, wrapped up. It was followed by seventy days of mourning by the Egyptians themselves. Can you imagine? For respect of Joseph, her respect of all that Joseph has done, and for their understanding of the relationship that he had with his father They mourn for 70 days, and then there's this tremendous procession, Egyptians and family, from Egypt all the way down to Canaan. Must have been something that people just stood in awe to watch all of these things taking place. Says that he is buried in Canaan. Scripture says, buried him in the cave in the field of Machpilah. which Abraham brought with the field for a possession of the burying place of Ephraim, the Hittite, before Mamre. Who's buried here? None other than Abraham himself and his wife, Sarah. Not only with that, but it ends up being for Isaac and Rebekah and Leah. So now dear Jacob joins the patriarchs and buried for his final resting place. Following the burial All returned to Egypt. You can imagine the conversation and the things that went on in the strip. And they get back to Egypt, and there's a concern amongst the brothers. Oh boy, Dad is dead. I think Joseph is going to now wreak his uh revenge. He's gonna bring forth that which we deserve. They were fearful of what Joseph would do. And honestly, they completely forgot what we read back in chapter 45, where Joseph says, It's not your fault. God meant it in order that we might preserve all of this family and others. But nonetheless, they begged for his forgiveness again. Chapter 50, verse 17. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him. He's listening to this again after all of the promises that he made, of all of the presentation of truth on this relationship. He weeps again after hearing it. And his brethren also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we be thy servants. Remember the dream? Yeah. What do you think we're gonna do? All of the stalks of grain all around me and bow down, you think we're we're gonna be your servants? We're going to worship you. And here they are, literally fulfilling the promise that God had given through that dream. Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God. But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Now, therefore, fear ye not. I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spake kindly unto them. Wow! What a relationship between those uh brothers who were so mean and so nasty. But Joseph's heart was right. Chapter 50 closes with the death of Joseph at 110, and all of those likewise who were embalmed and placed in the coffin, a tomb. To be taken to Canaan one day with the family. Verse 25, and Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you. How long were they in Egypt before God visited them? Four hundred and thirty years. From this time, for the from the presence of the family Jacob's family in Egypt landed in Goshen until the time Moses comes and brings them out four hundred and thirty years in Egypt to a time when they didn't know, the Pharaoh didn't know Joseph, or the name of Joseph, it meant nothing. Exodus 13, we read that Moses took the bones of Joseph as the children of Israel left Egypt. Joshua 24 says that, and the bones of Joseph, which the children of Israel brought up out of Egypt, they buried them in Shechem. What a life. What a life. We oftentimes get around at at funerals and memorial services and We rehearse the days of the people gone by. We remember their good deeds. Try not to say anything, you know, a lot of times it's funny stuff and so forth. But you can't help but go through the life of Joseph here. And it's providential that all of these chapters Moses pens himself in order to preserve this rich history. Even Islam looks upon Joseph with tremendous favor. uh a powerful man. And it's preserved for for Israel's prophet. Lo look through the rest of Scripture and they refer to Joseph, Joseph, and Joseph and Joseph. He's there. He's part of their life. And I think the richness of his life is preserved for us also. Well, we flew over these last eight chapters at a safe elevation, catching some necessary highlights. Uh not too low in order that we might rack and lose all of all of you, or too high that we'd miss anything. But wait, there is more. You know, you like those stories. The stories of Joseph ends with, I believe, uh captures uh a number of powerful themes that go through, like a thread. bound from thirty-seven uh all the way through fifty. Truths about Joseph that we at times mentioned or picked up, but they are consistent. They are part of the life of Joseph, and I think that's what I'd like to finish him up with today. The first theme that is mentioned that I want to mention is the matter of forgiveness. Forgiveness is obvious. as a key theme all the way through the book. And it's obvious, first of all, between Joseph and his brothers. That's the most standout one that's there. And we can't judge his heart. We don't understand all of the things that took place. We don't know what he was thinking between between Canaan and when he was taken down to Egypt to be put into slavery. We don't understand all of the ramifications of the preparation when the brothers were coming. But nonetheless, forgiveness had to be there with his brothers. But I think it's also not as clearly displayed in this relationship with other people. I think there had to be forgiveness with the Potiphar household As mean as it was for what Mrs. did, or as harsh as it was to believe for Potiphar himself to put him in prison, I think there was forgiveness. I think there was forgiveness when it came to the butler Yeah, I'll remember you two years later, you know? And for the everybody else along the path of Joseph Life, names not even mentioned There had to be situations where forgiveness was key in that life. The truth of the matter is, over Joseph's life, we read of no grudge, no bitterness. There was no resentment, there's no words of retaliation or revenge, there's no attitude that it kind could be found in him Because whenever evil befell him, to whatever degree, Joseph understood that God was using it for good. That God was using it for good. And you know, I can't help but uh repeat, many times people have seen Joseph as a type of Jesus Christ, obviously for many reasons, but for that of forgiveness. He says they're on the cross. Father, forgive them, for they don't know it. They don't understand it. They can't comprehend it. Joseph can come to all of those situations in life and he could say, Father, forgive them, because they have no idea what you're doing in this. And it took a how many years? From 17 all the way up really to 110. That it was a life of forgiveness because he understood what God was doing. Whatever evil befell Jesus here on this earth was for the greater good of mankind and for the glory of his heavenly Father. And that's how Joseph was able to take that. And his followers of Christ, what then would be the predominant marker of the believer's life? What could they say of us in our day? But the matter of forgiveness is key in the Lord's Prayer. It was the powerful reply that Jesus gave to Peter, and he says, how many times? And he says, an infinite number of times. It's a principal cornerstone in our relationship with the Holy God. He forgave us. How are we not only to forgive? As the Pharisee, the Apostle Paul would have been no doubt very familiar with Joseph, memorized the Old Testament or the first five books. as Pharisees would do. But let me read a section out of Paul's letter to the Romans and think of Think of the story of Joseph, the interactions of Joseph's life and the things that went on with him. Paul says, bless them which persecute you, bless and curse not. Wow. Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep. Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits Recompense to no man evil for evil, provide things honest in the sight of all men If it be possible, as much as lieth within you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourself, but rather give place Neither give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if an enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirst, give him drink, for so doing he shall heap coals of fire on his head, be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. That's Joseph all through it. That's the key of the Spirit of God working in Joseph's life as it has through all believers. But Paul says, now here you at Rome, he says, understand this. This is my relationship because of what God has done for me, I understand. And I can't say that Joseph we've we've talked about it, but at at seventeen for the betrayal that he suffered, that wasn't the ending of his education. His education continued all through life. And he profited from every step that he went on the way. But forgiveness had to have been a thread that went all the way through it, even as Paul mentions. Joseph teaches us much. The second theme I w wanted to mention was Joseph's life uh in his relationship to his father, the father-son relationship. I think like so many of us dads today, we can go down the list of failures in our relationship to our children. It's not hard to understand with Jacob. He favored uh Joseph, uh he later on favored Benjamin, and it brought upon the great destruction of the relationship between sons themselves. They hated Joseph for what had taken place, what Jacob had done, what he had provided in that. And yet do you remember how Jacob was crushed when he thought that Joseph had died? And Jacob rent his clothes and put sackcloth upon his loins and mourned for his son many days And all of his sons and his daughters, meaning their wives, rose up to comfort him. But he refused to be comforted, for he said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son, mourning Thus his father wept for him. The relationship, the bond that Jacob had with Joseph was so dear, so sincere. And some could could argue and say, well, that was because he loved uh uh J Joseph's mother more than any of the others, you know, or something like that. But I think it was sincere. I think he had this special bond with Kim The father-son relationship between Jacob and Joseph had to start from his earliest days. If you ask Jacob, how long were you going to have with Joseph? How many years? He said, well, no doubt. An endless number of years. He's going to live here with his wife and in amongst all of my brothers all of his brothers and so forth? He didn't. He had seventeen years and that was it His preparation from the earliest of his days would prepare him for life. And that wasn't in any other means but his relationship with God. Obviously he was uh a servant of God in preparing him for this, but nonetheless it was He trained up Joseph in the way he should go, and when he was old, he did not depart from it. Dads, we don't know how long we have with our sons or our daughters, our children. And yet it behooves us, no matter what their age and no matter what our age, that we have a responsibility in that heart relationship with them. The bond created between Joseph and Jacob wasn't on how well Joseph could herd sheep. You know, I love my son because boy he can really fix uh whatever it is, you know. It wasn't on on how well he could he could go and sell Maryland crabs down at the market, you know. He could make us a lot of money by doing that, you know. It was solely based upon his heart relationship. There's a verse in Genesis 44 where Um Benjamin's with the rest of the group, you know, and Joseph, this is before Joseph reveals himself. And he says to the brothers, he says, I want you to give me Joseph and the or Benjamin, I'm gonna put Benjamin in the prison. I'm gonna lock him up and you guys go back and bring dad and so forth and so forth. So Judas steps in when he hears that and he says, Now therefore, when I come to thy servant, my father. And the lad be not with us, seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life, that he will die. That phrase, his life is bound up in the lad's life, his soul is knitted together with him. In other words, the bond between Jacob and Benjamin was so close, and I'll guarantee you, the same thought was there between him and Joseph. Jacob his Jacob's soul was bound, it was knit with Joseph. It wasn't like, well, it's about time for him to get out of the house, you know, get a job, Joseph, and about time to move on You're on your own now. Mom and I are gonna take the inheritance and we're going on a vacation, you know. We're heading down to Egypt and down to the shoreline. And when it was time to be reunited, Jacob and all of the rest of the family was arriving, and you think about this relationship. And obviously there have been some tensions over the years. The scripture says, and Joseph made ready his chariot, and he went up to meet Israel, his father. to Goshen and presented himself unto him, and he fell down in his neck and they whipped on his neck for a good while. He couldn't wait to see his father Twenty years it had been, and all of the things that had transpired, but the bond was still there. It was fresh, it was precious, it was dear. And yes, there were shortcomings But it was something that he felt bound within his heart that God had placed him there. We learn a lot from Joseph The third theme, some one that we had touched on and spoken on in our messages throughout this series, about God's providence. God's sovereignty and God's greater good through the whole event, through times of hardship, through times of suffering, through times of difficulty. We've seen that Joseph patiently endured through real suffering and loss. Yet in the end, he was used like nobody else. Go through Scripture and find somebody else. Go through the world and find somebody else who was used like Joseph. It was God's sovereign hand that brought him through each and every situation. To the point where Joseph benefited through the sufferings, and not only Joseph, but others. And that's hard to understand. To benefit through hard time, through sufferings, I'd just as soon have the easy life. Joseph was a channel of blessing. He was without equal. But how did that happen? How did that happen? How did we get to the stage where we see Joseph being as he was? Think about it. And for those who may not be familiar with it, or for those of you who may have snoozed off during our past Umteen weeks and going through Joseph, Let's rehearse who he was. Let's rehearse the situations that he was in. He was highly favored only because, actually the family was highly favored, only because they were Children, recipients of Abraham's blessing and Isaac's blessing, the covenant God that was with there. That was the blessings that came from them. They weren't scholars. The family you meant not even say that they were the religious people, highly above anybody else. Remember again in chapters in chapter 37, Joseph goes on to check for his brothers. Out of jealousy, they seek to kill him and they throw him in a pit. He's sold into slavery. He's taken down to Egypt. He becomes the manager of the home of Potiphar. He stood out amongst everybody else for some reason. There's something that made him being picked. It wasn't Saul who stood up high head and shoulders above everybody else because he looked good or whatever. There was something that brought that union together. The text reads, And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man And the Lord made all that he did to prosper. The Lord blessed the Egyptians' house for Joseph's sake. There was something about this relationship that Joseph had with everything around him that it was evident to people who were looking and examining that the Lord, however they saw him, was with Joseph. Then he's falsely accused by Mrs. P. He's imprisoned. And even behind bars, the text says, the Lord was with him, and that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper. He was given the responsibility of running an entire prison. We oftentimes hear that little phrase, the uh inmates are running the asylum, you know. In this case it was Joseph running the prison. Nothing was done without his say. Then he's released from prison because he can interpret the dreams by God's guidance. Pharaoh needed help, and Joseph has already demonstrated that he was good for the job. The provision that God had provided for him, that he guided Egypt for the next seven years. in providing for their recommendations. Why? What qualified Joseph to work in Potiphar's house? What qualified Joseph to be in charge of a prison? What qualified Joseph to be a person second in command of an entire nation? One of the most powerful nations in the world at the time. He had no degrees. He had no management experience. There was nothing about him having a special pedigree Yet Pharaoh described him, proclaimed to him, that there was no one so discreet and wise as Joseph. And no one in whom the Spirit of God is. No one liked that. There was something that was bound within the understanding of this relationship that Joseph exuded. And I think that's key. I think maybe Joseph did have some smarts. There are some people who have abilities genetically, you know. There's another young man who comes here and preaches, and uh he was in the Air Force and he uh we started Shelton College at the same time and I says, Ken? I says Don't you uh study? Oh, I I'll wait till about an hour before class, you know, and Ken would go through and he'd memorize it and he'd be done with it. I'd be pecking away the night before, you know, he had that ability. Some people have such an ability and that may have been the case with him. Joseph certainly wasn't afraid to dream. Those childhood dreams revealed that he was going to be a leader, that people would bow down of his family and of others. And he wasn't afraid to uh hang on to that. But, and I think this is most important Natural talent and worldly ambitions would not have carried him through all those troubles Other people in time. How did you get to this place? Well, I had talent. I had ambition. I had a drive. I wanted never give up on your dreams. Did you hear that today? Ah, sports players, you know, or somebody who's made some success, what's your statement to people today? He says, never give up on your dreams, you know, keep striving for it. Except in Joseph's case, through all of the suffering, that never would have brought him through. Nothing would have happened save what God was working in him It was the Spirit of God that gave him all that was needed. It was the Lord alone. The Apostle Paul begins 1 Corinthians with a lengthy speech on wisdom and the power of God. We used the passage in our responsive reading this morning. Paul talks about the words of man's wisdom as the wisdom of the world. As a matter of fact, he uses wisdom 16 times in those three chapters. It was important to him for people to understand it. Paul argues that the wisdom of God is unavailable to those who deny God. They have no access to it. It's unavailable to their lies. But it's given freely, it's given liberally to those who have the Spirit of God dwelling within them. The world's educational system cannot provide this kind of wisdom. You see all of those knuckleheads out there protesting? You know? All of the thousands and thousands and thousands of dollars that mommy and daddy or even they have worked for, or scholarships, or government loans And they are using the wisdom of the world to justify what it is in essence breaking the law Paul argues that wisdom of God is available to the children of God. The world's educational system is nothing but foolishness to God. Four times in Psalms and Proverbs, it says the truth about such wisdom, the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. And if that's the case, the logical conclusion is: if there is no fear in a person's life, there is no godly wisdom. If there's no understanding of a holy God, a just God, a God who has created and sustained all things, a God to whom we will one day stand and give an account of our lives If they don't have that relationship, no fear of God, then they don't have the wisdom that God offers freely to those who do. Paul understood this wisdom, and he writes, For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. and the base things of the world, and the things that are despised, hath God chosen, yea, things which are not, to bring to naught the things which are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. What of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption? that, according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Joseph was not of the number of the worldly wisdom Joseph was solid from his time he was shipped off to Egypt. Think about it, he was a herdsman, he was the youngest of the family. He was one as far as social graces in life. He was at the bottom of the list. He didn't even fit in with the rest of the brethren, the family members. But God's hand was not short in using this type of man, as far as shortcomings were concerned. It didn't frustrate God's plan. As a matter of fact, it was the design of God to use such a man in order that God would be glorified, in order that he would accomplish his purpose. Everywhere Joseph went, he stood out. He relied upon God for the insight to interpret dreams where the wise men of Egypt had no idea. Couldn't even fake it, couldn't even touch it, but he had the wisdom that God had provided for him. This led to the famine plan that would keep people alive for seven years. Such a man. So what does that mean for you? And what does it mean for me today? I believe of all things, all of the statements of in all of Scripture, it encourages us When we don't understand why we are recipients of hardship or trials or tribulations in life, grief and loss of any kinds. I think it's bound up within the story of Joseph, finally revealed as it comes to his revelation, his opening up of himself to his brothers. And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity on the earth, to save your lives by a great deliverance. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh and the Lord of all the house and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. What a perspective Joseph had on God's hand in life. To go through all of those years And finally come to a place where all of the pieces of the puzzle, you know, you start out with those jigsaw puzzles and you have the box in front of you and you say, it's going to look like this, and you start putting them down and I do the with the grandkids sometimes and little Henry finds out this will work, Grandpa and he starts pounding. I said, No Henry, no he says, It doesn't fit there. Look at the color, look at what fits And for Joseph's life, all of the things are being put together. He's not forcing the issue, but all of a sudden he brings it all and he says, This is laid before me. Now I see it I see the beauty of it. It all happened to fulfill the plan and the purpose of God to protect a Christline, his family. To protect the Christline generation after generation after generation. And the bottom line is that as it occurred, Joseph did nothing but give God the glory. Like Joseph, when we display wisdom when we've done something right, we should credit it to God. You know, when it goes well, when we're thankful for the accomplishment, the attitude, the fulfillment, sincere word of thanks, a public acknowledgement of saying, God did this I do appreciate at times and I don't know their lives but a lot a lot of a number of athletes, professional athletes have come on television or when they're interviewed and they said, I'd like to give the Lord Jesus Christ all of the praise and the glory for that. How deep their relationship is and what's going to happen when they tear an ACL or whatever and they're out for a couple of years, and if that's still going to be the same, I don't know. But as a public acknowledgement that this has been done by God. Not because all of a sudden I figured out how to do it uh coming to church. You know, I just turned on the GPS and I followed a GPS. Thank you know, I'm thankful to God I had a GPS. Thank the Lord for providing that. Thank the Lord for all of the things that have come along and we publicly do that. Especially when we come to our backseat driving in lives. We praise Him for such a a joy. Paul reminds us that we can't boast of our wisdom, but the more that we walk in infinite wisdom, the smarter we become. It it becomes obvious. This is why these things are happening. This is why it's occurring. All of a sudden the scripture becomes alive. It's just not something that I can read and and recite, but all of a sudden it becomes real to me and that this is why the nations are doing this or this is why this lady does this or this is why this family does this because God's word opens it up and it and and it makes sense I can understand these truths now, important matters for the kingdom, godly wisdom to make us better spouses and parents. Godly wisdom to make us better employers and employees. Godly wisdom to make us better brothers and sisters in Christ. godly wisdom to accomplish every single task. That's the only advancement. That's what Joseph felt. That's what he understood. He didn't put it in the perspective of such, but he was doing fulfilling God's purpose Godly wisdom to accomplish those things in life. And then when it's been done, thank you, Lord, for that. Thank you Lord for that. Thank Lord for the surgeons who can get in and rip your rip your head out, hip out and put it or for Charlie, take a knee out or for mending a back that brought pain and and You know, thank God we're in a country that has such such uh you know uh technologies and so forth. But it was God who guides the hand. It was God who moved these things, you know. Um it it's it's simply marvelous. Uh just a brief testimony and Jim Blizzard, we've been playing praying for Jim down in Florida. I talked with him the other day and he said He he has a genetic problem. His grandfather, his father, his brother all had heart issues. And uh Jim says Uh I went to the doctor and he says, I've been checked regularly for my blood pressure and my uh EKG, everything. And he says, you're you're perfect, nothing wrong. And he said, we were at a fair a couple of years ago, and this guy had a special scan that would do some scan, he wasn't specific. And he says it was for eighty bucks. And he says, for eighty bucks, why not? You know And he so he says, I get the scan, and this guy calls me and he says, We're not going to be ready. It's a startup organization. So he says, you're not getting the results. And so he said, uh, I'm out in in Tacoma, Washington at a meeting and He says, I get a call from my doctor and he says uh he says uh when can you get back here? Why? And he says, well the results of the scan came in and you're you have calcium and ends up ninety ninety five percent blockage and eighty five percent blockage and you know. He was he was ready to go at any time and he gets to the hospital Boom, boom, boom, boom, and that was it. And he could thank God for doctors or the scan or whatever, but he says, thank God for his hand in my life. You know. And for every issue of every situation in life, godly wisdom, uh allowing the Lord to be a a hand in me and a vessel vessel that's there. So As you read through Joseph's life, you know, thank the Lord for Joseph, for the experiences that he's gone through. Thank him for that which is still before us. Because we will experience some some challenging days, you know. That prayer list and the bulletin can be two pages or three pages long in all reality of of what's taking place But thank him for the extraordinary story that he's given to us in order that we might learn more of our relationship to his God and our God alone. Let's pray. And so, Father, we um wish to rejoice in the illumination of your word in this uh great man, Joseph. uh but his greatness was only um overshadowed by the one who uh had redeemed him and used him in such a way We're thankful for the pen of Moses to preserve this history and for our confidence that such a history is accurate, that it tells truth. that it provides for us the reality of of the good times and the bad times. And it shows people warts and all in their true character and their true nature, but it also shows us of a God who is a redeeming, loving God, and that He has provided salvation uh freely uh through His Son Jesus Christ Who is our greatest example? We may rejoice, Father, in reading of Joseph and seeing Jesus, but we really look to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. We pray, Father, these things to be seated deep in our hearts as we might grow together in Christ. Amen.