Genesis Genesis forty one If you would follow along, I'll be reading just from verse one through seventeen. But don't close your Bible after that. We'll have some more to deal with it. 41 verse 1 And it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh dreamed. And behold He stood by the river. And behold, there came up out of the river seven well-favored kind and fat fleshed. And they fed in the meadow. And behold, seven other kine came up after them, out of the river, ill-favored, and lean flesh, and stood by the other kine upon the brink of the river. And the ill-favored and lean-fleshed kine did eat up the seven well-favored and fat kine. So Pharaoh woke. And he slept and dreamed a second time. And behold, seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good. And behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung up after them. And the seven thin years devoured the seven rank and full years And Pharaoh awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And it came to pass in that morning that the spirit his spirit was troubled. And he sent and he called all of the magicians of Egypt and all the wise men thereof. And Pharaoh told them his dream, but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh. Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faul this day. Pharaoh was wroth with his servants. And put me in inward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief baker. And we dreamed a dream in one night, and I and he We dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream, and there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant of the captain of the guard, and we told him. And he interpreted to us our dreams. To each man according to his dream did he interpret. And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was me. He restored unto mine office. And him he hanged. Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon, and shaved him, and changed his raiment, and came to Pharaoh. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it. And I have heard say of thee. Thou canst understand the dream and interpret it. And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me. God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold. And we'll stop there. We'll pick it up as the time goes on, but I think that's sufficient. Let's pray. Father, we offer up uh this portion of this morning worship to consider your servant Joseph and for the story that has been laid before us in weeks past as we have profited from his walk. from his experiences, from the things that he has done and accomplished in your name. And we come today to another portion of his life We pray that your servant would be hidden today and that the glory of the Lord would shine about the truths of this passage. We thank you for its provision. Thank you for the way the word lays out before us truth. And we ask that we be strengthened thereby. In Christ's name. Amen. Today, after a few weeks off, we return to the life of Joseph. This particular chapter, chapter 41, is a a pivotal one in his life. If you can imagine going from Essentially, uh prison to second in command of all of Egypt in one day. A lot of magic changes, you might say. A seemingly impossible task, especially since it was not his plan. It was not his design. It was not his thought pattern to be able to go, this is what I've looked for all my life. But it was something that indeed the Lord had provided for him. But it begins with a dream. And we've talked about dreams before In relationship to Joseph, we saw when he was seventeen that he had a special dream, which ended up getting him in a little hot water with his brothers, didn't it? Uh difficulty there And then the next set of dreams comes along as was kind of mentioned in our scripture reading for the chief butler and the chief baker, where they were joined with Joseph in prison, and they had some strange dreams. All of these dreams are rather strange, I think, as we look at our own self. And then finally it ends up in chapter 41, the first verse, another set of dreams, but this comes from Pharaoh. As with all of these dreams, as strange as they may seem, in the culture and in the time in which they existed, they were important to them. God used dreams in order to teach not only unbelievers, but his own children, directed them in those cases, and God was using this to open and close doors to accomplish his purpose. Rather than going through all the verses that we have before us, um as far as another 30 verses or so, I'm going to give a just a short summary. And most of this you probably are familiar with as what takes place. but just to be able to put it together in a picture. First we note that there were seven nice, healthy, good-looking cows, kine, as they came up out of the river and they went to pasture Um and common scene, although coming out of a river makes it a little bit, you know, kind of questionable there, probably the Nile River, and they're followed by seven thin and sickly and ugly looking cows coming up out of the river. That maybe we could understand a little bit more. But nonetheless, the striking image, though, is the sick cows come to proceed, devour the fat look good-looking cows Ever see a cow eat a cow? Yeah. Next picture that he comes, he wakes up, he has this dream. Now he comes and he has a another one with seven plump and healthy ears of corn. probably just like we would think of ourselves, which are followed growing up right near it, seven years of corn uh sickly, ugly looking, thin, even as the thin sick cows diseased. And yes, these sick devoured the plump. Ever seen corn eat corn? Wakes him up, you know, troubles his heart for the things that were going on. So Pharaoh has such a dream, and dreams were demanded to be interpreted, and he calls in all of those who are paid on the list of the palace to be able to say, what do these things mean? Unlike some other times in the Old Testament, he even gives the dream, says, This is what I dreamed. Tell me, what does it mean? Nobody could. Nobody could even pretend to guess the dream. Say, well, I think this means I no. They were all their mouths were shut as far as thinking what they knew, what it was. And as it was in many times, Pharaoh was troubled. And as Pharaoh was troubled, the entire palace is troubled No doubt word is sprinkled down through all the hallways and everybody hears Pharaoh's trouble. Let's find out what happens, and whose ears does it fall upon? Well, the old chief butler. This is our dear brother who is known to Joseph. And he comes along and he says, Well Pharaoh, if you recall two years ago, not your fault, my fault, I was thrown into prison with my old buddy the baker. And we were, you know, and we were, and so they were, and they told the dreams to Joseph. And he says, this is how it came about. And Pharaoh is interested, and he even hears it. And then he says there was a Hebrew, a young man in there who interpreted the dreams spot on, exactly as they were to be known. Then he says to my to my the demise of my good friend, uh he was hanged. But to me, I was released And here I am. I'm living proof of the fulfillment of what that man interpreted these dreams are. This is exactly the things that had taken place. Well, this is living proof of how the Lord works. So Pharaoh calls Joseph, brings him out of prison. Remember, he's been there for how long? Right. You're supposed to say two years. Okay. Imagine being in an Egyptian prison for two years You might be a little bit rank. Hebrews abhorred facial hairs. Or Hebrews, the Egyptians abhorred facial hairs, so Joseph had to be shaved. And he had to be cleansed and he had to be given new clothes. And he comes in and he appears before Pharaoh and presents himself in this particular position. What I find interesting is that Joseph immediately comes out and makes it abundantly clear that only God could bring clarity to the situations. He said that to the butler and baker back in chapter 40. He says, Do not interpretations belong to God? He says, No, it's not me He says, it's God. And then here he comes to Pharaoh, and Joseph answers Pharaoh and says, It is not in me. God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace. For God had given the baker and the butler and Pharaoh these dreams. Actually he had given Joseph the dreams back in chapter 37. God not only gave him the dreams, but he gave a troubled heart to Pharaoh. Not that he would have just passed it off as having some undigested beef that he had consumed the night before, and this is just a uh uh uh a reaction to it, he troubled his heart in order that his soul would not give rest until he found out some solution So obviously it's the Lord who's going to give the interpretation to Joseph. God is sovereign in all of his ways. So Joseph proceeds to uncover the mystery. And it seems obvious, at least now as we look back and say, well it's obvious, you know. Seven, seven. Cows, corn, well, that means seven years. That's obvious. And he comes along and he present presents to him the seven sickly cows and the seven sickly ears, eat up the seven healthy cows and the seven ears that were healthy and looking. And he says, those devouring of the healthy cows and the devouring of the seven healthy ears, it's a famine that's going to come across the land. And it'll devour it. Powerful pictures that he presents to him. Now, if the Bible's open, look at chapter 41, verse 32. As if those seven years of famine wasn't enough. Joseph says, and for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice. And is because the thing is established by God and God will shortly bring it to pass. Pharaoh, this isn't for another generation. You know, we can wait wait till uh an wait till the next election or wait till all these things take place. He says, no, this is this is immediate has to be dealt with right now. This is around the corner. Machinery has to be put into place. The tragedy of what's about to take place, you have to deal with right now. Yet with the bad news, Joseph offers some hope and direction. Verse 33. Now therefore, let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise. and set him over the land of Egypt. He gives him the bad news. Tragedy is coming to Egypt following seven good years. Now what you need to do in order to nip this thing in the bud is find out a man who is discreet and wise. Was Joseph looking for a job? You imagine that? Hey, Pharaoh, tell you what, look for somebody who is wise and discreet, you know, they puff himself up, you know. I've been in jail for the past 17 years, not really looking forward. I could use a job. I could help you out with this. No It's not his character. It never was and it never will be. Picture that Joseph presents unto himself as against the character or the beauties of the heart that Joseph has. Verse 34, Joseph says, Let Pharaoh do this. Let him appoint officers over the land and take up a fifth part of the land of Egypt. in the seven plentious years, and let them gather the f all the food of the good years that come And lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities. And that food shall be in store for the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt that the land perish not through famine. And the land was good, and the I'm sorry, and the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all the servants. And Pharaoh said unto the servants, Can we find such a one as this, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? He's probably not referring to the God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. But he's heard enough testimony from Joseph's mouth in some reference to his God, but he sees a picture within this character of Joseph that is unique. Pharaoh sees something in Joseph that makes him talk about the Spirit of God, makes him see a bigger picture. It's something that Joseph was not afraid about talking. This is something that Joseph we would say is to be Christ-like. We see in this man, there's characters, there's qualities that we need to find. Is there anybody who has such a quality of character in his life? Joseph would say indeed that he was not the man. Yet his skills, his insight, his humility And I think Pharaoh was recognizing that in him. And that wasn't something that Pharaoh normally would have done. That wasn't something that Pharaoh would have normally set aside. Joseph's skills, his insight, his humility are part of his character. And we've seen that over the past weeks. A character that was developed since his birth and through all of the situations that he had gone through. The picture drawn from chapter thirty-seven, molded and shaped through his seventeen years of his father's instruction. before he was ever introduced to us in the text as to being having his dreams. Those first 17 years, under the instruction of Isaac, he listened, he grew. And then continued to be moulded and shaped by the jealousy of his brothers. That added to the character of Joseph The finally the the betrayal of the brothers and the time becoming as a slave on into Egypt, the time in Potiphar's house, his faithfulness in his labors under Potiphar's Tutilic, and then the temptation of Potiphar's wife. being thrown out and being put into prison. The learning that he had not only in prison, but the extra two years that he had to live through following the release of the butler. You know, all of these contributed to his character, his integrity, developed in his life, the blessings that were poured upon him And yet in all of these things, we never read of anything, of him taking advantage of his position, of his rank. of his character, of his his his life at all. He never was a person who would say, oh, I'm going to use this for my own advantage. And this was the type of character that if you know Joseph, it was with him all the way till he died. Through it all is 30 years in God's school of preparation, Joseph's testimony stayed the course. You can't find a change. You can't find an alteration. You just can't say, well, maybe Moses, when he wrote this down, maybe he left some things out to keep it as a shining example. That's not scripture. All things indeed worked for good, preparing Joseph for his life's work, which is to save much people alive. That was God's plan all along, working together. And indeed, it took 30 years to prepare for that. Young people, those of us who are not so young, what does this tell you about man's testimony, but that we are to stay the course? The testimony that we have before the world in which we live, to find our soul anchored to the God who cannot do but that which is right. To find our soul lashed and secured to his promises, to his precious truths, to that which has been presented unto us as yea and nay. The pretty pictures drawn that have been treasures of rubies and gems of the precious gold that is before us in his word. We live in a world where the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is upon us. And had it not been for Joseph's presentation of these things within his own soul, his character, he would have been swallowed up, and so also we. May a Christ-like character be that which is known in our life as it was in Joseph. That we are men and women skilled in godly living. Equipped, indeed, to think logically. May we be known as men and women dedicated to the benefit of others, having before us, indeed, the willingness to serve as our Lord did. May it also be said of us that when we suffered, we did so gracefully, and we refused to become bitter or unforgiving as the world would look upon us. That was Joseph's testimony. How often do we hear, or maybe you said, what's God's plan for my life? Did you ever ask that? What is God's will for my life? What is it? You know how long it took Joseph to finally come to that place? It took him 30 years, and finally by chapter 41, you can say, wow, I see it now. I see it now, that dream when I was 17, of the things that are taking place before me. All of a sudden I see a pattern. unfolding before my eyes. It took me thirty years of school, of preparation, of hardship, of difficulties, in order for me to come to a place in my life where I could say, Lord, it's starting to make sense It's starting to make sense to me. Completed God's school of preparation, you know how many years he had left? He had another 80 years of life. So not only did he spend 30 years in preparing, but he prepared for the events of bringing his family to Egypt and saving Egypt, but it also prepared him for the 80 years that was still ahead of him. Verse 39. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God has showed thee all this. There is none so discreet and wise as thou art. Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled Only in the throne will I be greater than thou. And Pharaoh said unto this unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand and put it on Joseph's hand, and arrayed him with vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck. and made him ride in the second chariot which he had. And they cried before him, Bow the knee! And he made him ruler over the land of Egypt. Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh. Without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. Wow All of the things that we've seen coming up to this point, all of the tragedies, the betrayals, the hardships, the tears, the questions of what's going on. And finally it comes to this place, and Joseph, I don't know, doesn't acknowledge it, but I can't help but see, he hears all of this and he says, Lord, now I see of all that's gone on before, all of the hardships Now I can see. Well the chapter goes on and tells us of Joseph's wife, who bore him two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh. But let me call your attention to the last three verses of chapter 41. Verse 55. And when all the land of Egypt was famished, remember we had the the thin cows eating them up and the thin ears eating everything up They famished, and even beyond that. The people cried unto Pharaoh for bread. And Pharaoh said unto all of the Egyptians: Go unto Joseph, what he saith unto you, do. And the famine was all over the face of the earth. And Joseph opened up all the storehouses and sold unto the Egyptians, and the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt. Note 57, and all the countries came unto Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn, because the famine was so sore in all lands. Just as Joseph had said, now opportunity for family reunion of all of the things that was behind him, 27 years being absent. Now the provision God has made. All of these things becoming clear, helping him to say, Lord, thank you. Back in our fifth message we had on Joseph, we looked at Psalm 42 as a as a psalm that related in Joseph's life and the situations that he found himself in. Remember, we talked about how it fit, why art thou cast down, O my soul? Remember that? All of the things that were born in his soul? And then he says, Hope thou in God. Hope thou in God. And there was a principle that we felt was seated all through Joseph's life in that. Well today I want to close with taking our responsive reading, Psalm 37. as it matches with Joseph's life. So if you would turn back there, Psalm 37. I know I tricked you. And we do so because it comes with the intention of answering the question, what made Joseph different? What made him stand out? What was the uniqueness in this man's life? And we talk about character. We talk about obedience and we talk about these things, but there's a truths that are here. Remember Joseph said, look out a man discreet and wise. And Pharaoh said, we're going to do that. And I can almost see like he's asking everybody, can we find anybody like this? You know, and everybody's eyes go, they're looking all over Joseph. It's obvious! It's obvious. You're just not going to pull somebody out of prison just because he's answered some questions about a dream. There's got to be a greater testimony that's involved in this. That's been known It's seated in the character of Joseph. It's a provision that God has made in him that was known to them all. So Psalm 37, portion we're going to read today, contains six precepts. My dictionary, a precept, is a general rule that helps you to decide how you should behave in a particular circumstance. a rule, a guideline that helps you in making decisions. This is what we're going to do today, you know. Tim says we're going to call off prayer meeting because trees are down, it's flooding, there's no electricity. Ah, good precept, you know. You forget your notes, you come up to preach, and you say, well, good precept. Let's yes, never mind. Some of you know what I'm talking about. Nonetheless I want to look at these precepts. And I trust you will see Joseph written all over them. Did Joseph have the book of Psalms? Do this. Thank you, Charlie. Thank you. Charlie said an A. No! Long after Joseph. Okay? But you'll see in here the characteristics that are there. Um from a well-favored son to a slave to a prisoner to a prince? Wow. What carried him through? What made him the quality of the man that he was? Look at verse 3 Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. How often has your trust been betrayed by an individual, by some situation? I tell you, I fixed the car. All right? You're good for another 50,000 miles. Believe me, I replaced all of the parts that were necessary Oh yeah, I'll trust him on that one, you know? She's gonna see, can I borrow a thousand dollars? I promise I'll pay you back. Believe me, as soon as my check comes in, I pay you back. You know? How many times have we been bottomed out because we've put our trust in something or someone or some greater action. And they failed. It's part of life. It's part of what we live in. Joseph, no doubt, had ample occasion to place his natural trust in his brothers. Don't you think? Seventeen years. They were, well, half-brothers, basically, you know. But don't you think we're family? And I trust you guys. And then all of a sudden, you know, down in a pit. They're growling at them, sold into slavery. Nobody help them out. He had ample opportunity for that. Potifer's house, I was thinking of putting trust. You know, he's given the job and he gives a conscientious effort to do all that he can. to the betterment of Potiphar's estate. And he does. Scripture says that the Lord was with him. And Potiphar recognized the Lord was with him. But the s the estate of Potiphar profited. And Joseph was benefiting by it, and all was well. And then all of a sudden You know, where does he find himself in? Mr. Potiphar, go ahead and say, wait a minute, wife, you're wrong. I, you know, whatever Potiphar thought, it did not do very well. And then talk about failed trust, Chief Butler. Hey, don't forget me. And he butler turns around and gives him the thumbs up. Don't worry, I won't forget you. I promise, you know. Soon as the occasion comes, and every time that door would open up, Joseph looks and nobody's there Every time the phone would ring, no, not for Joseph. Every email, no, not from not from the butler of Pharaoh. None of them. They forsook him all. Trust could not be placed there. But all failed his character, however, with solid in assurance that he trusted in the Lord. And did good in every occasion. You notice wherever Joseph failed, found failure in trust in humanity, he continued to do good Because his trust was never placed in humanity. It was placed on the Lord. And that says, this is the direction that I'm to go in, and I will do good, and he did. Next one, verse four Delight thyself also in the Lord. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. The word to delight is to take pleasure. What draws your attention? What do you take pleasure in? What allures you? Money? Making money? How about shopping? How about uh some special food? How about a bushel of those Maryland blue crabs? That's an allurement there, you know? Sports? My time on Facebook? How about coming to church? How about just peace and quiet? Where do I delight in? Where do I find pleasure in? What it is, can be taken away and lost, can't it? It can disappear with a fire, with a hurt, with a loss, with an accident, with whatever situation it is. Something you don't have access to it and there goes my pleasure, my desire. I was thinking of Joseph's life and whatever he had in life, with the exception of the code of jealousy, you know, he had nothing. He had nothing. Zip. Nada. He had a word maybe from his dad about an inheritance of the sheep or the camels or whatever, but as far as tangible possessions, he had nothing. In the pit, he had nothing. Being locked up and chained with the others on the way to Egypt, he had nothing In Potiphar's house probably had a little privilege there, maybe had some nice clothes to do his work around the art and cover up, but then from there into prison he had nothing Nothing. Where was his pleasure? Delight thyself in the Lord. From age 17 to 30, he lost nothing because he had nothing to lose. He had nothing to hang his hat on, nothing that he found a delight in, with the exception of his relationship to his Lord. Joseph had nothing to be taken away from because he found his great delight in the communion, the inward joy. In the fullness of everything with his Lord. That was his that was his happiness. I read of the prisoners of war in Vietnam, those who were Christians and they've written testimony, and how they were beaten and And all of a sudden they had nothing, and they were tapping out or exchanging little pieces of paper of memory verses and the scriptures that they had. It kept them alive. This kept me alive. The word of God kept me alive because that was their only hope. He says, delight thyself in the Lord. Verse 5, the next precept. Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. You ever have trouble going to sleep at night? Amen. Yes. You know, you're tired, but the noodle keeps going. It keeps talking, saying it again and again. Maybe it's a situation, maybe maybe something you heard, maybe it's a a a problem coming up or a diagnosis or you know whatever it is My brain just keeps wrestling around and I wish I could go to sleep and I look at the clock and it's just another hour later and nothing. You know? Sad picture of life. Did Joseph ever have such an occasion? Sitting in the pit? Waiting, I don't know how long it I don't think it was really too long when the brothers threw him in the pit until the Ishmaelites came along and rescued him. But sitting there thinking about what was going on All of the things that ran through his mind and he's on his way to Egypt chained, running the house of Potiphar. Running out of the house of Potiphar, across the fields and hearing Mrs. P behind him. There he goes, he's taking my van and out. You know, he could hear that, you know. Imagine what his mind was going through. Commit thy way unto the Lord literally means roll it onto Jehovah. Commit, take it, and you put it on to him. What does Peter say? Remember Peter's great command? Casting all thy cares on him because he cares for you. Did Joseph understand that? He couldn't turn to Peter's gospel or to Peter's letter and look because there was no Peter's letter. He couldn't turn to the Psalms because there was no Psalms It was born within his character, within his soul, to commit his way unto the Lord. It became a natural thing from his earliest days under the teaching of his father. Through all the experience that he had. Commit thy way unto the Lord, casting all his cares unto the Lord because he cares for you. Another precept that we oftentimes do not avail ourselves to, because it's hard, isn't it? Because although we say, Lord, I've got this that's troubling my mind, it's still there. It hasn't changed. Does that mean the Lord doesn't care? As he was there and he saw the As he saw the the the butler head out the door and and and he waited another two years there, did he say to himself, the Lord doesn't care? Or had he committed his way unto the Lord just says, in God's good time I'll be released. You see. Verse 6. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in the way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. I like this one of all the precepts the best. Adam Clark writes, rest in the Lord, be silent, be dumb. Do not find fault with thy maker. He does all things well for others. He will do all things well for thee. Shut your mouth. You know? Rest in the Lord means you don't have to say, Lord, what are you doing? I'm angry about this. This didn't happen. He says, just be quiet. Because he knows your situation, he knows your case, he knows what's surrounding you, he knows all of these things. And it's not wrong to call unto him and to pray, but trust him Because he's cared for all. Aren't we his children? Joseph said, I am a child of the living God. I'm a child of the living God. We are as children remembering that resting in the Lord is a picture of complete submissiveness to Him. If I rest in the Lord, I'm not thinking about how I can assist the Lord in this situation. We put that up as a speculation when the when the uh butler was being released and maybe Joseph should have just said nothing But he goes to him and he says, hey buddy, he says, when you get out, I'm innocent. I'm I'm the only one in jail who's innocent of these things, you know. But he says, when you get out, when you get in a chance to talk to Pharaoh, do that, you know And and maybe Joseph just could have said nothing. But the fact is he wasn't helping his cause other than trusting in the Lord. Resting in him. We won't go through all of the struggles that Joseph had during his 13 years in God's school of preparation. But in it all, he held his peace. He rested in God's mercy. He rested in God's grace. And he rested in his relationship to him. David added to that psalm, and wait patiently for him. Psalm 27, 14 goes, wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. Wait on him. Wait on him. We're kind of a people who don't like to wait when we have things planned. Maybe Americans more than any other, I think, from other situations. Can you see the next precept? See what verse? How about verse eight? Little different. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. Fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. If I could not put my trust in the Lord, if I could find delight in him alone, if I have not committed my way into his hands, if I have not rested in him, my natural recourse is to do what? Blow my stack, become angry, and in some situations wrathful If I haven't done it leaning myself, giving myself, resting myself, committing myself into his hands, the only thing that I naturally will do is get a little upset But he knows best, doesn't he? In all things. Again, the very way that Joseph was treated from his dysfunctional family. And a host of others during his 13 years, I think would have given cause for him blowing his top and doing some pretty unsavory things had he not trusted in the Lord. But David goes ahead and he puts in this as a precept anger, wrath, put it to bed. Put it in the grave. It has no place because it is a precept of life that we as human beings naturally fall to. Naturally find ourselves in. So if there had been any seed of anger or even worse wrath, Joseph got rid of it. It stopped right there. He never allowed it to enter into his heart. You don't read it, do you? Surely would have thought if Joseph blew his stack, you know, if you know, we think of all of the things that David had done, all of a sudden here's three instances in David's life where he really you know, uh lost his his cool, you know, did some stupid things. They were mentioned, warts and all, to see David. That would have hadn't the same thing for Joseph, had Joseph lost his temper. Well, that's five. I said there were six. For number six, I take you up to verse one. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. Fret not thyself. If you're standing there, you look down to verse 7. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in the way. Verse 8, fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. When was the last time you used the word fret? Well, young lady, fret not. I'm going to take care of you. You know, some old movie we do we we hear it used in that in that particular way it is. uh probably never that we've ever used it. Um the picture that's drawn here is not being a picture of anxiety Um it's a not a picture of of in conversation that we'd normally use, but don't be anxious and if as anxiety continues, it can become a a a place of fire It can become something that draws us into something that's even worse. He's saying, relax in the Lord. Rest in him. Relax. You don't know what I'm going through I'm fretting about this. I'm worried about it, and my worry turns to anxiety, and my anxiety turns to something even worse. You don't know what I'm going through. All because we are fretting, we've replaced our trust and delight and commitment and resting in the Lord with fretting. You still don't know what I'm going through, but you do know what Joseph was going through. Can you put yourself in Joseph's life in those 17 years from the betrayal of the family all the way till he's led up to their, could you have acted the same way? Put yourself in such a situation. Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? world in which we live, although they may not say it, is looking for someone like that. Pharaoh was not a you're not I I say with ninety-nine point nine cent surety, you're not going to see Pharaoh when you enter into glory with the Lord, you know. I don't think that really happened But although the world in which we live here, we're surrounded by people who have no clue. And yet the evidence of what Joseph presented to Pharaoh Was an evidence of somebody who had the Spirit of God in them. He was different. Somebody that they could trust, that they could rely upon. How is that revealed with in our world? I remember testimony in Galatians, but the fruit of the Spirit is love and joy and peace and longsuffering and Gentleness and goodness and faith and meekness and temperance against such there is no law. When the world looks at you and me Do they see the characteristics of the fruit of the Spirit in us? In the situation they find themselves in, where are they going to go? Who are they going to ask? Can we find such a one? A person in whom the Spirit of God is? Do they see evidence of the Spirit of God in us today? Or do we act like the rest of the world? Just shh. I trust that God's Spirit evidences itself more and more each day as we recognize uh the the the the world in which we live. And we can become really down on that, you know? Our conversation we finish up And we go and sit around the table and talk and eat, or we get on the one and we start, oh man, it's so bad. Who's in charge Who's permitted all these things? You know? We'll we'll be coming up to you know Joseph's brothers and saying, hey Pop, rot of food. But I hear that there's somebody Over in Egypt who can do something, you know. All in God they they went through some hard times. They went through some difficult situations, but there was hope. There was a man who the Spirit of God is in. Will they look us out? Will they find us? When they come in as a visitor to the church, will they find the Spirit of God residing here amongst its believers? Amongst the people who reside here? I pray so. Let's pray Thank you, Father, for the privilege to walk with Joseph in these days and to recognize the Um the life that he lived was an extremely unusual one, uh difficult one at times, yet rewarding as we see the path continue He was a man in whom uh he suffered tremendously, was um Befriended by very few, yet your hand was upon him, leading him in all the way. We thank you for our salvation. Thank you for the Spirit of God that resides in every believer, evidenced in the fruit of the Spirit. And Father, in our world Um there is famine everywhere. Famine to the the Word of God, famine of truth. People are starving for truth. People are thirsting for righteousness. May it be evidenced in us. May we be people with discerning hearts and minds to be able to point them and direct them to the Word of God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you, Father, for the victories that we find that are awaiting those who faithfully labor in such and the day that we join together with all. Well we uh look forward to it in Jesus' name, Amen