You know, as we open the pages of a new year, I think we have to recognize with all honesty, we have no clue about tomorrow, do we? Much less another year And to say nothing about life from here on in general. There are times when we plan And prepare and set goals to go into a certain direction, but after a couple of months or even a year, we're not even near there. We're not even in the same way Maybe our areas of finances, relationships, our health. And it seems that we just missed the mark. But there are times that we we do make it. There are times that we've achieved. Some of you remember the TV show The A-Team. Tim stepped out, but uh what was uh uh Hannibal Smith's fond of saying? I love it when a plan comes together, you know? And so when we start a new year and all of a sudden that plan comes together, man, we pat ourselves in the back We get an extra scoop of our favorite ice cream. We just go ahead and we go into social media and let everybody know that I've arrived. I've done it. I've made it Yet how often our plans end up falling far short of our intended goals. I didn't get the job I wanted. Not able to go on vacation this year. Maybe my health hasn't worked out as I had hoped for. Many of the failures we'd blame on poor planning or setting unrealistic goals or maybe just being stupid or lazy. For me, getting ready for 2024, I did the smartest thing. I went to my Zodiac chart for guidance You chuckle. Born under the sign of Aries, this is mine. Listen to this. Jupiter will grace the second house of Aries. promising a year of significant career growth and financial prosperity. I'm set In all honesty, though, well kidding aside, the simple truth is, and we talked about this when we were going through the book of James, James chapter 4. He says, today or tomorrow, we're going to go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and gain. In other words, I'm going to set goals and plans. These are the things that I'm going for. Whereas ye know not what ye shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. For he ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or do that. Those are hard things to put in, in practice and in thought. In our future, our plans ought to be understanding that we have no absolute control over tomorrow Or for a year, or for the rest of our life. Our understanding needs to be the absolute truth that God is sovereign in all things As God has presented unto us truth, whether it be a financial windfall, whether it's an illness, whether it's a new child in the family, whether it's an accident. Cancer diagnosis. He has permitted it. He has allowed it. He has ordained it so. He knows best. Those of you who know Romans 8. 28, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. If, in reality, God is not sovereign over all things, although the things that we perceive as being tragic or failures or whatever, He's not sovereign of it all. He is nothing at all. Let's pray. Father, we open up a new year and are mindful that they're just days. They're just the rising of a one uh sun and the setting of another setting of another of another day, uh uh a new calendar, uh a new week, uh a new month And yet, in truth, it's by your grace that we're able to see such. As we come and approach your word, we're mindful, Father, of this being our only faithful understanding of what truth is. what we can rely upon and how we are enabled to gauge our days, our steps. It enables us to see you and understand our walk with you and our fellow man. So even today, as we do in every Lord's Day, and any time we approach your word, we pray for grace to understand those things which are set before us. hide your servant and may Christ be glorified in it all in his name. Amen. We begin today with a series in the life of Joseph. To the best of my knowledge, there are 11 Josephs in the Bible. Just finishing Christmas, we have the husband of Mary. But they are a little bit uh more more materials on them than others. Uh this particular one has the most written, thirteen chapters in the book of Genesis And for some of you, this Joseph may be a mystery. That's fine. We're going to take our time as we go through his life and draw some aspects, some of the truths that we'll gain from him uncovering them slowly and trust they'll be beneficial to all in honoring to God. For others who might be more familiar with Joseph I think you could truly say with me that the life he lived was not one that was on a path that he had chosen. Thinking of his future, thinking of his plans. The life that Joseph lived, that which we read about in the scripture, was not one that he had chosen. What he experienced, what he went through, what he saw, what he was involved in, generally was not in the direction that he sat down and says, This is the way I want to go. This is the path that I want to live. What he was involved in was not of his own planning. These situations, and this is what I wanted to see. These situations that we read of in Joseph's life are evidences of the good providence of God in all things, in all areas. situations that on certain occasions we would refer to as bad luck. Certain occasions we would say, well, that was poor planning. Certain occasions, well, that's somebody else's fault. Instead of understanding God's sovereign handed and all, they were permitted, contrary to what we would think. For example, those of you who know who something about Joseph's life, did he purposely act in some way to get his brothers irritated at him? In order that they would want to kill him, was he sitting down one day and say, Boy, I'm just gonna I'm just gonna poke and poke and poke until they hate me and want to kill me Or how about getting thrown into prison? Or how about all of the events that occurs? Then you sit down and say tomorrow or this next week or this next month or next year. I I want to get tempted by this or I want to get put in such a position that I'll be in trouble. And the other far extreme Should we say that Joseph sat down one day understanding that he would one day become second in command in all of Egypt? This is the goal of my life. I'm going to go through all of this because I'm going to be next to Pharaoh, second in charge of this great nation, and I'm going to rescue them, and I'm going to rescue my family? No. It's ridiculous to think as such. There's a beautiful poem included in a work by English author and theologian and pastor F. B. Meyer Meyer was a contemporary and friend of D. L. Moody. The poem goes like this. Behind our life, the weaver stands and works his wondrous will. We leave it all in his wise hands and trust his perfect skill. Should mystery enshroud his plan, and our short sight be dim We will not try the whole to scan, but leave each thread to him. The tapestry that is Joseph's life is a beautiful one From the pages of the scriptures all the way through in all of those thirteen chapters. Yet it was one that Joseph had no hand in other than his obedience at what he came to understand was God's will. He was the master weaver all along. A bit of background to help us understand the scene that unfolds before us today and in the weeks ahead. Joseph was the eleventh son of his father, Jacob. And later on, God gives Jacob the name. Anyone know? Israel. So there'll be times when we get confused and we hear Israel and we think, is that the nation or is that the man? And sometimes I'll just refer to as Jacob, even though his name becomes Israel. He was also the firstborn son of Rachel, his wife. Jacob's past was an assorted one. And one that was very difficult to follow along is why he did things the way he did, but it was all part of God's plan. But we'll take it up where he's finding himself working for Laban Laban just happened to be his uncle, and he was caring for the flocks of Laban, and he just happened to fall in love with his daughter Rachel. And this is an ongoing picture of God's beautiful hand. Excuse me. Jacob had to work for Laban for how many years? Seven. Seven. We husbands recognize that we start out when we are married and we work for them for the rest of our days, but he but Come on, gentlemen. But he had to work for his wife Rachel for seven years. But the surprise came when at the time of the wedding night, and it's difficult to understand how this may have happened, although we can fill in the possibilities. Her father decided to switch brides, and he puts in Leah, the older of the daughters, in the tent with Jacob. And all of a sudden he awakens to find, ah, this isn't Rachel. Oh, it's Leah. So they go to to uh her father and they find out the trickery that had made, so he proposes to work another seven years for this wife. Total working fourteen years for two wives. Did Jacob plan this? Did Jacob connive that he would uh want to have two wives all along, have all these situations? Hardly. It was something that was probably giving him headaches all along, but this is what happened These seeming missteps were nothing more than the understanding of what God providentially provided for the generations to come, for that which He had brought understandings to. So initially, Leah bears Jacob four sons. Rachel remains barren. But that's only four out of twelve children. Where did the others come from? Well, the daughters had uh helpmates, handmaids. Zilpah was the handmaid for Leah. Bilha was the handmaid for Rachel. Each of these gave additional sons to Jacob. Therefore Leah later on bears two more sons and one daughter. So now there's a total of four wives with ten sons and one daughter. But we're still missing here, and Rachel still has not born children. So if you would, open your Bibles to Genesis 30. If you note in your bulletins, our scripture reading was Genesis 30 through 50, well, we're not going to go all the way through there. But Genesis thirty and look at verses twenty-two through twenty-four. Remember, this is the favorite wife of Jacob. And God remembered Rachel. It didn't mean that God forgot or ignored Rachel. This is still all part of his plan. But at this particular time, according to as it was written, all of a sudden now she is perceived as being not forgotten. God hearkened unto her, opened her womb, and she conceived, and she bare a son, and said, God hath taken away my reproach. She had no reproach, but it was that which she perceived. And she called his name Joseph, and said, The Lord shall add to me another son. Well, this other son is Benjamin. And he becomes the child that she is taken home to be with the Lord. At Benjamin's birth, she dies. So the makeup of the family unit is necessary as we follow on through this life. Four wives, or in essence two wives and two concubines, but in essence four wives. with these children. Joseph is the eleventh son of Jacob through four wives, and the first son of Rachel. Now Skip over to Genesis thirty-seven. Genesis thirty-seven. This is the next occasion upon which we hear the name Joseph. There are silent ears. And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. And there are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock of his brethren, and the lad was with the sons of Bilha. and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph brought unto his father the evil report Now Israel loved Jacob, Joseph, more than all of his children, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. And when the brethren saw that their father loved him more than all the brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. So what do we see here? What has this brought us up to? 17 years since the announcement of the birth to Rachel, and 17 years of of not knowing what has taken place. 17 silent years in which the character of Joseph is molded and shaped Seventeen years upon which he is fed, because he obviously he says he's his favorite, because it was his favorite wife, uh, he gave him the greatest attention uh that had occurred. And we'll come back to that years later. Secondly, here in verse 2, it says they were the sons of Bilhah and the sons of Zilpah, four brothers: Dan, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. They were the middle sons of Jacob in thinking of all of those who were serving there, allowing them to serving, caring for the flocks. Now, how long and how often Joseph was with the brothers, it's not said. I find it doubtful that this is the only occasion upon which he was with the flock with the brothers, these four brothers. Because I'm sure they took turns. I'm sure there were other responsibilities that were given. And it would seem because as the favorite son, he was one who was uh not taking a one-time occasion but uh he was occasionally to going to all of these fields. Do you remember the story of David and Goliath? And here's a time when the the sons, uh uh the the brothers of of David were out on the the forefront of the battle with the uh the Philistines and they were there ready to fight And it mentions that David's father, Jesse, tells him, take the corn and bread to his brothers in the battlefield. He's at home with dad, and I'm kind of thinking, perceiving that this is exactly the type of relationship that Joseph had with his father. My sons are out in the fields taking care of the flocks. That was their money. That was their financial investment. That was the the property that they owned. That was their wealth. And he says, I want you to go out and see what's going on Not that he was out there lording over them, not that he was caring for them and such, but I think he was one who was going out and bringing back a report. uh bringing back how things were going with the animals and how the flocks were being taken care of. In any case, Joseph does report to his father And I'm thinking not just this time, but a number of times. How are the flocks doing? They're doing good. How's your brothers doing? Well, you know, dad you know, uh well, maybe sibling rivalry, you know, and uh and and again and again. Uh it doesn't say it, but I'm taking uh liberty here and being able to say the accusations were more than once. And they weren't just like jealousy or you know, poking fun. I think these were honest reports that Joseph gave to his father of the things that were going on. Again in verse two. And Joseph brought back unto his father the evil report, a bad report Accusations were being made, vocal things that were being said. Something was going on, and it wasn't just one time. It wasn't just the one time and things that were being said What was the report? Well, we don't know the details, but we can get an idea in verses 3 and 4 of the smattering of the stuff that was taking place. Now, Israel, or Jacob, loved Joseph more than all of his children, because he is the son of his old age. And he made him a coat of many colors. And when the brethren saw that their father loved him more than all the brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. Favoritism. He was ninety-one years old. Dad was ninety-one. Now obviously, we're not talking about ninety-one of our age. You know, he they lived longevity was part of life. But still, ninety ninety-one years and fathering, you know, uh th these twelve children was no small tasks. Um Rachel, uh death probably was about fifteen years that Joseph was with him, uh, from the time of Benjamin. He was probably born Benjamin was probably born two years after uh Joseph's birth. So he probably had fifteen years where he was there, uh, bringing him closer and closer in his relationship to the father. And obviously there is principles of favoritism. I'm sure he loved all of his children. There's not any of us who would say I love my one child more than my other children. But the favoritism becomes obvious and infuriates the brothers The favoritism is given. Look the way he's treated and why I'm not treated the same way. And the text says they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. To put it mildly, they're not on speaking terms. They just, yeah, just stay away, you know. The tension, you could cut it with a knife, the attitude they had. And then the coat. Hmm. The coat. If there was a straw that broke the camel's back, figuratively speaking, it was it. The coat and this has to be one of the most recognizable items associated with Joseph. Every child who's gone to Sunday school or vacation Bible school has done a coloring of Joseph's coat of many colors, you know. All displayed in every area, all the way to the musical. Joseph and the amazing Technicolor dream coat. Everybody knows the coat of many colors And it's described in different ways, patchwork or different designs, but it was something that these brothers envied. How come he's got Ralph Loren and how come I get Salvation Army Thrift Store? You know How come, Dad, you know, Reuben, the oldest of all these all these brethren, I served you for how many years in this sapling comes along and all of a sudden he's getting not only the attention, but we're out there working away and he's done nothing but just going out and which he wasn't but spying on us. And so the tension continues to grow. The brothers had worked for their father not only with the flocks, but no doubt there was grain to be bought and purchased, other things that were coming along, and this young boy. in a princely robe, then that was the design of it. It was something special, not just for ordinary shepherds. You talk about sibling rivalry. This beats it all. Now, verse 5 through 11, if you would look here. And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed. For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo, my sheaf arose And also stood upright. And behold, your sheaves stood around and made obeisance unto my sheaf. And his brethren said unto him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. And he dreamed yet another dream. And he told his brethren and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more. And behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me. And he told it to his father and to his brethren. And his father rebuked him and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed bow down thyselves to thee and to the earth? And his brethren envied him, but his father observed the same. Dreams are often used by God in both Old and New Testament to reveal direction to give understanding. Uh they didn't carry around their little pocket New Testaments or open up their their their tablets on the field while they were out there watching the flocks and seeing what the Lord was going to do. He spoke to them oftentimes in dreams, and his father understood that because he frequented that type of revelation too First dream finds the brothers harvesting grain, and again, nothing unusual, something that they always done. And they would take the grain after it's cut and dried, and they would bind it. in order to let it dry even more and then take it to the th uh to a a place where they would beat it and to get the chaff off off of it But he talks about these being bundled and how it was understood or how they thought about it, but it was Joseph's bundle sitting in the middle and all these other bundles bowing down to them Joseph gives no interpretation, but bound within their own hearts, this is how they saw it. This is how the power struggle comes along. Their interpretation was enhanced no doubt by the coat. You know, all of the other things that have gone on, and now he's got this coat. Now he's talking about this dream, and he says, we're bowing down to you, Joseph You know, this is the things that really set them off. Joseph did nothing. So you're saying that you're going to reign over us? Isn't that right? And they hated him. Hated him. Notice the adjectives here describing the attitude, the relationship, they hated him yet the more for the dreams. This goes way beyond personal favoritism, doesn't it? This is really pointing out the man It's amazing how throughout church history how jealousies arise amongst brethren, jealousies that can produce hatred and more. It's nothing strange, nothing unusual. Remember the final meal, the Passover, with Jesus and the apostles sitting there around the table, sitting with the twelve, and we read And there was also strife or argument among them which of them should be accounted the greatest. There's Jesus, after spending three years of teaching these people, his favorites, his chosen ones, about all types of attitudes from the heart And their last thoughts amongst themselves as a group is that they were jealous. Who's going to be the greatest? Tight, close-knit band of brothers, apostles, jealousies tear them apart. Jealousy is also a key in our study of the book of James, founded in the New Testament. But thank the Lord that we've eradicated principles of jealousy today. that we can say amongst the brethren, there is not a spark of jealousy that ex exists. I had a hard time saying that one. I digress. Get back to Joseph. There is also a second dream. And it doesn't say. Maybe it's the same night. Uh maybe it was an afternoon siesta and he gives the dream and maybe it's another night comes along or maybe we don't know. Time wise it really doesn't matter But he comes and he presents a second dream unto them, and the dream was a celestial scene, the sun and moon and eleven stars. Well There are times when we can go out and we can see if there's clouds there. There you can count maybe eleven stars. But mostly if you can see the sun, the moon, you know, the setting and the rising or whatever, you're gonna see uh a whole slew of stars that are out there. And this was the one that he presents unto them. If there was any doubt as to what the first dream meant, it's not an issue with this one. They could have come to him and said, hey Joseph, lay off that spicy goat cheese before you go to bed. These dreams are really creating some tension. No, they jumped right in. They assessed the dream as they did with the first, and they presented what their interpretation was. They didn't ask Joseph what he thought, but they all understood After he tells his brothers the dream, he then goes to tell dad. And dad hears it. And the scripture says that he rebukes him. And some people take that as he's angry at him for this the the picture that's being drawn. Uh am I, am I, and your mother? Well, who is his mother Rachel. Rachel. She's dead. So the assumption is that they were all looked at all of the wives as mothers. or all of the women who were there, the wives of all of the other brothers who were married and who were there. But nonetheless it's a picture that he presents unto them and saying I rebuke you for that, and I don't think he's angry at it, but I think he was saying, look what's happening with your brothers Look what's hap look what you're doing. And you know, probably doesn't happen with the Everett family. Uh no sibling rivalry, but you know, having to go sound now Matthew Stop it because you know what Jacob's gonna do, or you know what Noah's gonna do, you know, or Rachel, stop that because you know that you know He's saying just stop it because I know they're angry already at you the reports, the coat, and everything that's gone in. Why are you poking the bear? Why are you creating such a situation? So I'm perceiving that that was the particular rebuke that that he presents unto him. It's amazing how these relationships grow. Verse eleven. And his brethren envied him, but his father observed the same. Hence the picture that's being drawn about of him seeing it You know, remember the relationship that that Jacob Israel had with the Lord and the growth that he's had all of these years. And he understands that God works through dreams and he he works in a marvelous way to bring about his purpose. So he's thinking on this. It doesn't make sense right now, but maybe God has some other purpose in all of these things. I want to close with the look of the character of Joseph. A young man who is seemingly way mature beyond his days. Now, take a 17-year-old today, and and I don't think he could generally speaking, hold up to the responsibilities of a 17-year-old who lived in the Old Testament times. They had to be out there fending for themselves. Killing animals, you know. Uh David uh talked about slaying a bear and a lion, you know, uh being able to use the sling to knock down this giant. Um be able to send for yourself and and take care. Uh be out on the the flocks uh for uh day after day after day, night after night. Uh so I'm not saying that you know our seventeen year olds can't do that, but I'm saying in some ways Joseph was far more mature. But what comes out of this young man is what really amazes me. I think of those years between Genesis 30 when we have the announcement of his birth and Genesis 37, 1, when it says he's 17 years old. What was the education he had? How did he get his learning? What was the framework of the growth that came in his life that he had the basics? He didn't have all the answers, but he had the basics to be able to say This is the Lord, and this is the direction that I'm going. And it takes him all the way from chapter 37 through chapter 50 through his whole life. And there's not one bad thing said about him. It didn't mean that he was sinless. But what we were presenting here is that in those silent 17 years, there was a framework of truth that was presented to him that he built his life on. The character of his life, the things that he had done were a result of it. Remember, Joseph's early years were heavily impacted by a dysfunctional family. Can you imagine? Four mamas in the house, in the tent, you know, brothers all over, one sister. Talk about conflicts and who is going to favor whom and how is this going to be taken care of? Remember he had one brother, Benjamin, ten half-brothers, and one half-sister. Dinah was her name by the way. Again, between these four mothers, what a household And what Joseph experienced was hardly a result of the early days that he had lived in. I think the jealousies and the hatred displayed by the brothers were no doubt extended by the mamas. You think of those who were giving uh the the the the the response of Bilha and Zilha and and Leah How come Jose or Jacob, how come my son gets the short stick? Hey, go out there, tell good guys, you got there. Why is he always how come he's left behind? How come he didn't get this? How come he didn't get that And moms are like that. They're my children. I bore them. Why is he getting more than mine? Why is he not being cared for like mine? Talk about favoritism, you can only imagine. Our families, and rightly so, have a huge impact on the kind of people we become Those early years are hugely formative ones in our development. And from Joseph, I can guarantee you that Jacob presented unto him all that he knew and all that he could know. I had just finished a book two years ago. Joel gave me a little book. It's called Storyworth. And it's a subscription. and they send you questions about your background, your life. And you'd have to answer some or all or whatever you do. And after one year, actually I took me two years Uh and and you go and they'll publish the book and it's a nice piece of material and so I did it this Christmas and finish and gave it to the boys But I wanted them to understand and the grandchildren to understand my background, you know. And some of the questions were, you know Who are the people that had the most influence on you? What did you learn from this? What about this relationship? What about this and so forth? Our our years are formulated by a lot, by the people, the horizontal relationships that we have here And I think Israel, I think Jacob saw that, and what formulated in Jacob's life was God. What gave him his greatest impact, and again, we can't go into all of the things about Jacob, but it was his relationship with the Lord. I know he talked about the covenant that came to him, what God had promised him. Let's go back to Grandpa, okay? He promised to Abraham, And I will make unto thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and I will curse them that curse thee. And in thee Abraham, shall all of the families of the earth be blessed. I think Abraham was convinced of that, that he bore that truth. to his son Isaac, and he bore that truth to his son Jacob, and I think Jacob bore that truth to Joseph Because he recognized the special relationship that God had given him in that, and that was the instruction. So what about Isaac The promised to him. And God said to Sarah, Thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed, and thou shalt call his name Isaac, Isaac. And I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant and with his seed after him. The covenant promise of Almighty God given to Abraham, given to Isaac, he says, I'm going to do for all your seed. It's really through Christ. And then the same appears unto Isaac, the son of Jacob, or Jacob's son Isaac, and I, the Lord thy God. the God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac, and the land wherein thou liest, to thee will I give it. and to thy seed, and thy seed shall be the dust of the earth, and shall spread across abroad into the west and to the east and to the north and to the south, and in thee in thy seed shall all of the families of the earth be blessed. And behold, I am with thee, and I will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and I will bring thee again into this land For I will not leave thee until I have done all which I have spoken unto thee. That's Jacob, that's Israel, the promise given to him. Now what was he going to tell Joseph about this God? I think he gave him the promise, not only the covenant promise of truth. But I believe he taught all that that was filling his heart about the covenant-keeping God. Not only the words of the covenant, but his experiences. You look at the patriarchs, Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, and all of the things that they've done, and the failures, and yet the rescuings of God that he had provided for him. This is the framework upon which Joseph's life was built in those 17 years. Therefore, he could stand and listen to the stuff that was going on, but he says, no, this is how I will live. I believe Joseph's heart was filled with these truths. Proverbs 22, 6, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it. The truth that goes on both sides of the fence. Train up a child in the ways of the world, and you won't be surprised when it gets old that he's going to act like the world and sound like the world and deal with the world. Because that's the way he was trained But train up a child in the ways of the Lord, and by the grace of God, that child will live as a child following the Lord. It is his covenant promise. Train up a child. What did Amram and Jacobed teach Moses? A short period of time, not seventeen years, you know. She goes and she puts the babe in the basket, in the reed basket, and he goes down the river and he's picked up by the the the d the daughter of Pharaoh and he says, Well we need somebody take care of and you know oh we'll find a mama and so there's there's Jacob. And she takes the babe home. And she trains him. And I think she trained him in the covenant-keeping God. How about Hannah and Samuel? Remember them? Remember Hannah without a child and she wept. She gets to the temple and Eli sees her and he says, What are you drunk here for? I'm not drunk, I'm just praying to God to give me a child. And and he will. And he says, if he gives me a child, I'm going to bring him to the Lord, and she does. It becomes Samuel We jump to the New Testament example of Lois and Eunice. Paul writes of the relationship. Paul says, I see the faith in you, Timothy. And he says, it was first found in your grandmother and then your mother. And I'm convinced it's found in you. The training and the direction was given in Joseph's life built the foundation of truths that he was able to live and live as he did. The end result is seen in the way Joseph responds to each and every situation and the events that he was privileged to be experiencing from Genesis 37 through Genesis 50. Joseph did not know what the next day would bring, but he did know the one who is in control of tomorrow. From the highest of high points to the lowest of low situations From being a favorite son to being a pauper in prison to being the prince of Egypt, all because of his faithfulness to his God. I found a verse in Psalms that I think Joseph would highly recommend. For this God is our God forever and ever, and he will be our guide even until the death. He is our God forever and ever. And he guided Joseph, even to the point of death, and and he said, Well, you know, this is we're gonna put his body there, but I have the promise of God that that Israel is going to come back to the land. We read the promise. He wasn't going to be left in Egypt. They brought him back. And so the promise of God was there. We begin a new year, we have again no clue about tomorrow, you know. Oh, it's gonna be a giant snowstorm, you know, we're unlucky, what are you gonna do, you know, and you had some rain, you know where Didn't even know that, you know. Oh, the Ravens are gonna beat the Steelers. No, no, they didn't they didn't do that, you know. But we have no idea about the things, but we do know the one who controls He says, he is my God forever and ever. He will be my guide. Allow him to be your guide. It's bound within his pages. He says, read the maps, open it up, you know, flip on and go in there and see what he said, what he's promised. All of the delight that is there, that takes us into the new year. That takes us into 2024, 25, 26, who knows until Jesus returns, or until he calls us home. Let's pray So Father, we pause at the end of this quick prelude of of the life of this young man. And how remarkable it is to read of his exploits. And we can at times feel very close to him. There are situations that he experienced that we could say those are like my life. A dysfunctional family. the hatred of of those we live around or work with or whatever, uh people who simply don't understand you, uh Father, and and he being your representative And the cloud still becomes even darker, and yet we read of no loss of hope, we read of no cries of despair, but one who purposed within his heart to live as a child of the sovereign God who rules over all things. Father, grant us such access, understanding. the ability to be confident in who you are, in your plan for our life. To help us not to run ahead or lag behind, but to walk with you and such. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.