Open your bot who comes right after chapter forty one. I'm going to be reading certain verses along in this chapter, not the entire chapter, because we'll be dealing with a number of uh uh issues going through it. Mm but it would be to your benefit to keep the chapter open if you're able to follow along. Let's pray. Father, the the the joy of of life is um built up even greater as we find truth uh that lies within your word. It helps us to understand our walk, our relationship to each other, and especially our relationship to you, the Holy God. Um we come to find uh within Genesis uh these chapters the life of of a young man growing in uh in his walk with you in his faith and it's expressed in various situations that we're permitted to uh to read along with and we see such. May your Spirit find our hearts accessible and willing to take that which has been laid before us in truth and uh to find uh application uh to your glory. We pray it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we close chapter 41 last Sunday with Joseph moving from prisoner to prince. All in one day. We find him come to a place where he ends up being uh permitted only by Pharaoh himself. uh to be above him. Pharaoh tells the entire nation. He said, Nobody, nobody is to doubt what what Joseph says because I am set him in this place. Yet if we know anything about these chapters, we find out that it was God, not Pharaoh, who took Joseph out of thirteen years of misery in the pit. of struggles and sufferings and placed him in this particular situation now with extraordinary authority. And now he's forty years old. Time has moved along. You recall Pharaoh's dreams last week, two dreams, interpreted to mean seven years of plenty, followed by seven years of famine. Well, the the plenty has come and gone, and famine is upon them, and it's not just a famine, it's a severe famine that is not only uh for Egypt but for the entire area. Uh Joseph had was able to execute his plan during the times of plenty to store up grain. And now it's time for that grain to be used for the furtherance of the situation. This takes us to chapter 42 where it picks up. And think about it, we haven't seen what was going on back home in Canaan. uh chapter thirty-eight was probably the uh reference to it, but chapter thirty seven. So there's a lot of time that's passed. So remember since Joseph seventeen when he got thrown into uh the the pit and then released? Now he's forty. And we haven't visited what's taken place back in Canaan. So verse one, now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do you look at one another? And and he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt. Get you down thither, and buy for us thence That we may live and not die. And Joseph's ten brothers went down to buy corn. Kind of an interesting poke at the son's dad says, hey, corn's available down in Egypt. What are you standing around looking at each other for? You know? They should have been the logical response of all of them. We've heard that. However, Dad found out what corn was there. Yet I was thinking maybe the last time they heard the word Egypt took them back to when these Ishmaelites came and and took Joseph and said, We're gonna go down to Egypt and put him in slavery. Maybe that word Egypt kind of triggered some heart response. Maybe they have it, you know, let's not talk about it. You know, the scene of the crime. I don't want to go there. I don't want to even talk about it. I don't want to enter into that idea. I'll go out on a limb and say Egypt brought back some very unpleasant memories. Um please take note here that, and we'll mention it a number of times, this is where God starts to work on their conscience. You know. Egypt. Like that. And there are other situations. And he does so very graciously. You can see the faces on each other looking at each other. You can imagine what's going on in their minds. They thought they had it all done with. Now it's back. As expected, Jacob doesn't want to send Benjamin. Remember, Joseph was presumed dead, and Benjamin is the only son of the beloved Rachel. Two sons from Rachel, his beloved wife, and Joseph gone, supposedly And now it's up to Benjamin. And notice in verse 4, he says, Lest peradventure mischief befall him Again, he's not a little child. Put the numbers together. He's probably in his early thirties, under thirty-five, but He's not little kids, so he's not saying, oh, you know, get her keep your protect your brother here. You know, he's in essence a man. But he does not want to lose Benjamin as he had lost Joseph So, the ten brothers go to Egypt to buy grain. I would have liked to been a fly on the backside of one of those donkeys listening in on the conversation, you know. It's a long trip, as we talked about when we saw Joseph get sold into slavery. And they're talking about what's going on. So well what are we what are we gonna do? How you know, all this other kind of stuff, just to hear their discussion of the things that were taking place. And it was Joseph in the providence of God who is the one responsible for selling the grain to all who came to Egypt. I don't necessarily know that that Joseph did the transactions with everybody. Could very well have been that Joseph told those in charge of grain distribution, if you see somebody come from Canaan, let me know. But in this particular case, he sees them. Verse 6. And Joseph was the governor over the land, and it was, and he it was that sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brethren came and bowed down themselves before him and their faces to the earth. The brothers bowed down to Joseph, put their faces to the ground. Just as Joseph's dream had said, just as it had said earlier in their lives It's an amazing picture back from back in verse 37. Then verse 9 it says, And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them. So in other words, he's not thinking, oh, someday this is going to take place, you know. But all of a sudden as he sees them and he knows them and they bow down and all of a sudden the dream comes back. Let me read it was twenty years ago We were binding sheaves in the field, and lo, my sheath arose, and also stood upright. And behold, your sheaves stood around about and made obeisance to my sheath. In other words, the grain's cut, it's bundled, and it's laid down to dry, and then all of a sudden Joseph stood up, and the brothers understood. Yo, what are you talking about? We're going to bow down to you? And this insightful attitude continued to be stirred. It stirred the brothers to jealousy and anger that they were bowing down to Joseph. Our text tells us that Joseph doesn't recog Joseph does recognize the brothers. But they don't recognize him. Why? What do you think? For one, the idea the the clothing part, you're how they're dressed, you know Clean shaven. Uh Egyptians didn't allow the facial hairs. And and and therefore, but Joseph was how old when they left? Seventeen. Now he's forty. You know? And plus he's dressed like an Egyptian, not like those shepherds from Canaan, not from those areas. The other area thing I was thinking about is that they had no reason to believe that Joseph was alive. All of those years went by. There's no reason for them to think he's waiting for us down there. There's no picture being drawn here. It's an interesting situation. But Joseph doesn't want to reveal himself. He even uses an interpreter to increase the disguise. He knows his Hebrew. He knows his tongue, native tongue, and yet he says, we're just going to go it this way to keep this in disguise Let me jump off for a minute and go down a little rabbit trail. How often do we enter into conversations thinking that others can't hear us? And yet, over the phone or in person, words in secret, whispers in dark places, cryptic conversations, messages sent electronically. And yet, who hears? We think we're disguised, and I'm not talking about the government. No, I'm talking about God. How oftentimes do we enter into conversations with the purpose of nobody hearing, nobody listening in? This is between us. But it's not just us. He knows. He understands. And we have confidence that when we go to him in prayer, faith-believing, he hears us. We come and we pray here or in our homes and we get into our closet and we pray. He says, God, hear me. And we know he does. That's our assurance as Christians. The Lord Jesus Christ standing on the right hand of God, his throne, and he intercedes on behalf of his children. So I know my prayers are heard. David said, Evening and morning and noon will I pray and cry aloud, and he shall hear my voice. So it's just not New Testament, it's Old Testament. The assurance that in our prayer time God hears our prayers. But are we so shallow to think that God only hears when I ask him in prayer? God says, oh, he's going to pray now. Let me listen into this one. Oh, this is just idle conversation. Yeah, I'm not going to care about that. I just want to hear prayers. Hardly. When my secret words, when my whispers in dark places, my cryptic conversations, is anything hidden from him? Hardly. Jesus gives a very stern warning in Matthew 12. He says, every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. An idle word. Not words that are honoring and glorifying to our God, but frivolous, foolish, my secret talk. May God put that truth as a guard to my lips. Back to Joseph. Joseph wanting to see, I think, that his brothers have changed He kind of left a bitter taste the twenty years ago. It was difficult in that relationship situation. Verse nine Ye are spies to see the nakedness of the land ye are come. He treats them as strangers. Don't you and the disguise continues on. He treats them as such, and it says that he treats them roughly, keeping up this disguise I was thinking about this that although the scripture doesn't say such, uh I can almost hear the brothers In that day that they were in Dothan, and Joseph caught up to them, and they're almost saying to Joseph, What are you doing here? Are you spying on us for dad? Jacob sent Joseph many times out to watch the brothers. Aren't you spying on us and go back to report to dad and get us into trouble? Scripture doesn't say that, but all of a sudden Joseph calls them spies. And you can see him rehearsing the past and bringing it up before him again and again. These charges are denied by their brothers. They say, Nay, my lord, but we are here to buy food. Thy servants are come. And yet Joseph doesn't give in, at least on the surface, and he throws all ten of them in prison Again, the text doesn't say so, but guess what prison you think they may have gone to? You know, the one where Joseph was in, where he had his name scratched on the walls, you know, Joseph was here, you know Uh another year, another month, you know, there you know, oh markdown. I can't help but feel that. What would be just in this situation? Let them find out where I was the prison that I was in, the things that I have gone through, a little situation that was not hard to remember. Joseph gives them a verbal thrashing, throws them in prison, and it seems like Joseph wants to execute retribution, payback. It's my turn to get back at them. And yet I think the picture that comes before us is that Joseph is looking to see if they've changed Have you grown up? Is your heart any different? Is is life as you view it any different from ten years, fifteen years, twenty years ago? Remember how you talked to me? He talked roughly to them. Verbal thrashings he gives them. Have have have your hearts changed? I know you've changed physically. married men now, children, uh maybe even grandchildren within their fold. So it would seem that he wanted to see if they are still the same hard-hearted brothers that he knew Now down to verse seventeen, we read, and he put them all together into ward three days. And Joseph said unto them the third day, this do and live, for I fear God. Interesting that I don't think they caught that. No, didn't co catch the relationship of the words. Interesting confession. If ye be true men, in other words, honest men, men who fear God, it's not like we would say What do you feel yourself are? Are you a true man or a true woman? Are you kind of half in between or something like that? That's not what he's saying. He's saying, I'm honest are you honest men? Are you fearing God Let one of your brethren be bound in the house of the prison. Go ye, carry corn for the famine, for your houses. But bring your youngest brother unto me, so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so. After the taste of prison life, Joseph tells his brothers, I'm fearing God. If you fear God, then this will be a test. If you go and you bring Benjamin back, it will prove that you are honestly saying that you came here only for food. But if you don't bring Benjamin back, well they'll need to recognize that the situation they they lied In doing such, Joseph says that he will show they're telling the truth. And the brothers agree, and they talk together in Hebrew. Again, here's Joseph listening. He hears the conversation. He starts to see the hearts change what's happening within them. Verse 21 And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul When he besought us and we would not hear, therefore is this distress come upon us. Confession time, the conscience again, God bearing within them. This goes all the way back to Joseph. We're in trouble because of this. Now why would they have made that association There's no reason for it. There's no indication ever given about Joseph or anything. It had to be the Spirit of God working in them to convict them of that which was wrong done back then. By their own confession, by the consciences weighing heavy, they remembered back what Joseph had done when he was in the pit, and he pleaded with them You can see him looking up as a like a dry uh cistern, a well. Why are you doing this, brothers? Why is this taking place? And what would they do? They go off and they had lunch. They sat maybe earshot, maybe even farther away, and sat with their pizza and diapsies and and just enjoyed things. They were absolutely cut off to the reality of what was happening. And they said We saw his face. We heard the anguish on him, the suffering that he was going through, but we just plugged our ears. Their hard-heartedness was there. Twenty years of unconfessed sin and guilt. I doubt if Joseph knew this Again, remember back when he was not listening, he's listening. He didn't know that Reuben was trying to spare his life This is probably the first time that Joseph has heard this confession. He's in the pit. Doesn't recognize that Reuben had come along to say, we shouldn't kill him. Let's just put him into the pit and then see what happens later on. Later on, this is emphasized because when they sell him to the Ishmaelites, Reuben comes back again, whatever he was doing, comes back and says, What have you done? What have you done to the lad? So Joseph is hearing this confession by Reuben and the situation that has gone on. So Joseph doesn't take him as prisoner. Remember, leave one in prison, and Rubens the oldest, and that would have been the logical situation. The oldest stands for the rest So he takes the next one, next youngest, which is Simeon. Reuben tried to save his life. So Simeon's in jail as a guarantee that they will return with Benjamin. Joseph goes ahead and he has the sacks of grain filled, just what they had purchased, but then he tells his servants, go ahead and take the money that they came and bought, or to where to buy the grain with, and put it in their sacks. unbeknownst to anybody. And then on the journey back home, all of a sudden one of the brothers stops and he says, my donkey needs some food, so let's give him some grain. And he opens up, what does he find? The money. The money. Verse 28. My money is restored, and lo, it is even in my sack, and their heart failed them. And they were afraid, saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us? Again. the conscience weighing heavy on them, the sin that was committed, not only of the previous time, but now as it builds up each time uh confirming their suspicions, now he says, what's going to take place? He says, we told Joseph that we're here to buy food, and all of a sudden, now the money's been returned. We're going to be called thieves. The situation just compounds itself in their own eyes. God is working in their hearts. When the brothers get back home to Jacob, they tell him everything that happened on this excursion. The father in verse 34 says that they must bring Benjamin back to be f be able to free Simeon from the jail. His response in verse 36. Me have ye bereaved of my children. Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye must take Benjamin away. All these things are against me. Can I offer up this? The way that Benjamin or that Jacob is speaking here, it's almost like he's saying, I'm blaming you for Joseph's loss. He says that's it had nothing to do with wild animals. He says, you were responsible for him. You lost Joseph. Now, you've lost Simeon. And you're going to take Benjamin away? Jacob is coming along and he's laying this before all of the brothers. And he continues to build them up. And he says, that's not going to happen. So Reuben as the oldest comes along and he steps in and he says, I'll make a surety for Benjamin. He says, I promise he'll bring them back. And he says, to quiet your concerns about this, take my sons and offer them as a substitute for that which was being denied to Jacob. Yet according to Jacob, Benjamin is the only one left since Joseph is dead. And if anything to happen to Benjamin, well, I'm dead. I'm a dead man. I just couldn't do it. So they leave Simeon in in prison. Talk about brotherhood. You know? Let's not worry about anything else. Simeon's in prison? I just lit him there. We're not going to go back to that I'm going to stop here and ask a thinking question. I know you're always thinking, but what was God's purpose in sending Joseph to Egypt? What was his purpose in sending Joseph to Egypt? We could say it'd be multifaceted. In the big picture, Abraham was told that the tribe, the family, would go to Egypt and they'd be there 400 years. So for one we could say that was moving the family to Egypt and then eventually they'd be been released and under Moses. But what else? Feed them? They would have stayed back in Canaan, they would have starved. That would have been it for the family. All types of possibilities of bringing Joseph there. But how about this? They go ahead and they have Joseph as the man who comes along to transform those who would later become the twelve tribes of Israel. In other words, Joseph's introduction to Egypt and all the things that would transpire God's purpose was, I think one of his major ones, is to take those men, his brothers, and make them to become the twelve tribes of Israel. The men who were of worthlessness to become the leaders of the tribes of Israel, God's love Clarify this, let me offer some details on some individual resumes. How about Dad, Jacob? Look at his life, and actually you would rarely find him to be spiritually blind in favoring the two sons of Rachel. Of all of his sons, of all the things that God had given him, he says, I favor these two. And what did that bring? It brought division amongst the families. It brought arguing, it brought jealousies, it brought anger, and eventually it could have brought the place of being uh somebody killed. They lied. They lied not only in words, but they lied even to live that lie. Then, after believing that Joseph was gone, he continued the same episode, the same attitude towards Benjamin. There was no healing in relationships. All of a sudden, Benjamin becomes a favorite child, and all of the others are out there by themselves. Dad divided the family because of his unjust loyalty. As for a group, the ten sons of Jacob also needed to be had their own sins exposed. They were all guilty of this episode with uh having Joseph taken away, thrown in the pit, uh, for 20 years, and I say maybe with the exception of Benjamin, because he was uh too young But they were all carried away in this guilt for taking him away. Then there was the firstborn, Reuben. You know what he happened to do? He slept with one of Dad's concubines, Bilha. Well, or wife if you prefer it that way. What a testimony of God's love and grace for that Then Jacob's second and third sons, Simeon and Levi, they misused God's holy name and they committed mass murder in the town of Shechem. some betrayal that occurred with their daughter and all of a sudden they come in and they they kill all of the men. And then all of the family comes in, Simeon, Levi, and all of the other brothers, they come and they loot the town And then they go and they take away the wives and the children. What an honorable thing to do. And the fourth son, Judah, who ignored God's law. married a Canaanite woman. We talked about this and uh just as we were going from chapters thirty-seven to thirty-eight, uh we talked about his uh gross uh uh idolatry, married a Canaanite woman, he engaged in temple prostitution, moral hypocrisy, and he failed to teach God's law to his children. And then as a result, his two children died. God took them. Brethren, this dysfunctional family was ripe with unconfessed sin. They had a rank odor about them and the ways they should be living. Jacob should have known better, but Joseph was the one who God used to transform these men who would negator be called the twelve tribes of Israel. That they would be men And a people who would walk by faith and obedience to the Lord. And they were far from it at this key point in life You know, God often uses adversity to bring us to Himself I think the same lessons that we could say were true for bringing Jacob's sons to himself are true for us. We're not children of Jacob. You know, but we are sons and daughters of the living God. If you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you're to act as such. And Jacob should have known that Judah and Simeon and Levi and and Reuben and all of them should have understood that and by their words, they were probably professing it. The same things that we would profess as loving God, but it was not found within their lives, because there was unconfessed, unrepented sin in their life In all of the occasions for all of the things that the sons had done, including Jacob, there's not one time that you could read in there and find that they stopped and prayed and asked for God's wisdom. What should we do with Shechem? What should we do with this? God, do you want to leave? Never. They were doing it as their own pleasure. God uses adversity to bring us to Himself and to break our sinful ways. Famine was a way of seeing The loss of a son, followed by adversity, with various aspects of Jacob's life and his family, different stages Yet God used adversity not only bring them to Egypt, which would save them from starvation, but more importantly, the entire episode changed their lives in causing them to learn about humility, forgiveness, faith. And recipients of great mercy. What could Joseph have done to them? Not being merciful, not giving them, he could have given them what they deserved, but he didn't. He withheld it Joseph showed great grace and mercy. Chapter 42 is not the end of the story, but I think it gives us enough to see what God is doing and working in the lives of his children to make them to be what they ought to be. As we mentioned before, this dysfunctional family had lived lives almost like everybody else in the world. Their interaction with the with the other communities in in Canaan and the area, you couldn't have found out to them to be as as children of the living God. They were more like everybody else When our plans are based upon the wisdom of the world, the philosophy of the world, we'll never know the blessings of God. When we start to live and act and speak and make decisions like the world, There's no justification. Solomon rightly testified that there is a way which seems right unto a man, but the end thereof is what? The way of death. You know. I I think this is the right way for us to go. Our world is replete with these situations. Every time you turn on the television, I was gonna say every time you'd open the newspaper, too too many newspapers to see anymore But it's just filled, just filled with everybody doing that which is right in their own eyes, and that death becomes the result. Trying to tolerate sin and hide it under a carpet, it just doesn't happen. You know, sin is like that. What sin offers, it offers pleasure, it offers power, it offers prominence, it offers everything, but it's all a lie. And in the end, the result becomes nothing but pain. It's not unknown, but it is that situation. And I think Jacob should have known better. He should have taught his sons that The lives of his grandfather Abraham and his father Isaac, all of the things that they went through, the struggles that they had, had to have been passed down to him And yet he failed to apply them, even in his own life as a young man growing up. If you know anything about it, you'll see that his life was filled with deception and lies and intrigue. The consequences lasted for decades. And this just began the opportunities as they all moved down to Egypt for a change in their life. So should it be any surprise that it took decades for this family come to the grips of the sin that they were involved in, to confess it, to be repented of? You know, the proper way to deal with sin that we've committed is to confess it and repent it. 1 John 1 9 If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. All too often we just say, yeah, I've been caught. Yep, I did it. But I don't analyze the sin that I'm involved in as being heinous in the eyes of God. small or large. No, I don't do the large ones, but I'm in yeah, I guess I am involved in the small ones Pastor Coleman's not pointing fingers. He's looking at the mirror himself and saying, daily, this is a something I have to face with. Daily we all have to look in and say, Lord, what is that sin that keeps me from the sweet fellowship of hearing you, being guided by you, and being molded in the pattern that you'd want me to be molded in If we confess our sins, I'm saying these are the things that I need to deal with, repenting of them. Adam Clark was a pastor in England. Around 1800 he wrote this, speaking of 1 John 1 9. If from a deep sense of our guilt, impurity, and helplessness We humble ourselves before God, acknowledging our iniquity, acknowledging His holiness, and our utter helplessness To implore mercy for his sake, who has died for us. He is faithful, because to such he has promised mercy. And just, for Christ has died for us, and thus made an atonement to the divine justice. So that God can now be just and yet the justifier of him who believed in Jesus. He can do it because of what Christ has done. But I'm afraid like like the the the sons of Jacob, they have lived for so many years involved in the things of the world, and they just One event after another just compounded itself. No, we don't have to worry about it. We don't have to worry about it. You know, we just let it go on. Sometimes it's our habits. Sometimes, well, just the just the way I am. No, we have to examine ourselves daily and say, Lord, what is it that you want me to see that I need to confess? Again, we're not children of Jacob. We're not twelve tribes of Israel. But we are the children of God If I've come to know Christ as my Savior, then I need to live it as such, because He is, as Clark says, you know, He is the justifier because He has become just Himself. He's done that. May God provide us with those conscience moments. I found it a blessing to read of the number of pokes that God brought in the lives of these brothers of poking their conscience. When your conscience is poked, what do you do? Do you respond? Do you just say, no? Allow the Spirit of God, allow the events of the day, allow the the the the the struggles and so forth to say, Lord, let me come back and Deal with me. Help me to understand. Confess it and repent of it. You'll bless us. Let's pray. Father, in the quietness of our morning, we're mindful of the way that you work, even by the reading of our passage today. That you work in secret as far as anybody's concerned. You don't uh grab us and throw us around and yell at us. But your spirit brings conviction to our hearts for those things that we have done that have been heinous in your sight. Things that we have become accustomed to because it has been found within the world in which we live. It's everywhere. We rub shoulders with it. It's part of what we hear and see and find as this is the world in which we live in. And yet you as a holy God cannot stand it. You've redeemed us, you've brought us to yourself in order that we might be children of the Most High God. Father, where there are those things that we find your spirit speaking to our conscience, maybe we right ready to confess it. Not to return to it, but put it away, to bury it as far as the east is from the west, and as deep as the deepest sea. And may we find the delight that the Lord Jesus Christ can bring us, even taking us back to that day that we first confessed ourselves unto you and received Christ as our Savior. And what a joy it was to know. that that we were saved. Our sins were forgiven. But as your children, we recognize that we can still uh have have growth to go on. Blessed we pray in Christ's name. Amen.