And there's been our Bibles to 2 Kings. 2 Kings chapter 21. We're continuing in our study of 2 Kings. We're getting down toward the end of 2 Kings, and we're coming up on the last revival in the country, the last good king, Josiah. And so here we have 2 Kings chapter 21 and verse 19. We begin with Amon here. But let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would open up thy word to us this morning. We pray that thou be with the hot family in Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have Amon. Amon was the son of Manasseh. And Manasseh was a very bad king, basically, although at the very end he turned to the Lord. But he was very bad. He was known as being very bad. And in fact, he passed the point of no return. And even though he repented at the end of his life. Still, we're told that Israel was judged. Judah was judged because of Manasseh's sin. And Manasseh was very bad, and then we have Amon, his son, here, and his son only reigns for two years, and he's bad also. And again, we have inspired history here History is good. History shows us the hand of God before us. And the Bible emphasizes history, as I've said a million times. And it emphasizes history and it shows God's hand in history here in the Bible. And this is inspired history, completely accurate history. So anyway, Amon reigned for two years. And he did that which was evil, verse 20 Verse 21, he worshiped the idols that his father had served and worshiped them. He bowed down to idols. He was not interested in the Lord God of Israel. And verse 22, and he forsook the Lord God of his fathers, and walked not in the way of the Lord. So that's the commentary of Amon. We don't have to wonder about whether he was a good king or a bad king or argue about it. God says right here, he was a bad king. And then we go on, verse 23. And the servants of Amon conspired against him and slew the king in his own house. And again, all through history with kings, if you were king, I mean you had absolute power, it was great for you as long as you stayed king But you are very likely to die a violent death. When you're overthrown or somebody assassinates you And that's what happens here with Amon and his servants conspire against him, and that's when it's very dangerous, is when the servants, the people right around him, conspire against him Just like with the Roman Empire, when the Praetorian Guard would conspire against Caesar, he'd be in bad shape. But anyway, they conspired against him. But the people of the land, we're told, took the conspirators and put them to death. It's interesting how it talks about the people of the land. And I guess it was a popular uprising there to put the murderers to death, the murderers of Amon. And Josiah his son was made king in his stead And Josiah is the last good king of Judah. The last good one. And you know, so often before somebody dies, they have a death rally. I forget exactly what some people say. call it. And you know, Jerry had that actually. They're telling they were telling me the day before she died she seemed to be doing much better. And she ate well and uh looked good for a little bit And then a few hours later she died. And you know, that's how it is here with Judah, with Israel. They're having a death rally here with Josiah, with this revival under Josiah just before the end, just before the kingdom dies. Well anyway, we have Amon. His things are written in the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah, verse 25. And what book is that? Well, that's 1 and 2 Chronicles. You can go over to 2 Chronicles and see this history of Amon. And verse 26, and he was buried. Once again, it's great traditional Christian funerals with bodies, and it's also great with traditional Christian burial. Burial of the body. He was buried in his sepulchre, buried in keeping with the resurrection. And that's how they always were in the Bible, over and over and over again. There was a reason for that. They were buried. They weren't like the heathen, like the Romans that did cremation that burned up the bodies. No They buried their dead. Now we go on to chapter 22. Here we have Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign. eight years old when he began to reign. You know, I was looking at these numbers here. These numbers here are interesting. It says that his father Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign. He reigned two years. So when Amon died, he was 24. And he had a son here that took over the throne, and he is eight years old. So, how old was Amon when he had his son Josiah? He was probably 16 years old. 16 years old. And that's not unheard of for 16-year-olds to have children. The average age for women to get married in the Ottoman Empire was 12. And they had early marriages in the past. And so anyway, here we have he had Josiah when he was 16. Then we go on to what the summary of Josiah, verse 2 And here we have the inspired summary of his life. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. and walked in all the way of David his father, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left. Not aside to the right hand or the left And you know, here Josiah was a great king, and he didn't turn aside the right or left. I give that as a definition of a fundamentalist. You know, what is a fundamentalist? You know, as opposed to an evangelical or other things, or liberals. What is a fundamentalist? Well, you know, I put out a paper in Brazil called The Fundamentalist. What's a fundamentalist? Well, he's one who doesn't turn to the right or to the left He's one that's on the straight and narrow. And what is a fundamentalist always accused of? being too narrow. Too narrow. And they are narrow. They don't turn to the right. They don't turn to the left And, you know, an evangelical and others, they'll turn a little bit to the right, they'll turn a little bit to the left. It's not a big deal, it's just a little bit difference, you know, a little bit to the right, a little bit to the left. But a fundamentalist tries to stay not to the right, not to the left, but on the straight and narrow. And that's how Josiah was here. He turned not aside to the right hand or to the left. Now, here we have Josiah. We have the summary here. He was eight years old when he began to reign. He reigned 31 years. So how old was he when he died? He died at 39. And Josiah always reminds me of, or Stonewall Jackson always reminds me of Josiah Because both of them died at 39 years old. And both of them were warriors Josiah was a warrior, he died in battle, and both of them were taken away from the evil that would come after their death. Jackson was taken away from the defeat of the Confederacy, and Josiah was taken away from the fall of Judah and Israel. So anyway, here we have Josiah. Josiah. He was very young when he began to reign, only eight years old You know, we have instances of that in history. You know, when Henry VIII died, his son Edward, Edward VI took the throne, and he was only ten years old And those things happen. And usually the advisors are very important with young guys that get into raining when they're still children, eight and ten years old. And it seemed that they had some good advisors, Edward and also Josiah. And then, you know, you look at this, how is it that Josiah turned out good When his grandfather was so bad, and his father was bad, how did he turn out good? Well, that was by the providence of God. And he probably had some good training from some advisors, tutors, people that took care of him. But anyway, it was according to God's providence he turned out good. And you know, people make it say make it sound like you're just a product of your environment. They're just a product of your heredity. And you can't really do much about that. And I can blame all my problems on my environment I grew up in. Well, Josiah, he grew up in a bad environment. He grew up there with Amon and Manasseh. And yet, here he turned out very well. Turned out very well. And so people can rise above their environment. They can rise above their heredity as well. And so he turned not aside to the right or to the left. And let's go on here to verse three. And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of King Josiah that the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshulem, the scribe, to the house of the Lord, saying Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, that he may sum the silver which is brought into the house of the Lord, which the keepers of the door have gathered of the people. And let them deliver it into the hand of the doers of the work that have the oversight of the house of the Lord. And let them give it to the doers of the work which is in the house of the Lord to repair the breaches of the house Unto carpenters and builders and masons to buy timber and hum stone to repair the house Howbeit there was not no reckoning made with them of the money that was delivered into their hand, because they dealt faithfully. And so here we have with Josiah. He comes to the 18th year. He's been reigning for 18 years. He's 26 years old. And finally he decides that he's going to take some initiative and he's going to repair the temple. And the temple has holes in it, it has breaches, it has problems. And so he gets some workmen together and he gathers up the offerings and gathers them together, the silver, and to repair the breaches. Notice that always through scripture it's silver and gold. And silver and gold have always held their value. Today we have trouble with inflation. And what holds its value always? Silver and gold and things like that. And it's interesting that Joseph's price in Egypt back 2000 BC or so, his price was 20 pieces of silver, Jesus' price was 30 pieces of silver after a couple thousand years. It was uh very very little inflation. And of course they say that inflation is the cruelest tax of all on everybody, and especially on people with fixed incomes But anyway, they took the silver, they gathered it up, did the repairs, and they repaired the breaches of the house. And let's keep on going here, verse 8. And Hilkiah the high priest said unto Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it. And Shah and the scribe came to the king and brought the king word again and said, Thy servants have gathered the money that was found in the house, and have delivered it unto the hand of them that do the work. Then how the oversight of the house of the Lord and Shaphan the scribe showed the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest hath delivered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king. And it came to pass when the king had heard the words of the book of the law that he rent his clothes. Now we've we've looked at this scripture in the past. I don't know if you remember what we looked at the scripture in connection with, but I use this scripture right here in connection with the Reformation. And the important thing is here they had found the book of the law. They had found the Bible. And it seems like that before this time, they had the temple going there, they had the sacrifices going there. But they had put the Bible over in a corner and they never looked at it. In fact, they had lost it altogether for a long time. And they were going through the motions, they were having the sacrifices, they were quoting some scriptures here and there, they were trying to serve the Lord somewhat or pretty well, but They didn't have any Bible. No Bible. They had completely forgot about the Bible. And then all of a sudden, they found the Bible In the temple there. And it made a big difference when they found the Bible. Just like with the Reformation. When Martin Luther found the Bible, When he found the scripture that the just shall live by faith, it made a big difference. When the Bible came out in the Reformation, And it made a really big difference here with Josiah and Israel. I have found the book of the law. And so they've been going through the motions They've been having their crit their their religion. They've been doing their things. They'd had the temple and all that, but without a Bible. Just with maybe a few verses here and there, they had some of the Psalms that they had, but no Bible. And they found a book. Well, they read the book there, and Josiah read the book, and what was Josiah's reaction? Josiah's reaction was he tore his clothes Which was a sign of great mourning and of being upset. He tore his clothes when he heard the words of the book And what kind of words did he hear? He heard about what sin was and the judgment that would come upon sin. And heard that the country of Israel was indulging in those sins. And that the judgment of God was coming, and he rent his clothes. But nobody knew about that before. But here he found out about it. The king found out about it, and the people found out about it Well, let's go on to verse 12. And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Akbor, the son of Micaiah, and Shaphan the scribe. And Azahiah, a servant of the king, saying, Go ye, inquire of the Lord for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that is found, for great is the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against us. Because our fathers have not hearkened unto the words of this book, to do according unto all that is written concerning us. So Hilkiah the priest and the Hikim and Akbor and Shaphan and Azzahiah went unto Holdah the prophetess, the wife of Shalem, the son of Tikvah, the son of Hamas, the keeper of the wardrobe. Now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the college, and they communed with her. And she said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, tell the man that sent you to me. Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place. And upon the inhabitants thereof even all the words of the book which the king of Judah hath read. Because They have forsaken me and have burned incense unto other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands. Therefore, my wrath shall be kindled against this place And shall not be quenched. Well, so they found the book, and Josiah says, Go inquire of the Lord. And who did they go to inquire of the Lord with? Well, lo and behold, they went to inquire of the Lord with a prophetess, a woman called Huldah. Now, you see, that means that women preachers are good. No, I don't think so. But people will take this scripture. And they'll say, Well, don't you see there, hold of the prophetess, she gave the message from the Lord, for therefore women preachers should be good Well, it doesn't follow. The Bible says that a woman should not usurp authority over a man or teach. A man. And that's clear teaching of Scripture. And all through the Bible you have prophets. Hundreds of prophets that are mentioned. Prophets, prophets, prophets. In the New Testament, it mentions God has set some in the church prophets. Does it say God has set some in the church prophetesses? No, it doesn't. And there are very few prophetesses mentioned in the Bible. So, number one, this is an exception to the rule at best. It's an exception to the rule. And there are exceptions to rules, and the exceptions do not undo the rules. It's like a red light. You have a red light in an intersection, and a policeman and an ambulance go through the red light. Does that mean that red lights don't mean that you should stop? No. Those are exceptions to the rule. The rule is you stop. But for a policeman, for an ambulance, it's an exception. But it doesn't undo the rule of the red light. And there are exceptions to the rule. In the Bible, we have that. Remember when Jesus' disciples went through the corn and they picked corn and people said, oh, they aren't keeping the Sabbath day. Because they're picking corn. Well, Jesus says, have you not read that David ate the showbread, which was only for the priests? But he ate it. And that was an exception to the rule. It didn't mean that the showbread was no longer only for the priests, but there was an exception when David ate the showbread. And there was an exception to the Sabbath rule for works of necessity and mercy with picking corn on the Sabbath day. So there are exceptions to most rules And here there's an exception to the rule of women being in the ministry, uh giving out the word of God as a preacher, uh as a teacher there, but But you know, the thing is also she she could have been fulfilling the uh the job of a prophet or of a prophetess without the actual office, but she was speaking out the word of God. And here she was doing that, speaking out the word of God. And the message was of judgment. And so all these messages and what they were reading seems to go back to Deuteronomy. In Deuteronomy, God said that if they forsake God, God would bring all the curses of the law upon them. if they forsook God. And they would say, Would God it was night when it was morning, and would God it was morning when it was night, they would be in bad shape if they forsook God. And so Josiah heard those words. And he rent his clothes because he knew they were guilty of those sins that they had committed. And so, you know, they had been going along without the Bible, without God's word And so they had been going a little bit off to the right, a little bit off to the left, a little more off to the right, a little more off to the left, they've been going off into some error. And they deserved God's judgment for going into error. You know the old story, ignorance of the law Is no excuse. And so they had been going astray, just like back in the Reformation. They had been going astray. They had brought in all these other doctrines into the Roman Catholic Church. They had brought in the doctrine of an infallible pope. They had brought in the The salvation by works. They had brought in the doctrines of purgatory, of relics, of all these things. All these errors had come in because they got away from the Bible, got away from God's Word. And same thing had happened here in the time of Josiah. They had got away from the Bible, got away from God's word. And God is a jealous God. And then at verse 17, it says, Because they have forsaken me, they have burned incense unto other gods. And God is not uh just one of many gods. He has to be the only God. And so often with religions, it's they add a bunch of different gods and they wanna wanna have all bases covered. But that's not how it is with God. It's got to be just him. He's a jealous guy. But then again, we go on to verse 18. But to the king of Judah, which sent you to inquire of the Lord, thus shall ye say to him Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, as touching the words which thou hast heard, because thine heart was tender. And thou hast humbled thyself before the Lord when thou heardest what I spake against this place and against the inhabitants thereof, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and hast rent thy clothes and wept before me. I also have heard thee, saith the Lord. Behold, therefore, I will gather thee unto thy fathers, and thou shalt be gathered into thy grave in peace. And thine eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring upon this place. And they brought the king word again. So Holda the prophetess says with the word from the Lord that these judgments would fall upon Israel. Israel would be judged, would be destroyed. But God would deal graciously with Josiah. How would God deal graciously with Josiah? He would make it, God would make Josiah die young at 39. He would die before all the evil would become. It says here he would be gathered to his grave in peace, even though he would be killed in a battle in warfare, in a violent death. Still, he would be gathered to his grave in peace. He would not see the evil that would come upon the land of Israel. I will gather thee unto thy fathers. And they will not see the evil. And it was because he was humble, humble before the Lord. Verse 19, Thou hast humbled thyself. You know, that's the first thing we gotta be to get to heaven The first thing is to be humble. To humble. God be merciful to me, a sinner. Be humble. And a person that's lifted up in pride will never get to heaven. And as I've said before, you know, in Proverbs it says, if you beat your son with the rod, you deliver his soul from hell. How is that? You make him humble You get rid of that pride by the rod. And that's what you gotta be as humble, and that's what Josiah was here. Well, they had a great revival that came, and we're going to see more about that a couple more times. There's a great long section here about Josiah. But just think of today. Today in our world around us. You know, as we came to church this morning, and as we go to church in the morning, you know, we got a very small group here, but we passed by some big churches. We pass by big churches with parking lots full of people out there. And I submit to you, they're doing just like they did before they found the book of the law. They haven't got the book of the law there either, really, in those churches. They quote a few verses from the Bible. They talk about Christianity. They use the words But they really don't get into the Bible. They don't really try to put it into practice, really. And it was mentioned in Sunday school about, you know, of course the churches today like to say, come as you are The one we rode by this morning has a sign out there, just show up. Well, I mean that's okay to a point. But the problem is what that means is just show up, come as you are, and stay as you are. You don't really have to change. And that's how it is out there. And so that's how it says these big crowds out there, they need to find the Bible. They need to find the Bible. They need to get that lamp to their feet. And so they're going off to the right. They're going off to the left some, and they don't really even know it. But uh God has to open up their eyes and they need to find God's Word. And of course, I mean today you got the Bible there and people got it up on their shelf, but they don't they don't hardly look at it And and you know that's how it is in a lot of churches, even good churches, with the p pastor who preaches the word. He the pastors, they need to find the Bible too. Did you know that? I've been in so many churches Where the pastor gets up there, he gives one verse out of the Bible, and he departs from there and goes through all kinds of other stuff. And never comes back to that one verse out of the Bible that he read at the beginning. And you know, our worship and our study of the Bible has to be tied tightly to the Bible. And that's why I like to go through books of the Bible. And you know, our study of the Bible needs to be in context, not out of context. And you take a verse here, you take a verse there, and you just talk about things. And i i i i it's uh you know, they always talk about You can't see the forest for the trees, or you can't see the trees for the forest. Well, with a lot of these people, you can't see the forest for the trees. And they they have each individual word sounds pretty good. But it doesn't fit together and it doesn't come straight out of the Bible. And it needs to come straight out of the Bible, verse by verse, word by word. Studying God's Word. I have found the book of the law. And we need to find the book of the law today. We need to study it. We need to read it And we need to put it in practice in our lives. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would bless these things to our hearts as we uh uh have it in thy word and oh lord help us uh put in practice what we've learned help us to uh find the book of the law help us to be in it help us to study it help us to Serve thee with our whole hearts and forgive us of our sin. In Jesus' name. Amen.