So this uh will be recorded regardless, but I'd like to bring your attention to Exodus chapter three, and we're going to be reading verses eleven through twenty-two And this chapter will seem we'll be very familiar, Lord willing. Exodus chapter 3, verses 11 through 22. Let's read first. And Moses said unto God, here's the first question: Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? And he said, Certainly I will be with thee, and this shall be a token unto thee that I have sent thee. When thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain. And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel, and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me unto you, and they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? And God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am, hath sent me unto you. And God said moreover unto Moses, Thou s thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, the Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Hath sent me unto you, this is my name forever, and this is my memorial unto all generations. Go And gather the elders of Israel together, and say unto them, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you and seen that which is done to you in Egypt. And I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites And the Amorites and the Perizites and the Hivites and the Jebusites unto a land flowing with milk and honey And they shall hearken to thy voice, and thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall say unto him, The Lord God of the Hebrews hath met with us And now let us go, we beseech thee three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, no, not by a mighty hand. And I will stretch out my hand and smite Egypt with all my wonders, which I will do in the midst thereof, and after that he will let you go. And I will give this people favor in the sight of Egyptians, and it shall come to pass that when ye go, ye shall not go empty But every woman shall borrow of her neighbor, and of her that sojourneth in her house jewels of silver and jewels of gold and raiment, and ye shall put them upon your sons and upon your daughters, and ye shall spoil the Egyptians. The first question you can ask yourself is the guarantees that the Lord gave in these passages, in the scriptures, and in these verses. Did e did every one of them come to fruition? Were they played out? Did they all happen? What are the chances of God not being who he says he is when through sixty-six books, everything he ever said can't came perfectly to being? Every prophecy. This is an epic narrative. You know, Moses had kept the flocks of Jericho I mean Jeff Jericho Jeffroe. And an angel appeared unto him in the flame of a burning bush. We see that in the actually the first ten verses here. This is the incredible uh meeting of God and Moses where the burning bush is there and the Lord tells Moses to take off your shoes for when thou standest is holy ground and he spoke and he laid out perfectly to Moses exactly what was going to happen. Then he says, I have heard the cries of thy people. I know their sorrows. You will deliver them. The title this morning of this message is Moses Given the Great Commission. What a commission! We've been hearing a lot of great messages here at Pilgrim Presbyterian Bible Church here on Sunday mornings, Wednesday evenings, I believe. The Lord's given us a lot of wonderful messages But we haven't heard from Moses in a while. And I think it'd be good to hear from Moses this morning. Here, Moses, as a shepherd, he directs the flocks to the back side of the desert. Israel too now was was on the backside of the desert as the next event in Moses' life would be the Great Commission from the Lord to end this 430-year drought of worship. and the years of silence, and he hears the cries of his people, and he appoints Moses to be their deliverer and leader. What was his first reaction? A lot of people forget this what actually Moses how he reacted to this. But I just would like to say with what happens and how the Lord speaks to Moses. How great a God we serve, as we see his love for his people, his love for his children, and his love for us is boundless. And everything he told Moses perfectly played out. Psalm 36, 5, as we read Psalm 36 for the responsive reading today, we read in verse 5: Thy mercy, O Lord, is in the heavens, and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds. Psalm 103, verse 13 says that Psalm 103, 13, like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. And then we go to the New Testament in Romans chapter 5, verse 8. But God commendeth his love towards us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Here we see that Moses, the first mediator for the people of Israel to God, Christ is the second and ultimate mediator for God's chosen people for eternity. You read scripture, Moses was the very first, he was a type of a Christ. He wasn't the Christ, but a Christ was a messenger. Moses was there, and he was to be that prophet that would give the oracles of God, whether they be oracles of weal, whether they be oracles of woe. His job was to give. Israel the good news and to give Pharaoh the bad news. And Pharaoh had a lot of bad news and a lot of hard times. Come and because like us, a lot of times, we have a really hard time with listening. And Pharaoh had a really very difficult time of listening. Now, here's the question. Does anybody here know about how old Moses was at this point in his life? Anybody? That's a little off. 80. 80 years old. Are we, as we get older, are we not viable anymore? Do we lose favor from God and as we get older we just fade into the world woodwork and become non-important? Well, I don't believe that. I love the age of Moses. Because Moses shows here, the Lord shows us through Moses that at any age the Lord can use us to do great things. I mean, he can use anything to do great things. But in this case, he uses an 80-year-old man You know, if Moses were living today, you know, you can see the response of Moses immediately. His first question is, Who am I to do this? I mean, if he were living today, he would have been saying to God, Lord, I'm eighty years old, I just got my Medicare, I'm watching the Trump rally, don't like to go home and watch game shows and I don't feel like doing this. I'm eighty years old, I've got gout in my feet, my legs hurt, my back hurts. I can't go tracing tracing through that wilderness. I can't do these things. I mean it's he's gotta give you the perspective. Well, look at some of the ages of people here that have done some great things later on in life. And I love this. At 77, John Glenn became the oldest person to go into space. At 79, Asa Long became the oldest U. S. Checkers champion. At 80 years old, Christine Brown of Laguna Hills, California flew to China and climbed the Great Wall. At eighty-one, Bill Painter became the oldest person to reach the fourteen thousand four hundred and eleven-foot summit of Mount Rainier. At eighty-two, William Baldwin became the oldest tightrope walker. Crossing the South Boulder Canyon in Colorado on a thirty three hundred twenty foot wire. Eighty years old? He must have had pretty good balance. At eighty-four, Somerset Mollum wrote Points of View. At eighty-five, Theodore Mommsen became the oldest person to receive a Nobel Prize in literature. At 86, Catherine Pelton swam the 200-meter butterfly in 3 minutes, 1. 14 seconds, beating the men's world record for the age group by over 20 seconds. At 88, Michelangelo created the architectural plans for the church at Santa Maria in Angeli. At 89, Arthur Rubenstein performed one of his greatest recitals in Carnegie Hall. Isn't that incredible? I mean I look at Ronald Reagan and he became a president in the seventies, and so did Donald Trump. I'd say something about our current ill illegitimate president, but he's not even there, so I can't really give a whole lot of uh Praise for him, I'm sorry. Can't do it. But a lot of people have done some great things. Moses is eighty years old, and he hears the voice of the Lord after a four hundred and thirty long years of hard labor of the Hebrews. And he sees this Bush. He put that into perspective. How old is our country right now since the Declaration of Independence was given? About that? That's right, Teresa. I mean remember nineteen seventy-six, you all remember being around remember the Great Bicentennial? Remember all the commercials, everything was red, white, and blue. Yeah, everything was all about the patriotism and all, you know, when we weren't quite owned by China. But uh everything was basically red, white, and blue and patriotic. It's been about two hundred and forty-six years Since America has been a free nation with liberty and we've had our Constitution. This was 430 years That's almost twice as long as uh since we've been a nation. Four hundred and thirty years the people have been worshiping false idols. They had been in Egypt. They had been doing all these horrible things, and the Lord says, I am now going to give them mercy. And the Lord identifies himself as the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. If you want to ever answer the question, who is the God that you serve when you're witnessing, that is a good answer. The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And if somebody doesn't know who Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob is, that's the best time to tell them to get into their Bibles and to learn who they are. We see in this chapter how our Lord identifies himself as the great I am, and we also see in the Westminster Confession of Faith what some of the great attributes of our Lord are. I am the Spirit, I am infinite, I am eternal. We and we can look at many other of these. They're in the confession of faith and the question and answers. I am. And if you take that all the way to the book of John, you can see now the connection. Do you believe that Jesus Christ is God? Well one of the greatest evidences and there's so many incredible evidences. That's why the book of John was written so you might know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Look at the I am statements of Jesus Christ. Why would he call himself and say, I am the bread of life I am the living water. I am the vine. You are the branches. I am the resurrection and the life. Before Abraham was I am. I am he Then with all these I great IM statements, I am the bread of life, I am the good shepherd, I am the Dord of the Sheep. All of these IM statements went all the way back to this passage. And is it any wonder the Pharisees hated him? They didn't want him to be God, although he is God. And the big one that got him in trouble in John 10:30 was, I and my Father are one. And this is what linked Jesus Christ to the divinity of heaven. And shows that he is on the session in heaven with God the Father. You can prove that by Psalm 2 I will declare the decree, the Lord hath said unto me, This is my beloved son, this day have I begotten thee. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance. And the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. That's how we know that our Lord Jesus Christ is present here and He is God. In these verses, the Lord reveals the name I am to Moses to tell for him to tell Pharaoh it is I am that hath sent me. The directive by God was in response to the first pressing concern of Moses, to God's perfect and divine commission for Moses to be the deliverer. So, what was his first reaction? If we could stretch this message, which we cannot, to chapter 4, there are five major objections that Moses had for even beginning this 80-year-old journey. And the very first question he asks, and I believe this is a question that links us to Moses and shows how we're a lot like him. Three words. Who am I? Who am I to do this? What kind of person am I to go out there and take all of these people that are going to be million, couple million people, and I am how am I supposed to go in front of Pharaoh? And how am I supposed to do this? And I kind of think on a practical, kind of a worldly level, I can understand what he was saying. He says, Who am I? Forty 430 years had run its course. Moses is asking, why send me? I can't do this. 430 years had run this course. Moses was bold and courageous forty years ago. He slayed that Egyptian taskmaster to defend the Hebrew brethren. He ran off the Midian shepherds at the well He was in defense of help some helpless women. And we see here that Moses was concerned. And isn't that how we are as Christians? How we get saved, and all of a sudden there's work to be done, and we can easily very well say, Who am I? How can I do this? You know, in Acts chapter 7, verse 25, confirmation that Moses' confidence Here being God's chosen instrument, we see Stephen gave a speech. And in Acts 7. 25, Stephen, we read in that uh an actual quote. For he supposed his brethren would have understood how the guy by God by his hand would deliver them, but they understood not This was part of the sermon that Stephen gave before he got stoned, and he went back and he talked about this event about Moses. Now, Moses shows doubt that he's fit for the task. He has been a shepherd, and the aged Moses feels unready to shepherd a people that have been enslaved for all these years. How would they defend themselves at their departure? Undisciplined. only able to acquiesce to the militants of the Egyptians. And we saw many times how they murmured and complained and said, Take us back, take us back to the leeks, the garlic, the onions, the cucumbers, the flesh pots, you know, take us back. We do not want to We don't want to keep doing this. We see that the people of Israel had sighed by reason of their bondage and they had cried. Cried out. Moses was in the grip of ambivalence here. And it brings to mind what Paul has said regarding his vocation about his stay here on this earth. Moses wasn't sure of himself. This was the first objection. Who am I? Then he goes back and he says to the Lord, What am I ever going to tell these people? How am I going to explain to them that they should not be worshiping the rivers, the frogs, the birds, the king, everything else but God was some kind of a king or some kind of a god but the Lord God Almighty? And that's why we're we need to be very careful at how much emphasis we put on our political process and how much we uplift people in our society and politics Because it's not those that are necessarily in the buildings, it's the one who's over those buildings. That's the one that we're supposed to trust. And so Moses here is he's he's really struggling with this. Remember how Paul struggled. With whether being here or being with the Lord. Philippians 1 23 read, for I am in a strait betwixt two. Paul saying, I am in the grip of ambivalence. I am hard-pressed, having a desire to part and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And here Moses is in a strait betwixt two. What do I do? Whether to beg God to continue to train me for this arduous task and this image, this what's facing me I've got to face the very man, and I've got to go into the very man that could have my head. This pharaoh was a pharaoh that knew not Joseph. This was a bad man. This was a bloodthirsty king. And he could have easily had Moses' head. But the Lord said it's not going to happen. You're going to go in there and you're going to do everything I tell you. Now, can you blame Moses? Think about it. What if you were Moses? What if you had to go to the people of Israel, and then you had to go to Pharaoh, and they asked you, well, where did you get all this information? Well, I was out in the wilderness. All of a sudden this bush started talking to me. It's burning. This voice came out of it. I had to take my shoes off and kneel down. And as Bush started telling me that I'm going to deliver the people, so Pharaoh, you better let him go. Moses must have been thinking, people are going to think I'm crazy. The Lord said, I will show you many wonderful things. A lot of people didn't understand that. We can relate to Moses' fear. As Christians, we face decisions every day that cause us to say, who am I to do this task? And I can admit in my heart, it's in the in the question, in my being, that when Pastor Olson asked me to cover for him me cover for him, that's one of the first feelings I have is who am I to do that? No matter how long you're who am I to be here? Why would the Lord put me here? And we do that in our Christian lives when we have responsibilities. Who am I? How can I do this? And then we trust the Lord. In every area of our life. Moses even receiving direct guidance by the Lord, he humbles himself and he shows great fear to go forward. You know, there are other men of God who showed great fear and humility. What about Gideon? He asks, Why were the Israelites being taken over by the Middleites? How would I be able to lead Israel against them And so what the Lord does? He fixes his wagons. He takes his army and he starts cutting it down. And here Gideon's thinking, I need all of the hands, the feet, the swords, and all of the conventional weapons that I can have To go against the Midianites. They were a very mighty band of soldiers. They're a cohort of soldiers. They were thousands. And so the Lord said, I don't need them. Gideon said, Yes, I do. I need them. But he said, No, you don't. He said, Yes, I do. Judges 6, 15, and he said unto them, O my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? Who am I? Behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house. See what Gideon said were the magic words. That's what the Lord loves to hear. He loves to hear the contrite. He loves to hear the humility. And basically Gideon's background was he had no training. He had no formal training. He was very poor. They didn't have a lot. What did the Lord say unto him? Well, verse 16. And the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite Domidians as one man. That's it. The Lord says you're gonna smite the Midians with one with one uh uh with one man. Theologically speaking, what does that mean? What does that mean you're going to smite the Midianites with one man? Well, I'll tell you what it means. Thou shalt smite the Midians as one man. And there's no other way to read into it. You're going to do it. Jeremiah had a problem. Jeremiah 1:5, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee, and I ordained thee a prophet under the nations. Jeremiah's response, then said I, Ah Lord God, behold I cannot speak, for I am a child. Who am I? The Lord said, Thou shalt go in verse 7, to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee, thou shalt speak. Be not afraid of their faces, for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord. He said, I will deliver thee Now I'm building a case here. Will we get through all of this this morning? I don't know. We might have to save this for the rest of it for another. I don't know. But I don't want to move forward till I say this You know that there are issues in your life, and maybe things that you aren't you can't even tell anybody else. You might be facing something so difficult tomorrow that you're so fearful you might not even sleep tonight. It could be a health issue, it could be a family issue, it could be a financial issue, and you know that we're all facing these hardships. They're coming. They're called trials. And it's not just the saved that get these trials, it's the unsaved that they have to deal with them too. But when we read this, can we trust the Lord and know that He has this? That he knows exactly. How could we take this any other way than when God tells Moses all the way basically to the end of his life, I'm going to be there and I'm going to show you great wonders The first thing Moses could have said to himself, well, if this God that I worship and that I just kneel down to and he spoke to me to this burning bush, which by the way was not some was not some uh weird bunch of gas pockets underneath the Burning bush that a lot of theologians say today wasn't a real authentic miracle. It was just some kind of change in the climate. No, it was a real miracle and it was a wonder If we can look at that, can't we say that everything that God told Moses came to fruition and that the Lord did protect him and that the Lord knew every step of his life and say, that is the God that I serve. He knows exactly what's going to happen with me. He knows it. Talk about being fearfully, wonderfully created. The Lord knew that on January twelfth, little Olivia would come into the world. And I told Beverly, I said, I bet I mean I don't know anything. I bet he comes I bet little Olivia comes, she comes on the day of the the that her her day of the that Hara's expecting. Wasn't that the day that she her due date? Ah, I was wrong. I was close. But it was close, but the Lord knew that. He knew he'd known her before she was ever created. He's known all of us. And he knows everything about us. And I'm glad, I'm very thankful for that. Well, we keep going, we keep moving forward. Our Lord reassures Moses and He says, I will be be with thee. He helped Gideon Surely I will be with thee. Then the Lord replied to Jerem Jeremiah, For I am with thee to deliver thee. God's word is sure. He is unchangeable in his being. And in Book of James, every good 117, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of life. We can always count on what God says in His word. When He says He will be with Moses, Gideon, Jeremiah, Joshua, David, Isaiah, Ezekiel, Peter. And Paul, he never changed. That's a long span. I mentioned those names because that is a long span of time when these men existed. And all down through their ministries and their lives, he never changed. He was always there with them. Yet four thousand years later, our God has preserved his word. And these accounts of deliverance were not preserved over just these years, but all the way until even the end of this world. When God says He will be with these men, he is saying He will be with us too. Well we must obey Him. And He means He means this and His word is sure. First Peter 125 we read, but the word of the Lord endure forever, and this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you Matthew 24, 35, Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. So God tells Moses, certainly, or you can count on it, he seals a covenant with him. And we see, and this shall be a token with thee. He even gives him a covenant to prove that he's going to do this. He says, I'm going to be with you. And even though you say, Who am I, I'm going to show you who you're going to be, and I'm going to make a covenant And he says, When thou hast brought the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain. He even picks the mountain. He shows them exactly where it's going to be. There wasn't some kind of a generalization that maybe, you know, if it's of the right day or so in the right century. We'll get together somehow. He gives him the time and he gives him actual the actual mountain that he's going to be on. Here Matthew Henry quotes and he says The difficulties of the work were indeed very great. Enough to stall the courage and stagger the faith of Moses himself Every wise and faithful instrument may be much discouraged at the difficulties that lie in the way of the church's salvation The more fit any person is for service, commonly, the less opinion he has for himself. Modest beginnings are very good presages And this was Moses. 1 Corinthians 1 27 we read, but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And here we see that Moses was feeling very weak at this time. And it's a perfect, this is a perfect application for God's choosing the weak to carry out his providential plan. As we move forward, we see here Moses' second concern, where he says, When I come unto the children of Israel and shall say unto them, the God of our father hath sent me unto you And they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? What am I going to tell them? How am I ever going to describe this to them? I love what John MacArthur says. He says the humility comes out of Moses because Moses is proving right now that he's not a theologian. He's going to be basically an intercessor for the people of Israel. He's not even a theologian His second concern here of his calling is another great concern. Moses is concerned that the Israelites will despise his mission and not believe him. or believe in the true and living God. That is a very important concern for us as Christians. We should really be sad in our hearts to think that those that we love and we witness to they don't seem to have any interest in the Lord. We should want them to know who God is. And I think the connection that we have with them is to show them these miracles and to tell them what a great God we serve. He is about to present himself as a stranger to them, and Moses fears rejection. So we ask, what name do I give them? for the proof of my authority. Moses then asked the Lord for a token. A sign. The Lord gave him many powers, wonders, tokens, signs to help Moses and declare the power of God. Remember the rod that turned into a serpent and the leper's hands. That he would heal. Moses asked God to give him a name that will be a testimony, a distinguishing mark by which he will persuade the Israelites that this God is for real. It's proof that God will keep his covenant with them And he speaks about the God, he says, I am the God of your fathers. God gives Moses two names to give to the Israelites. And first means of power the Lord gives Moses is to tell the people of Israel God's name, a name that is unmistakable and identifies the authenticity. And realness of the Lord God Almighty. He says, I am that I am. I am have sent you. I am wisdom. I am power. I am holiness. And this is the first sign. What does that mean? I am that I am That speaks of the asseity of God, his being. Jehovah Shema, I am and I do exist. Do you know how many people you have to get through today just to prove that God really exists? And then you have to prove to them which God is the one that really exists? I mean today there's so many ways of talking about who this God is. Who is he? Is he the is he the God of is is he the God of Moses, or is he just a simple God that you can turn into whatever you want? And he's just this little man sitting on a park bench that when you have a problem you can go and he's basically your cosmic bellhop. Is that who he is? Well that's not what he says He says, I am that I am. This is the first sign of his power. This name of his self-existence describes his eternality. It denotes, I am the one who is and always will be. This name means God is self-existent. He has his being of himself. and has no dependence on any other. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come the Almighty. So, what is about to happen here is Titanic. Absolutely massive Titanic. God Himself is directly training Moses here in revealing the essence of his being. He is created as no one. He exists of no one and is governed by no one. And that is important to remember that when you hear that Jesus Christ is his only begotten Son, that does not mean Jesus Christ was created. He too is eternal. He is part of the session of heaven, and he is God. God's chosen people will be a people who will serve him and be freed. By being given a new home here on this earth, and the Lord says, You tell them, I am that I am, I am the Lord of your fathers. And you remind them who the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob is You want to know what's so important about this? It's like the Philippians jahrer when he inquired of Paul and Silas. And Paul, they were training him, you inquire of God. You need to know your history. You need to know the Old Testament and you need to know where you came from. Who are our Christian fathers? Who are our Christian ancestors? Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are our Christian ancestors And they're there for our learning, so that we know who God is. There was a connection. And when you read about them and you read how God worked in their lives, you can understand how God works. And how wonderful things that he did for Abraham. We could talk about that forever. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, look at Abraham, and how the Lord spared Isaac on that altar of obedience when he put a little rim in the face. Abraham went up there to obey God and to definitely sacrifice Isaac on the very same mountain that Jesus Christ wound up being crucified. What about Isaac? Now Isaac was waiting for the love of his life, and he was meditating in the fields of Lahiroy, and out of nowhere there comes beautiful Rebecca with a veil over her face from the servant that Abraham had sent. What is what a what a Valentine's Day story. Rebecca there she appears out of nowhere. And then look at Jacob wrestling with those angels. He wanted that blessing, didn't he? He was a rascal. He really was And Jacob the Lord says, You will now be called Israel. And here he is, is the father of all these all these wonderful nations. And look at Joseph, and look at Benjamin, and look at what happened I've been studying Genesis and reading it over and over and I just love that story of Joseph. It's just incredible with all the wonders there before this even happens This is my name forever. Isaiah 52, 6. Therefore, my people shall know my name. Therefore they shall know in that day that I am he that doth speak. Behold, it is I. And the Lord comes back and he says in Isaiah 42, 8, I am the Lord, and that is my name, and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images. He hates idols. Moses will be the very one that is going to be telling the Israelite people, and they're writing in the book of Leviticus and Numbers. What false idols are and why we're not supposed to be worshiping. This is part of what God is giving him. God gives the second name to identify himself as the God of their Christian ancestors. That he might revive among them the faith of their fathers, which was almost non existent, they needed a history lesson. They needed to be taken back to Abraham. They needed to be taken back to the garden and Isaac and Jacob. And the Lord is saying, You tell them, I am the God of your fathers. I am have sent you. You tell them that. And the mount Moses was now furnished with these two names. And then he furnishes Moses with two speeches. One of the Israel, one for Israel's elders, the leaders of the tribes of Israel. And then the they're the leaders of their families, and then he gives them the big one. He gives them a speech to take to Pharaoh. And even by Moses, but eighty years old you'd think he'd have to be on heart medication to go through this right now. He's saying, you're gonna tell your people, and then you're gonna go see Pharaoh face to face And I'm going to tell you what to say to him. You know how many times you read in the New Testament, the Lord said, Don't worry about what you speak, because the Holy Spirit will speak through you. He will give you the words to say. Have you ever found out in your Christian life when maybe you were stumped on some kind of a Christian, um maybe some kind of a Christian platform and you were witnessing and you just didn't know what you were going to say and all of a sudden something flew out of your mouth that was wonderful and you're like, how did that come out That might happen when you're witnessing. And that's the Holy Spirit that works through you. You tell them, you tell the people of Israel, I have heard their cries. I am the God of your fathers. I have visited you, and I have seen your affliction. I will bring you out of your affliction to the promised land of milk and honey, the promised land where you will drive out the heathen. And God reassures Moses that Israel will listen to him. We see that in verse eighteen, and they shall hearken to thy voice. And thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall say unto him The Lord God of the Hebrews have met with us, and now let us go. We beseech thee three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. And you know what's amazing about that is here we see the elders are mentioned over and over again. And later on we're going to see Jethro. Jethro has pulled Moses aside and said, we were talking about this in Sunday school class, you've got a real problem on your hands, Moses. You've got too much that you can handle. You're going to need elders. You're going to need to train them. You're going to need to talk to their families. And they're going to have to go to their families. And they're going to have to do a lot The Lord finally admits, you're getting a little old, you're going to get a little rundown, I'm going to send you help. And the first feat that the God gives to him is to take to the elders and to tell their families, exactly, I've heard your cries. Now he's heard their cries. Our Lord has heard your cries. So my question is, do you cry to him? Do you pray to him? Do you pray in tears? You have an unsaved child? You have an unsaved grandmother, grandfather? I mean, this Wednesday night prayer meeting we have many times. Please pray for our unsaved loved ones. And it's serious. Do you know that the Lord hears your cries? Well, he heard Moses' cry, and I know he hears our cries. And that was his first speech. You tell them I hear, I feel their pain. Verse 19, and I am sure that the king of Israel, Isra I mean the king of Egypt will not let you go, no, not by a mighty hand. First thing he wants Moses to do is he wants to love his people. He wants Moses to go reassure them that everything is going to be okay. I mean you think of the ministry of Jesus Christ, think of everything that he went through, and the hardest times that ever came came to him. They came to him in his whole ministry. But everything he touched turned to gold. It goes back to Psalm 1. Everything he did prospered, didn't it? Everything that you meditate upon my law day and night, he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit of the season His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Everything Christ did prospered. And whenever he said things were going to be okay, he made them okay. And you see the fruition of his healings, people just went away healed over and over and over again. Even the ten lepers were only one thanked him. And everything he did was wonderful. He heard the cries of the people and proves that God means what he says he does does. And the first loving thing that God tells Moses is you go tell your people, everything's going to be okay. I'm going to take care of you. Then he has to give him a second speech. I will stretch out my hand and smite Egypt with all my wonders, which I will do in the midst thereof, and after that he will let you go. Now this is the flip side. I don't want to miss this. Even if we have to be here a couple extra minutes, I'm sorry. The flip side of what happens when he hears the cries of his people. Woe be unto them, they defy God. Woe be unto the defiance of God and just treating him like he doesn't even exist, or worshiping false idols. Or having some kind of pagan worship and religion. This is the flip side of what's going to happen with disobedience. This is what he's going to do to Pharaoh. I will do in the midst thereof in verse twenty at the end, and after that he will let you go, and I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it shall come to pass that when ye go ye shall not go empty But every woman shall borrow her neighbor, and of either of her that sojourneth in her house jewels of silver and jewels of gold and raiment, and ye shall put them upon your sons and upon your daughters, and ye shall spoil the Egyptians. What's he saying here? You want to know if you go into the book of Isaiah and you read many times, the Lord says this, if you honor me, and I love this. I've I've heard OC sprawl preach this. I'm gonna mention him. I'm sorry, I may maybe mention them too much. But I'll never forget him saying this, and he says, You want to know what happens when you obey God He says, I will bless you, I will bless your wife, I will bless your children, I will bless your cattle. I will bless your home. I will bless your animals. I will bless everything that you have in your life. And I've never seen that fail. You defy him. I will curse everything in your path. And I will make sure you will know if you defy me. That's what is the fruition is when he says, I will pull the riches out of the people of Israel and I will suck it right out of their hands and give it to the Israelites That is a condemnation on Pharaoh, how he turned his back. He was a fair that knew not Joseph. I think that's very important for us to see that. God reassures Moses that Israel will listen for a time. They shall hearken unto thy voice. And basically, in a sense, he's saying whether they like it or not. Then we see in verse 19, then God is perfect as He is He is never wavering on His divine providence and He reveals what will happen Pharaoh will be stiff-necked. He will not let you go. So what happened if you go and you read the next few chapters? It says Pharaoh was stiff-necked and he wouldn't let the people go. So poor Moses had to go in over and over and over to throw down the rod, turn it into a serpent, put his hand and turn turned leprous, and the Lord healed it, and then all the sorcerers put down there Put down their rods and turned into snakes and Moses' snakes ate their snakes and all this stuff happened and they were stiff-necked. They wouldn't listen. They just kept going and going and the Lord kept the Lord kept pounding on them He had respect unto his people. And then he said in verse 21, I will give you favor and deliver you. Not only deliver you, but you will leave with possession. This promise also reverts back to the Abrahamic covenant in Genesis 15, 14, and also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterwards shall they come out with great substance. He actually, the Lord told Abraham this. He didn't just tell Moses this. He told Abraham that there would be a 430-year derision with the Israelites, but I will spare them. He says, I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. I believe we're living in a type of an Egypt now. I really believe America is a type of an Egypt. There's a lot of eliteness. There's a lot of un American views, especially in our politics. But I do believe that the Lord has chosen a nation and He has a hedge of protection around his people. And if you pray and you honor him like he says here, you don't have to worry about America. You worry about your family. You worry about your church and the people around you. You pray for them and start there and see where the Lord takes that Because he spared a whole nation because they listened to him. And Moses was ready to do the work after the Lord trained him. And that's what we need. We need to stop looking at America as a whole and start looking at our churches and look at how we honor God. What do you think of Jesus Christ? That's where it all starts. He that believeth is not condemned, but he believeth not is condemned already. For he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. That's where it starts In closing, John Calvin writes about the mercies of God to his people. Listen to this awesome commentary in the verses he picked to describe the promise God kept to his people. I'm going to read you three verses. I'm going to take you back to the 16th century. These are the same verses that we read in the same Bible. Look at what he wrote. I'm going to give you his commentary first, and I'm going to read the verses that he left us with And we'll stop. And God said, that's a very good way to start a sentence. Certainly I will be with thee. It is remarkable that God sets his ready help alone against all to overcome every fear and to take away every scruple, as much as to say, It matters not who Moses is, or what may be his strength So that God be his leader. In these words we are taught that he is never regarded by us with due honor unless when contented with his assistance alone. We seek for no ground of confidence apart from him. Did you hear that? We seek no ground of confidence apart from God. I think that's very healthy spiritually. And although our own weakness may alarm us Think it enough that he is on our side, hence these celebrated confessions of his saints. All he's saying is they put God first. And they knew that he would deliver them, even in the hardest situations. Here are the three verses. This is very familiar. Psalm twenty-three four Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Psalm 56, 4. In God have I put my trust. I will not fear what flesh can do unto me. Psalm 3:6. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of the people. And I just pray that this is an encouragement to you this morning. No matter what you're going through, God will hear your cry. He will answer it, and I'm going to tell you the greatest way to respond in your heart, how you want it answered. You don't want it answered the way you want it answered. You want it answered the way God wants it answered And if his son could sweat blood in the garden and say, Lord, not my will, but thy will be done, that's how we pray. And whatever he gives us, we know he is in control of it. And that is our wonderful blessing, blessed hope of a God that loves us and will hear our cries. Moses says, Who am I? And then he says, What am I going to tell them? And what an incredible answer that the Lord gave him. Let's bow in prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we just thank thee, Lord, for these accounts that Thou hast given of. There's so many of them, especially in the Old Testament. Of where thou delivered thy people. O Lord, we see how Moses was concerned, and thou gave him the tools, and everywhere he went, no matter where he was, thou thou were with him. Lord, thou parted the Red Sea when he held up his staff. Thou had a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night to lead the Israelites and to show them where to go Thou gave them Elam with seventy-two palm trees with water when they were thirsty and they needed food. And all the way down the line we can see that thou were with Moses every second, and thou never departed from him. Even when Moses died, he had a very special heavenly funeral that thou w presided over. And we should thank thee, Lord, for the beauty of all of the help that thou gives us. Lord, we see Gideon and how he won over the Midianites, who now cut his army way down. We see how David was undefeated. How Hezekiah prayed for fifteen more years no less when he had a cancerous tumor on his hand And Lord, we should see how, Lord, thou art with us. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort us. So I pray that we will all encourage each other today in the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. And just thank thee for these words. In the name of Jesus Christ, I pray. Amen.