Hebrews Hebrews chapter ten And if you would follow along as I read from verse ten for verse nineteen through twenty-five. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which He hath consecrated for us. through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. And having an high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised And let us consider one another to provoke one another unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as ye see the day approaching. Shall we pray? Lord, our heart's attention is drawn to your word and not to anything else, because your word is truth. And as it had been the intent of your spirit to work in the author and to present these things to his uh readership Uh so these words have been preserved for us even today. And as we consider uh our uh walk with you, our spiritual health as we consider that which is before us as believers and as uh citizens of uh the heavenly kingdom living here in this earth. We pray that you'll give us insight and wisdom in truth. In Christ's name. Amen. Well it's first Sunday of August. He ya. You know, some of you maybe have, at least we have in the times past, uh recognized the full swing of gardening. uh the usual suspects of tomatoes and melons and uh cucumbers and other stuff, you know, planted around and for some of us it's just flowers, but nonetheless it was all part of tilling the soil and fertilizing and weeding and the whole thing. And for some it's a bountiful harvest any time now, you know, uh picking out those things which are profitable. Some gardeners have entered into lettuce production. Um one kind or another, I found it interesting that there were uh a number of of major, actually fifteen different uh major kinds of lettuce. There's Boston, arugula, watercress, romaine, red leaf, green leaf, oak leaf, and all kinds of others And if you're a lettuce person, with all of the sub-varieties and other things put together, you could have a different kind of lettuce every single day for one year. Oh Interesting, isn't it? Of course, lettuce is good for you. Low in calories, high in vitamin K and vitamin C. A lot of minerals are thrown in there, and it's just good for the body It does well with us. Today, however, I wanted to see how lettuce was good for our spiritual body. We already talked about some of the dangers of spiritual malnutrition last time we were here. The signs of it uh those who are all too often stuck in in uh in a pattern of spiritual infancy where we don't grow, uh where we sometimes uh fall backwards in our spiritual walk with the Lord Um and when that happens we find that uh the diet leaves us susceptible to other things. The lack of good spiritual food causes us to find struggles and conflicts in life Not only as individuals, but within churches, even entire denominations, have fallen aside simply because they have died spiritually in their nutrition. Today I want to start what I trust will be a profitable and beneficial overall picture, getting us right on the good track by looking at lettuce. Huh, that's right. Look in your scriptures if you would to chapter ten and verse twenty-two, where the author says, Let us Draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. That first had of led us is what? Draw near to God. Draw near to God. I think if there's anything that's symptomatic of the world in which we were born in and the world in which we live in. It's a world that has distanced itself by its very nature from God. It is not near, nor does it care to be near, to have anything in association with the God of our creation. The struggles that it has has been something that has distanced it more and more and more as the generations gone by away from the God of truth. I asked myself, how did it get that way? Well, it all started with, you know who, Adam and Eve, first parents. And those things which we're engaged in as and this brethren is the only time you can blame your parents for something that they did that has happened to you. their sinful nature. If you would look again in your bulletins, and this is why I'd ask Brother Bob to put these in again, a shorter catechism Did all of mankind fall in Adam's first transgression This is the covenant being made with Adam. This is the relationship that God had with Adam, not only for himself, but for his posterity, meaning everybody who'd follow after Adam. In other words, all of mankind descending from him by ordinary generation. In other words, you are born children, children, children, generation after generation And they sinned in him, meaning in Adam, and they fell with him, with Adam's fall, in his first transgression. The 17, into what estate, or in other words, into what condition did the fall bring mankind? The fall brought mankind into an estate of sin and misery. And then wherein consists the sinfulness of where where where is it contained? What's the picture of it? The sinfulness of that estate into whereinto man fell The sinfulness of the estate or the condition, the situation of our world, wherein to man fell, consists of the guilt of Adam, our first father, with his first sin. The want, meaning the lack of original righteousness, which he was Adam was born with, and the corruption of his whole nature which is commonly called original sin, together with an actual transgressions which proceed from him. In other words Adam corrupted from head to toe. And not only Adam, but all who follow after Adam. That's us. That's the picture of what we have At this moment of rebellion, eating that forbidden fruit, brought him into a matter of disobedience with God Not only Adam but Eve. They were ashamed. They were embarrassed for their sin. And they distanced themselves from God. And instead of throwing themselves on the mercy of God, coming out and saying, Yes, Lord, please forgive us for what we've done, what did they do? They hid themselves. How often have we sinned or little children or kids sinned or grandkids sinned and they've done something in the center said, Oh yep, I did it. It's always an excuse, it's always a hiding, it's always where do they get that? Where do we get it? Right here from Adam and Eve. There had been a harmony between God and man as they enjoyed a fellowship together. There was a harmony between man and his wife in that beautiful relationship that was provided for them in this marriage. There had been a harmony between man and and the creation itself because he had dominion over all the creatures. It was all his, and then this one act of rebellion, this one act of disobedience, the catechism says the fall brought mankind, all mankind into an estate of sin and misery. And it has been ever since. It has been ever since. The perfect fellowship between Adam and God was gone. The harmony between Adam and his wife, gone. The harmony between Adam and everything else and every other relationship, gone. Disappeared into the created world that he had been given, it was gone. The effects of this moment continue today in history. We see it In our time, in our own experience, as we wake up every single day and it continues to reveal itself, manifest itself. Mankind still rebels against God, and there are those who say, No, I'm not rebelling against God. They're just ignorant of it So blind, can't understand it, but yet they are. And then there are those who purposely rebell against God and shaking their fist and denying him. Because there is no peace between God and man. Mankind is constantly at war with each other, not only in the marriage relationship, but in every relationship that we have all around us. It's being played out in Eastern Europe, in the Middle East. We see it constantly in local areas right over here. Apparently uh uh Grove Park of Baltimore area, a very difficult part of the city. It's played out in evidence on the campaign trail in the social media, in the courtroom, in our own homes, in the playground, in every aspect of life. There's nobody extinct from this type of relationship because of what our father Adam had done. So you see we're guilty because Adam's sin was the term used as imputed. It was put into our account. And we may shake our fists and say, well, that's not fair what Adam did. Why should I pay for him? And yet as the catechism, which comes out of the scripture, tells us, What was given to Adam is imputed to us, given to us, and it's evidence because every single day we sin in thought, in word, in deed. It becomes second nature to us. It becomes that which we are as children of Adam, and we do it frequently. We've seen what our sin has cost us. And I think the worst cost is that which is the division or the separation between us and our Creator. That the that which Adam and Eve enjoyed with the Lord in the garden, we can only imagine. We can only talk about it in speculation. And ever since that separation occurred, ever since they hid themselves Ever since they thought they had a better idea to what they had done in their sin, we've tried to substitute or try and find some other area of life, some utopia, some happy place you know, we'll go up to the mountains or we go down to the sea or whatever it is just to alleviate the sin issue that's there. Yet God didn't leave all mankind to perish. And you know he surely could have. He surely could. He told Moses one time, and he says, okay, let me wipe out this rebellious nation of Israel. And Moses says, hold on, Lord, this isn't quite right, you know? And you could have done it with Adam. Adam and Eve says, you guys really messed up. And he would have been justified in doing it because it would have showed he was not only just, but he was righteous. He has all the right to do that, but he didn't. Answer to Catechism twenty. God having out of his mere good pleasure. And I love that. Why did God do things? He did it because out of his own pleasure. It was his desire. From all eternity elected some to everlasting life. And he did enter into a covenant, a covenant as an agreement, a covenant of grace to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery and to bring them into an estate of salvation by a redeemer. God says, I could have snuffed you out, and whether that was ever part of the thought process, it wasn't, but whether that was, I'll start with somebody else, you know? No. He says, it's my intent to to redeem those whom I want, because of my good pleasure and all that has been taken care of. that was failed in his workings and in Adam's disobedience. In other words, all Adam had to do was just obey. Just do what I told you. Well, we'll get a better idea. The fruit that's hanging here, ps, you know, go ahead. Take it. It looks good to eat, you know. But God said, no, God didn't mean that either. You're going to be like God, you know, and all the way through like that. It enters into a situation. That new covenant, that covenant of grace, was established with none other than Jesus Christ Himself Where man failed, where Adam failed, and all of his posterity, everyone had failed, God says, I'm going to make a new relationship with my son. And he could do that because where man failed, or Adam failed, where we failed in being obedient, Jesus perfectly was obedience. Never sinned, obeyed the law in perfection. Where it comes down to the point he took death and hell on the cross Where we deserve the judgment and punishment that God justly could put upon all mankind, Jesus said, I'll pay for that. I'll pay for that punishment. And then the matter of what Jesus had done, he rose from the dead, which means to us that God says When he rose from the dead, I accepted that. I he he's back to life. I accepted what he did on behalf of my children. Substitute, the substitutionary atonement for our sin. This new covenant of grace is how God always saved his redeemed people. Where they fail, God made a way. God always makes a way through his Son, our Savior, Jesus Christ, and is able to draw near to him. Now With that in mind, we come to this letter to these Hebrew Christians. And that's an unusual group, as we've mentioned the last time we were here. They were Christians scattered abroad in this area, and they had a Jewish background, and they were still thinking Jewish, and there was some persecution, and the author is concerned that they may fall back to the old ways The old Jewish ways of being obedient to things. So he writes this particular letter and tries to assist them in holding fast to the things that are true. The old pattern of worship for them, the old pattern of Jewish worship to draw near to God, in some sense was impossible for the common man, like we would say. For them to draw near to God was impossible in a certain sense. Old Testament worship focused upon Ark of the Covenant. Had somebody write me this past week about the Ark of the Covenant. Indiana Jones, how many you ever watch Indiana Jones You know. I d the depiction of of that, if you've seen it, you know, isn't too bad. You know, though it what seems to be uh uh a certain box size And contained within this uh uh Kwood box which was covered by gold, uh, was the uh Ten Commandments uh uh a container full of manna from the wilderness, and the rod of Aaron, which was buddy. And those were three representatives that took them from the past into the new And above it were two cherubim, and their golden wings outstretched over the top of this ark, and then in the center place was the mercy seat And once a year the high priest would come and bring blood sacrifice and sprinkle it upon there, and it would be accepted. That's where God, in essence, resided. The term in Hebrew is Shekinah glory, the glory of God. As they came through the wilderness at night, it was a flame of fire. As they came through the wilderness in the day, it was a cloud, a pillar of cloud. But when they pitched the tent, the tabernacle, and they built it, and the Ark of the Covenant was inside, that's where God resided. That's the accepted place for them to be. That's what these Hebrew Christians were thinking about Tabernacle, later on in the temple, is where people could in essence draw near to God Not them personally. They had to have a representative. And the priests, the Levites, were the ones who performed the sacrifices and things. But only once in a year would the high priest have the have the authority, the ability, according to God, to go in. And the tabernacle, again a tent, temple, similar on its layout, and the back section of this tabernacle or tent, there was a curtain that divided it And that back section is where the Ark of the Covenant was. And nobody went into there. Nobody. That was the place where God resided, as a holy place. But when he would come in with the blood, the lamb sprinkled upon it would be accepted. Curtains close, in other words, this is a holy place separated from everything else. Everybody outside, this is where God is. And they understood that. um to the to the detriment of those who would not think so. Numbers 1822, neither must the children of Israel henceforth Come nigh, come near the tabernacle of the congregation, lest they bear sin and die. You don't even come near it This is God. This is the one who redeemed them out of Egypt. This is the one who opened the Red Sea. This is the one who crushed and drowned the Egyptian army. This is the one who brought them through the wilderness and provided for them the manna for forty years, the quail when they were grumbling. This is the one who kept their clothes clean and neat without having to be dry cleaned or having somebody's Stitch up their leather sandals again. He did it all. He protected them from every enemy. He provided it all for them. This is the one to whom they are to have their allegiance. The children of Israel relied upon the priest as their representative to perform the sacrifices and, in essence, to stand between them and God. God says these are the ones to do that which you should. Even the high priest recognized how dangerous it was for him to ignore God's commands. But when Jesus Christ gave his life a ransom for sinners on the cross, all of a sudden the picture changes. As he gave his last breath, he said, What? It is finished And what occurs? The scripture says all of a sudden as those words came out and he gave up the ghost, the curtain within the tablet to the temple Where the Ark of the Covenant was was rent from top to bottom. It split. So in other words, all of a sudden there is no door. All of a sudden it's wide open. Anybody could come. Anybody could have access. What Jesus had done would provide such an access, every child of God. Earlier in a text, he says, having therefore, the author is writing to these Hebrew Christians, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Christ. He says, you can now go where nobody else could. Only once again, once a year, the high priest, Yom Kippur, you know, the Day of Atonement. And he says, now you can have a a boldness, and that doesn't mean like we've seen some s people being stupid and being bold. This is a confidence. You can have confidence to approach what was before in essence forbidden because of what has happened now through Jesus. Verse 20, by a new and living way, not a dead way, not dead animals, but a new and living way. which he hath consecrated, set apart for us through the veil, that curtain. He came through the veil, it was ripped open, that is to say, his flesh. And having an high priest Over the house of God. He is the high priest. He is the the roof the veil was rent, and all of a sudden now you can come in. Now you have access, and for these Hebrew Christians, this is like, wow, you know, all the generations of all my family for all for years and years and years and years and years years we were told nobody has access to God but the high priest and the Ark of the Covenant Paul writes in Ephesians 3. 12, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith in him. I have a liberty to speak. I'd like to say something, you know. I I like to talk, you know. Anytime of the night or day, Paul says we have uh a liberty, a freedom to approach him to enter in before him and to speak our hearts. Ephesians 2. 18 For through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. The father, the creator of the universe. You know? They sent that, what is the name of the multi-gazillion dollar satellite they sent up? It it replaced us it replaced the Hubble in essence Hubble telescope. You know, they spent trillions of dollars on this thing. Send it out and they want to find, you know, as far out as we can go to see the g the the all of the black holes and everything that's out there, you know. Uh like we're gonna see the end of the universe, you know. The one who created all of those things, and as the prophet says, and he measures the heavens in a span. He sits there and he I can measure that. This is the one to whom access was provided. This is the entrance that we have. Think about it. Consider the privilege of this open door. Next year, if you're gonna fly you need a real ID or a passport, you know, uh within the US or especially even going outside like that. No, the government says you can't fly, that's the restrictions. You need to have this identification to prove who you are. even though you know who you are, that you can legitimately get on a plane and travel from one place to and you can't even go into a government office, you know. Uh you have to have this real ID that's there No exceptions. And we as believers, redeemed people, we have a place who've put our trust in Jesus Christ to have such an access, as it were, to God. We have the authority, we have the credentials, we have the proof, the pudding that I can go in because Jesus, who saved me, has redeemed me has allowed me and we need to take advantage of all of those things that are offered to us. And my question this morning is, yet how often do we avoid this head of lettuce? You know. Oh, I like to eat this and I like to eat that, but when it comes to the let us draw near to God, how often I don't? How often I just kind of scan it by Get on the computer, Google. What do I do when, you know? Siri, call up somebody, call call such and such. I need to talk to them, you know. Pastor, would you pray for me? And none of those things have been offensive, you know. But if I've not done it myself. To pray for somebody, and we have a responsibility in this lateral relationship of believers to pray for each other. But if I haven't prayed for someone, I said, pray for me because of this and that, have I gone to him? Well, I can't go to the God and talk. Yes, you can. Our spiritual growth is based upon the relationship of the love that He's displayed to us in His Son. And sometimes we go out blindly in death because we don't realize the fullness of this relationship. He beckons us, he calls us. Go back sometime to our responsive reading. It's Psalm 46. And he talks about the struggles of the the sins and things. And he says, God Draw me near, call me, bring me back, allow me to have that. Uh got your hymnal uh if you would look in hymn number 365 Yeah, three sixty-five. Written by Fanny Crosby. Fanny was blind from the age of six. She became one of the most prolific hymn writers of all time. Written over 6,000 hymns given to her name. And one of her more famous ones is Out of Hebrews 10:22. And she speaks of her heart's desire to be closer to the Lord. Look at the first stanza. I am thine, O Lord. I have heard thy voice. And it told thy love to me, but I long to rise in the arms of faith and be closer drawn to thee. What's she saying? Is she born again? Is she a Christian? Absolutely. I'm yours, Lord. I've heard your voice, not an audible voice. But the Spirit of God worked in her heart and brought it. And she says, And your voice, in other words, your spirit, brought to me how much you love me. But I long to be with you, to increase in faith. Next line He says, but I long to or sorry, but I long to rise in the arms of faith and be closer, drawn to thee. be closer drawn to the eye. I've known some people who've lost their eyesight, you know, very poor and no girl in her office right now. She's I've got macular degeneration in one eye and she's got this now a bigger spot which they don't know what is causing it, you know. And I can see her frustration, her concern, you know, my eyesight is going And transportation, she's a single girl, you know, transportation, getting around and things like that. I can I can I can feel for that Here's Fanny who hadn't seen for you know decades, and she says, Lord, I know how much you love me, but I want to be closer. Second stanza, consecrate me now. In other words, set me aside to thy service. Lord, by the power of grace divine, let my soul look up. With a steadfast hope in my will, my will be lost in thine. My will, whatever my will is, no, it's your will. O the pure delight of a single hour that before thy throne I spend, When I kneel in prayer, and with thee, my God, I commune as friend to friend. What a relationship. This isn't, you know, I'm talking to somebody with respect and love, but he is as with a friend. Fourth, there are depths of love that I cannot know till I cross the narrow sea, until she enters into glory. And there are heights of joy that I may not reach till I rest In peace with thee. Then the chorus. Draw me nearer, nearer, nearer, blessed Lord, to the cross where thou hast died, draw me nearer, nearer, nearer, blessed Lord, to thy precious bleeding side. Again, not that Fanny or anybody can physically draw near to God But the heart's desire for her. Her song of her heart was out of these words, Lord, I I believe, increase my belief. Lord, I trust in you. But I know you're there, but draw me nearer. Shouldn't that be our refrain? Have we reached the stage in life where we say, no, I'm happy. I'm satisfied with my Walk with the Lord. Lord, you just stay up there all right for a while and I'll just hang back here a little bit. I want to do a little on my own. You know. Sometimes we act like that. I know what he wants me to do, but I'll just kind of like Adam and Eve kind of sit back a little bit and let me go my own way, you know My heart is telling me like this, but you know, that means I'm gonna have to stop doing this and I can't really I wanna maybe for another couple weeks, just allow me. Draw me near. In all honesty, I know that I am not as close to the Lord as I ought to be, or should be, or could be. Maybe it's habit, or a number of habits. Maybe it's ignorance. Maybe it's just a matter of plain laziness. And I have to ask myself, what's preventing me from a closeness to him What's preventing me from talking with him? And and that the words of Fanny Crosby, and I talk to him as a friend-to-friend. Who do we talk with? The people we find that relationship with, the people we trust. Who should be the one that we trust more than anybody else? It's got to be the Lord. And I think there are times when I don't even consider he's listening, or that I don't even talk to him, because of what? Like we asked the kids, you know, that three-letter word starts with an S and ends with an N, you know? It's I who's filling in between. It's my sin. Plain and simple. And it may be Infinitesimal. It just may be tiny thing or maybe something blatant. But it's sin that keeps me from talking to him, having the friend-to-friend relationship, and it's sin that keeps me from listening to what he's telling me. And again, we said the other time, it's just not a matter of knowing facts, of of of absorbing you know all types of Bible truths, it's having them applied To say, yes, you're there, you're here. Things seemed absolutely chaotic You know, y just zooming over, you know, and sometimes I think the news media purposely gunshots you, you know, with all of this stuff, but here's China, you know And here's the Middle East, so now Iran and now Israel and now Lebanon and now they send some more ships over, you know, all this brewing up. You know, everybody get out of Lebanon now, you know And then here's Russia and China working together, and here's North Korea with the crazies up there. You know? It just goes on and on and on. And then in our own towns, what was laid out in Sunday school, you know, education systems, how how the the corruption from the earliest stages in public education and and it goes on beyond that. What's the accepted form? Today I just identify as a pastor. Maybe tomorrow I identify as a farmer. Whatever it is, it's crazy. And yet, what he's provided for us is this opportunity to know him and to say, listen to me. I've been talking to you all along, and I've given you my understanding of it all. This is my relationship. I'm in charge. Don't let anybody fool you about that. Sin has always been a barrier that separates us from approaching God or even feeling like I'm disconnected with Him. Since the time of our first parents, that's the way it has been. God knew this, and He understood the feelings, what would take place when sin overwhelms And therefore he continually brought forth out of the scriptures the desire that we ought to have to be cleansed. Psalm 32, 5. I acknowledge my sin unto thee In mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin I acknowledge it, it's there, and then I confess it. I just don't say, yeah, yeah, uh I did that, but I gotta confess it. Psalm 51, too. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. Clean it out. And then we know 1 John 1 9, if I confess our sin, and he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. How often is that being done? Not only does God forgive us of our sins as we confess them, but he forgets them. Isaiah says, I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions from mine own sake, and I will not remember thy sin. You ever had somebody buttheads with somebody and come and say, Oh, I forgive you. And the next time you see him, he said No, you know, it's kind of like a he you know, it it's still there. That's not the way God deals with us God says I forgave them. I blotted them out. And if we come out and say, Lord, did you remember that? No, I didn't, because I forgave you of that. It was cleanse. For I will have mercy on mercy to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. How can he do that? I can't, because he's God. So I approach those things in life, I have to realize the one that I'm talking to and the character and the quality of who he is. God never moves from us. We are the ones who move from Him. In my own struggles I say, Lord, I don't feel real close to you today. He says, well, I've always been here. Where'd you go? You know? It's not him, but it's me. I've ignored it. I've forgotten it. I moved away. Let me close with a very familiar passage out of Matthew 11. Jesus says, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart. And you shall find rest unto your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. We often use that passage in witnessing to people, some to come to Jesus Christ and be saved. But I propose that what Jesus is saying here are to those who are laboring and are heavy laden. It's us, the believer. We understand those things in reality in real time. These things are heavy upon me. These things burden me. They're troublesome to see and to hear and to and and and get the reports and everything that goes on and just pounding and pounding. And he says, Come on to me you who have such, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, the the the oxen or the donkeys. They hooked the yoke to him. And he said, Take it upon me. And the other said, I'll carry you along. Has he ever failed you in doing that? He doesn't. But we've got to come to him. We've got to come to him. I think the biggest picture, this initial stage of understanding our spiritual health, our spiritual growth, is that malnutrition comes when I'm not feeding from the right place, when I'm distant from the one who is there. when I allow sin enter into my life and and and I'm not taking from his table, confess it. You know, uh we're not gonna have a confession booth. There's no booth up here to sit and talk to the pastor and confess his sin. You've got the access The curtains split open. Access to the Father is available to us. When? Monday through Friday, eight in the morning till five. No, any time of the night or day, he's available. Access his throne through Christ. Pour out yourself to him. Allow him to be the one to speak to you of those truths. And once that's accomplished, we do it again the next day and the next day and the next day But we're not going to grow unless we take care of this initial step. If I'm distant, I can't, he can't talk to me about other spiritual things. What did you say? Come on up closer. Allow me to talk to you. Allow my word to feed you. Deal with our sin. Draw close to the Lord. Lettuce. That's your first head of lettuce this week. We're going to take some more lettuce next time, Lord willing. Let's pray. Father, we're thankful for the reality of the word and how it speaks in real life terms. And those to whom this letter was written struggled. They had doubts and concerns. They had old patterns of of worship and thinking that they were struggling with. Um they had their problems with sin and didn't realize how wonderful you've made it to access uh uh uh the the the throne of grace and to have their sins uh poured out um on that mercy seat and for you to not only receive them but to forgive them. And so it is with us. The Lord cause us to understand these things are are are vital to our Christian life. They're vital to our family. They're vital to the body of Christ as a church and as a denomination, as across the country for believers and around the world. When all else seems to be failing, Lord, you never fail. Thank you, Father, for joining us together around this word in Christ's name. Amen.