In your Bibles. Yes, it's the same passage we went through last week. Maybe I thought you didn't listen last week, so we'll do the same message again. I don't know. Hebrews 10, and I'll begin with verse 19 Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus with a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us Through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. And having an high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, a full assurance of faith having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as ye see the day approaching. Let's pray. Lord, it these are uh uh uh uh words that were written to believers uh long ago and that enlightened their hearts to truth and brought uh strength and help in their day. And it has been faithfully providing such to generations and so the centuries. And it's laid before us here this morning. And only uh as it is the Word of God can be uh that which will accomplish its intended purpose as we allow it to Um may we handle it with the love and care that it deserves and receive it not as the words of man, not even for the person who speaks it, but may uh the Spirit provide us with insight and understanding and uh uh the truth that will impact our lives, not only our lives, but those around us. In Christ's name. Amen. A hundred years ago, this past May 24th, an interesting uh assembly met, became known as the Auburn Affirmation. Anybody familiar with the Auburn Affirmation? I know none of you are that old, but nevertheless. A great piece of of uh Presbyterian history It was a document designed to safeguard the liberty and the unity of the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America. It was signed by 1,274 ministers. And it was their intent in order to present this unto the General Assembly. Now the church is a large denomination, so it begins with a local presbytery, as this government, and then it goes up to a synod and then to a general assembly. So these are churches from all across the country It was signed by these men, and it challenged the right of the General Assembly to impose what they called five fundamentals. The assembly back in 1910, 1916, and again in 1923 said that there were five things necessary for a man to be able to be ordained into the ministry. Five things that they should affirm. I believe these things, okay, before you can get in. Well, the Auburn affirmation has signed and said no That's not right. You can't do that. Because what it's doing, it's dividing us. It's keeping us from having unity Those five fundamentals were, first of all, the inerrancy of Scriptures. In other words, the Bible is true. It's without error on all of its teachings. Inerrancy of Scripture. Second was the virgin birth. In other words, in essence, the deity of Christ. With his virgin birth, you had to understand that that's precluded the idea of his deity. Third was the doctrine of the substitutionary atonement. Substitute, atone Jesus became the one who substituted himself on the cross to atone, to pay for the sins of the elect. In other words, man couldn't do it, so Jesus says, I'll do it. They say, you don't have to believe that Number four, the bodily resurrection of Jesus. Even today there are many, many, many who believe that Jesus rose from the dead. And you say, well, how? And you say, well, by spirit. Not his body. They said, we have to believe the bodily resurrection of Jesus. And the fifth one was the authenticity of the miracles of Jesus. In other words, healing of the blind man or the raising of Lazarus. He actually did that. Those are miracles to show, in essence, his deity. So the the the Auburn affirmationists, and again, twelve hundred and seventy-four men, and then apparently there were many others who said, well we can't sign, but we're with you, you know, we're with you on this They said, it's not right. It's dividing the church. And of great sadness, the church did nothing to these men. They didn't discipline them at all. They just said, well, okay, we'll just work it out in time We opened our current study on spiritual malnutrition talking about the symptoms and the results of such. And if left unchecked, if we leave spiritual malnutrition unaddressed, well the results can be devastating. The malnutrition and the PCUSA, the results were evident. What started out was there what with this Auburn affirmation didn't begin in nineteen twenty-three or nineteen twenty-four, but it was a long-seated starving of themselves from the truth of the Word of God, long before this The seeds of the rejection of orthodoxy were slowly growing. False doctrine was not only tolerated, I know it's it, you know, let but let's just keep the peace, you know. But at times it was actually welcomed. Today, what remains of that once great testimony to the glory of God? Well, the Presbyterian Church is just the shell It's a shell of its former self. It mocks its ancestors and it mocks the name of Jesus. It is still today the largest Presbyterian denomination in the United States. It holds more members than any other But it's known not for its evangelistic efforts. It's not known for its great missionary outreaches as it once had been. But it just happens to be known for its liberal stance on doctrine, the ordination of women, the ordination of members of the LGBTQ plus community as elders and ministers. That's what they're known for. That's its direction. Not to single out the PCUSA, there are hundreds of denominations around the world representing Millions of people, church people, who hold the very same things. They've abandoned the clear teachings of Scripture. Like Adam and Eve feel that they can hide themselves from the righteous and judge judging God. That we just by a massed body hold together with these truths that are against the scriptures. We have nothing to fear. They have not drawn near, but they have distanced themselves from the true and living God. Spiritually starving countless millions of their parishioners, men and women, boys and girls. Last week we saw the call out of verse 22 to draw near to God. And it becomes the overall step of what we would think of as saying God's call Through the author of the book of Hebrews to draw near to him to ward off spiritual malnutrition the need to deal with sin, to avail ourselves to his loving call to draw near to him. And across the board around the world, that wasn't done, and it's not being done So today, our second head of lettuce, as you were, verse 23, lettuce. For those of you who may have missed, this is our vegetable salad to help malnutrition. Let us hold fast to the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. You must draw near to God, but you must hold on to hope. Drawing near to God is necessary, but holding on to hope follows right in there. As mentioned last Sunday, the period that this book was written included these Hebrew Christians, Jewish Christians, and they were under continued pressure from their former Spiritual walk. Jews who had not come to Christ, who hadn't surrendered themselves to the Lord And they were pressuring them to leave Jesus Christ, to abandon those ways. And and my guess is you you could pressure them in business, you could pressure them in community, all types of of things that were involved Leave those things and come back to the old Old Testament ways. Because we have our fathers, we have our ancestors, we have all the Old Testament to live and to come by. That was their picture And no doubt there was pressure through persecution in other situations. So the author writes, let us hold fast. In other words, let us cling, let us hold on to, don't sway from. That idea hold fast reminds me of that poster with the cat. And he's hanging on to that rope, you know, and he says, Hang on, just hang on, you know. Hold fast to don't let go. Don't sway. Don't move from. Hang in there The author is exhorting his readers not to give up, but to hold on to their convictions, their beliefs, in what we read in our text, the professions of their faith, what they professed, what they believed. Hold fast, cling to, don't sway away from hope. Throughout the Old Testament and New Testament, the word hope generally gives a picture of faith, love, and best describes itself with hope. This is the essential of the fundamental elements of the Christian life. Faith, hope, and love. This is our our relationship with God and it always has been. For the most part, the picture of hope in the scriptures is not as the world defines hope. Hope for the world is, hey, I hope so. You know, I hope my candidate wins the November election I hope I get a pay raise. I hope he doesn't continue to preach too long. You know, there's no definition to it. There's no assurance to it The world uses hope based upon wishful thinking with no assurance. And the end result is you may or you may not achieve, you may or may not get You may or may not find whatever you're hoping for, it may or may not come about. And that's kind of worthless. The scriptures talk about an absolute certainty of a future good. And the reason for this optimism lies in truth. The scripture says, hope, this is, I may not see it at the moment, but the absolute good is coming at some day. The historical facts of the life and the death and the resurrection and the ascension and even the intersection of Jesus Christ is evidence to the believer that what God has said is really there. It's really positive. That's what I base my hope on. The truth is, if any of those things are not real, if they're not true, then there's no hope. The life, the death, the resurrection, the ascension of Jesus, and even his current intercession. If any of those things aren't there, then my hope in him, what is truth, fact of the scriptures, isn't there And again, there was a little video that we watched in the old Collingswood Church. Before Dr. McIntyre had had that current church in Collingswood, he left a church down the road a little bit And I saw a video of an interview of that current pastor, a lady, and she says uh the interviewer was saying to her, he says Do you believe in the resurrection of Jesus? And she says, Oh yes, he rose spiritually, so we all can understand. Well, that church is closed, by the way, and they're going to tear it down and they're going to build apartments in that very place. A great example of the truth of this lies in Paul's words of the 1 Corinthians. He says, But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen? He begins with an absolute fact, based upon all that which is lying ahead in the Christian faith. If there is no resurrection If there is no power of God to raise the dead from death to newness of life, then Jesus isn't alive. And if Christ be not risen, then our preaching is vain, and your faith is also vain. No resurrection, Christ is still in the tomb. That means the preaching Of the proclamation of life after death in heaven with Christ is foolish. And all of you who believe it is foolishness. Because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised up not, if so be that the dead rise not. For if the dead rise not, then Christ is not raised, and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain, you're yet in your sins, and then ye also who are fallen asleep In Christ are perished. In other words, everybody who said, I've been a believer, they've died these martyr deaths. And and if Christ never rose from the dead, then then they perished. There's there's no eternal life for them. And he concludes it by saying, if in this life only we have hope in Christ We are of all men most miserable, most to be pitied. If our hope in Christ is only for this life, for our three-score and ten years, Then we're to be pitied. We've lived our whole life on a on a fantasy, on foolishness. That's not the case What these Jewish believers professed with their mouths and believed in their hearts, that was their hope. He says, don't waver from it Don't change. Don't back off on it. Hold on to these things that matter. Some years ago, Professor William Marston of NYU asked 3,000 people What have you to live for? What do you have to live for? You know? He was shocked, the article said. He discovered that 94% were simply enduring for the present while they waited for the future, while they waited for something to happen. Well they waited for next year, waited for a better time, waited for someone to die, waited for tomorrow. What do you have to live for? Oh, I'm just here existing Just wait time, see what happens next. No purpose, no goals. The mass of society lives like that because they have no hope in Christ. So many people live with so little, surviving in this world, yet putting one foot in front of the other day by day, they're depending on unsubstantiated truth. They're depending upon ungrounded hope. Look at the economy that we're in. Stock market, you know. Shh And all of a sudden Japan goes, shhh, and all of a sudden the US goes, shhh, and what are we going to do with interest? All this other stuff, you know. It it just sits on a balance. It just who knows what's going to happen. And although we as Americans, I think, are doing better than most in the world, we're still sorely lacking. We have an a horrible unforgiving tax burden. There's the conscience constant tension of terrorism. Countless cancers, terrorist groups bringing forth uh uh uh substance abuse, uh wars, rumors of wars, turmoil in government, the loss of respect for life. And even the matter of human dignity. As Christians, we face the reality of living in a world that is filled with diversity. And we're expected to receive such a kind of diversity that everybody is equal, and everybody needs to expect that which is right in their sight Yet this kind of diversity offers no lasting hope. It's hopeless Push comes to shove, it's hopeless. They have nothing to cling to. I can just do better. You can achieve what you can. Just go for it. But beyond that, when they fail, what happens? Nothing Most recent statistics available on suicides came from the year 2022. Almost 50,000 cases in the United States. 50,000 cases, an estimated 1. 6 million attempted suicides, and no doubt the contributing factor was an attitude of hopelessness. What do I have to live for? What do you what do you go on? Well I don't know. And what happens when that fails, then I just might as well just fully give up. Most recent data reports that deaths due to suicide is now up to number 11 as the leading cause of death in the U. S. And for every attempted suicide, there are as many as twenty-five for every suicide, there's an attempted suicide of twenty-five people. Tragic. Well they just need better medical attention. They just need some type of help. We need more tax money to put into this. No. There's no hope in anything that's being offered. There's no hope whatsoever. When was the last time you watched or listened to the world news and came away upbeat and confident? Mm-hmm. You know? Used to like to listen to at noontime Paul Harvey. And that may date me, but nonetheless Man, you could go away from that that little five or ten yet, ten minute vignette and say, wow, he picked up this good and good and good and good. And when we feed from such things, our attitude becomes Hopeless. Brethren, in such a day as we live, don't be shaken by the pronouncement of the philosophers. University scholars, the political pundits, the news experts, even those who fill some pulpits, but they oppose the Bible of Jesus. They oppose the truth of Scripture. Don't waver because it seems that the Lord hasn't answered your prayers yet. I have hope in what Jesus said. I have hope in these things. To these first century believers who were received these things, they had a hope that Jesus was coming back That's why you look in church history, and for the first hundred or so years, two hundred years, there's nothing written about the actual history. Once you finish with the book of Acts, there's very, very little written about the church. Why Why write about the church? Because Jesus is coming back anytime. He held off. And we are still waiting. Let us hold fast to the profession of our faith despite what's taking place. Cling on to hope. Why? Why? What does it say? He says he is faithful at promised. Because he is faithful at promised. That since God, by his very nature, is faithful, he cannot lie, he cannot do otherwise, we can trust what he has promised. Without the slightest hesitation. It's beyond his nature to say anything that is false or lying or misdeceiving. He has to tell truth, and he presents it as such. We can with certainty say what he has is true and that he is utterly dependable. Yeah, but it hasn't come about, and I've been praying for this, and this has occurred, and this and that. No, he's faithful to what he has said. He's faithful to his character. To the fact that this world in which we live is full of unfaithfulness is quite overwhelming at times. And to be honest, very discouraging. From broken promises, ignored pledges, forgotten vows, we're left with a reality that it's often very difficult to believe what somebody says What somebody has pledged, what somebody has vowed will actually come to pass, or is actually true And I think because of our past experience horizontally in dealing with people and what they've said, and because they fail us in those words, we sometimes doubt even what is written Simple labeling products, all natural. When have you gone through and said, Oh, this is all natural? And then you look at it, you say, Well, you know, or organic. What does that mean? You know? Well I can believe because it says it. It's been written down. I have to accept their honesty about this. I found an old magazine article or uh an advertisement and there was a medical doctor He had the white coat on and and big smile on his face and and he's holding holding up a pack of Lucky Stripe cigarettes. And it says, get this, 20,679 physicians say lucky's are less irritating. It's toasted. Your throat protection against irritation against cough. You know, and and it's presented under the guise of honesty, you know, formulating truth. Or the myriad of elected officials in this country and around the world who have failed miserably at being faithful to their constituency and their vows. When they sign up and they pledge to do thus and so. How many times have you been aware of a timesheet that's been signed for an eighty hour week, but it's only been completed by sixty-five or seventy or seventy-five hours. We've we've become so disenchanted with with the way sin prevails, that honesty and integrity have just seemed to disappear What my mouth says as being true, or I've pledged to, or I've vowed to, I've this is the way it's going to well, it just can't necessarily be so We become accustomed to unfaithfulness in word and deed. It's a part of life. Everybody does it. I mean, I f I know 10, 20 people that's just part of it. So we live a life With a certain amount of skepticism. And eventually skepticism even towards God and His Word, simply because that's the way my brain thinks. That's the way my heart is adjusted. Again, the words of the serpent to Eve, ye shall not surely die. You know? She says, No, I'm not to do that because I'll die. He says, No You're not going to die. For God doth know that in the day that thou eat thereof, your eyes shall be open, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil The seed of skepticism was planted at that moment. I doubt. I can't have faithfulness. What God said really wasn't true. And and if that's the case, well, think of all of the things that people are telling me are supposed to be or supposed to happen, things that I'm supposed to do, but I can't really know that it's true. I can really cling to that, God's truthfulness and honesty, to God being faithful to his word That's just the way our thinking is, and I think it's compounded because of the fact that we are spiritually malnourished. And if my diet of knowing him, drawing near to him, understanding who he is and what he has promised, is is kind of at a starvation mode I've got other things to do. I'll just take a quick bar or a quick chan of such and such and I'll be done for the day, you know We head on out to the business of the day, and my walk with him is that it, I'll be back later on, Lord. I'll be home sometime. We'll touch faces again. Yet our God's faithfulness to us, and in all that He has promised, should be of great encouragement to us. He cannot lie. He tells the truth. If, however, being faithful is different in the road to walk One in which we have stumbled many times, what do we do? Be faithful to him because he's been faithful to us. But I I found it hard to do that. And and key point, you know, the the the the button flashes off. We all are because it's still our nature. We're still in this suit, this earthly suit that we've been bound in And when we are spiritually malnourished, we indeed lose hope. So we're dependent upon Him for sufficient grace to enable us to hold on to hope. Remember, hope is the assurance bound within the truth of God's word because he lived, he died, he was buried, he rose again from the dead. He's uh uh sending and ascended place interceding for us, and he's coming again. Those are facts, proven facts. And yet we set it aside because, well, the rest of it just doesn't quite fit in. Yet I have to trust his grace that he gives me grace. What is grace? My mother's name. Yeah. No. God giving me something I don't deserve. So what do I think about it? Do I continue in sin, Paul says that grace can abound? No If I purposely understand it, I understand that this is sin, that I'm not walking with him, that I'm not close to him, that I'm not clinging to the truths that he's made, then I need to stop that But I need to ask for his grace to assist me. Let me close with a testimony that might be familiar to some of you from a man by the name of Polycarp. Polycarp was a disciple of John. Wow, we were going back a long time. Killed around the year 155 A. D. And according to the book entitled The Martyrdom of Polycarp, he was betrayed by some of his own household. Hmm. Nice people. Captured, taken to the Colosseum in the Roman Pro-Council because he was very popular as a leader of the church The proconsul wanted him to readjust his testimony. You can live in both worlds. You can just have to all you have to do is offer him some sacrifices to Caesar. So according to the book, the pro-consul said to Polycarp, Take an oath, and I will let you go. Just revile Christ. That's all. Polycarp answered, For eighty and six years I have been his servant, and he has done me no wrong. And how can I now blaspheme my king who has saved me? Logic to him, close walk. He has been spiritually fed all his life. And this is his testimony. He says, and how can I blaspheme my king who has saved me? Pro Council proceeds to threaten the elderly man with lions and fire in his response to such You threaten me with fire, which burns for an hour at most. You must not know about the fires that are coming in judgment and eternal punishment reserved for the ungodly Why are you wasting your time? Kill me in whatever way you see fit. And according to testimony, they I mean this maybe has gotten embellished by some, but they put the the fagots of fire around him and and the flames went up but it never burned. It was just like a wall around Polycarp And apparently they had to somebody had to come up with a knife and finish them off, you know. Uh whether that's true or not or whether it becomes embellished uh or not, I don't know. But the idea is How are we in my walk with the Lord like that? We emphasize, how did you do this past week? We talked about drawing closer to the Lord. Was that a a seed thought that that changed anything this past week? You know, we can't raise hands, you know, with something like that. But my point is, it's going to come to something in the future where we're going to be asked. Outside of what God's Word says, we have no idea what's going to take place in our future. We'd have no idea about tomorrow in our prayers we prepared for, you know. So one of the men prayed, he says, you know, here's a house. All of a sudden it goes and it's gone. Person loses his life. Automobile accidents, you know, tree falls on from a storm and crushes somebody in the house. Our life is is cared for by him. He understands and he knows all of that. What is my testimony up to that point? My hope is not in November's election. It's not in the stock market. It's not in the clean bill of health, my doctor says, you're all set, you know. I go out and do whatever I want. It's not in my family or my friends, but it's in my savior. God needs to grant us unquestioning faith and trust and hope in Him. We go back mentally to the study we did on Joseph. And talk about a man who lived under the scrutiny of everyone on the outside, pressured to live according to the dictates of the world. He had found his God faithful during times of betrayal by his brothers, uh fearfulness of the unknown in the future. betrayals in Potiphar's house, imprisonments, and who knows what else that went on in bed in in in between all the pages that were there And yet, he came to understand that his walk with the Lord, even though he did not see results until he was what forty five years old or something like that. He didn't see a a product of an answer to prayer. You know. It was just like, Lord, you know, I'm walking with you and at your time you'll deal with that. We don't know what's going to happen. But we do have the challenge, these two heads of lettuce that are before us today, you know. Let us draw near to God and let us hold fast, cling to the things that we know to be true, that we are growing in daily, and He'll take care of the rest. Let's pray. Father, the Spirit works in us as the searcher of our hearts. Um and so search us, Father, and see where we lack, see where we fall short, see where we come uh not even close to what's being asked. See where our faithfulness has at times fallen short, where we've chosen to listen to the world and and not you where we've felt hopeless and helpless when you've provided all sorts of comfort and peace because you're the sovereign of the universe. Everything is in control by your hands. Forgive us for such. And even as we talked this morning, give us the grace. to see us through the times of our failures and our weaknesses, when all seems to be awry, when whatever the world is offered seems to be falling apart. We have you, because you have always been faithful to your word. You've been faithful to yourself, and you are faithful to your children, for you gave your son to redeem us. from all judgment. Bless these seeds us to our hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.