This morning the heat Shall we Oh Lord, how blessed it is to be in your presence. And to find the bounty that is ours as we look to you to be the source of all that we need. Your faithfulness, Lord, we sing about often, we speak about it, but We really don't recognize how faithful you have been to yourself and to your word, to your children. Even as we have wa wandered and our minds and hearts have gone astray, you've been merciful and gracious. Your love continues to be extended to us in ways that we oftentimes don't even think about. And the privilege we have now to approach your word and And to allow it to be spiritual nourishment to our hearts. We we just can't thank you enough. We pray that you will bring our hearts' attention to these things, allow your spirit to be our teacher your servant to be hidden and Christ to be glorified in it all. For it's in his name. Amen. It's been some years now. I think it was maybe close to ten years. I was up north in Bala with uh Judith and Peter and my first stay up there in in amongst the Rindeli. uh a a very hard, hard place, you know. Desert and um uh you know when we're so used to greens and and rains and everything that was like you know it was nothing And the uh the the flocks that they have are in abundance, but most of the flocks are there for sale, so you don't really have a lot of sustenance. So you saw a famine, uh especially easy amongst the children. Um and very thin. Uh sometimes the stomach's a little bit bloated and sometimes the arms and the legs very thin and it it was it was hard to watch, hard to see And I think that's an appeal oftentimes that uh that some groups use. They'll show some from uh certain areas uh of of the world and they show these emaciated uh malnourished children and it tugs in your heart, isn't it? They're hard to watch, you know. Uh send us just five dollars or ten dollars and and and such, you know, we'll help them out and and it does Um but it's it's difficult to see. Today though I want to consider the matter of malnourished adults, which in essence is a lot harder to diagnose Um I'm not one of them, mind you. Some of the signs of malnutrition among adults are a weakness of muscles and fatigue. body muscles appear to waste away and leaves a person not able to carry on the normal duties of life. Kind of atropy within in the in the muscular system and they just not able to do it Many of them complain about being tired all day and the lack of energy. Just kind of run down. If they're malnourished, there's often an increase in the susceptibility to infections and disease. Not eating the right things and not eating enough, and all of a sudden you become susceptible to those things. Wounds and cuts, even small ones, are slow to heal. Hair and nails become brittle Easily broken. Irritability and depression often common traits of those who are suffering malnutrition. And then we kinda ask the question, well how do you get to that place? You know? What brings it about, especially when we think about in the country that we live in, where in essence food is in an abundance and um not too hard to get at. So upon further investigations I found it often happens, first of all, with the matters of health concerns Uh it can be as hard as dementia or Alzheimer's when the person just doesn't think about eating. Uh it can be a matter of chronic illness or certain medications, or even the simplicity of difficulty in swallowing. You know, I just it's just hard to swallow, so I just eat less and I am not receiving what I need There are restricted diets for various reasons. Something which is not unusual is limited income. I don't have the money. You know, it goes to my rent, it goes to this, it goes to that, and I don't have what's necessary to be able to cover for food and food that I really need. One I found that I've seen uh experience is reduced social contact, um people by themselves and eating alone. Uh and they just kind of What's the use in cooking? You know, what's the use? I'm just not going to eat. Um that can happen. And then depression are result of severe hardship or loss, and they just become you know, I just totally give up. So some those things contribute to the matter of malnutrition in adults I think we could say for those of us who still have parents alive, what would happen if your mother and or your father were in these conditions? What would you do? How would you handle it? Or a dear neighbor, known her for umteen years, and she isn't, she's not eating right, you know, what would you do? I think we'd all say that indeed um I I'd jump in and help. I'd do what I can. And I think the idea is also the older we get in the case of our own home, what if it's our spouse? What if my husband or my wife is showing symptoms of not eating properly? And just as time goes on, weeks into months into years, you know, and I think if we have a heart of compassion If we would do whatever we can about it, we wouldn't have any second thoughts in seeing that they get the proper nutrition. See that they eat right, or at least Put them into the hands of somebody who knows about these situations to help them out, to see that they're cared for, to see that they're receiving the proper dietary needs. I think even the heathen do the same thing. One article I read says that nearly 67% of the country's population suffers from malnutrition. That's children and adults. Now I don't know how they come about that if they're looking for the prime examples of of of what's what's uh prime in in in nutrition But it's a crisis situation that I think is recognized publicly. Federal governments and state governments Food banks are established. You have nonprofit groups to see that that right foods are taken to families or individuals that have needs In Philadelphia we have something called Philabundance. It's a year-round program and they collect at certain times of the year, but they said this year they're going to have some 57,000 meals available just in the summertime for those who are on this particular list of foods that they give to But what about spiritual nourishment? What about spiritual malnutrition? Do we hold it on the same level as the physical? Do we see it in the same crisis, the same eyes? Do we evaluate it as the same as we do for the physical needs of people? Are we as concerned about one more than the other I mean, it's somewhat easy to recognize physical malnutrition when you know what you're looking for, when you understand the symptoms. But what about spiritual malnutrition? What are the symptoms, if it's spiritual? And if so, if those symptoms show up in my family, do I know what to do? Do I how do I approach it? And if those symptoms could be within my family members What would it generate on my part to do something positive? What about the people I hang around with? People who call themselves Christians, even with my own church. What if I see symptoms of spiritual malnutrition? What do I know? And what do I do? Do I even look any farther? And I guess what's more important is do I even care? Greater concern though is I think when I look in a mirror and I look at myself and see my own condition Yeah, I'm not talking about physical anymore. I can look in the mirror and tell that I'm well fed. But what if I look in the mirror of Scripture to see what the Lord does? Hebrews 4, verses 12 and 13, for the word of God is quick, meaning it's alive and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, joints and marrow, and the discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest, meaning seen, in his sight, God, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Whole scripture up before me, and if I read it and I study it and I understand it, it becomes that which causes me to see myself. I'm naked before God No matter how I may look on the outside, how well I may be dressed, no matter how well I can communicate in church circles with certain words and certain phrases, no matter how How eloquently I can utter a sermon or present something to be truthful, you have no idea what's on the inside. You have no idea what's taking place within It doesn't accurately affect the heart, my motives, my thinking, my actions. The prophet writes in the Old Testament accurately, and I think he's really speaking about the unbeliever, but he says, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, who can know it? The heart, that which drives us in every way of all of the things that we do, it's desperately wicked and it does things that are horrible. We asked yesterday. How could somebody have done it? We could ask that every day we return on news. How could people do that? But the heart is the motivator for them. The heart is the driving factor. So the scriptures do many things, but it does open me up and allows me to see myself as I really am, and indeed acts as a mirror to my soul. Causes me to see, without any froth, without any frosting, as I am, how well am I doing on the inside spiritually? The author of the book of Hebrews saw some signs to a group of people that he was writing, and he has some concerns. So kindly open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 4. And follow along with your eyes as I'll read from verse 14 of chapter 4 through chapter 5, verse 14. Hebrews four, fourteen, beginning here. He writes, seeing then that we have a great high priest That is passed into the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. Let us hold fast our profession For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Chapter 5 For every high priest, taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins. Who can have compassion on the ignorant and on them that are out of the way, for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity And by reason hereof he ought for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins. For no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron. So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest, but he that said unto him Thou art my son. Today have I begotten thee. And he said also in another place, Thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. who, in the days of his flesh, when he offered up prayers and supplications with strong cryings and tears unto him that was able to save him from death and was heard in that he feared, though he were the son, a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him, called of God and high priest after the order of the Melchizedek Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. For when the time for when for the time you ought to be teachers, you need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of these oracles of God and are become such as have need of milk, and not strong meat. For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil Now have your eyes moved back up to verse 11, okay, chapter 5, verse 11, where he says, of whom we have many things to say. Many things about who or what. Got a lot of things to talk about here from verse uh uh uh uh the last four four verses of or the last three verses of chapter four in the first ten verses of chapter five what was he talking about who is the main character Jesus, right. Repeat it again and again and again and again he's focusing on this. He makes this this added part He says, and again, we have many things to say about Jesus, our great high priest. A lot of things to talk about him, and hard to be uttered. He's not saying it's hard to talk, meaning I can't talk, but he's saying it's difficult to explain to you, seeing ye are dull of hearing. There is so much the author wanted to teach them about Jesus, but he says, you just weren't ready. You just weren't ready to learn it. You are dull of hearing. No, they didn't need hearing aids. No, they didn't suffer from an extreme case of tinnitus. They were people who. I don't want to hear it. I simply don't want to learn. There was nothing wrong with the hearing, but it was from their head to their heart, this connection, this very short connection, from their head to their heart. that they stopped right there. The spiritual nutrition stopped there. They didn't care to participate. I've met a lot of people in various stages of my life who have been in organizations or businesses or various groups. And they've been there for ten or fifteen or twenty or twenty-five years, and they've been in the same position all of those years. They've had no desire to get out of it. They were completely satisfied in all of those times with their status quo. No ambition to advance, no desire to grow, no effort put into the to take the next step to add on to whatever. They were just saying this is a happy time for me. I'm just going to stay like this And the truth of the matter is, there was nothing hindering them but themselves. Nothing was keeping them back from it growing and advancing except for themselves. And apparently that was true of those who were the recipients of this letter. The author is saying that he sees something of real hard evidence of spiritual malnutrition. Where they ought to be, he says you're not. And where you are, you shouldn't be. Look at verse twelve now. For when the time you ought to be teachers, you should be in their place Ye have need that one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God. Grammatically he's saying by the there's a time frame written in this verse, the beginning of the verse He says, there's a length of time here involved that you have been Christians for so long. Your spiritual life is sufficient. Of coming to know Christ and you should be in a position that should be able to teach others. So he goes on and he says, but in reality, you should be back in kindergarten. You ought to be in a position to teach because of what the time you've involved in, but you have no desire, no concern to grow. Continues, and he says, And are become such as have need of milk, and not strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness For he is a baby. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, mature. Even those who, by reason of use, have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. The author of Hebrews uses a simple, very beautiful illustration of milk and meat. New Testament King James often will use that word meat. Just referring to something uh that we chew up, uh uh more fulfilling foods that we would say. The milk and the meat. You know, this isn't the only place I found a couple of other passages that refers to milk and meat. Not that this was so unusual. Let me read first Peter two, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word, that ye may grow thereby, if so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. You've probably all seen her. Most of you have seen the newborn baby or a baby, just little ones, and their eyes are closed and those lips are just going and they feel that The milk just touching, you know, I just war, they can't have enough, you know? In other words, they start squacking and you knew you know that's what you've got to do. They desire the milk And it shows that they're babies. It shows the situation that they are in need of. And so he says it is spiritually. Babes in Christ. Born-again Christians have that same desire for the milk of the word. If you remember back, those of you who are a child of God Remember back to those early days when the word opened your eyes to your sinful condition and what the Savior had done. And all of a sudden there's a hungering and a thirsting for, tell me more I mean, well, whoa, I mean there's so much here, but somebody points you to this or to this or to this. And boy, it was just so satisfying. You just couldn't get enough of it. As babes in Christ desire the sincere milk of the Word. And gradually we advance to some more solid foods in the Word of God, deeper and not always easy to understand as it is with foods, you know You you you you kind of learn the taste, you learn to to to to work with it, and so it is, he's saying, with the matters of necessity and fulfillment. Paul writes to his spiritual son Timothy, and he says, And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. Paul acknowledges to Timothy, he says, Timothy, I recall you as a young boy, that your mother and your grandmother were there supplying you with the sincere milk of the word And it was sufficient in your life, and you grew up of knowing it, and you were supplied by it, that now, and he's writing to him as a young pastor, now you're a teacher He says, this is evidence in your life that what salvation had done for you was profiting, and you've now become a young man as a teacher. Those of you who grew up in a family that was a Christian family and you grew up knowing the Word, and you had a church where the Word was taught And possibly even a Christian school where the word was also enjoined together. The benefit of those things put in your life You profited your soul. You profited others in life because of all the things that were given you, the word has done its place. Those same truths, I think, were followed in the life of Joseph as we uh trudged through the book of Genesis and saw everything from his earliest days. In chapter 37, speaking of the time that he was just with his father. No book to open up, but the truths that Jacob passed on from Abraham and Isaac and all of the truths of who God was. Sufficient in the milk of the word in Joseph's life and all the way through the time in Egypt and all the way until they were victorious in saving his family and saving Egypt. Because the word was sufficient and Joseph could teach the word. Joseph understood it 1 Corinthians 3. And I, brethren, Paul writes, could not speak to you, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal Even as unto babes in Christ, I have fed you with milk, and not with meat. Hitherto, meaning up to this point, ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able, for ye are yet carnal. For whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men? It's a powerful condemnation. Paul says, I knew you. You've had sufficient time. To grow in the Word. I visited you, I preached to you, I taught you, we had all of these things together, and now I come back and I hear of this stuff going on He says, I can't give you more mature meat, sufficient meat. You're still back at the at at the at the infant stage again. You're not able to because and I I say this, he says, because I see the way you're acting. I say the conflict and the strife, and if you know the Corinthian church, uh, i it was it was there was a mess, a lot of things going on. He says the reason is this mess has boiled out is because of the lack of Nutrition, spiritual nutrition. He says there in verse 3, there is among you envying and strife and divisions. Therefore, he says, I understand you're carnal, you walk as men. And therefore Paul says, the only thing I can do is feed you with milk. That's the only thing I can do. I guess we could say that even a child can't grow physically properly very long on just milk. I don't think it's something we'd want to try, but nevertheless. So it is with believers. There's some real limitations in just milk and real limitations as to the spiritual milk also. Milk is good, it has plenty of nutrition. As a spokesman for the American Dairy Council I could tell you that an eight-ounce glass of milk contains 103 calories, potassium, sodium, protein, vitamins A, C, D, B6, B12, iron, and magnesium Wow, that's impressive, you know. And yet that's not enough to sustain life long enough that to meet the physical demands of life You're not able to carry on to meet all of the strains of the growth. They may give you strong bones, you know, and yet there are other things for proper growth that are needed In the same way, we can't simply grow on spiritual milk alone. You know the song. Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. That's a beautiful song. It's a complete aspect of the Christian life, how we came to know Christ, the scriptures being the source of it. But that's not enough. I can know those principles, I can know those truths, I can understand it But the demands that are placed upon a husband or a wife or a factory worker or anybody in a position in his adulthood That's not enough to see me meet all of the challenges and the hardships of life that I face. I have to know something more than that. To know Christ died for my sins upon Calvary's cross is fantastic. We often use in witnessing the Romans' road. Just sticking to the book of Romans and starting out and showing our sinfulness and showing what Christ has done to pay for my sins and bring me along like that. That's a fantastic way to have somebody read those verses and show how you can become a believer and show that you're secure in Christ. And yet beyond that There needs to be more. There needs to be continued gracious problems that will be sufficient in the rest of Scripture to help us through. My bout with cancer, my automobile accident, my job loss, my empty bank account, the hundred and one other struggles I'm going to face The Romans road may be sufficient in the source of the initial aspect, but beyond that I need to know more. I need to have meat. I need to have solid foods. It may be that you're here today already on solid foods, spiritual meat growing in the Lord, and yet it's easy enough to forget that. and fall back to milk. You've came to know Christ as your Savior and you are reliant upon Him for eternal life You've tasted the strong meats, the salad foods, and yet for one reason or another you've fallen back to milk That puts you in a dangerous position. And it's totally possible here that some may have never even tasted the good meat that is in the word in reality. Prophet Jeremiah says, Thy words were found, and I did eat them. And thy word was unto me the joy and rejoicing of mine heart. Now He's not sitting there eating a piece of scroll, a piece of vellum or you know, parchment and just putting them in his mouth. But he's saying there's an attitude in my heart towards God's word that as I'm feeding upon it, as I'm growing in it, I'm enjoying it. He says, not just for the taste, but to eat them. You put something in your mouth and say, well, that tastes good, but I'm I want to take it within my soul. And he found it to be completely and totally satisfying, the joy and rejoicing of my heart. Never found disappointment in it, the Prophet says God, whatever you've laid before me in your word, I have found it not only to be satisfying and a joy, but He says, I've never desired to turn away from it. We can find here that his satisfaction was all in fact of God's word has promised that it would perform. uh it says that it would perform this and it will do it. Unlike some junk foods, you know, after the commercials and and all those things and you go through the store and you know and you find rows and rows and rows and rows Rows of the processed chips. Don't get me started on them. And I could start and you can't just eat, was it Lay's potato chips, you know, you just can't eat one of them, you know? And yet you know it's not good for you And yet, the Word of God indeed provides complete satisfaction, not only temporary, and unlike the frequent unhealthy aspects of junk food to our bodies The Word of God provides something that lasts forever. The psalmist says, How sweet are thy words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth. By nature, the word of God is sweet. By its very makeup, by the very principles of what it is, it is sweet. But it only becomes profitable as I taste it. is I consume it. I can have it and I says, oh yes, I know and I understand and I agree, but unless I've applied it, d eaten it, uh consumed it. It means nothing, and like anything in life, if it's sweet to taste, you're gonna want more. And I think it's an indication in my own soul If I agree that the Word of God is sweet, but I'm not turning to it and I'm not feeding upon it, then it's not necessarily been tasted enough. If it's sweet, you know, and I No, I don't have any sweet things hidden in the house, you know. But you know, my sweetie says, Where did you put this? And I says, Oh It's gone. Well what what happened? Well I knew it was there and therefore I ate it, you know? So does with the Word of God. So it is if I'm frequenting it, it is sweet, it is good for me, it is nutritious, it provides that which I want to go back. Not to say I've got to, forced by it Ezekiel 3:3 The Lord tells the prophet, and he said unto me, Son of Man, cause thy belly to eat, and fill thy bowels with this roll, meaning a scroll that I give thee, then I did eat, and it was in my mouth as honey for sweetness When these people spoke of the delights of eating the Word of God, it wasn't just a matter of a knowledge of facts. Of figures, of numbers, of places, of heritages and names. It was an understanding of the truth of what those things were. Any You can get anybody to memorize and regurgitate facts and figures and names. Oh, you really know it. No, I know about it, but I don't know it. And this is what the Prophet says. Son of man, you bring this, you eat it, is roll. And he did eat it, and my mouth it was there as honey for sweetness. It's like breathing. It becomes a very natural part of my life. Let me close with this. At the beginning, I mentioned some of the causes of physical malnutrition. Let's jump back to that and make an application in the spiritual cause of malnutrition. First of all, I mentioned that was the matter of health concerns. We talked about dementia, chronic illness, the use of certain medications, even difficulty in swallowing. The spiritual aside, spiritual health concerns are simply broken down to a three-letter word. Starts with an S and ends with an N. It's sin. The only thing that breaks me from a delight in the Word of God is sin. And we're not going to talk around perfection, you know, I've been a sinless perfection. I'm not saying that. But I'm saying there's evidence of those things in my life that if I could participate in them, if I find time for them And not for the Word of God, I'm in essence in sin. Paul's letter to the Corinthians, he said that there was evidence of malnutrition by their envying and strife and divisions. It kept them locked in infancy. It kept them locked taking milk only. For us it can be anything as simple as anger and jealousy and pride all the way to a host of more blatant sins. It can be simple, but it can be dacious. I'm not talking again about sinless perfection, but the allowing of unconfessed sin to reign in my life, then I've allowed it. If I don't deal with it, Lord forgive me for that. Lord, keep my senses sensitive to what I've done or what I've said, and not just to hang on to it, but to ask His forgiveness every single day To allow the word to be sweet. We talked about the restricted diets. Millie and I had a teacher back in Shelton College named Irwin Steele. And his he and his wife were missionaries in Brazil and later in Chile. Sweet couple. Dr. Steele played the organ, just uh he taught Bradzell uh a lot about organ playing and that Um, but his wife Sarah passed away about five, maybe six years before she did. They lived down in Florida and he had a little trailer and And uh Brad said, I saw Dr. Steele the other day at a thing and he says, Dr. Steele, why don't we go out to eat? He says, No, Brad, he says, I've already got mine. He says, come into my car. And he opened up his trunk and it was full of insure He says, that's my meal. That was it. I said, Dr. Steele, that may be good, but that's that's not enough. No. He put a restricted diet. He limited himself to that because he felt that was really good for him. Brethren, do not restrict your spiritual diet to one hour or two hours on Sunday To Wednesday. Allow yourself the freedom to indulge in the walk with God, to hear and to taste of the goodness of His Word throughout your week. The radio is full of good preachers. There is Christian materials everywhere. If you have time enough to sit down and watch something or listen to something, and I'm not saying there's something wrong with what you may watch or what you may read or listen to, but to the to the to to the shelving of feeding on that which is good for your life and your soul, it's not right It's a restricted diet that is not good. Reduced social contact, we mentioned. Matter of eating alone. a loss of interest in cooking and eating. One of our former board presidents lived in a uh in a home up near Lancaster and uh after his wife passed away he moved into the step down section. Um he was limited in a wheelchair and that and He uh we went up to visit him and he said, Ah I said, how's it going? He said, Ah I just you know we go into lunch and and we we can s sit with anybody we want and sometimes we sit with the same people And he says, I want to talk to them and and they're sitting across the table and their heads are down a word. They just sit and eat and he says there's no communication. I want to talk to them. I want to find out about their life. I want to find out about their their walk and everything that's going on. He says they're you know, he says it's discouraging They've already reached a step in life where they just have just shelved off anything as a matter of social contact. When Millie and I first came to know the Lord as our Savior, the church we attended had what they call the middler fellowship where the husband and wife's ages together would not exceed seventy. And so we were the group of people that that had that category and we were generally speaking had children about the same age uh life's experiences, but as a new Christian, it was it was it was fantastic to be able to hear from people who were who had been down a road that we were just starting And that that it was it was a little bit a fearful thing because we were Bible ignorant, you know, and yet uh they brought us in and we were just welcomed in and the social environment And it wasn't a it wasn't a push, push, push Bible stuff, but it was just the social environment that was there helped us along, carried us through a lot of times and difficulties. Depression. Sometimes the farther away we get from the Lord, the more life seems to be hopeless. You know, what's the use? All of these things are happening. I just lost this. This is d wrecked this, this thing and I go, you know, whoa, and I just go on and on and on. And and I just throw in the towel. Forget it. It's a sign of spiritual malnutrition. God knows. Tim mentioned this morning as we began. God understands there's not an event and not a. a hair that falls from a number of hairs on your head, a sparrow from the nest that he doesn't know. He sees our conditions. He understands our weakness. He so knows our frame But he's speaking to us and we're going ears plugged. He says, you know, you're just not listening. I've given you answers, I've given you provision to be able to see it and may not be so clear, but You you're just simply not listening, so we become depressed and we just fall away. Malnutrition is nothing to take lightly, both the physical side and the spiritual side. To know what we're looking for and the warning signs, understand the situations for ourselves, for our friends, our loved ones, as well as ourselves. I'm sure you realize that when somebody is physically malnourished, it's a critical situation. But the cure isn't simply to give them a huge meat pile of food and mashed potatoes and just here you go you're starving and uh people really get sick when that happens. You know, they haven't eaten in a long time. They haven't eaten the right thing. Well here eat eat eat eat eat It takes a a a little bit and a little bit and a little bit to help them along. So on the spiritual nutrition side, when I'm malnourished spiritually, I just can't jump right in because I'm I'm going to be just overwhelmed I have to do it slowly, a little bit here and a little bit there, but faithfully, sticking to it, moving along. Tasting a little here, reading a little here, listening to a little here, adding each day to the needs that I have. Spiritual malnutrition is cured over a long time. Slow and steady diet of the Bible, prayers, and fellowship. I think we're all in need of spiritual strengthening, irrespective of our walk in life. You know. It it is a reflection upon the whole of the nation. It's a reflection upon the world. We've seen the pendulum swing from one way to the other, from attitudes to to r religious uh free-for-alls and It's not how God intended it to be, because that's the the reflection of what Scripture does. By His grace, we're going to in the weeks ahead we're together with you guys Approach this from different factors of meeting the needs, the particulars of the diet that the Lord provides for us. In some sense it's nothing new. In some sense, it's just normal feeding. But I trust that God will give grace here and allow us to see from certain factors that we can hone in on and and allow the Lord to be able to teach us that all of a sudden we can turn around and say, you know, y that's right. That's what he says. That's that's what I need. I need to be stronger. I I don't need to be a you know a Who's it? Charles Atlas, those ads, you know, quit being a two hundred and twenty-pound weakling, you know. I want to be exactly what God wants me to be And we need to do that because he's been talking to us, he's been speaking to us, he's been issuing truth in his word, and we need to get back to that type of meal. Let's pray Father, thank you for allowing us to taste a little bit of what your word is. And we recognize, Lord, that we are not what we ought to be or what we could be. But you recognize that. You see again our weaknesses, our frame, you understand that we are dust. And yet by your grace, you have supplied uh sufficiently uh through the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior, uh the the redemption that is necessary to bring you into our your family And then from that place on to grow in you as your child. You look upon us as children And you speak to us through your word, and we can speak to you in prayer, and we want this continued growth to be exhibited in our life. We're sorry for the times that we have forgotten what you've told us, that we've set aside the clear uh explanation of of the reality of life in your word. And we've we've gone the other way and and we've been fretting and fearing and and just uh just don't know and yet Lord you've been there all along. casting all of our cares upon you because you care for us and that care is exhibited in your word. Help us to be uh hopeful. Uh help us to be diligent. Help us to even begin uh today with a little bit of of of food uh from your word and a little bit more than we've tasted before that it might profit our souls and profit our brethren. At a large in Jesus' name, Amen