If you would kindly open your Bibles to Second Timothy, we will read again. Our scripture, Second Timothy four, and the first eight verses. Second Timothy four, just follow along with your eyes. I begin with verse one. I charge thee, therefore, before God. And the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing, and his kingdom, preach the word. Be in sent in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. But watch thou in all things Endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry, for I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought the good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness. which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day, and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing. May God bless our hearts with His Word. Let's pause for prayer. Father, as we approach this banquet table of your word, that which offers us an abundance of spiritual food. We ask that your Spirit would be our teacher, that our hearts would be receptive to the leading of the Spirit to understand the truths of this word, not only for this moment, but for life. For the equipping of the saints, for the furtherance of the gospel ministry in our day. We thank you for the words truth, its clarity, its power. Thank you for what it has done in our lives in the past and how you have enabled us to use it to bring souls to come to know you as Savior, as well as to equip the saints for the work of the ministry. Thank you again for the privilege of joining our hearts together. And as we consider these things, we pray that we will honor you with our hearts' attention in Christ's name. Amen. Well, last Lord's Day we talked about the passing of that ministry baton with uh Pastor Paul to young Pastor Timothy. And as Tim mentioned, he gives him those imperatives. Things that he wanted Timothy to grasp onto, an imperative, a almost a a command. He says, Timothy, I want you to preach the word I want you to be ready at all times and in all places for doing ministry. He says, I want you to reprove and rebuke and exhort But he says, I want all of that to be entailed or to be sprinkled over, to cover over, with a matter of patience and instruction. And as you do that, Timothy, he says, that's the direction that I've gone, and that's the direction I want you to go with. We left off with these five imperatives, and let's take a look now as we take up verse five for what's left in this section. Notice he says, but watch thou therefore in all things. Watch, Timothy. He's not telling him just to look out, and actually there's a word that's often used translated here as means sober. Not the sobriety in an essence of not being drunk in Timothy, but he says the sobriety in being alert. The person who is drunk is not aware of the things that are going on. He's driven by some other thought and mind But he says, I want your particular life, your ministry, Timothy, to be attentive, to be alert, to be calm. Remember the words Jesus gave the disciples as he went to the garden that night? uh the betrayal coming up in the crucifixion and those who came to the garden of them and he says, I want you to guys to watch and pray. And what did they do? They fell asleep. Three times he comes to them, you know, watch, watch, be alert, be aware, notice what's going on. And they surely didn't do that. And I think with Timothy and with all of us, there is a need for us to be aware, to be so sober, to be calm, attentive, to be alert to the things that are around us, to our own needs. To the needs of those that are around us, to be sensitive to them, to be aware of what's going on, the dangers of sin, matters of prayer, and so forth. Second thing he mentions, to endure afflictions, endure afflictions. As you recall as we began this book, the matter of bearing up under sufferings has been a common theme. Again, he's in prison. He's speaking as a prisoner, not only this time, but in other times. And he says, Timothy Uh let me tell you clearly, he says, sufferings and hardships, uh uh conflict is going to be a part of it because of the stand that you take. So he said That's been part of my life and Timothy, these things will come. But be courageous. Don't let Suffering, don't let afflictions turn you away from the responsibilities that God has given you that I'm reminding you of. Endure afflictions The third one, do the work of an evangelist. Let all your work be evangelistic in character. Sometimes we think of an evangelist who say, well, he's got a call for God, and he's there to preach the gospel. But here he's saying, Timothy, he said, I want you to think of all of your life of the opportunity of evangelistic opportunities Everything that comes up, every interaction with there, perceive it as this is God's timeline, this is God's juncture, this is God's principle that you are to bring Jesus Christ, you know to these whom God has providentially brought into your path. And so he says, you know, truly, he says, do the work of an evangelist, but yes, in everything, in every work that you do, consider it as An opportunity to speak for Christ. And then the last one, make full proof of thy ministry. basically do God's work uh in God's time and under God's power. You know it's it's his work. So you you do the fullness of it in in every aspect When you think about it, Paul basically ties all of the admonitions to Timothy in one package in this verse. If you were to go through the book from chapter one all the way up to this point and and underline it admonition and encouragement uh an imperative, Timothy, I want you to do this And he'll take 'em all and he puts them all into this one particular verse. I remember in Hamaic's class Back uh years ago, the teacher brought to the point, he says, when you're going to preach a sermon, you tell the people what you're going to say. Then you say it. Then when you've finished, you tell them what you've said. And that's exactly what he's done He begins this book by telling Timothy, this is what is needful. Then throughout the book he tells him, and then this verse 5, he's saying, Timothy, let me sum it all up. If one thing you want to remember Of course you better remember more. But if there's one thing I want you to remember, it's these principles that are here. Watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist and make Full proof of thy ministry. We go to verses six, seven, and eight, and we see a shift, a change. There are times we've mentioned that it's kind of like a a camera or a spotlight focuses on either the character of Paul or the character of Timothy. depending on on on the the narrative that goes along here. And here there's a shift from highlighting Timothy to Paul. He says, Timothy, these are the things that you must do, but as for me My time has come. You know. All of a sudden the camera slowly pans back and it focuses on this man. And it's not a uh not a not a boasting matter, but he says, Timothy, in reality, uh my ministry has come to an end. Have you ever faced a life and death situation? I hope you haven't. You know, there have been times you're driving down the road and that, you know, we uh on the way up the interstate coming out of out of uh near home and all of a sudden the traffic was just and we got up there and there's a an eighteen wheeler pulled on the side and the car was jammed underneath the back of it and it was burned to a crisp. You know. Just that fast. Just that fast. You sometimes you say, boy, my life passed before my boy, that was a close one, you know And those situations kind of bring a reality to life. As you read of the apostle, you know that he faced death many times and in many ways. In his Roman imprisonment, in his time to write the Church at Philippi, he writes of this situation, of the reality of death He says, I'm ready. But in Philippians he writes with kind of a little bit of optimism. Not that this is it. But I really believe that I'm going to get released. You know, he's he's looking death is there, but uh looking at this is the time that I might get released. You read 2 Corinthians 11 and he talks about all of the things that fell upon him, the beatings and the shipwrecks and other stuff, and any one of those could have brought death You know, any one of those situations could have been the end of his life. Yet now he writes as if he knew that his only release from prison would be by death. The whole tenor of his attitude changes. He brings it all around to say, this Timothy is what I am facing. Verse 6. For I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. That phrase to be offered is uh often used in uh Greek literature to refer to a drink offering. um something that was poured out, an offering that that was uh unto the gods, you know. And when you think of Paul's life and he talks about it many times, He says, I've been poured out for the Lord Jesus Christ in my life. Nothing of me, nothing of Paul. I've just poured out myself for him. Um in in in every aspect, in every corner of his days, he was a living sacrifice. And now this becomes the final sacrificial act. Season of departure was at hand. The end of his earthly life. The end of his earthly ministry has come to this time. If you study scriptures and even extra-biblical writers, there's no way of finding out really how Paul died. or when he died. Rome was obviously the area that it occurred, but there is no way of understanding it Uh when he was arrested in Jerusalem, we read in Acts 25 that he stood before the Roman governor Festus. And he says to Festus, he says, I'm heading to Caesar. As a Roman citizen, he says, uh I choose my right as a Roman citizen to go all the way to the top. It's like saying, let's take it to the Supreme Court, you know Let's skip all of these trials all along the way. I appeal. I'm offering this obligation you have to take me all the way to Caesar. And so that was the case Yet the particular Caesar at the time happened to be Nero, the Nero who was known for his debauchery, his horrific religious persecution And so you read that and you say, Paul probably didn't die in the Colosseum, facing the animals or other things like that. probably wasn't a crucifixion. That was for Christians oftentimes or other prisoners, but probably not. In our uh video here that we saw Um there was the crucifixion, and if you saw the guy was tied to the post, more than likely as Roman citizens were, they were tied to posts, and usually a sword, or sometimes an axe, was used to decapitate them And that was probably his his uh ending uh chapter here on this life. Paul was no doubt aware of this. He no doubt saw executions. He no doubt saw actually, you know, he participated in passively for the stoning of Stephen. You know, that was that was part of it. And in Roman life, if you lived there, there was they didn't say, okay, everybody close your eyes. This may be offensive to some people, you know you know, we're gonna go start and cutting people up and chopping off heads and doing this other. That was to show the power of the government and and we're gonna end life here. And so Paul saw it. He understood the frailty and the shortness of life, and so as a Roman citizen he recognized that this was going to be part of him. He was ready to depart, though. You read this, and there was no fear, no anxiety. You read this and you see there are no expressions of concern or regret. I don't know what it'll be the t the time that I'm gonna draw my last breath, you know. What would I think? What would I want to say, you know. I you know, I'm yes, I know I'm going to glory, I'm going to be with the Lord, but What about that tran I don't know about the thing, but there's no way of him speaking of anything that's discouraging. As a matter of fact, he was always ready. Philippians 2, during this other imprisonment, he was also facing execution. He writes, Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith I joy, and I rejoice with you all. Now he wasn't happy rejoicing that he was going to be killed. But he's saying, if the occasion comes when I meet that door between life and glory, he says, I'll rejoice because I was counted worthy to the place of offering myself for you. as the other members of the body of Christ. And I think about that. How could he be ready? How could his heart have been prepared for such? I was reading this past week about Roman imprisonments. And apparently over the centuries or over the decades more so, uh prison time changed or prison conditions changed. As the empire grew, uh they had to facilitate, you know, uh other situations. If you were h high in office and you were charged as a criminal or found guilty, you could be under house arrest, you know. You know, really bad. Uh or if you were a Christian, there were those dungeons, those prisons that were dank and damp and and horrific. And uh I kinda think reading of Nero's situations in his his uh life I kind of think that was the particular case. But how could Paul have prepared himself? Look at verse seven I fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day. And not me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing. Was this macho man bravado Timothy, you're gonna hear this one, you know. Bold on the outside, powerful words, but in the inside his his stomach's all jellow, you know. I'm afraid to die. Was he just doing this to build Timothy up? There's no indication of that. That's never been Paul's testimony. There's never been his situation. He speaks from the heart. I have fought the good fight. Paul fought the fight with sin all the way to the finish, and now he was resting on that finish line. That was all there was. It wasn't personal. And as you read Paul's life, you go through Acts and you go through the various letters. There were personal conflicts that were there, but it was never about them. It was not about the flesh. It was not about the man. It was the sin battle that was there. And that's how he told Timothy and others to prepare for this That was the struggle and he fought his life and now he's recognizes that he's g got on the other side of that. There's no more fight to be finished I have finished my course. Like a runner in a race, he has crossed the finish line. He's now resting at the goal. His life work is over. It was a long journey, arduous, hard, and he made many references in his letters to athletic events, you know, uh the the challenge, the physical part of it, the hardships and so forth. And yet he the way he's speaking here, he says, I've come to the place where I'm sitting, I'm resting at the goal. I'm resting at the goal. I have kept the faith. The faith was a deposit of truth given by God to Paul. Here it is, Paul. I'm giving you the faith. And you are not only to keep it, but you're to protect it against all attacks, and he did from all classes of people, whether they The philosophers on Mars Hill, or the Jewish uh uh scribes and Pharisees, or the people who just hated the message of Christ It was never about them, but he says, it is the faith that I'm protecting, and it is the the the the the the sin that I see as dominating in them. And it was only the the power of the gospel of Christ that could release them from such. And so he presented it that way. And because he fought the good fight, finished the course, kept the faith, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness. Which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day, and not to me only, but all of them who also love his appearing. Brethren, don't twist the words here. And I and as I every time I read that, verse 7, I have done this and I have done that and I have done that. He's not boasting. He's not bragging. Don't look upon this and saying Paul is all of a sudden changing his theology to a theology of grace. All of a sudden it's now of good works. All he is saying is that he says, as I look back, as my life has been, these are the things that God enabled me by his grace to do. I did finish it. It was that which was given to me. I did accomplish this. I ran the race. I fought the fight. And that which was faith, I kept it from all of the attacks. that were laid upon faith because it was that of Jesus Christ. Paul says, for I am the least of the apostles, and am not meet to be called an apostle. Wow. Never in his writings does he ever talk about himself as being somebody. And he was, you know, an argument of all time from the beginning of the New Testament up until now, who is the greatest theologians, you know? Some say, well it's Augustine or Calvin, and many will say, well, it is the Apostle Paul. A right to be braggadocious, but he's not saying that. To the Ephesians he writes, unto me who am less than the least of all the saints. Wow First he's comparing himself to the apostles. He says, I'm the bottom line there. Now he's right the Ephesus uh church and he says Of all of the saints, of all of the believers, he says, I am the least of those who are the lowest. And that isn't trying to build himself up, you know, oh Paul, you're just saying that. You know, in his own heart he understood that Because there was nothing in Paul that he could offer. I am the least of all of the saints, and is grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ His confidence was never in himself. His confidence was in the grace that Christ had given him. And so he could go forth and speak those things. never understanding uh of himself but of his Christ. And where did that confidence take him? Henceforth there is laid up for me a what? Crown of righteousness. A lot of talk, discussions about crowns mentioned in the scriptures. But if there is one thing that remains for him, this this victor's crown given by, it says, the the judge of the Lord himself, a promise of a crown given, it's eternal life. you know, of everything that's there, of everything. Wouldn't Paul want something in heaven, you know, other than seeing his Savior? Other than saying for all eternity, this is my my speck here, and that for all eternity I have this. I think that was his tremendous reward for a crown of righteousness, eternal life And on that day, the day of judgment, morning of the resurrection from the dead, the righteous judge shall confer the same on all others who love his appearing. In other words, who had that same heart attitude as Paul has, keeping the faith, running the race, loving his appearing, they too will have the same. 1 Corinthians 9 24, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize, so run that ye may obtain Run. This isn't like, oh everybody gets a you get a crown, you get a crown, everybody gets a crown. You know, it's the running The hard effort to say, even as Paul had run, even as he had done, so indeed he will receive. I can say confidently that nobody here in this auditorium has made it so far. No crowns distributed here None of us have completed our race. We're still running. There's still time. The challenge is still before us. There is still time, an unknown amount of time. Nevertheless, time still exists. By the way, how much time do you have? I think Noah, you're probably the youngest one here, correct? Noah probably sits there and says, Yeah, I've got a beat. I've got the longest amount of time, you know? And there's some of us who have crossed over that three score and ten year spot, and we're saying Well, that uh s that length of the the longevity of of life that Noah's anticipating, I can surely count that it's not going to be quite the same as as him But we don't know, do we? We have no clue. So how many years, months, days, hours, or even minutes do you have before you depart? No guarantee. We had a uh about June eighth, I think it was, the news was uh uh young boy from up in the Pocono area heading up with his couple of other three other friends. He wasn't driving and the car apparently was going a little too fast and off the curved road and down and went and they killed him And how tragic, on his way to the to the prom um that they were gonna enjoy. And the comments were just he had all of his life in front of him So much. But it was gone. For the little six-year-old boy out in California. The people who go by and they they the road raids and they shoot him and they take some oh the trag it's a tragic event. But to talk about he has all this life ahead of him. You know, nobody knows. None of us know how long we have. Paul says, I am now ready to be offered. Time of my departure is at hand. I have fought the good fight, finished the course, kept the faith, henceforth laid up for me the crown of righteousness. I'd like you to go back to our responsive reading, please. Psalm ninety. And as I read it, I want you to think about the the theme of this particular psalm. And actually there are two pictures that the psalmist gives us. One, he's singing of the frailty and the shortness of life. And the other, he's speaking of God's eternality. And some of them are a little easier to see than others, but nonetheless. The prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Okay? Talk about the eternality of God. Before the mountains were brought forth, Or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. Thou turnest man to destruction, and sayest, Return, ye children of men For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday, when it is passed, and as a night in the watch. Wow Talk about eternity, and all of a sudden it focuses on me, and he says, You're just nothing, just a speck. Verse 5, thou carriest them away as with flood, a flood. They are as a sleep. In the morning, they are like grass which groweth up, and in the morning it flourisheth and groweth up, and in the evening is cut down and withereth. For we are consumed by thine anger and by thy wrath or trouble. My law needs to be mowed. is growing up and the the depth of it I know when I go through and mow it there's gonna be that that's just gonna be browned on top and I'll be told by others who live in the household, say, well why didn't you cut that earlier so it wouldn't look so bad, you know? But that's life, isn't it? How fast It grows up and we say boy it was just yesterday you were just in you know and now here Alison just yesterday you were just being taught and now you've graduated you know stuff like that it goes so fast Life. Verse 8. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. For all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. The days of our years are three-score years and ten, and if by reason of strength ye fourscore years, yet is their strength labor and sorrow. For it is soon cut off, and we fly away. Three score and ten. My Stepmom uh is ninety-four, her sister is ninety-five, and her dear sister is uh near the end of her life They both love the Lord and she keeps telling everybody, says, Why doesn't the Lord take me? You know, she's not eating now. Hospice come in. And they live together. Um and then so Her sister moved to the daughter's house which was right behind, so at least my stepmom by herself. And she says, What do I do? He says, I've I've lived with her, I've um in essence been with her all my life. You know. What what what takes place? It just it just wearies her and just bears down. How do I how do I manage these things? Three score years and ten, and if by you know the the hand of the Lord it goes beyond that, it's labor and sorrow. Do I get an amen from those who are over seventy some? Yeah. More doctor's appointments, more aches and pains, more difficulties and hardships of life is part of it. See, that's what he's saying. For who knoweth the power of thine anger, even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. Now, verse twelve. Again, this is Moses. And how long did Moses live? A hundred and twenty. The nerve of the man saying, you know. A hundred and twenty he lives, and he sings. So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. He's not talking about counting birthdays, counting. He's saying in the evaluation of all things Everything up to this point. He talked about birthdays and in verse 10, 3 score and 10. But because life is so frail, Rises up one day, cut down the next, burn, throwing in the fire of the next, you know. The shortness, the frailty of life, he says, Lord, teach me to take advantage, to number, to appraise the days that I do have, that I make the most out of them. Because of what life is, Lord, teach me to value it, to profit by it, to redeem it each and every moment of life, because soon it will be past. The same Moses says in Psalm 39:4, Lord, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it is. that I may know how frail I am. Do you know how frail you are? You better, because we are, you know. And the Lord has a marvelous way of doing that. As a Pharisee, and I think Paul's degree of Phariseesm, I think he reached the highest degree. He would have memorized the entire Old Testament. Psalm 90 was not uh absent from Paul's memory bank. I can't help but believe at this particular stage of life, no, I think even before that. some uh ninety verse twelve was part of that memory bank. Um difficult to give uh uh dates and so forth, but many say that when Paul had his Damascus Road experience, he was about thirty years of age. And he died when he was about sixty. So from that particular uh intersection of life, uh then his growth, and then he went on, I can't help but believe that this Psalm 90 verse 12 was in front of his face. Lord teach me to number my days that I could apply it unto wisdom. And did he? Absolutely. Lord teach me to value. Teach me to recognize. Teach me to to redeem each part. They're sitting in the prison stocks, you know. uh not very good situation. What are we gonna do? How about we sing? You know? How about we sing? You know Lord, here's an opportunity you've given me. And so they do, and there's an earthquake, and all of a sudden the jailer comes in and he's going to kill himself, and he says, Stop, we're alive. And he says, How did this all come about? Well I'm going to redeem the time, and all of a sudden the jailer and his entire family comes to know the Lord. You know? Think of all of the places in Paul's life where he could have said, This shipboard experience is not really for me, you know. Down they go, you know, uh dragged up and and and and they're they're Sitting around the campfire, you know, and then there's a snake, and he reaches and getting bit by the poisonous snake and all this other stuff that goes on. Read through Paul's writings, and every principle of to of opportunity he seizes about it. Lord, teach me to number my days that I may apply it to wisdom because it's for eternity. It's for eternity. Thirty years, I believe that commitment was faithful. I've used this illustration before in And knowing your memories, uh you probably wouldn't remember it, so that's good. I had a class we had a teacher we had three these are called chalkboards. Those of you who are young don't know what those are But on three walls and he comes in and he he grabs this piece of uh head, the chalk holder, and he goes around the room like this All the way around like this. And he comes back and he does it one more time. And we're kind of sit scratching our head. What's he doing? And he says, this line is infinity. And all of a sudden he stops and he puts a little dot on the line. He says, that's three score in ten years. And he says, what you do in this particular dot, affects all of eternity. All of eternity. Now obviously for For salvation's sake, we say, well, that's in the hands of God, for before the foundation of the world he's chosen us. But what about us who are the children of God? What I do in those particular sections of that dot affects all that's around, you know. Yeah, I've I've I've I fought the fight, I've I've finished my course, I ran it, I did all that, I kept the faith. But, you know, like Parable of the talents, there'll be some who say, Well Lord, you know, I knew you were a pretty tough man. I just buried my talent, and uh he says, Whoa to you for doing that! You know, he was angry What has God given you? Not doing a horizontal comparison. What He's given you has been time. He's you asking you to to run the race that he's called you to run. You know. He's given you so much time, not not so much time, but he's given you uh a fixed period. He knows when you're gonna go. That's already said. Thankful for doctors, you know, thankful for seatbelts and and other things that keep us alive in that sense. But God knows he's we're not leaving this earth until he says we're we're we're until he says it's time. So until that time comes, we need to be able to buy it up. to redeem it, to use it. And whatever aspects it is, whatever the family relations work at the store, at at at rubbing shoulders at you know, in in this aspect of life, or this, or this, what comes out of my mouth, what goes into my ears or my eyes, what my hands are involved with, what my feet are, what my heart is digesting and and feeding upon. Those are the things. And and for Paul, that was all for Christ. You know, now we're not Paul, you know, but we are whom God has made us. and how he has made us and what he's given us. So Lord, teach me to number my days. Good thought to start out today, isn't it? You know Wake up, Lord, teach me to number and help me to to to harvest today. Help me to profit today. Help me to do today what you would have me to do. And then when the day's finished, we'll say, Lord, you know, I finished the day. I kept the faith, you know, I ran my course, I I I did those things that you'd asked me to do, and and we can say, Lord, it wasn't me, it was you. And so when that final breath comes, we can say as we as we finish really like Paul, he says, I've done it, Lord, thanks. You know, it's all his. Let's pray. Father, we're rejoicing that the truth in Paul's life was expressed in terms that uh we can identify with And what Timothy received, he received it from a loving father, uh spiritual father to uh a son who is now given responsibilities uh more than he could bear, more than he could handle by himself. But his dear Apostle Paul told him that there were he was not there on his own. He was there to trust in the Lord who who guided Paul himself. So Lord, as we um seal these few verses into our hearts. Um and as we seal uh Psalm ninety uh into our hearts We ask that you will uh bring to uh uh a clearer picture for our hearts, our lives, uh what you'll have us to do and that we would profit for things that matter that we'll spend our time for things of eternity's sake, the value that uh we will not recognize until the day we we stand with you and and hear the words, well done, good and faithful servant. uh enter into the joy of their Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.