Well, praise the Lord. Uh this is a time of traveling for a lot of people, and praise the Lord, we had a good trip down to Florida. Even though we had a couple of problems at the end, but the Lord preserved us through it. And we went down there to be there with the birth of our New granddaughter, and that's Eliana. And so that's our 11th grandchild And so we had a good time down there, and we were taking care of the grandson that's already there, uh Jojo, Jotham. And so that was a very good trip. And of course, this time of ye time there's some bad news around about the passing of Fred Collie. And then also, I don't know if you mentioned it here or not, but Vance Vandermee passed away just the past couple weeks. And Vance Vandermey is one of our ministers of our Presbytery who's out in California, who's the brother of Ron Vandermey, who a lot of you meet and see at the presbytery meetings. And so pray for the Bandermaid family as well. And then I wanted to share with you something that That I saw this a couple days ago. And it's kind of an interesting thing. And it's entitled Christians Around the World. Christians Around the World. In Iran. The Christians there say if we evangelize, they will put us in prison. But we will do it anyway. In India, the Christians say, if we evangelize, the crowd will beat us to death. But we will do it anyway. In China, the Christian this is this is today in our today's world. In China, the Christians say, if we evangelize They will forcibly take our body parts for organ transplants. And they do do that over in China. Those are our great friends over there. And so they'll take our body parts for organ transplants if we evangelize, but we will do it anyway. And in the USA, what do the Christians in the USA say? They say: if we evangelize, we will feel awkward. So we won't do it. So that's kind of an interesting thing there, isn't it? And there's a lot of truth to that. And we need to evangelize even if it does feel awkward, even if we are embarrassed, it's good to evangelize. Well, let's turn our Bibles to 2 Kings chapter 23. 2 Kings chapter 23. And starting with verse 20. Second Kings chapter 23 and verse 20, we're picking Continuing with the history of the nation of Israel, nation of Judah. And we're getting to the very end of it. We're here on the second to the last chapter. Of 2 Kings, we're getting to the very end, and things are grinding down. You notice in the bulletin, the title of the message is the First captivity. Actually, probably a better title for the message this morning is Nobody Ever Gets Away with Anything. And that's what we will see in this passage from 2 Kings chapter 23 and 24. So 2 Kings chapter 23 and verse 30. And his servants carried him, this is Josiah, we were had just been studying about Josiah, carried him in a chariot dead from Megiddo and brought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in his own sepulchre. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz, the son of Josiah, and anointed him, and made him king in his father's stead. Jehoahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hamut. Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libna. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord according to all that his fathers had done. And Pharaoh Neko put him in bands at Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem, and put the land to a tribute of a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold. And Sarah Necho made Eliakim, the son of Josiah, king in the room of Josiah his father. And turned his name to Jehoiakim and took Jehoahaz away, and he came to Egypt and died there. And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh, but he taxed the land to give the money according to the commandment of Pharaoh. He exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land of every one according to his taxation to give it unto Pharaoh Necho Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem, and his mother's name was Zebuda, the daughter of Pediah of Ruma. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord according to all that his fathers had done. In his days Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant. Three years. Then he turned and rebelled against him. And the Lord sent against him bands of the Chalbes, and bands of the Syrians, and bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children of Ammon. and sent them against Judah to destroy them according to the word of the Lord which he spake by his servants, the prophets. And then that brings us to our responsive reading: The punishment of God upon Judah. Let's bow in prayer, O Lord. We pray that thou would open up thy word to us this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. So here we continue with the story of Israel of Judah here. We're getting to the very end. We've been going on and on through 2 Kings, through 23 chapters. Of the history of Judah and Israel, the two kingdoms, Judah in the south and Israel up in the north Well anyway, here we come down to the end. And here we have remember we were studying about the last couple times about Josiah. And Josiah had a great revival there in Israel. And I'll just use Israel for Judah and Israel, just combining them together. But anyway, there was a great revival there under Josiah. And God gave them a revival just before the death of Judah. And but remember Josiah, he insisted on going out and fighting against the king of Egypt, Pharaoh, as he was coming up to fight with Babylon. And he insisted on fighting with Egypt. And so he was killed in the battle, and here we pick up with he's carried dead to Jerusalem and he's buried. Always buried in the Bible, as we've always pointed out, cremation was a heathen practice in Bible times. And I don't think it's a good practice today either. But anyway, Josiah had a great revival. But he died and he passed on. And so after he died, of course, of course he was there up in Megiddo, up at uh Armageddon, where we're going to have Armageddon in the future. He was at the pass of Megiddo. He stood against Pharaoh with his army. And they did not succeed in in stopping Egypt. So the Egyptian army defeated Israel. Josiah was killed. And then the Egyptian army went on further on to fight with Assyria and Babylon. Well, uh it took months for the Egyptians to go it took three months for the Egyptians to go all the way over to fight with the Assyrians and Babylonians and then to come back again. So during that time they made Jehoahaz the king. The people of Israel made Jehoahaz the king. And we're told there in verse 21, he was twenty and three years old, and he reigned only three months The reason he only reigned three months is because after three months the Egyptian army and Pharaoh came back through on their way back down to Egypt. Of course, they had been defeated by the Assyrians and Babylonians. And so the Egyptians were on their way back, going back through three months later, and so then they put down the the son of Josiah that had been put in as king And Pharaoh put another king in. And he put in Jehoiakim. Jehoiakim. And of course Jehoahaz, who was there for three months, we're told about him in verse 22. 32, I mean. And it's we're told that he did evil in the sight of the Lord. And you know, Israel Always has been in a very critical location. Crossroads of the world. Crossroads of the great empires of the world. And we've seen that all through the Bible, and we see it right here. And so Israel is there, and Israel lies between Egypt and Babylon. The two great kingdoms of the time. And so if the Egyptians want to go up and fight with Babylon, they have to go through Israel. And you know, if you look at the map, it doesn't look like much of a you know uh uh pathway going there because there's quite a bit of land there The trouble is, is Israel is the only stretch of land through there that has any water and that you can pass through easily. Outside of Israel, it's all desert, and it's very difficult to pass through. There's no water. And so the highway goes through Israel And so Egypt, when they went up to fight with the Babylonians, they went through Israel. And then when they came back, they went back through Israel. And then when the Babylonians come down to fight with the Egyptians and others, they come back down through Israel as well. And Israel is right there. And that's there today. It's a crossroads today. It's a critical place. And God made it that way. Even though Israel wasn't a huge country, it's in a critical place, even today, with Gaza and all the other things. So Pharaoh and Neko came back from his war with Babylon, and he put down Jehoahaz, the king there that they had, and he put him in prison. And he put the land to a tribute. And so they had to give some big taxes, and he made Jehoiakim the king. Then skip down to verse 35. And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh. Now where was Jehoiakim going to get the silver and gold to give to Pharaoh? Well, he was going to get it from the people of the land. He was going to squeeze it out of the people of the land to give to Pharaoh And it says, but he taxed the land to give the money according to the commandment of Pharaoh. The power to tax is the power to destroy. And so here it's you see this thing is you know you can make the king give you money, but he's going to get it from the people. What about when they talk about taxing the rich? You ever hear about that? You know our AOC from New York City. Nobody knows her name, just her her initials AOC. She's the very liberal congresswoman from New York City. And anyway. They had a picture of her on the news, I think it was yesterday, she was at the big ball there in New York City, and she wrote in red letters across the back of her dress, Tax the Rich. Well, that's a nice thing to talk about, tax the rich, but if you tax the rich, where are the rich going to get the money from that they pay the tax with? Well, they're you know the most of the rich people they own big businesses, right? And if you tax them, where are they gonna get the money from? They're gonna raise the money from the people that they do business with. And raise the prices and whatever. It's just like with the tariffs. You know the tariffs would put tariffs on the uh on the goods from China, of course, that just makes China raise the prices of the goods, but then China prices itself out of the market, which is good. And we really don't want them in the market anyway uh with their you know persecuting of Christians and whatever else. So anyway, here fair here we have Jehoiakim He taxes the people with a big tax, gives the taxes to Pharaoh. And then you keep on going down verse 36. And he was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, Jehoiakim, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And it always gives us the divine commentary in kings. We don't have to wonder about whether it's a good king or a bad king. It tells us. Verse 20 37. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord. And most of them did evil in the sight of the Lord. And then verse 24. In his days, Nebuchadnezzar came. And so the Egyptians are going off the scene. They've gone back into Egypt. And here comes the tide from Babylon, and Nebuchadnezzar is coming in. You ever remember hearing about Nebuchadnezzar? I'm sure you do. Nebuchadnezzar is prominent in the book of Daniel. And he's prominent in the Bible. He was the conqueror, final conqueror of Jerusalem. And so here he comes down out of Babylon, going down the big highway, and comes down and attacks Judah here. And so here we have verse 24. He came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant three years. So Jehoiakim gave in the Nebuchadnezzar when he saw his big army, and he became the servant of Nebuchadnezzar three years, but Then he turned and rebelled against him. It's kind of interesting. Why did he rebel? Well, I guess he got lifted up with pride. He thought he could stand against the Babylonians there in Jerusalem, but he couldn't do it. And then you go on here, verse 2 of chapter 24. And the Lord sent against him bands of the Chaldees from one side, the bands of the Syrians from the other side, the bands of the Moabites, the bands of the Ammonites. And so God sent all kinds of enemies against Israel. Well, that goes back to nobody ever gets away with anything And so Jehoiakim was evil. Israel was evil at this time. And the Lord sent judgment upon them. Right away here, with all these bands, all these raiders that came in. From every side. They saw the raiders saw that they had an easy target there in Jehoiakim and Israel. But you know, we get the divine commentary here, and the divine commentary is that God had sent these raiders in, verse two He sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of the Lord. Now you remember this morning we had our call to worship. And our call to worship was from way back in Deuteronomy. And way back in Deuteronomy with Moses, it was prophesied That Israel would turn away from the Lord, or if they turned away from the Lord in the future, God would judge them, and God would punish them And that prophecy is being fulfilled right here. They turned away from the Lord and God is punishing them. And you know, sometimes the punishment of God takes a long time. Sometimes it takes an awful long time. For hundreds of years, God holds off. But then finally the judgment falls. Same thing in America today. The judgment of God is holding off from America. But America deserves it. We're just talking about the pregnancy center. Why do we have a pregnancy center? That's because of abortion going on, murdering babies. And then we see something about that as we go on here But anyway, sometimes it takes a long time for the person that thinks they get away with something to find out they didn't actually get away with it You know, uh there was a guy named Molotov. Anybody hear of Molotov? He was the foreign minister under Stalin. They said he was the closest thing to a human machine than anybody could be. He carried out Stalin's terrible things and murders and persecutions and everything. He was like a human machine, and yet he lived to be 95 years old. And never had any great evil happen to him. 95 years, and he died. Did he get away with all the evil that he did? No. After death he was going to pay the price. But a lot of times people pay the price before they die. And here Israel was paying the price before they died. Then you go to verse 3. Verse 3. Surely at the commandment of the Lord came this upon Judah. Here's the divine commentary. It came because of God sending it. It came upon Judah to remove them out of his sight. For the sins of Manasseh according to all that he did. Now we have these prophecies are fulfilled exactly. The prophecies of God punishing the nation. And he had prophecy that God would punish the nation even though they turned back to him after Manasseh. Remember, Manasseh came before Josiah And there was a great revival with Josiah, and yet God said he would still destroy Israel because of the sins of Manasseh, the great sins that he did, even though Manasseh himself repented But he went past the point of no return. And so he was going to move them out of his sight for the sins of Manasseh. And then it gives the sins of Manasseh, the sins of America today, verse 4. And also for the innocent blood that he shed, for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, which the Lord would not pardon. Well, where are we at today? We got this nation is full of innocent blood. Of course it's not the blood of people that never sinned or I mean perfect people that would never sin But they are innocent. They have done nothing worthy of death. And so Manasseh murdered a lot of people that were innocent. And the aborted babies, they're definitely innocent today. We'll go back to them a little bit later. But it says, this innocent blood which the Lord would not pardon And then we go on down to verse 5. Now the rest of the Acts of Jehoiakim, they're written in Chronicles. Those are the books of 1 and 2 Chronicles. It ventures it. And verse 6, he slept with his fathers. And then verse 7: The king of Egypt came not any more out of his land. For the king of Babylon had taken from the river of Egypt unto the river Euphrates all that pertained to the king of Egypt. And so all the way from Egypt, all the way to the Euphrates River, Babylon had taken it all, even though Egypt had reigned over a lot of that and reigned over Israel as well. And so here we have a shift taking place, and Egypt is going off the scene, and the Babylonians and the Persians and the others come on the scene. And so this is a fulfillment of prophecy too, and of course in the Bible, it has, remember in the book of Daniel, you have the big image, and it has the world kingdoms of gold, silver, brass, and all that Well, Nebuchadnezzar was the first one in that lion. And so here that's beginning. And Egypt is left behind. Then we go on to verse 8. Jehoiachin was 18 years old when he began to reign and reigned in Jerusalem three months, and his mother's name was Nahushta. You know what's an interesting thing here with Jehoiachin? Of course, uh Nebuchadnezzar takes Jehoiakim off the throne. He puts Jehoiachin on the throne. But anyway, Jehoiachin is put on the throne, and for some reason the mother of Jehoiachin is very prominent here. Evidently, just guessing, I would say that probably his mother held most of the power in Israel at that time, the mother of Jehoiajah. And that's why she's mentioned so much here, and we'll see her mention more. But here Her name was Nahushta. And then once again, it doesn't leave us wondering about what he did. Verse 9, he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord. Verse 10, at that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar came up against Jerusalem. The city was besieged. And Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came up against the city, and his servants did besiege it. Let's keep on going here, verse 12. And Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, went out to the king of Babylon, he and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, and his officers. And the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign. And he carried out thence all the treasures of the house of the Lord and the treasures of the king's house, and cut in pieces All the vessels of gold which Solomon had the king of Israel had made in the temple of the Lord, as the Lord had said And he carried away all Jerusalem and all the princes and all the mighty men of valor, even ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths, none remained save the poorest of the people of the land And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon and the king's mother. And the king's wives and his officers and the mighty of the land, and those carried he into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon. And all the men of might, even seven thousand, and craftsmen and smiths a thousand, and all that were Strong and apt for war, even them the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon. So we'll stop there. And so this is the first captivity, the first time where Israel is getting the judgment of God, the first taste of the judgment of God here. Then there's the final captivity after this that we'll look at in chapter 25. But anyway, here's the first captivity. So they come and they besiege Jerusalem. And you know, back in those days, they had the cities that were strong cities, they had the big walls, and they pretty well could not take a besieged city Unless they surrounded it and starved it out. It was just very difficult to take it by storm Some once in a while they would take it by storm, but it would be very, very costly. You'd have to have a big army to do that. And it was very, very difficult. So usually they starved them out. It's interesting, I've been reading a story of Greece, I think I mentioned it maybe already, the Peloponnesian War, about the war between Athens and Sparta And you know in that story, Athens had a big navy and Sparta had a big army And when they went to war, Athens thought they were secure because they had big walls around the city, and they also had big walls along the path to the sea. So they could get supplies in from their navy. And you know it worked like that. Sparta, even had it even though it had a much bigger army, it never tried to storm Athens They went around the outside of the wall, but never tried to storm it. And of course they couldn't starve Athens out because they had a way to the sea and a way to get supplies. But most of the time cities don't have that way to get supplies and they're starved out. And here we have Jerusalem is starved out and they're taken. Doesn't tell us too much about the siege. It looks like it wasn't too long of one. But anyway, here Jerusalem is taken the first time. You know, over in the Middle East today, we did the same thing over with Saddam Hussein. You remember with Saddam Hussein, we had Operation Desert Storm. And we went against Saddam Hussein with Operation Desert Storm, and we defeated him. But he still stayed in power. I remember seeing a uh a comic of of Saddam Hussein with a t-shirt, and the t-shirt said on Saddam Hussein's And there it said, I survived desert storm. Well, he did survive desert storm. And we left them there. And but then again we had to go over there a second time with the Iraq War and finally take him. And it's a little bit like that here in the Bible here. Nebuchadnezzar comes in first And takes Jerusalem, but then he ends up having to come back a second time to finish off the job. But this is the first time right here, and this happens to be in 605 BC And it's before Christ B. C. , not before the Christian era, but B. C. before Christ, 605. And here we have this first captivity. The final captivity is in 586. But here is six oh five. And so you see there in verse twelve, it co concentrates on Jehoiachim's mother here. Jehoiachin went out to the king of Babylon, he and his mother. It's really interesting. You don't see that anywhere else in the Bible. But she must have held a lot of the power here. And then verse 13, he carried out thence all the treasures. And remember, Solomon had laid up great treasures. Most of those treasures had been taken by Pharaoh before But what were left of Sodom's treasures, they were carried off now. They were carried off by the Babylonians. All these treasures that Solomon, the king of Israel, had made And you know, verse 14, he carried away all Jerusalem, all the mighty men of valor. But you go back to 13, I'm sorry. But it says, remember it see there at the end of verse 13. It says, he carried away these treasures, all that Solomon had made in the temple of the Lord, as the Lord had said. As the Lord had said. When did the Lord say that those treasures would be carried off? Well, a little earlier here in 2 Kings, remember with Hezekiah. Remember Hezekiah had the messengers from Babylon that came, and he showed him all of his treasures. He was so proud of his treasures He was so lifted up with pride and showing all that. And then there was a prophecy given that all of that would be carried off to Babylon. And here that prophecy is fulfilled here. It's being fulfilled exactly. How is prophecy fulfilled in the Bible? Literally. It's fulfilled literally. And so then we have going on here, he carried off a bunch of the people. And you know who Nebuchadnezzar carried off here? A very prominent person in our Bible is Daniel. Daniel is carried off right here. Right here in verse 14, he carried away all Jerusalem and all the princes. Daniel was one of the princes there in Israel. He was carried off here. He was carried off to Babylon and became a great official there in the land of Babylon and interpreted Nebuchadnezzar's dreams. So anyway, Nebuchadnezzar carried off these people in the first captivity. And he carried away the men of might, the craftsmen, and all these people to Babylon. Well, here it's fulfilled What the prophets said over and over and over again, they said that Israel would be carried off, that Israel would be punished greatly if they turned away from the Lord. And that punishment delayed for hundreds of years, and people thought it would never come, but it did come. Well, what about today? You know, the Lord's been delaying judgment on America. The Lord has been delaying judgment on this world. But it's coming. You can just mark it down. Even though it delays for hundreds of years, it's coming. It is coming. You know, in the book of Peter it says scoffers say, oh, things are just going to continue on as they have since the beginning of the world. No, they're not going to. And things are going to have an end. And nobody ever gets away with anything. No nation ever gets away with anything. That's why nations come and go. They turn away from the Lord and they fall. And of course, remember, we were studying the book of Revelation. We were studying about Babylon the Great. I personally believe that that's going to be the final end of the United States. as Babylon the Great. But anyway, God's judgment will eventually fall. And it's greatly because of the innocent blood that has been shed in the United States Just like with Manasseh, Manasseh did the same thing, things don't change. And the judgment of God never changes But anyway, praise the Lord for the great truths of God's Word, the great truths that God does fulfill his prophecy, and that nobody ever gets away with anything. Let's bow in prayer Oh Lord, we just thank Thee for Thy goodness to us. We thank Thee for Thy Word. We thank Thee for the light and the dark place that it is. And O Lord, we just pray that Thou would be gracious unto us, that Thou would help us to serve Thee with our whole hearts and minds and souls and bodies. In Jesus' name, amen.