Um well anyway, let's go to First Corinthians chapter two. First Corinthians chapter two And we are continuing in our study of 1 Corinthians. Last time here, we finished up the book of 2 Kings. We were for years in 2 Kings and years in Revelation. And we will be years probably in 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians has 16 chapters. But anyway, we already did chapter 1. We've already done a couple messages on 1 Corinthians. Try to alternate between Old Testament and New Testament. We had New Testament with Revelation, Old Testament with Second Kings, and now we're back to New Testament with 1 Corinthians as we go through the Bible as it was given, verse by verse, chapter by chapter. And we have chapter 2 and verse 1 of 2 Corinthians. And by the way, I I can sympathize with my call with uh twice getting the verse wrong because uh I did the same thing just recently here. You know the thing is is that we're I showed my slides last time and then I forgot my computer when I left. And I needed it to show the slides the next Sunday And uh so anyway I forgot my computer, so I had to make a trip back here on Saturday to get my computer. But you know what, when I came back and got my computer, I still forgot something I forgot the power cord. And that has a uh uh unique power cord. You just can't just use any old power cord on that. And uh so then I had to have Lisi mail me the uh power cord. So I mean as we get to be older we get a little bit more forgetful of things Well, let's go back to 1 Corinthians 2 and verse 1. And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. Let's pray, O Lord. We just pray that thou would bless in our study of thy word this morning. And you know, I just want to say that everything has fit together this morning. Our Sunday school lesson is just meshing perfectly with this chapter of 1 Corinthians perfectly. And the title of the message is Not With Enticing Words. Enticing words of man's wisdom. And you know, people don't like what the Bible says. They don't like the idea of it. And so they try to wiggle out of it. And like the fudge, they like to wiggle out, they try to say, oh, well, don't you know the Bible really doesn't say that? Just like Satan said in the Garden of Eden, yea, hath God said. They don't want to just completely go against the Bible and God. They want to act like they're going according and yay, hath God said. Oh really the Bible says that, you know, hell doesn't continue forever. But it does continue forever. The Bible says that. Eternal, everlasting. And people just don't like the idea of that. They don't like the idea of Calvinism. They don't like, of course, Calvinism. I always use that term as a term of convenience because people know what you're talking about. But Calvinism was long before Calvin. And anyway, people don't like that. They don't like the idea that they have nothing to do with their salvation. And so they want to wiggle out of that. Don't you know the Bible really doesn't say that? But it does really say that. And then recently in my own family, they didn't like the idea of paddling children. And they say, oh, the Bible really doesn't say that. Did you use the rod on the children? But it does say that. And of course, as the old saying is, the Bible said it, and I believe it, and that settles it. The Bible is clear on things. And it's not just whatever you want to make out of it. Well, here we have Paul talking about things like that here in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. He said he didn't come with excellency of speech. You know, we think about Paul as a great orator, you know, a great presence, a great, you know, the greatest systematic theologian of all time But you know he really wasn't a good speaker. He said he didn't come with good excellency of speech. He was not an orator, a natural-born orator. He came not with excellency of speech And they said about Paul that his bodily presence was weak and contemptible. And no. Paul didn't come with excellency of speech, but he had the power of God with him, and he had the word of God with him. And then verse 2, for I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. Now, I had a member of my family, actually it's the same member of my family that questions the rod, but they came to me and said, Why are you talking about all these other things? You know, why are you talking about separation? Why are you talking about current events? Why are you talking about events in the future? We're just supposed to know Jesus Christ and Him crucified, don't you know Well, Paul talked about a whole lot more than just that beginning concept. That's the beginning concept. That's the main concept. But there's a whole lot more than that. And uh there's a huge amount more in the Bible. We have to have the whole council of God. And then verse 3, for I was with you in weakness and in fear, and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. So here we get to the thing we really want to concentrate on this morning, not with enticing words. And we're going to come back to this more at the end of the message today. And then you go to verse 3, he was in weakness there, and in fear. And his preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. And you know, he was in weakness. Paul, did you know he had a thorn in the flesh? The thorn in the flesh. And that was some sort of physical illness he had. The Pentecostals make it up into some sort of spiritual thing, but it was a physical ailment he had. Thorn in the flesh. In the flesh. He had this thorn. And it's pretty clear in the Bible, it was his eyesight. It was eyesight. He talks about people would have given their eyes to him if they could have. And he says about see see how great big letters I wrote this this message And it seemed to have been his eyesight was bad. He was in weakness and in fear and in much trembling, not with enticing words. We'll come back to that. Then verse five. That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. We don't want what I think, what I think is reasonable, what makes sense to me You know, you notice it's all I, I, me, me, me, I, I, I. Well, we don't want that. We want to go to the Bible. What does the Bible clearly say? If the Bible clearly says it's black We can't make it into white. If it says clearly it's white, we can't make it into black. But people do, they try, and they go to great lengths, just like with that video this morning about uh hell there You know, they try to wiggle out any way they can something they really don't like. That comes from God, comes from his word. And then verse 6. Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world that come to naught. You know, the princes or people that the people that are high-ups, you would think that they know things. You know, the great scientists, you'd think they'd know things. And they talk about following the science. Well, the science that these scientists come up with many times is completely nonsense. And you can't trust them just because they're scientists, just because they're doctors, just because of those things. And the princes, the people that are up at the top, you can't trust what they say and do. In fact, the Bible says that God has set over the nations the basest of men, the lowest of men. To put over the nations. That's what he's done. And it's not the most qualified people that are the leaders. It's not that at all. It's the basis of men usually. And so the elites, and of course there's always elites around. Elites. And the elites don't know better. And he says, nor of the princes, nor of the princes. And of course, what do the elites say? They say what's good for them, what's good for giving them more authority, giving them more power. Giving them more weight. That's what they say. And then we go on here, verse 7. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. Even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory And you know, these princes of the world they come up with this climate stuff and they come up with the fact that uh, you know All this climate alarm is just to give them more power. That's all it is, just to give them more power. And excuses, they always have excuses for taking away people's freedoms Always have excuses for what they do, but they don't make sense. Then we go on, verse 8, which none of the princes of this world knew. Once again, the leaders didn't know it. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Well, you know, the Jewish leaders at the time of Jesus They knew the Old Testament, the scribes and the Pharisees. They knew all those things. They were the experts. They were the experts in the Old Testament. And yet they crucified Jesus. And uh you can't trust uh what they do. Then verse 9. We read up till here in the responsive reading. Now we get into the newer new stuff here, verse 9. But as it is written, I have not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit. For the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. Well, here's a great verse on heaven. That we can't imagine what's in heaven. We just can't imagine it. All we know is that it's going to be good. It's going to be really good. We're really going to like it We know that, but we really don't know what all is gonna go on with heaven. We know we're gonna sing, we know we're gonna there's gonna be some harps up there. I don't know if everybody plays a harp up there, but at least some people do. And it looks like everybody's gonna sing though. And uh, you know, we're gonna walk streets of gold, we're gonna have mansions and we're gonna have rewards and and we know all that, but we don't really know The exact things. And that's what makes it dying uh so fearful. Because we know things on this earth But we're going out into the great unknown. The great unknown. We don't know about what we're going into, but we're passing on. But here it says that's going to be really good. It hasn't entered into our heart, into our eyes and ears, but God has prepared many things for us. And you know it only took God six days to make this earth and everything in it. And he's still preparing up in heaven, preparing a place for us. And then verse 11. For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. And here we get that very good Calvinistic verse right here. Is that people have to have the Spirit of God in their heart to comprehend the things of God And so God has to give us of his spirit first before we have the desire to come unto him and to understand the things of God. Because we can't understand the things of God as a man. We'll know the things of this earth somewhat, we'll know the things of man being a man, be it having the spirit of man, but we can't know the things of God, spiritual things. They have to be revealed unto us. Then verse 12. Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God. That we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. There we have Calvinism so clear. It's all through the Bible. But people don't want to believe it They just it just goes against their grain that in the end they have nothing to do with them getting saved. That God is the one who changed their heart, and God is the one that gave them the desire to come unto the Lord. They wouldn't have that desire unless God gave it to them. And notice here, verse 12, we have received. We didn't have it ourselves, of ourselves, no. We have received the Spirit of God. It was given unto us. And then verse 13, which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but with the which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. And so there's spiritual things and there's physical things. And the things of man are those physical things that we have around us, but the spiritual things come from God. And it says we speak in the words that the Holy Ghost teaches. And you know, in the Bible there are theological terms. And people talk about, oh, you know, we're gonna need to simplify the Bible and we need to do this and that and we can't have these words like justification and sanctification and And all those really big words. Well, you know, those are theological words. They're spiritual words that describe things that have to do with God's word. And we need to understand them It was interesting this morning when I was talking about the New King James. Well, you know, the New King James is probably better than any of the other New translations in that it stays pretty close to the King James, but it changes a lot more than thee and thou. And actually some people have talked about that it's a transition Bible to get you to move away from the King James, and once you're moving, you'll keep on moving. Keep on moving to the NIV, to the ESV. You know, it's interesting. The churches just keep on getting new Bibles. My daughter's church, we went there for the Christmas Eve service, and it was a nice service But I noticed there that they're using the ESV now. And they used to use the NIV. And they just keep on moving, get a new Bible, another new Bible. What does that do to memorizing the scripture? What does that do to really being familiar with God's words apart from the fact that the King James follows the Greek and the Hebrew word for word, and we can depend upon it. Depend on them very well And so the new King James decided to put in the word vanish there. You know the thing is, that's not according to the text, but they changed the word. They didn't just change thee and thou, they changed to vanish. Then we go on here, but there's words which the Holy Ghost teaches. Then verse 14. But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them because they are spiritual. You know, when you preach to people many times, it's complete foolishness to them. They don't understand it. The natural man doesn't understand it unless he has given to him the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God gives him the desire to say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. The natural man doesn't receive that. He just doesn't receive it on his own. But verse 15 He that is spiritual judges all things. Yet he himself is judged of no man, for who hath known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? For we have the mind of Christ. It's interesting here, verse 15. It says, He that is spiritual judges all things. But I thought the Bible said, judge not, judge not. And when you say things to people sometimes they like to bring that up. Judge not, don't you know? You're not supposed to judge. Well, you know the Bible says, judge not, keeping on going, that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged And so judge not is against hypocrites. Hypocrites, not against judging in general. And what is judging? Judging is discerning one thing from another thing. Judging one thing is good and another thing is bad. And that's the problem in today's world. There is no good and bad, just like on that video this morning. There's no right and wrong, no good and bad. Uh just uh whatever you whatever works for you. Well that's not how it is. We gotta take what the Bible says and stand on it. And the Bible is clear on many things. You know, the language means something. It means it's black. It means it's white. And so we should be able to judge right from wrong. We should be able to judge good from evil. We should be able to judge who's right and who's wrong. And here it just says right here, he that is spiritual judges all things. Well, let's go back now To verse 4, my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. What are enticing words? Well, enticing words are attractive words. They are things that draw people. And but they have enticing words of man's wisdom, of man's wisdom, as opposed to the spiritual wisdom of God. Enticing words of man's wisdom. You know something that's a real good example of this is sales, sales techniques. And the salesman likes to use enticing words to get you to buy his product They have the commercials all the time, and I really hate commercials on TV. That's why we almost never watch TV. But the the commercials Always try to entice you with enticing words of man's wisdom to buy their product, to do what they tell you to do. Enticing words. Well, I think I may have mentioned it before that I sold vacuum cleaners, at least I tried to sell them for a little while when I got out of the Air Force And they put us through a little sales technique school there for a week or something. And you know the thing is, I learned sales techniques. And it and and and and one sales technique is you nod your head yes when you say you want to buy this, don't you? And you suppose to nod your head yes And the f the funny thing is I was in a soul-winning class at a Baptist church, one of the really good Baptist churches. And the pastor was telling us how to give out the gospel, and he was saying, when you ask the people if they want to get saved, you nod your head. That's enticing words of man's wisdom. Even though the guy might be a good Christian, good preacher, whatever, but he's getting into those enticing words there. And we don't want to do that. And you know, uh when they have their big uh uh revival meetings, or even when they have revival meetings in churches and they have their altar calls You know, they want to entice you. Enticing words of man's wisdom. Did you ever notice on those alder calls, and I've been in a million of them? is they love to say, if you want me to pray for you, raise your hand. Well, if you raise your hand, then you are hooked. Because then all of you who raised your hand come forward. And it's enticing. And of course the the logic is we want to do everything possible to get people to the Lord. We want to entice them no matter what to get them to the Lord. But isn't that what Paul did? Did Paul entice them, no matter with what? To get them to the Lord? No, he didn't do that. He says it was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. And Tim was saying there in Sunday school This morning, the thing is, enticing words of man's wisdom, they work. Don't you know that? You get people to make professions of faith. You get people to go along. You get your products sold with the enticing words of man's wisdom. It works. But is that the test for what's good in Christianity? What works? Pragmatism? No. That's not the test. The test is what the Bible says. What the Bible says. Does the Bible say it's right or wrong? This is spiritual things as opposed to man's wisdom. And of course it was mentioned this morning in Sunday school led so well in the service. And actually the catechism work uh ended so well to the service too, where it talked about hell and the catechism and torment. But anyway, you know it's the seeker-friendly church today And we want to find out what people want, and we want to give it to them. And they go out and do surveys on what do people want. And it I get so tired today uh every time you do anything they want you to fill out a survey about it. And they want to find out what people want. And so they do that in the churches, and they want to give people what they want, not what they need. We should give people what they need, not what they want. But they're looking always for what they want. And if they want the same rock and roll music that they listen to every day on the radio, if they want that in church, well we give it to them. It works. They come And we give them whatever they want. And you know, Jonathan Edwards. Did Jonathan Edwards use enticing words of man's wisdom? No, he preached the sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. And people, it actually did work, though, by the Spirit of God. And people did get saved. And that will happen by the Spirit of God. And people will truly get saved when it's by the Spirit of God. The problem is with all these enticing words of man's wisdom People are sold on Christianity, but they're not converted. And there's a difference. You can be sold on it and not be converted. And so we don't want to be just giving people what they want. But then we got all these churches out here, they're giving people what they want. And they have big crowds. And we got our tiny groups. And we're just not doing what works. Don't you know? You've got to get with the program, you've got to get with the times, you've got to get up to date, and you've got to give people what they want. But that's not what the Bible says. We give them what they need. Remember Jonah. When Jonah went into Nineveh, what did he preach? Yet 40 days in Nineveh shall be destroyed. That's not a very positive message, is it? It's not something that people want. But the whole city repented and turned to God through the Spirit of God. And we need to have the Spirit of God in our preaching. We need to have our Spirit of God in what we're doing. And uh, you know, but what uh what do people want? Well, people want bread and circuses. Bread and circuses, that's what they want. They want to be given something. And whether that's healing or whether it's something else or a toaster or whatever it is. They want something to be given to them. They want bread. And Jesus reproved the multitude when the multitude came looking for bread He wanted them to look for spiritual things which were important. And people want circuses as well. Circuses. Circuses in the church. I mentioned it before to you. My good friend preacher there in Smyrna, who has a good church there, he got into the enticing words of man's wisdom and was having a hamburger eating contest at the church. Well, you know the thing is, is that's definitely man's wisdom. That's not the Spirit of God. But we get into that because it works and it attracts people. And we want enticing words. Of man's wisdom. What's another enticing word of man's wisdom? Another enticing word of man's wisdom is flattery, did you know? Flattery. The old saying is flatter me and I'll go with you anywhere. You know, and uh And you know the thing is, that's how it is. And they flatter people. And they get them to go along. They're enticing words of man's wisdom. A man or a woman will flatter the one of the opposite sex to get in good with them. And you know, it's enticing words of man's wisdom. Well, that's not what we want in the church We don't want that. You know, it's good to compliment somebody, it's good. But flattery is when you go a little bit too far with it. Too much of it. Just like it's good to want something better, but we don't want it too much. We don't want to be covetous. And so here it is. Enticing words of man's wisdom. People want bread and circuses. And going back to this morning's Sunday school lesson, you know People have their own ideas of God. They think, oh, well, God, he wouldn't do, you know, predestine people. He wouldn't take away our free will. God wouldn't do that. God wouldn't send people to hell for eternity. But that's what the Bible says. The Bible says that. And you see how in this video this morning, they're wiggling out. They want to wiggle out. And so they don't want to deny completely the punishment in hell, but they want to have it just be temporary. But it's not temporary in the Bible. The Bible is very clear. Everlasting. Eternal. Whatever. And we just have to take what God says And we need to rest on it and not trust to our own desires and wants. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would bless these things to our hearts And oh Lord, help us to be the Christians, if that would have us to be. Help us to be the church if that would have us to be as well. Help us not to have our preaching with enticing words of man's wisdom, not to have our church with enticing words of man's wisdom. But in demonstration of the Spirit and the power for it comes from thy word. In Jesus' name. Amen.