My sermon's on my notes down here. Because many times I get up here and I what am I going to preach on and the verse m skips my mind and oh how am I going to figure this out? So I have them right here So what we're going to do today is go to the book of Proverbs. So why don't you open up your Bible to the book of Proverbs? And now we all know who the human altar of Proverbs is, correct? We know that was Solomon. But Solomon is a man known as someone who did not take his own advice. If you look at his his life. You know that's another issue to get into, but uh but but it really tells you the guy can use anyone. He chooses to use even frail people like me, like you, he can use us all in different ways. So I'm going to be just uh just sharing different verses uh with you from Proverbs I'm going to start in Proverbs chapter 1, verse 7. However, I want to read the verses verses 1 to 7 just so to get a context to get the flow of this. And then um we'll be looking into several verses here today in the book of Proverbs. Question, uh trivia question, how many verses are in the book of Proverbs? Actually there are 715. So, or excuse me, no, 915. 915 verses in the book of Proverbs. Uh here's another one. Let's talk about the Bible. How many how many chapters are in the Bible? 1189. How many verses? 788,280. How many letters? 3,556,480. What do you do with that? I don't know. I just looking up some different facts and you find these interesting that's that's in the King James Bible. You get some of the other Bibles, you'll get different Different thoughts. Okay, so I'm going to be looking here. I'm going to read from one to seven and then have a few words from verse seven and a couple other Proverbs as well. Let's pray first. Lord, we ask we understand we're looking at the inspired and errant word of God, certainly unworthy to do this, and yet you allow us to To read it, to even proclaim it, O Lord. What a privilege that is to stand behind a pulpit and proclaim, thus saith the Lord. You know and I know I don't deserve this. I thank you for letting me do it. Please fill me with your spirit to gift with the word of God and not to get my thoughts involved Bless the people that are here. There's all kind of issues perhaps in the lives of the people here today, Lord. Some perhaps are very private, others are more uh shared with others, minister to the needs of the people here today so that the end of this service we can literally say, honestly say, it it was good to be in the house of the Lord. Thank you for this church, for its strong stand on the inspiration of Scripture, the Word of God. We call down your blessing now on our congregation. We pray in Jesus' holy name. Amen. Proverbs 1, chapter 1, verse 1, the Proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel. Okay, so you know who wrote it right there, written out to you. Here is a purpose statement. To know wisdom and instruction, to perceive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment and equity. to give subtlety to the simple and to the wise man knowledge and discretion. A wise man will hear and will increase in learning, and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels To understand a proverb and the interpretation, the words of the wise and their dark sayings The dark saying is a saying that that's not readily easily understandable, maybe full of symbolism, which which proverbs has a lot of symbolism in it there. And so I have several, maybe eight, nine verses I want to share with you. sporadically selected out of the book of Proverbs. And these are verses that I've used in my life just giving myself counsel when I had you know diff different issues to work on. Or discipling people, sharing. So I have a number of verses I'd like to share with you that I use and been very helpful to me. So today I'm not going to go verse by verse. I'm going to just select arbitrary verses which have, as I said, been helpful to me and to others. So the first one I want to share with you is Proverbs chapter 1 and verse 7. Look at this for a moment. Proverbs 1:7. And there it tells us the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But fools despise wisdom and instruction. Right there you have the picture of a fool. And so often scripture tells you what the fool characteristics of a fool. Here a fool is someone who can't be taught anything. You try and teach them something. Maybe you're trying to share the word with them or whatever, but they they don't know they won't take it. They won't receive it. They go uh uh uh but they really won't receive it. That's a picture of a fool. But notice this the fool the f the fear of the Lord is a beginning of knowledge. That's just a beginning to fear the Lord But what does that word fear mean? It doesn't mean like to trumble, like I'm afraid, but it means to have a great reverential respect. to have a serious respect for God Almighty. And that's just the beginning. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. And of course then you have the opposite. But fools, they despise wisdom instruction. And you'll notice as you go through the book of Proverbs It becomes apparent that a fool is someone who can't be taught. They could be sitting here in the church, but they don't learn they they just can't be taught. And so that's one of the characteristics characteristics you will see of a fool. Again, I say as I say for today I've selected arbitrary verses to look at which have helped me in my own evangelism or in my own counseling ministry or just ministering to myself. And so I have several of these I want to share with you today. The next verse I would like you to look into is Proverbs chapter 1 and verse 10. Think about this. Proverbs 1:10. And here it says, My son, if sinners entice you, consent thou not. And that word entice means to arouse you, to excite you, get you involved. And it's saying if sinners, if they come upon you and they entice you, don't listen to them. Because a lot of times a sinner is skilled in enticing. He's skilled in putting ideas in your head and to motivate you and to do all kinds of things, but you're not according to the word of the Lord, which are not inagreeable with God's holy word. So again you have to have discernment. And we'll see this principle of discernment running through all these verses. You must discern Messages, people, people around you, because you want to live for the Lord Jesus Christ, but you've got three enemies. The world, the flesh, and the devil, they'll all fight you, so that you do not, first of all, live a godly life, and then so that you will not be effective in reaching out to the world. So here we have in Proverbs 110, my son of sinners entice you. There you are. Maybe I don't know what your s obviously I don't know your schedule, but what do you do Monday through Friday I guess you go to work and you're dealing with different people. Many of them may not be believers and maybe some of them try to entice you. You get that, I don't now, but I used to get it all the time But scripture says what? Consent thou not. You just walk away or that's probably the best. Looking back on my own my own experience. You know, I began to grow in my faith and knowledge of Christ when I was in in university, in college. And so that's usually when everybody goes downhill in their faith. To me, I went uphill. It was great And so but I you know I had spinners all around me because I lived uh I went to I attended University of Kentucky on a football scholarship and we all lived in one flat you know one dormitory And you want to talk about a sinful place to live? That was it. And um so this is really real to me. If sinners entice you can sense thou not, I mean, every day it was something. But but you know I learned through that. I learned how to say no, learned how to walk away from it, and in time they accepted me and uh you know then I then I was able to witness to them. And some and as a matter of fact my best friend to this day was in that environment And he was from Montreal, Canada. And he was an angry, bitter person. And um he was my roommate at UK. And I wanted to witness them because I'm starting to grow in my faith and knowledge of Christ. And I said, we were in the in our room one day, and I said, Al, have you ever thought about becoming a Christian? Just out of clear that's probably a dumb way to start it off, but I started and I wanted to do it somehow and I thought, well it's never gonna happen unless I just let it go. I said, Oh you never thought about becoming a Christian And I'll never forget his answer. Now Al is a big guy. He's like about six foot two and muscular guy. He gets his fist, he goes over to the closet door and slams it. Boom! And he says, never Talk to me about that again. I know I touched the hot button there. I thought, okay, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to offend you. But here's what happened. On the UK campus, we had a group of Christians who would get together from time to time and pray and witness on the campus and things such as this. I said, look, we need to pray for Al I've shared the word of God with him. He won't take it. Let's pray for him. And so we did. So I get emotional with this. Because even today, he's my best friend. And so we we began to pray for Al that he would come to Christ. You know, one week goes by, a month goes by, two months goes by, and nothing's ever happening. And so we had a a a a group on our campus called the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. And I was leading that group. And every week I would say, Al, we're having our we're having our It's called FCA, Fellowship for Christian Athletes. We're going to have our FCA meeting tonight. Would you like to come? No, I don't want any of that. Okay. But we would just continue to pray for him over months, really. And then the day came. Al, we're going to have our FCA meeting tonight. I did this every week. Al, we're going to have our FCA meeting. You want to come tonight? Guess what he says? Yeah, okay, I'll come. Well, I thought you said you'd come. What did what did he just say? Yeah, I'll I'll c I'll attend. So he comes to the meeting. So we're carrying on our meetings and so forth and I notice he's you know he's in the this crowd maybe just this size, so there's no much of this. And he's paying he's sitting in the front row and he's paying attention. I thought he'd be, you know throwing spitballs or doing something, but he's paying attention. I thought, oh, this is good. So afterwards I met with you know he's my roommate. So Al, what you think of that? He said, that's all right W would you come next week? Maybe. Next week he comes. And he became making a long story short, Art got saved. Now we have this thing of discipleship. Now I'm able to disciple Al. And so what I do, and I now I would bring him to the FCA meeting, Fellowship of Christianity meeting. But there's another meeting on the campus, Christian meeting I would go to called um Campus Crusade for Christ. Maybe some of you may have heard that. I would bring him to those meetings. And he's really sucking all this in. So Al got saved Came to the Lord. And then you're not going to believe this. When we graduated from UK, we went uh to um the Lord led us to Florida Bible College, studied the Bible for a while. And who comes along with us? Al So now he's in he's in Bible college preparing for ministerial work. And I later went on to play professional football in Canada. That's where he's from, in Montreal, Canada. And he was a great witness to this Canada, all of Canada. He would give his testimony on the paper, in the paper and things. And uh obviously he's not playing now, but we've kept in contact with one another all these years. You know, his net now his children are fellowshipping with my children and with just a wonderful thing taking place. But it all happens by just giving out God's word and great things happen. And so, my son, if sinners entice you, consent thou not. That's Proverbs 110. And then Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. This is perhaps the verse most everybody knows, and it's a wonderful one. Let's just look at this for a moment. I bet you all have this memorized. You can probably say this with me without even looking down here. Let's say that together. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not to your own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy path. Very good. That's very, very good. You know, in most churches I'd say that nobody says that, huh? That was very, very good. Let's just take this apart very briefly. But here we have trust in the Lord with all your heart. Of course that's what we want to do. Now I understand that to be A factor of saving faith. And us being Presbyterians, we believe that God gives you faith to trust to trust. That's a gift of the Lord. Faith to trust. To have saving faith in Jesus Christ, that's a gift of the Lord And so it's telling us to trust in the Lord with all your heart. And now here's the big problem. Don't lean on your own understanding. I do not know about you, but that's Not so much anymore, but it used to be in my life a real problem, leaning on my own understanding. I know better now I'm leaning on my own understanding. I don't do that. I've learned that the hard way But notice what Scripture tells you. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Now you know the heart in Scripture. Mean that's the center of your emotions, your will, your intellect. It does obviously doesn't mean this pumping organ. But who you really are. Trust you use your time, talent, your mind, your thinking to trust in the Lord. Depend in Him. Trust in Him. Rely upon Him. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Notice, not some of the heart, not occasionally, all the heart. This is called for a commitment. As we look at Scripture, you know, we talk about, we use the word discipleship often, but that's what the Lord, that's what the Bible calls us to be, disciples of Jesus. Not just, uh, I go to church every once in a while, you know, maybe I'll read a Bible. No, the Word of God is calling for you to be committed to Jesus Christ. To know his word, to live for him, to turn from your sins, to encourage one another. That's what we're called to do. We don't want to be lukewarm or or easily just fade into the world. No, we're supposed to stand out with faith and desire and to share the Word of God with others and to live the Christian life and to turn from our sins when When some sin comes upon us and it does. We all have to struggle with that from time to time. But learn to get that sin out of your life. Probably there's probably you know what? I want to pray right now. I want to pause for a moment. Let's have a prayer. Just pray with me in the prayer. Our Father, I want to pray for the congregation here today. Perhaps there was a dear brother or sister Who loves you but yet they're caught up into the world or something's got their fancy and their attention or what have you, and it's led to sin. And it's becoming a habit Is there a person like that here today? Oh Lord, I don't know, but you do. And my dear fellow worshipper, if that is you, I just want to pray for you, Lord, that you, for our Father, that you will be with that brother or sister, give them encouragement Give them faith, give them strength to repent of the sin with which they struggle. Give them the ability to forsake it, kick it out of their life. And then move on. Move on with victory. Move on in faith. So I want to be quiet for just a second. And to give each of you just A thirty seconds to talk silently to God about your own sanctification, about your own state of spirituality. Our Father, we know that if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And my dear brother or sister, if you may perhaps you may have talked to the Lord right now and confessed a sin, how how beautiful is that? That's the road to victory. Guide us, Lord. Guide this church. And I thank you, Lord, for this church. This church has stood for your word for so long and so well. I want to continue to call down blessing on it. Guide me now, oh Lord, as I go through the rest of these verses. You know and I know, I can't explain these with any real interest. I just don't have that skill. But you can do it through me. And that's why I ask that you administer through me to these wonderful people For the salvation of souls, for the edifying of believers, for magnifying your name. Help, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We see the next one here I have written down here, and that is Proverbs 4. If you look in your Bible, it's Proverbs chapter 4. And I want to look in verse 20, 21, and 22, and then just make a few comments on it. Proverbs 4:20, attend unto my words, incline thine ear unto my sayings. Let them not depart from thine eyes, keep them in the midst of thine heart, for they are life unto those that find them and health to all their flesh. Now get that last phrase. Now all those words are very important and significant, but I'm going to focus upon just the last phrase. Because it's just It's overpowering. For they are life unto those that find them, meaning God's word. It's life. God's word gives life. And get that last phrase, and health to all their flesh. Having thought about this for I mean for years really I've gone over this. And my opinion, this is just my opinion, you can take it or leave it. I think that's making reference to physical health. And that is to say, as we obey God's word. I mean think about it. If you obey God's word, you're not going to be involved in sin for the most part you're not going to be perfect, but you know you're not going to be in places or doing experiences which is going to be detrimental to your body Living the Christian life leads to health. It leads to health mentally, emotionally, and spiritually. And I believe that's what that's the thought there that will Keep your heart with all diligence, for out there are the issues of life. And going back to verse 22, they are all life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh. And I've seen this really in my own life and in the life of so many others. What will bind you back is sin, you know, unconfessed sin or secret sin, you know, all that nonsense But what that does, that all works against you. It works against your mind. It works against your peace, your well-being. So you know that if you have sinful issues in your life, you want to confess it, right? Isn't that what we do? 1 John 1 9 What do we do? If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So I'm saying as I'm bringing these things forth, if the Spirit of God is making you aware of sin in your life. Sometime you want to take a time and I'll do it as we close today, have a time to silently confess your sin to God and then put it behind you and go forward Because if you don't do that, what will happen, that sin will get grabbed hold of you. Instead of you controlling it, it'll control you. And I've seen that happen many, many times. And by the time those people who have sinned gets hold of them, then they come into your office for counsel. I mean they're Christian people in the church. And they, you know, come in for counseling and you find out the mess they get themselves into. Now, because they did not repent of it, get it behind them and move forward, now they They're held with held by the cords of that sin. Sometimes it hurts their family, hurts their children. devastates finances. Boy, sin is a killer. It just ruins every aspect of your life. And if any that is still in you And the solution is simple. Confess it to God and by the power he gives you, forsake it. Walk away from it. Now the problem is it'll probably come back on you again. Okay, if it does, what do you do? The same thing. Get on your knees, confess it to God, do your best to forsake it and move forward. And um if this thing continues on and on, then you probably should talk to another Christian friend. Talk talk to your pastor, talk to someone. Who can help you through that experience? We all have it. Look, we're all we're all people of flesh and blood. We all struggle in this world. We we live in a fallen world. You're gonna have these things from time to time. But you need you know how to deal with it successfully and get these things behind you and move forward for the glory of God. Let's move on for another one here. Let's look here, I have here uh Proverbs 4. 23. You see that there? You've got that? Proverbs 4. 23. Keep your heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. Think that through. Keep your heart. That means to guard your heart. Guard your heart with all diligence. That means put a great protection on it. Just like your house. You're going to lock your house up at night so people can't walk in it and rob you or whatever. Keep your heart with all diligence. Because out of it are the issues of life. What resolves in your heart is what your life is about. And if we're thinking about Scripture, the Lord Jesus Christ, wanting to serve Him You're going to have that experience and it's a wonderful thing to do. But if you are into the world, into the flesh, and compromising here, compromise, that's going to affect your life as well And so that's why Scripture tells you here, look looking in Proverbs 423, keep your heart. Again, the heart The cardia is the center of man's emotions, will, and intellect. It's the full man. Keep it, guard it. Because what you let into that heart, it's going to come out And and and so that's that's what scripture is trying to say. Guard your heart, keep your heart. How to do it with all diligence. This is not just some late little thing to do. This is significant, this is powerful, this is important. And again, I say that if some sin has gotten a hold of you, okay, we don't condemn you, you're a human being, we all struggle with it, but what you want to do is confess it. You've got to admit it to God. Yes, Lord, this thing is in my mind, it's in my action. I can I have please, please forgive me of it. I confess my sin to you, Lord, and forgive me And give me the power to have victory over it, not to go back to it again. And we all have to go through that from time to time because we're human. We're flesh and blood. We have weaknesses. But that's how we handle these things. Okay, let me move on here to another Got a couple more verses here. Proverbs 4. 26. Looked at in your Bible. Proverbs 4. 26. And there it says, ponder the path of your feet. Let all your ways be established. Think that through. Ponder the path of your feet. And did you hear my phone? I don't mind my phone's pinging. I don't know why it's doing that, but try to ignore that if you can. Ponder the path of your feet and let all your ways be established. And that's you know I think it's common sense in a way, like where do you go? Ponder the path of your where do you go every well you go to work, right? You go to your home. You go over here for recreation, maybe you go to the ballpark to see a game, maybe you go over here to visit you ponder the where's your feet taking you? Think about where you are, how you use your time Just think about it. A lot of times we go through life quickly here, there, there, there, and don't think about where you are, what you're doing. And so this is simply saying slow down and ponder the path of your feet What are you doing with your time, talent, money? What are you doing with it? Are we using that for the glory of God or are we sort of wasting it and letting it, you know? Just away. So think about these. Ponder. That word ponder means to meditate, to think on these things. Ponder the path of your feet. And then let all your ways be established. And again, I'm simply repeating myself, but that's okay, because you know what? What is repetition? Repetition is theological mucilage. What's mucilage? Glue. In other words, the way you learn things is to hear it over and over. At least I'm like that. I got to hear it over and over. What did he say? I'm not going to have to think about it But as you ponder the path of your feet, and the Spirit of God makes you aware that there's something in there that's not right that you are letting be in your life, here's the solution. This is simple But this is the only solution. Confess it before God. You've got to get with the Lord, say yes, and admit, yes, Lord, I have this evil thought, or I've done this. Admit to what you have, what you are. That's confession. That's confessing your sin. You don't have to tell anybody else. You don't have to go to pastor, the priest, or whatever, but you've got to go to God and say, yes, I am guilty of this. Please forgive me of it. Please uh give me strength not to return to it. And I know you all have it. You know why? Because you're all flesh and blood like me. We're in a fallen world and we struggle. But that's why the Lord's given us this word, to know how to handle it. Isn't that beautiful? Ponder the path of your feet. And if you ponder the path, that will save you so much trouble in your life. I would like to give this message to younger people, young teenagers, giving this to a teenager because they're going to be try everything And if they can understand this, to ponder the path of their feet, let all their ways be established. It'll be a great blessing for them. Let me move on here. I've only got uh 75 more verses, so let me be quickly. I'm just kidding, not 75, right. Okay, now here we are. Think about this. Proverbs chapter 5 and verse. Now, you know one thing I am, I'm skipping around. You know, you see it 'cause I know we like to go verse by verse. I normally preach verse by verse, but when I get into com proverbs and c P Psalms I tend to skip around a little bit. Because you can do that, you know why? Because each thought is different than the other. Context doesn't mean too much in the book of Proverbs and really throughout the poetical books Content, context is not that important as it is like in the Gospels or historical books or poetical books. And so you can bounce around a little bit if you're in the poetical books. So that's what I'm doing that for And what am I looking for? 521. Proverbs chapter 5 verse 21. The ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord. Think about that. The Lord sees everything we're doing, saying. He ponders all his going. Think about that. I mean the Lord ponders your going. He ponders your act your activity, your thoughts. Because he knows you we all know this. I don't think you're surprised He knows us through and through. He knows what we're going to say before we say it. Because that's what God is. He's God. But notice what it says here. The ways of man are before the eyes your ways, what you're going to do this afternoon and what you do this evening and how you how you husbands how you treat your wives. Wives how you respond to your husbands. Children how you Obey your parents. The Lord sees all this. He knows all this. The ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he pondereth, meaning God. The ponder you ponders All his ways. Then when you think about this, I think, boy, is God merciful to me. He has the right to strike me down and he still lets me live and be able to do this Behind me, behind the pulpit? I mean I don't have a double stand. I believe the Lord. I believe everything I'm saying, but I'm not a perfect man. And I know that, you know, the Lord lets me do this by his grace and mercy Going on here, let's look in chapter 6, Proverbs chapter 6, and we're going to look in verse 14. Proverbs 6, 14. Again, I stress. Going through a book like this is not a healthy thing to do on a normal book. But in probability you can do this, in Psalms you can do it, in some of the poetical books. But it's not a good way to do it like in Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. You need to do it first by verse all the way through. Proverbs chapter 6 verse 14. Frowardness, that's like foolishness, frowardness is in the heart, is in his heart. He devises mischief continually. He soweth discord. And that last phrase is what I wanted to bring to your attention today. Here's a person who is obviously not in following the Lord But one of the characteristics is he sows discord. That kind of person in a church can raise havoc. And sometimes there are people who just have that personality. They're they're like contentious. And you know you try to talk them, but they they they have a contentious spirit. And I I I hate to say this. When I when I say this I thinking years ago of a man he used to be in our church and and and you had this contentious no matter what you would talk he'd he'd be like Like angry and offended if you ask them anything. Well you should know that. Happy Oh my gosh. And he's a smart person too. But it brought so much discord within the family of God You want to be careful. Everything you do and say you want to bring the family of God together. If you have something negative to say to somebody, you know what you need to do? Take them aside alone. And say, John, I want to talk to you about something. I wonder, you know, have a question about this, you know, and and share it in a loving way. Nobody wants to receive a rebuke, but from time to time we all need it But you don't want to do it publicly. You don't want to hurt people. You have to be very, and especially in the church. That's very important. Because we're here every week, one another, we're praying for one another and helping one another And so how we relate to each other, especially if somebody's problematic, because some let's be honest, some people are difficult to get along with. They just are. And you have to learn How to get around that and and you know how to deal with them and help them along the way. I'm sure people probably some of you are thinking, yeah, you're that way. Think it about me, then it's trying to be that way. You know, we have these things happen in life, and we need to know how to deal, especially within a church. Because the devil loves nothing better than to divide a church. And he does that with quite regularity. Don't let that happen here. This is a wonderful congregation. You know, I look when I come here I look forward to it. I don't think, oh I gotta go all the way to Maryland. No, I say, hey, good I'm going to Maryland for that wonderful congregation. I love coming here. This is a wonderful church. But here's the thing. Guard it There's another verse we're going to look in here. It said, guard your heart with the diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Guard what you have here. You've got a wonderful fellowship here, but you must guard it and protect it and pray for it. Because again, you have the same three enemies that I had: world, flesh, devil. Alright, let me move on. I think we'll see that somewhere else here. Okay, so let's look here Did I do s did I do um I did 614, correct? Okay, let's do 6. 19 then. Let's go over here to Proverbs 619 A false witness that speaks lies, and he that sows discord among brethren. Here's that phrase again. So this is in this is important in scripture. Somebody sowing discord among brethren Again, so I'm just repeating myself. But notice script, I repeat it because Scripture repeats it. And this verse, Proverbs 6. 19, the context, the Lord lists six things the Lord hates. That's strong language. There are six things listed in Scripture the Lord hates, and I just picked out one of them here in verse 19. A false witness that speaks lies. But this last phrase I want to give to you, he that shows discord among the brethren. And again, let me encourage you, do not be very careful not to spread discord among one another. You come together, you want to love each other, you want to forgive what we know you're not perfect. You got issues, I'm sure I got issues, y'all. But we need to learn how to work around that So we can minister one to another, love one another. And you know the Lord calls us to love the unlovely. Right? Didn't Jesus love the unlovely? Didn't He love even us? He loves even me. That's a great Lord. That's a great God. But you're called to do the same thing. Love the unlovely. And how can we do that? By being filled by the Holy Spirit. As the Spirit, you know, we receive Christ, we receive the Holy Spirit. And Scripture says to be filled by the Holy Spirit meaning to be controlled by it. As we're controlled by the Spirit of God, we're able to do great things for the glory of the Lord. But if we're not controlled by the Holy Spirit, you know, these things happen. So I wanted to give that to you there. That's Proverbs 6, 19. A false witness speaks life, but he that sows discord among the brethren. You see, that notices that in Scripture. Again, do not be guilty of sowing discord among brethren. So it somebody out in the world, but don't feel when you come here, you want to love one another, be kind to one another, use Soft language within one another, helping one another, praying for one another. That's a church. And a church that sticks together, they do great things But again, the devil would love nothing better than put a split in a church. He does that to churches. Don't let it happen here. Love one another. All right, let me move on. Okay, looking here in I'll just be quickly with this. I'm looking in Proverbs chapter nine. Verse 7 through 9. Just read that quickly, make a few comments, and moving on here. Proverbs 9, 7 through 9. He that reproves a scorner gets to himself shame, and he that rebukes a wicked man gets to himself a blot. Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate you Rebuke a wise man and he will love you. Give instruction to a wise man and he will yet be wiser. Teach a just man and he will increase in learning. So you have this context here. A fool, basically a fool and a wise man. And basically what that's telling you, a wise man can be taught You know, hey John, I got and you can give him constructive critic John, you know the way you did this, I don't think it's a but you know he'll receive that. If he's a wise man, he will receive criticism and make adjustment If he's a fool, he'll fire back at you. What do you mean? I did this, I didn't do and get this nonsense. And that's what it's trying to tell us here. Give instruction to a wise man and he will yet be wiser I look back over my own life and people called me aside and made corrections. I think, praise God, they did, because if they didn't, I'd either be in jail by now or certainly out of the ministry, that's for sure But people gave me constructive criticism. By the grace of God, I was able to, you know, receive it and make adjustment and go on. And from time to time we all need that. Every one of us need an adjustment from time to time. And you know something else You can tell who your real friends are because you know what they'll do? They'll take you aside. Hey John, let me tell you something. You know, you need to know this. Blah blah blah. Because it's hard to tell someone something difficult, but if they love you enough to do it, that that shows you they're your they're your friend. And as Christians we need to do that. Hold one another Share with one another so that we're doing our best for the Lord. Let's look in Proverbs chapter 10, verse 4. Proverbs 10, 4. He becomes poor that deals with a slack hand. Okay, we got that picture there. You notice Proverbs Speaks in pictures. That's why it's so enjoyable. It always paints a picture. That's why it's called a poetical book Proverbs 10:4. He becomes poor that deals with a slack hand, but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. The hand that's just trying to tell you you had to become wealthy. I don't know if that rich means financially rich, but I think it means more internally rich. You have peace, joy, confidence. But look at that language though. He becomes poor that deals with a slack hand. That means like someone who's lazy won't Learns skills. He deals with a slack hand, but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. The hand of the diligent, that's someone who works. Someone who you can you can work studying God's word. You can work outside chopping down trees or whatever. Somebody who's aggressive and works, he receives the blessing. But I think in the context they're meaning working through God's Word. Because it's you know it takes work to understand God's Word. Which I wasn't going to talk about this, but let me talk it to you anyway. About about m memorizing scripture. Have we talked about that? I probably talked about that too I'm sorry I come here and I repeat myself. You probably know he said this before. Do I gotta hear this again? I don't know. I don't realize that I do that, so just try to be patient with me if I do that. You know, make studies uh memorize scripture. You know, somebody challenged me to do this. Memorize scripture. And you say, uh, all right, you know, that's but here's the thing. Memorize large sections of scripture, like memorize a chapter. And you say I can't do that. And that's what I said. When the person challenged me to memorize a chapter, I said, A cr A chapter? Are you crazy or something? I can hardly do a verse I started mem you know working on a chapter. And so before long I memorized the book of James. James, the servant of God of the Lord Jesus Christ and the twelve tribes that are scattered abroad greeting. My brethren count all joy when you fall into various trials knowing this, the tribe of faith works patience. But the patience have a perfect work in you that you make perfect entire on and on and on Now here's the thing, here's the embarrassing thing. If I can do that, how much easier can you do it Because if you knew me, you know I'm a numb numbskull up here. But if I can do it, I know you can do that. Start memorizing scripture. Pick out what you like, what you want. Put it on a three by five card. Put it in your pocket and carry it with you See you driving, you come up to a red light, get it out, read it, right away, and you know, then go on with it, you know. Memorize scripture, get that in, and you know what, you'll never have a bigger battle in your life To take on memorizing scripture seriously. Because again, your enemy, the role of the flection of the devil, then want you memorizing scripture Okay, we'll let you read it. Okay, but don't memorize it. Don't get it in your heart. We don't want that. That's where you're going to have the battle. Learn to memorize scripture. And I would give you this challenge. So what's today's day? Today is what What is it? Seventeen. Seventeen. Okay. Next b next year this time, have a chapter memorized. Pick any chapter in the Bible you want. Something that speaks to you when you like it. Commit to memorizing it. Memorize the chapter. Memorize verse 1. Then verse 2. And you can do this And then within a year you'll have a chapter memorized. And it it'll mean a lot to you. You can I know every one of you is saying, okay, you can do it. Again I say because if I can do it, nimble brain here can do it Then I know that you can do it. Get God's word in your heart and memorize it. Okay, where am I here? So 10-4, Proverbs 10-4, he becomes poor that deals with a slack hand But the hand of the diligent shall be made rich. Okay, let's go on here to ten seven. Oh now this here, this verse makes me cry. I don't know why. But does it bring me to memory of Oh, I know why, and I can tell you why. Here it is, the memory of the just is blessed. See, I don't want to cry, I want to cry here. Because that makes me think of my dad. My father was a god. He was not like a preacher or anything like this But he knew me. He could communicate to me. Uh he had to drop and he was a child of the depression. So he had to w drop out of high school, you know, eighth, ninth grade or something, and go to work He was smart, but he never went to school. He couldn't go to school because he had to go to work. And he was always very smart and really didn't never had a very good job. He was a great father. He loved me. He led me to the Lord, my dad. And he reminds me of this I think of my dad when I say that phrase in memory of it just as blessed. That was my father. And I know I'm here preaching today because of his influence in my life. He had a great influence in my life. And he would, you know, I was involved in athletics on my left. I think I shared this with you. And you know, I said I went to Kentucky, played football there. And who do you think is in the stands? We're living in Pennsylvania. Who's in the stands in Kentucky? My dad You know, it comes all the way down to come to watch me. At that at that time I wouldn't even play in sitting on the bench. But he that's that's who he was He's a great father. And um the memory and you I'm sure you have people like that in your life as well. Don't you? People who you think of them, they bring tears to your life. Maybe it's your mother, your father, a brother, sister, next door neighbor, whatever And um that's that's the memory of the just and it's blessed. It's good for your brain to have these wonderful people in your head, to think on them, to meditate on them to learn from them. And that's what the scriptures and of course the best we can remember is the Lord Jesus. We want to think on him. And and his wonderful mercy on our life. Ten 1011. Proverbs 10. I gotta keep moving here. I'm getting long-winded here. And I told myself I wouldn't get long-winded. I've rehearsed this about ten times, so I wouldn't get long-winded in here and getting long-winded. Okay. So Proverbs 10, 11, book of Proverbs, chapter 10, verse 11. The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life. Think about that. But violence covers the mouth of the wicked. Think about this, Christian. The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life What you speak, because you're you're a Christian, you're going to give forth the word of God. It's a well of life. You know how to build people up, how to encourage people, how to share the word with people, how to lead them to Christ You know how to do these things. And you are a well of life. Again, know scripture, memorize scripture, live scripture. And if you can put forth the gospel, get forth the gospel. And defend the gospel. Know how to preach it and defend it, because you're going to get a lot of uh reaction. Think about this. The mouth of a righteous man is a well. Scripture saying this, a well of life. That's you. You're a Christian, you're a believer, you love the Lord, and your mouth can be a well of life. Using it to proclaim God's word. Bring people to Christ. Win people to Christ. Handout track. Do you have a track? Do I have a track? I want to use this for an example of course I never have it when I want it. Do I have it? No, I don't have it. Okay, I was going to say You know, carry tracts with you and pass them out. See what hypocrite means. But wait a minute. Let me just say something. I'm actually not a complete total hypocrite here when I say it Do I have one in here? Now if I don't have one in here, I'm a dead man here. Well, you know what I do have here? Aha! Okay, I didn't know I had this. There it is, ladies and gentlemen. There's the track, a track to pass out to people Carry these things with you. And this I like this one because this says, am I going to heaven? So this is very easy. You don't want that But this I find to be very helpful. I said, Hey John, uh before I go, let me just give you some good news. And I just give it to him. And he'll look at it. Am I going to heaven? I said, Well now I now he's into the issue. And he gets it out and starts reading it. And many people have come to the Lord using this. A lot of people too have ripped it up and thrown it away. But that's that's up to them. The point is carry these things with you. And Be ready to you know as Christians, probably all of us, starting with me, need to be more vocal, a little bit more aggressive than we are. I'm too timid, I'm way too timid There really should be somebody up here besides me. This is the best you can get, so you got me and I'll be glad to stand in here and do it. But we don't want to be timid, you know, we w we need to be be bold. To be have a good um To be bold, have a good approach. You don't want to be rude, but we need to think of ways how we can get in conversations with people about the Lord. You see me sitting in a train going into Philly on the train on work and the guy sitting next to you hey Joe. How you doing today? Good. Hey c can I show you something? He doesn't know what to do. He's on the train or waiting Let me give you some good news to read. I'll hand this to him. Now a lot of times they'll take that and uh I don't want this and throws it away. Okay. But he just may say, wait, yeah, I've been thinking about this. They read it and people can come to the Lord through that. Carry something with carry some kind of literature with you. Christian literature. You can always use it. Okay. Let me go on here. I'm getting long-winded, I gotta go, so why don't we do this Let's go to Proverbs chapter 10 verse 12. Proverbs 1012. Oh, this now could be here for a long time on this. I'm trying to rush this because I know I'm going long-winded here Nothing worse than getting to pad with visiting past here and he gets long-winded. Oh my gosh. Be patient with me for a second. I'll speed things up. But look at this Proverbs 10, 12. Think about this. Hatred stirs up stripes, but love covers all sins. Isn't that beautiful? Hatred, you know, we're all aggressive with one another, rah-but the wonderful word of God, and it's the word of God never tells you the truth. Hatred stirs up strife, yeah, but that's not the end of the story. It goes on. But love covers a multitude of sins. I'm sure there's people you love and they're difficult with you, but you you you you you work with them because you love them, right? Love covers a multitude of sins And we w and we need to have Christ in our heart so that we can. You know what the Christ in our heart helps us to love the unlovely. Because let's face it, we all get people in our life that are unlovely But we are to give them love. And not what Jesus did for you, right? Think of us before we were saved. We were very unlovely. And yet the Lord saved us and set us upon the solid rock of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we love him. Now we're serving him. And he calls us to do the same thing. Love, learn to love the unlovely. All right, so should I stop here? I can see you getting tired and I want to go on. I got all these things yet. Um okay, let me just say this. I'll just read this quickly, one or two words and we'll and we'll conclude, okay I know you hate that the pastor comes here to go long-winded on window sky, please be quiet. I know. I know I've been out there, I've done it myself. Okay, so I'm going to look here at 1111, Proverbs chapter 11, verse 11. By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted. Got that? But it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. So it's just a little comparison here. And you know you as a Christian, you are a benefit to your community, obviously to your church, to your business wherever you work, whatever you're doing, you're a benefit because you love the Lord. You're not going to steal, rob, or Swear at people and do the things that destroy a company. You're going to be positive. Because that's what a Christian does. But those who don't know the Lord, they're going to cause all the all these problems. That's what it's saying. The blessing of the upright The city is exalted. Wherever you go, because you know the Lord Jesus, wherever you go, it's going to be exalted. Because you're putting foot you're living God's word. That's a blessing. But it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. They're always there too. Okay, two more verses and we'll conclude. 1114. What do you have here for Proverbs 11:14? Where no counsel is. The people fall. But in a multitude of counselor counselors, there is safety. Isn't that beautiful? Where there's no counsel, the people fall. You have no direction. And so they're going to stumble and fall. In this world, in this evil world, they're going to fall. And could do great catastrophe. But the verse doesn't end there Because uh the perk goes on to say that in a multitude of counselors there is safety. You know, I hope I hope you have a number of Christian friends in your life. Because sometimes you have a difficult time with So maybe you have a difficult time with your husband, your wife, or a child, or your parent, or somebody at work, and you need to have a good Christian friend who you can talk to. You know I Can you help me with this problem? Blah, blah, blah, blah. And if you got somebody like that, if you have a good friend who you can share things with, that's a blessing. Take care of them and be good to them because If they love the Lord and they're a good counselor, hang on to them. They're important. Last verse I'm going to give you here, Proverbs 11, 30. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life. Oh, get this. Can you imagine it? What a way to conclude this. And he that winneth souls is wise. Think about that. Can you imagine? Here's the word of God. He that winneth souls is wise. It's talking for us to be soul winners That that's talking about. And that means to influence people. Obviously, we want to influence them for the gospel. We want to be able to share Christ with others. Look at this: He that wins souls is wise What a glorious thing that is. So hopefully we can work on that and we're aggr become I I'm a hypocrite. I need to become more aggressive and winning soul. They do do it. But probably not like I'm giving the impression I do. I don't do it all the time and as I should. What's this thing? Wait a minute Oh, you know what? Good thing I did this. My offering's here in my pocket. I didn't put it in there. Just where where's where's the offering? Is the offering plate here? But they take the I guess I can I'll keep it myself. Where where's the offering plate? What happened to they take it in? Oh it's under here. There it is. Okay. Isn't that interesting? Oh good, I got some extra money to go out and get something. So I anyway, so say I do have these two tracks here. I give them out as I'm able to But have some kind of literature that you know you can hand out and it's good. Now there's a lot of, shall we say, Christian literature. It's not clear, it's not good, and doctrinally it's not even doctrinally sound. But if you can get something to stock and learn quick and easy to read up with Torm of a track, use it. Hand them out Well somebody get offended. So let them get offended. So what? We're offended every day. Who cares? Get the word of God out. Because you know what? Some people will be offended, but some will get saved. The best friend I told you that today. Best friends I have today, those who got saved, and it's a wonderful thing. Let's pray together. Our Father, we want to say thank you for your holy word. And here we're only able to touch the surface There's so much in your word. But thank you for this group of people here today, Lord. Every one of us would could give a long speech, Why We Do Not Deserve Heaven why we earned and deserved hell, and yet we're getting heaven. Because we have received grace, grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. For by grace are we saved through faith and not of ourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Father, thank you for looking at us in the eyes of grace and drawing us irresistibly unto you. I pray for the congregation today, Lord, as you take us home, take us home safely. Help us to use our time, talent, money, our home, our cars, all that we have, our money, all that we have for the glory of God Thank you for this church. I pray for your protection on it, your continued blessing on it. This is a w Lord, I pray these people understand what a wonderful congregation they are, what a joyful experience they have with this group right here. We thank pray for pastor, Sunday school teachers, your blessing on them, Lord. And thank you for bringing us together today. We pray through Christ our Lord. Amen.