And so we gotta preach against it and preach the gospel. The best thing we can do is preach the gospel. That's all about today. I want to talk to you from Romans chapter two and verse three. Now I guess you haven't Realize this. What I'm doing, I'm just going through the book of Romans verse by verse. And so I'm in Romans chapter 2. And I'm going to look in verse number 3. Romans chapter 2, verse 3. Now, as you all know, that the New Testament was originally written in Greek, and that's a good thing because the Greek is much more specific than English, especially in the verbs. If I say Johnny ran to the store Okay, Johnny Ryan did a story, big deal. But if you say that in the Greek tense, you know exactly when you rent it. Was it was it early in the morning, was it late at night? Uh it gives you much more information So if you looked at this text from the Greek text, now the Greek text is comprised of 21 words. The English text is comprised of 25 words, because it takes more English words to explain what what the Greek has. The Greek sounds somet sounds something like this. Lagazai, di ta tu, o anthropote, ho krino, tus ta Krimata, Prost Estes, Chai, Promon Alto, Ho Tu Ex tufe tu crima to the you. But in English it says this, and thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things. And does and does the same. That you shall escape the judgment of God? So he's asking here a question. You mess around, you sin, then you think you're going to escape the judgment of God, don't you? That's that's the whole point of this. Well, the theme of this verse, as you can see, is the word judgment So when you go home today and somebody says that but you don't remember what the pastor talked about. Yes, I do. Judgment. So we're talking about a judgment. Now there's various kinds of judgment, so we'll explain it as we go on The word judgment, though, in your Bible, in your King James Bible, the word judgment is there 285 times. So it is a significant concept in scripture when we're talking about judgment. In our text, the word judgment is used twice. Once it's referring to man's judgment, and once it's referring to God's judgment. And then also, along this line of thinking, the word judge. That is found 107 times in Scripture. And the word judgeth, TH Is found in God's Word 16 times. So when we're talking about judging, judgment, this is a major theme in the Word of God. The point that we're going to look at in just a moment is simply this: that God is concerned about justice. And therefore, we're talking, therefore, we will talk a bit about judgment. In this world, you're fortunate if you get justice. We were just talking about you know jails and just sharing with you what it was like in jail. And um But in this world, if you get justice, you're fortunate. You can very easily get accused of something, never do it, and get get charged for it and and have a problem But in this world we're lucky to get it. But think about this. In the kingdom of God there's absolute justice and there will always be j no when I say the word kingdom of God That's an eschatological term, kingdom of God. What do you see as the kingdom of God? There's different views on the kingdom of God. So I'm not going to get into that now because it's another whole issue there. But we know this within that kingdom, no matter how you look at it, there is absolute justice. In this world, you're not going to get justice. Or if you do get it, you're very, very fortunate. We find that God judges sin, and that's clear from the book of Genesis to Revelation. God judges sin. Now what's sin? We know what sin is, right coming from the word Hamoton, and it means missing the mark of God's perfection So if you miss if you're not perfect, you're a sinner. And of course the Bible tells us all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. Now in Scripture, it makes the point of the Ten Commandments. You violate the Ten Commandments, sinner And so, you know, that's a major issue. Now we have to realize this. When we're talking about sin, sin before who? Well, primarily sin before God. That's what we're really concerned about. But understand this. God is so holy, of such holiness, he cannot overlook sin. Say, we can overlook sin. I could do something against you and you said, don't worry about it. And forget it. God can't. You know, there as you look clearly, there are things that we can do that God can't do. One is God can't overlook sin. It must be punished. Why is this? Because as we look at the attributes of God, That explains why he cannot overlook sin. Because what's the Bible tell us about God? God is holy. That means without sin right there. We're dead right there. He is just So if there is a sin, it must be punished. He's omniscient Meaning that he knows everything. He knows what you would be doing if you weren't here today. He knows what it is. He knows everything. He's omniscient. God is omnipotent Meaning he's all powerful. He can do his holy will. And as we see in scripture, sin must be punished. It must be paid for. Now, wonderfully For you and me, and for all who have believed in Christ, our sin is paid for. We're sinners, but the sin has been dealt with. The sin has been paid for. By the work of Jesus Christ on the cross. Someone explain it to me this way. Let me explain it to you. Like, here it is. I know you know this, but here's something how you can share it with other people. Like this. Well first of all I'm gonna use my wallet, but I better make sure my money doesn't fall out. Let me see here. Oh by the way, speaking about money I brought I brought an orphan alone and it's not my done even check around here laying around. If you look for checks, if you see one laying around here, let me know. It's probably mine Because I w wanted to give an offering that wasn't there. And I d I know I took the money out of my pocket and m moved it somewhere else. Anyway, here I want to tell you this. So this is me, Don Britton. This represents my sin. Don Britton, sin, I am the sinner by nature and by choice, I'm a sinner. Can't go to heaven like this, and I can't get rid of the sin. Letting this hand represent the Lord Jesus Christ, notice there's no sin on him. He lived a perfect life. Now the gospel tells us many things, but one is this that Christ died on the cross for our sins. So if I do this This hand is Jesus. He takes my sin on himself. When Jesus is on the cross, he's dying, paying the penalty for my sin. All my w there's a lot of wickedness there he's paying for. But not only mine, the sins of his people, the sins of the Lord's people. Jesus is on the cross paying for their sin So, if Jesus pays for my sin, how many sins do I have to pay for? None. This is how I go to heaven. This transaction occurs when I repent and believe on Jesus. Now no matter how good you are, if you do not believe on Christ, you're going to stand before a holy God like this. And now you're going to try to explain, well, I didn't really mean what I said or what I did. And that you know none of that's going to work before a holy God. There's only way, one way we can stand before a holy God, having trusted in Christ, having our sins taken off of us. Now, when I die, whether it be today or many years from now, I'm going to stand before a God justified Covered by the blood of the Lord Jesus. But what makes this tape plate when we believe? When we repent, and what's repentance? A change of mind. Now you hear a lot of times repentance is turning from your sin. Technically it's not. Repentance, coming from the word metaneo, is a change of mind. Now that change of mind will lead to a change of your life, and you will put stop to sinning. But repentance itself is simply I changed my mind. I don't believe in Jesus, I'm changing my mind. I want to believe with Christ as my Savior Therefore I have no sin to pay for. There I go. I go to heaven on the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the gospel. That's the cross. But if you do not know Christ, if you have not trusted in him, then this wonderful Bible Tells us another gruesome story. That if people live on this earth and they leave this earth having not received Christ, they have eternal life as well. But it's not in heaven, it's in hell. And I don't know, can we describe what hell is like? It's misery. And and I was thinking about this the other day. How how could that really be? You think somebody dies? They're not in they don't they don't have Christ. They die with us now they had not a hundred hundred years in hell, a billion, no, they have eternity in hell Now there does seem to be indication that there's degrees of discomfort in hell, but it's hell, it's separation from God. What's hell? Separation from God So if you want to if you need a motivation to hand tracks out, do I have a track with me on it? I you know, I I I talk about this, you know. We should hear not uh course I don't have one. Big hippocrite, I'm I'm sure I brought one here. No. I can't find my check either. No, I can't find my track. Anyway, let me get back onto this here So we're talking here about a dilemma, a divine, what I call the divine dilemma. God is holy, man is sinful. Man cannot coexist in peace before God, and so we have a mess. So this is the story of the gospel. Christ died. And what is the gospel? Now if I were to let me ask you this question, I know I've said this to you many times before. So let's assume we're in a seminary class here. And I say, okay, class, we're having a quiz today. Get out a piece of paper. Question one, this is our only question today. Define for me the gospel. Define it. And then give me a Bible verse or whatever, then paste your paper up and I'm going to examine it. Question, or I might ask this, where is the gospel defined in the Bible? Where can you show me what the gospel is? Where would you turn to? All right, we're not a college class, so we're just a church service, so I'll tell you what it is. But you have what? 1 Corinthians 15. Get this memorized You know, certain things I know nobody so I had memory verses here on the front of my Bible so I can remember these things because uh you know it's hard for me to memorize things. My brain badness getting worse every day, but The gospel, what is it? The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. That is the gospel. It's referred to as the Ewangelion or the Good News. But that's the gospel. The death The burial and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. If I come here and I preach to you, Christ died on a cross for your sins. And go on and on and on. And don't mention the resurrection. That's not a real full presentation of the gospel. And you don't want to leave Christ in the grave. We do that often. Christ died for your sins and we pray about it and believe in Jesus, blah blah and that's all good. But don't leave him in the grave. The truth is the gospel that he resurrected. And that's what really stimulated everyone to go out and share the gospel. Because the Lord showed himself alive after many infallible proofs Again, the definition of the gospel, 1 Corinthians 15, 1 to 4, make sure you know it, make sure you memorize it. Be good to memorize Now someone mentioned, I guess in in in um opening exercises, 1 John 5. 13 was was mentioned. That should be in memory verse as well. These bit because it's plain and it's it's powerful. These things have a written unto you that believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know. The Kno-W If you look that back up in your Greek text, Ginemai, that you may know these things have a written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you can know you have eternal life, and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God. So it's not something where well I hope I hope when I die I go to heaven. I hope God reminds that. You can have confidence. If you believe in Christ, if you received him as your Savior and your Lord and you trust in him, you know you're going to go to heaven. That's the promise. First John What the five first John 5. 13 makes that clear to you. However, the Lord Jesus Christ goes to the cross and makes all these things possible. Now here's one thing I want to tell you before actually I haven't gotten into my text yet, by the way. This is an old doctory work here. Before I get into Romans chapter 2, verse 3, I just want to say one more thing. Here is a desperate need within the Christian world and a desperate need in the world, and that is Soul winners for Jesus Christ. You know what I mean when I say a soul winner? That is someone who has on his agenda To witness to his friends, his neighbors, his relatives, whatever. He's gonna have a plan how how to get the word of God out. Now I know I have a track with me I wanted to show you this. And yet this track disappeared. Did you take my track that was in my pocket when you put the oh he's got the track. Okay Anyway, and you got you got the check too, I bet. But they both went the same place. I'm just kidding. Okay. All right, but here's here's what I'm trying to point across here. What the world needs Our soul winners. Christians moved to give the gospel to your friends, to your neighbors. Yeah, get in the habit of doing this. Well I don't know how to do that. Well I can't spend all day on this. That's not my message. But you know you should have the track. I have a track. I not bought it here. It's not here. My check, I brought my check, it's not here, so somebody's robbing me anyway The check I like to use, or the verse I like to use, to track and ask a question. The cover says, Am I going to heaven? That's a great way to start it off. Because the guy will look at that, oh no, I know I'm not going to go to heaven. Okay, so now you know how to give them a testimony. That's another thought. I'm getting off beat here, but I'll do it anyway, so what? Now, your testimony Do you can you give your testimony? A testimony is God's faithfulness in your life And all of us they're all unique. All our stories are all different. My story is different than yours. Your story is different than mine. But do you know how to? Bless your heart, my dear. Look at this. This boy, oh boy, is she ready? Look at this This is the very this is the track this is the exact track I'm talking about. Yeah. And so I I I don't know how many these things I give it up. I said, hey Joe, it's good to meet you. Hey, let me give you some good news. And just hand it to them. Now they take it. And then you get a variety of well I know I'm not gonna go to heaven. Or or somebody say, I don't hear, take it back, I don't want to see this. Okay And some of them, yeah I do, I just received the Lord last week. You get all different kinds of responses, but it gets you right into the convers asking this question gets you into the conversation. The hardest part in witnessing is getting into it You know, I mean if you're talking about the weather or the Phillies or the Eagles, how am I going to go from there to the gospel? It's hard. You've got to sort of work to get in there, but if you just give them that, hey friend, I got some good news I want to share with you. Here, you can have this I mean I like this, so he has to take it, you know. Am I going to go am I going to heaven? You're right into the gospel. And this of course in here it explains it, but you can explain it. So um Now before I was given that I was I was on a roll with something that was good. What's that? Oh anyway, I'll move on. It'll come to me as we move on here Talking about being a soul winner, talking about getting the gospel out. So I hope you're doing that. I hope that's on your agenda. You say, well, I don't know what to say. I don't know how to say it. Well, now Then I would say, how long have you been saved? 25 years. Okay? And you don't know how to give out the gospel, something's wrong. Something's wrong somewhere. Maybe your fault, maybe the church's fault, maybe your parents' fault, maybe the person too Mr. Disolphus who knows. But hopefully we do have a plan of getting it. We got to get the word of God out. We can't be passive because the world's you know the world's gone down And we just can't be oh gosh, you know, you can get in there, get into the battle. But a lot of times too we're afraid. Well he's gonna laugh at me, he's gonna mock me, he's gonna make fun of me, you know So what but if you know how to get the gospel out, that'll give you courage. And so there's many many ways of sharing the gospel. Okay, what is the gospel? Now what is it that you're going to share? Death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. So now you want to now how can I do that Make that a matter of prayer, Lord, teach me how. And the major thought is how you how are you going to do this? I know you want to do it. How do you do it? How can I do this in such a way that the person will at least hear me out How can I do it in such a way that I don't make a fool of myself? You can do that too if you don't know what you're what you're going, you know what you're doing. So these are things no probably these are things you're Other Christian friends, Bible studies, church services, or church bees or whatever, should teach us it. How do I do it? You know the gospel, death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. That's easy The hard part is how do I actually do it? How do I get into a con I'm sitting on a bus and I'm, you know, the Lord's we might maybe I should witness to this guy on the bus. And then I underline the word. How? How do you go about doing that? Well, one way is carry these around. And so maybe you're talking to someone on the bus. Hey Joe, um, you know, good to see you. Hope you have a good day today. Oh, by the way, Joe, I got to get off of this stop here. Can I leave you this good news? And just leave it with them Now this one here has the gospel in it very clear. A lot of gospels are confusing. You don't want to give them out. This is a pretty good track. Get yourself a good track and um Oh, speaking about tracks, by the way, I do have uh I have a couple of the couple of these. This is a written copy of today's sermon. So if you if you're interested in this, I'll just leave it up here. You can have it. And it has all the cross references Which there are seventeen of them for this message here. Uh however, the only problem is I haven't gotten to my mess I haven't got into this yet. I'm gonna need this is still my introduction yet, so I don't know what's gonna happen here, what's going on. But anyway Okay, why don't we do this? I'm going to cut a couple things off here. I was going to share with you my experience growing in the Lord while I was at in in secular college. And that you know there's ever an ungodly place in the this isn't even back back in the 60s when I was back there. It was an ungodly place there. I mean, man. But that's but you know what? In my life, that's where the Lord had me to grow. Now I the Lord had me to grow in an un most ungodly environment you could imagine. And uh would not uh I'll just leave it at that. Um Anyway, you know what? Get the gospel out. Live the gospel. What's the gospel? Death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. What do you do about it? Believe. Encourage the person, hey buddy, did you know I got some good news? What? Did you know that Jesus was the Son of God? And he did many wonderful things, but one of which he paid for your miserable sins Now the guy may well I'm not a sinner. Then you've got to get into the whole discussion of that. But this is what a soul winner, I'm talking about a soul winner. This is somebody who has his life geared around getting the gospel out. That's what's important, getting the gospel out It's not important to make a lot of money. It's not important to be popular. It's important to get the gospel out. That's what I mean by soul winner. He's narrow-minded on getting the word of God out. Thinks about it, memorizes scripture, does things, takes risk, and you take a risk too. When was that time? I I um w what this is a while back now, while while back, but a guy a guy pulled a knife out on me. I was witnessing to him and he pulled a knife out. And he actually he put it up to my throat. And and I thought, Okay, Lord, I'm re I'm ready to come And you know, I really don't remember something happened distract distracted in. But that's weird, that's strange, doesn't happen often, but you will get some strange weirdo sometimes if you pass out God's word with regularity You'll find some weirdos. But you know what? You trust in the Lord to help you and to guide you. You talk about one weirdo. I'm going to stop and get into this because I've got a good message here. One of the biggest weirdos I ever met was my college roommate from Montreal, Canada. And I witnessed to him and he looked at me and said, no, he's a he's a big, big, strong guy. He's defensive hat played professional football for a while. He looked at me and I said, Don't you ever talk to me about that again? I mean he was angry. I really hear that. Okay, I'll I'll be good boy. I won't. So but this is my roommate how to deal with him, you know. So so I sort of pulled back. I didn't bother him, but every once in a while I say, hey Al, you want to come to uh I'm going to go to a meeting today. Why don't you come with me? It was like Campus Crusade for Christ meeting. Group of Christians there on the campus. Al, you want to come along? No Next week, hey Al, you want to come along? Nope. But I kept doing that. And after a couple months, hey Al, you want to come along? Alright. He said it was alright. Alright, let's go. And um I cried this point, but oh over time, over time, Al came to Christ. Al actually got saved. And and since that time to this day we're like this. And Al i is a Canadian, I don't see him a whole lot. And he and his wife and my both my my first wife myself were very close together And he has a youth group, he has his own little youth group he does, and it's it's amazing. What's exciting to see somebody come to Christ and get to serve the Lord But they're not going to serve the l uh come to Christ unless you tell them. The bird doesn't come down and tell them, which it did, but it doesn't. So but here's the thing, I know you get scared if you're going to share Christ. become timid and all that, I understand that. And sometimes you're you're misunderstood and you and you're rejected. Okay, so what? Who cares? But what I care about is getting the word out and people getting saved. It's a beautiful thing I'm here on a tangent. I've got to get back off this tangent. Here's the text I want to talk about here. Romans 2. 3. Those were just my introductory remarks. So the introduction is just a very small part of the larger sermon. So that's the small part. So we're going to be here for another hour or so. So I'm just kidding. But I just want you to look at Romans chapter 2 verse 3. And I'm going to break it down in little phrases. So I'm simple-minded. I gotta break things down and and make them tiny little things and then they can manage it. So why don't we do that? Just look at it, see what we have, and then we'll conclude for today Romans chapter 2, verse 3, and thinkest thou this. Now if you take that back to its Original language, it's Wagaz D Tau Tu. Thinkest thou this. Now what does that mean? This is Old English, obviously, King James Bible, sort of Old English. But why do I like that? Because the translation is accurate. For some of your newer versions, they're easier to read, but a lot of times you're not sure how accurate they are King James, you can go back and study the King James translators. They were in fear of God's word. They didn't mess with it. I wouldn't trust the guys today who are translating the Bible, but anyway Here's what we have here. And thinkest thou this is the phrase we're looking at. Now what does that mean? Put that in your own words. And it means Think on these things. It means think along with me. It means let's analyze this thing together. It's what you find in Isaiah 46 verse 10. Be still and know that I am God. Be still. Stop running around. Look at this. Huh? And focus on God. Or it's what you find in Isaiah 1. 18. Come, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Think about that Your sins are red as scarlet by the Lord Jesus can change that and make that as white as snow. That's Isaiah 1. 18. Come let us. And what does he say? Reason together And that's what witnessing is. And just even when we come here, I want to reason with you. I don't want I'm not going to dominate something on you. I want to reason with you The next phrase we see in this verse is what? O man that judges. Let's think about that for a minute. So we find here, and thinkest thou this? No, he's addressing O man that judges. Somebody who's judgmental is what he's talking about here. The best way I can get this across is by giving you a true story. I'll make it quickly. About Dennis and Pat. Dennis was was a friend of mine. We hooked up like around seventh grade. I'd walk to school and I'd walk past his house and he'd be walking to school, so we'd walk to school together and then we'd developed a friendship and found that we were both interested in baseball and we had a lot of common things. I think I think Dennis passed on and I really don't know that he knew the Lord. I you know we I talked to him about the Lord many times But right now we're kids in seventh, eighth grade I'm talking about now. I'm talking about a girl named Pat and Dennis, my good friend Dennis. Dennis was a left-handed pitcher, by the way. And you know what, Dennis? Dennis was a left-handed pitcher and he had this curveball. But the problem is the curveball would hang. You know what a hanging curveball is? Man is in the batteries off the bat, and here comes the ball. Now it's supposed to go down and away from the batter. But a hanging Fastball doesn't it doesn't drop, it just comes right across the plate and it usually gets hit out for a home run. But the old but Dennis also had a Knuckleball. Now this is what made him a good pitcher. He was a knuckleball pitcher. A knuckleball, you know what a knuckleball is? Should have bought a baseball here and I could give you an example of what what a knuckleball is. Okay, this is close. Okay, pretend this is the this is the baseball. So a knuckleball is you grab you you you put your fingers like and put the ball in your fingers like that And then when you throw it, you push open your fingers, and if you're good at it, the ball doesn't spin. It floats. So it'll come up to the battery it looks going like this. Of course it's hard to hit Dennis had an excellent probably one of the best best uh knuckle ball pictures that I've caught during my my lifetime. He was really very good at this So I'm talking about Dennis, my good friend Dennis, and now his girlfriend Pat. So here's I want to get to this story here quickly and move on. I'm lying over place here for you. Helps to understand what I'm saying here. Dennis and I are going to go double on a prom. I don't know, 10th, 11th grade prom, I don't know which one it was. Okay, so Dennis has a date, I have a date, okay. Uh all right Dennis, I'm gonna come by and pick you up, and then we'll go pick up the girls. Okay, somebody jump by, pick up Dennis. We go pick up his girlfriend first. His girlfriend's name is Pat. Okay. Pat was a pretty nice nice looking girl, shall we say. He stopped by her house. Dennis gets out, walks up to the door, pick up his face. Now this is, you know, this is this is like a something we a prom, you know, so they have these nice big flowing gowns and all this So he get you know he gets her and walks her to the car and and um she's in the back there they're sitting in the back seat. So he opens the door for her, she sits in the back seat, he goes around the other side and sits down. Now After he sits her down, I say, Hi Pat, good to see you. Well, you look nice today. And with that, she begins To cry. Okay. Pat, what's the matter? What are you crying about? No, you know, the tears are coming out her eyes and she has a m mascara on and it's starting to chip down her face before she goes to the big prom. Oh man. Pat, what's the matter? You're beautiful. What's the matter? She said, my dad said I look terrible and that I shouldn't go tonight. Oh man. Well, Pat, you look Well, before you start crying, you know you look beautiful. And you'll you'll be okay. Well, and then uh my my buddy Dennis got in the car and so we went, you know, we went to to to to the prong and You know, enjoyed ourselves and we did our thing. But um what what ruined the night for her, for Pat, was the judgment of her father. Now how how would a father say this to his daughter on a big Prom night. You look terrible. You imagine that? Anyway, that's what was done, and it obviously ruined her night. And the point I'm really trying to make is judgments. Being judgmental crushes people. And I hope you aren't that way. And you know probably some somebody here is probably judgmental. You get this number of people, somebody tends to be judgment. I gotta watch it. I can tend to be judgmental And you know you don't want to do that. You crush really the spirit of people. Especially you don't want to judge others if you don't have all the facts. But you know, a judgmental spirit, I'm saying that because our text is about judging, a judgmental spirit Is connected to your thought life. Think about that. Now, if you may know someone or maybe you have a problem in this area, you tend to be judgmental. Think about it for a minute. Proverbs chapter twenty-three, verse seven, tells us, as a man thinketh in his heart. So is he. Think about that. That's a powerful statement. As a man thinks in his heart, so is he. You are the product of your thought life Are you happy with yourself? When you look in the mirror, do you hey happy with what you see? Are you happy with what you are? As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. So here's a progression of a thought which will affect your life. Here's what happens: a thought becomes an action. An action becomes a habit. A habit becomes a way of life. And the way of life becomes a destiny all because of an undisciplined thought. What we let in our mind matters. What you let your mind dwell upon is significant because it's it's determining who you are and what you are, what you think on during the daytime. What you allow, what you gaze on on your computer, what you gaze on, what you allow on a TV or whatever's occupying your mind, you gotta guard this thing. Because it will affect you, it doesn't affect me, it affects you. You just don't know how it affects you. Believe me, it will affect you. You are a creature who responds to stimuli. Whether it's your eyes or your ears And so this little progression is not original with me, but I wrote it down and thought this makes a lot of sense. Think about that again and we'll move on. A thought becomes an action. An action becomes a habit. A habit becomes a way of life. A way of life becomes a destiny. This is what you're going to be around in your life. All because of a thought. This is about your thought life. Now let me just see how this plays out in different areas of life. And I'm going to skip a lot and get to my conclusion here because I rattled on What you don't want is the past is rattling on, rattling on, which is what I've done today, but I think I have some interesting things to share with you. But let me just say one more thing here. This thought life And I'm going to share with you how this works in the sports world. That's what I am. If you want to know who I am, I've always engaged in sports. Whether it be football, baseball, basketball. That's basically what I'm that's that and the Lord. That's what I am. Take those two things out of my life and I'm not I'm I I wouldn't I wouldn't appear. This is basically what I am. So usually my experiences have to do with sports. So I want to share this with you quickly Think about, if you're not familiar with this, the destruction that a negative coach does to his to his team You get a coach that's always complaining. Well Donnie Britton you don't hold the ball right. You gotta do it this way. Well Donnie Britton you've holding the ball because that's it and and and you get over and over and over and you know does this guy really know what he's talking about? But uh but what that does, that destroys people. That kind of approach destroys people. And yet I see this quite often in in the field of athletics. But it's not only in the field of athletics. Let's talk about it parenting. Parenting our children. If we as parents are negative all the time with our children, or overly negative, or overly responsive, you know, the child makes a mistake and you come down too much, you know, you could do some damage to your kid. So we need to be very careful about this. That we're not too judgmental and harsh as parents. Think about a pastor. Take the same thing as a pastor. You get a pastor who's judgmental. Oh, you got a problem. But you know what? I have to watch that myself. I've done that and wrongly and I've learned over the years. But you have to be careful. But if you get a pastor who's judgmental, it comes out in the sermons. I mean uh let me tell you, can I tell you the story of pastor? What's the pastor's name I can see his face. Uh his daughter was Marty. What's her past nine? Anyway, that I can't remember his name. This is back in Kentucky when I was A student at the University of Kentucky. That's when I started to grow my faith knowledge of Christ. So my girlfriend later became my wife, not Vicky, but my wife before her. Her best friend was the daughter of the pastor So they were always close together. And and occasionally we would we get together with with my girlfriend at that time, Faye, who later became aware, and and and um the daughter of the pastor and the pastor. Uh we would get together occasionally and their pastor, believe it or not, was always negative. No matter what something was said, you know, he would comment on it and then get to a negative point of view. But this would go on regularly. And I also noticed that the girlfriend to my w to my future wife, she was negative too. And you see you you feed this you this negativity, you can feed it on to your children, you think it and if you're a pastor And you're negative about everything, you're going to pass that on to your church. But all then you're going to have a judgmental church. And that's not good because you know what they're going to do? Judge you. And you're going to be out of there soon But you but you have to watch that I have to watch this as a pastor and and church leaders. Guard against this, being negative Now yes, you there are times you have to call a spade a state. You gotta do but that can't be just your regular way of life, always complaining, always down, always blaming somebody else. You gotta watch that Or let me give you one other example here. What about a negative husband? Or I could say a negative wife, either way. And I've seen this go both ways, you know, in many years of counseling, marriage counseling, and you know a lot of times you get a wonderful, beautiful, wonderful woman, loves the Lord, and here's the husband Harsh, judgmental. And it just crushes her spirit. You know, she can't serve the Lord in joy and happiness because she's got this dominating harsh husband. So I pull him aside. So when I say this, I take the husband aside and I and I drill him, you know, a couple times. So let him know, let him know what he's doing, because you're gonna destroy your wife It goes the other way too. There are times you have a husband trying to live for the Lord and you got a critical wife. And she's down on him and everything he does is wrong and you don't know oh my gosh. I could share things where you wouldn't believe. But the point is this. As a man thinks in his heart, so is he. We cannot be negative people because you're going to affect the people that you live with. Your wife's not going to be happy and joyful. Your husband's not going to have a great sense of accomplishment and want to love you if you're harsh to them. So I'm not talking to anybody in particular that I know, but I'm probably talking to somebody here. You're people. We all deal with these things. Okay, let me give you one other verse. I'm gonna stop Maybe not. Might add one other thing to it, and then I'm going to stop. Philippians chapter 4, verse 8. Focus on that. Philippians 4, 8. Some of you memorized this, I'm sure. It says Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report If there be any virtue and if there be any praise, think on these things. This is what should be revolving in our brain. Good things that are wholesome, that are just memorizing scripture. Think positively about your wife, about your husband. Negative thoughts, cast them out. Don't allow negativity to dominate in your brain. Because it will affect your relationships, it will affect your life. Isn't that a powerful verse? If we do this, think if you can look look, let me say this again. God speaking to us, to his people, Philippians 4. 8. Whatsoever things are true, honest, just pure, lovely, good report, if there be any virtue and if there be any praise. Think on these things. Hence our text says what? And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges. And by the way, judges who? Getting back to our text, judges who? And the answer is them which do such things, taking it from our text today, those who do such things. And we ask, well, those who do what things? What's it talking about? Then you have to look at the context. Now you have to go back to the end of chapter 2 to see what he's talking about. And lo and behold, if we look in verse 29, we see all this Romans 1:29, what do you see here? Being filled. Now you're going to have a list of 24 sins from verse 29 to 32. Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetess, maliciousness, and on and on and on So these are the things that by the the the author here is discussing this thing as being judgmental Why? Because they're thinking of things like this found in verse 29 of chapter 1. Your mind is on fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, backbiters, haters of God, and on and on and on. And then we find out this, as we read here in chapter two, what did God do with these people? Now here's the dangerous thing. What does God do with these people? God gave them over to a reprob. Think about that. God will give people over to a reprobate mind. You hear the word of God, you God sends his messengers, he sends his missionaries, he sends those to minister, to help out others, and you don't listen, you don't listen. There comes God comes some points, okay? That's what you want. And he'll take his hands off of you And give you over to a reprobate mind. And I bet you know people who have a reprobate mind. I know some. In fact, I'm better not say. Man, I'll tell you what. A reprobate mind. You're going to get nowhere with a reprobate mind. If you have to live with or deal with a reprobate mind, you're in for some difficult times. So these are the things we have to guard against. God gave him over to and why did he do this because of the things that are represented right here. And and then what's it say at the end of our uh part of our text here? And you do the same thing. He's given a great rebuke here unto the people. So what does this verse tell us about? And this is I'm going to can cu can I'll conclude with this. Okay. Who can re can somebody here recite first John one nine? First John chapter one verse nine. Beautiful. By the way, we didn't plan that. That was spontaneous. Very, very nicely done. Very good, yes. Think about that, people. If we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I'm going to close today in a prayer, and I want you to judge the person sitting next. No, I want you to judge yourself. Analyze your life right now. And if the Spirit of God brings sin, makes you aware of sin that's in your life, confess it. Talk to the Lord about it now. Confess it. Yes, Lord, you know, I did Do this. I did think this. I did yes. I'm guilty. I did it. Admit your guilt before God. And ask him to forgive you and to give you the power, deliver you from it, that you'll not go back to it. If you do go back to it, immediately pull back, confess it before the Lord, and again do your best to avoid. And I I know we all you know we all have our weaknesses. We all have certain sins we just tend to and we think, oh it's got so much power over me and he can't resist and all that. We all have those things. But when they get you, get alone with the Lord, confess it to him, admit it. Ask him to give you the power to get rid of it out of your life. And if you do that with regularity, he will give you the power to beat this thing. And um and then therefore you can have victory. Wipe the sin out of your life, because all these sins that we can tam can tam they they weigh you down, they take away your joy, they take away your understanding of God. It does so many things Get rid of it. Get it out of your life. Let's pray. Our Father, we want to say thank you because here we have a room full of miserable sinners by nature. And I'm one of them. And yet, what do we have in common in this room? You showed your mercy on us. Abundant mercy. That when we have earned and deserved an eternity in hell, you rescued us from this and placed us upon the solid rock of the Lord Jesus Christ. And now we love the Lord Jesus. Now we want to serve Him. Yes, we want to repent of our sins. We still struggle with sin. But Lord, continue to give us the power to repent of that sin. Get it behind us. And help us to move forward in freedom, in liberty, and power, drawing closer to you, being a more thorough witness. Learning to love one another. Father, I pray for the husbands right here in this room that you will teach them or continue to teach them to love their wives. As Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. Father, I would pray for the wives of this church that they would learn to follow and to respect their husbands. We ask, Lord, that you would give them fond thoughts of their husband, and when negative thoughts come in to whisk them away. Learning how to think proper our thought life, Lord. Help us to think properly as husbands and wives. And thank you for bringing us together this day, having mercy on us and saving us. We want to say thank you for this, oh Lord. And they pray this through Christ, our Lord. Amen.