Pilgrim and things are continuing in our nation and around the world with our build up crisis. Today we're still on the full fool's errand of trying to prevent everyone from getting the flu. And we're going to go to great lengths to prevent everybody from getting the flu. And of course, it's politically motivated, really, and bottom line. And then we have those riots where we want to erase the Christian heritage of the United States in the name of s uh erasing references to slavery or anything that had to do with slavery, but that's just an excuse. But the funny thing is, is that the Democratic Party has been in history always the party of slavery. And of course they ignore all of that. And so we live in times where it's good to study the book of Revelation. And I got an email this past week from the place I get tracks from, from Chip Tracks. And they said, all you gotta do is change one letter between mask and mark. Masks and the mark of the beast. And people are all ready to march in line to get their masks on, and they'll march in line to get their mark of the beast. And of course there's always excuses given for all these things. And the excuse for the mark of the beast could very well be, oh, don't you know we have so much crime? Well prevent all the crime if everybody has the mark And so we have all the things building up to the time of the book of Revelation, everything coming into place. And so we continue with our study of Revelation this morning. Revelation chapter 11 and chapter 12. And we're Revelation chapter 11 to start out for a few minutes, and then we go on to chapter 12. Now we had looked at last time we did Revelation, we looked at the two witnesses. And their bodies were out there, and then they rose from the dead and went up to heaven. And then it tells us in verse 14 of Revelation chapter 11: the second woe was past, the third woe comes quickly. We had been looking at the trumpet judgments. And the fifth, sixth, and seventh trumpets are the three woes. Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitors of the earth. And so the fifth and sixth ones are passed. The seventh is coming, the last one. And with the seventh trumpet, you have the seven bowels as well. It's coming to the time of the end. And so we have it said in verse 15: The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. It's pointing forward to this that God is finally taking control, that all enemies will be put under his feet. Finally. And the kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of God. They haven't been up to this point completely, but they are become. Anybody tell me where those words are from? A very famous place those words are used. The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign. And he shall reign forever and ever. From the hallelujah chorus of the Messiah. And that comes right here from Revelation chapter 11 and verse 15. And then verse 16. The 4 and 20 elders, they fall down on their faces and worship God. Over and over and over in the Bible, when people worship, they fall on their faces before God. Fall down before Him. They don't jump around and celebrate. As we have today with worship. And then 17. We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, for thou hast taken to thee thy great power and hast reigned God is finally going to take full power, full control here at the time of the end when these events happen in the book of Revelation. And then verse eighteen, the nations were angry. We read these verses earlier in the responsive reading And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come in the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give reward to thy servants, the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small and great. And so Judgment Day is coming. Here, just after all these events that we're talking about here, Judgment Day is coming. And judgment day will be for everyone that has ever lived. On this earth, saved and unsaved. You know, there was a famous preacher of the last century, I don't know, I forget what his name was. But I remember that he had a sermon that was a very famous sermon that he preached thousands of times. He was an Baptist evangelist. And he preached a sermon thousands of times, and the title of the sermon was Payday Someday. Payday someday. And that's exactly what we have in this verse right here. Payday someday. We're all going to go to our payday someday. And we're going to get rewarded for those things that we did for the Lord. We're going to uh be called into question for things that we did wrong, even Christians. And especially the unsaved will be judged for their sins. Payday someday. We're all looking forward to that He will give reward to his servants, the prophets. The prophets are very important in God's plan. The prophets are people that tell people what they don't want to hear. And they've done that all through history. Well, after this announcement is that God is taking all power to Himself, finally, it hasn't been before, but it will be coming, you know Verse 19, and the temple of God was opened in heaven. And you know, we had the tabernacle in the Old Testament, we had the Solomon's temple. And Zrubbabel's temple is different temples. And they were all set up, I believe, on the plan of what's in heaven. And here in heaven we have the temple opened. And it is seen in the temple, the Ark of the Covenant. And of course, the Ark of the Covenant was always in the Holy of Holies. In the place where just the high priest went once a year, the Ark of the Covenant. And so this is looking into the Holy of Holies. Further on in the book of Revelation at the end it said John says, I saw no temple there when it's talking about the time of the end. But maybe he was just talking about the Holy of Holies, where they see the Ark of the Covenant here. Of course, there's been a lot of talk about where is the Ark of the Covenant today? People have been looking for the Ark of the Covenant. We had the famous movie Raiders of the Lost Ark and all that. And you know, maybe the reason nobody can find the Ark is because God took it to heaven and it's in heaven. That's very possible. And here we have that here seen in the temple, the ark of his testament. And it's very possibly the same one. And so that brings us up to chapter 12. You know, my son Luke, he borrowed my Bible for a while, this one that I'm using to preach And it looks like his writing, he writes at the top of chapter twelve here, very difficult is what he writes. This chapter is very difficult. It's not that difficult, I don't think, but it is kind of difficult. And so we go on to chapter 12. Let's start reading with chapter 12 and verse 1. These events at the time of the end. And there appeared a great wonder in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars. And she being with child cried, travailing in birth and pain to be delivered. And there appeared another wonder in heaven. And behold a great red dragon, having seven heads, and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads. And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them to the earth, and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devo Devour her child as soon as it was born. And she brought forth a man-child who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up unto God and to the throne. And the woman fled into the wilderness where she hath a place prepared of God. That they should feed her there a thousand two hundred and three score days. So here at the beginning of chapter twelve We have a couple of wonders in heaven. The first one is a woman. We see a woman clothed with the sun. the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars. Who is this woman? Well, I think it's clear that it's Israel. Israel is the woman. Israel is a woman, she has twelve stars, the twelve tribes of Israel. And so she, Israel. She being with child cried. And what child is she with? Well, Christ came from Israel. And she's Israel is giving birth to Christ here. She being with child cried, travailing in birth. And then verse 3, we have another wonder. Is the great red dragon. And he has seven heads, ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads. Well, so here this brings us to the dragon. This is Satan, very clearly Satan, as we go on in this chapter. Here we have the great red dragon. It's interesting, the Bible, it talks about dragons a lot And it would seem the dragon was the old-fashioned word for dinosaur. And uh that people had been familiar with dragons, with dinosaurs. But anyway, we have this great red dragon, and he has seven heads and ten horns. Now the question is, what are these seven heads and ten horns? Well, I think that's explained as you go back in the book of Revelation to chapter 17. If we go back to chapter 17 and verse 9, Here we have the seven heads are explained, at least somewhat here. 179. And here is the mind which has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sitteth And there are seven kings. Five are fallen. One is, the other is not yet come. And when he comes, he must continue a short space. And the beast that was and is not Even he is the eighth and is of the seven and goeth into perdition. And so here we have the seven heads. The seven heads are seven world kingdoms Seven world kingdoms, seven mountains, seven world kingdoms throughout history. And Satan has been in charge of the world kingdoms all down through history And so we have these seven world kingdoms, and it says five are fallen, one is, and one will come for just a short time. Well, I think if we go back to the book of Daniel, it talks about the first four of the world kingdoms. When we have the big statue there, and we have the head of gold and silver, bronze, and going down with the statue, and we have four kingdoms there. There's Babylon, there's Persia, there's Greece with Alexander, and Rome. So those are the first four world kingdoms, I think, is pretty clear. And so it says, five are fallen. Now the question is, what world kingdom would we have after Rome? Well the Roman Empire would go clear up until around fifteen hundred or around then. The uh thing is You had after the Western Roman Empire fell, there was the Eastern Roman Empire. And the Eastern Roman Roman Empire stood until 1453. And not only that, even after that, you had what was called the Holy Roman Empire, which was up in Europe. Remember when Martin Luther came on the scene? Uh the king there or the emperor was the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire that Luther appeared before. And so I would think that the Roman Empire would go up to 1500s or something like that. And then what world empire would be after that? Well, they said after that that the sun never set on what empire? The British Empire. And I would put the British Empire as the fifth world kingdom, stretched all across the grow globe with India and all kinds of places. And so we have five kingdoms fallen. And then back there in Revelation chapter 17, you have one kingdom is. And in 17, it is talking about one kingdom in particular. And what kingdom is it talking about? Revelation chapter 17 and 18, but Babylon the Great. And you know, as you've looked at history, you see at the beginning of the 20th century, the British Empire was fading away, and who came on the scene? Well, yours truly, the United States. Babylon the Great, I think, is I think the United States is Babylon the Great. If we are at the time of the end, which it seems very likely we are at the time of the end. And so we have five fallen, British Empire and the rest fallen. One is the Babylon the Great, at least in Revelation chapter 7. Another comes for a short space. And then it talks about there in Revelation 17 how it how you have the ten kingdoms that come on the scene, ten kings. And that's been called the revived Roman Empire. In the revived Roman Empire, it says they destroy Babylon the Great. It looks like an atomic holocaust there in Revelation 17 and 18. But anyway, they destroy Babylon the Great. They have power for a short time, and then the beast comes on the scene from them, the eighth. And so there we have the seven heads, the ten horns are the revived Roman Empire, the ten toes of Daniel. So we have seven heads, ten horns, seven world kingdoms that the dragon sits upon or is in charge of, and seven crowns upon his heads. And then as verse 4. His tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven and cast them to the ground. Well, what would that be? That would be the angels. Satan takes one-third of the angels in heaven, and they follow them, and they become demons, and so they're cast to the earth. In the beginning of Revelation, we have the stars there are said to be angels of the seven churches. So we have the angels. The stars are cast down. And so here Satan, the dragon, is standing before the woman when she is ready to be delivered, when Israel, and of course The heart of Israel, Mary, ready to be delivered, and what happens? The dragon, Satan, is before her, ready to devour the child. And all the children are killed in Bethlehem as Herod and the dragon try to devour her child, but they don't succeed. And then verse 5, she brought forth a man-child who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron, and her child was caught up unto God and to his throne. Very clear that that's Jesus we're talking about there. And he's to rule all nations with a rod of iron. When exactly is that going to be He's going to rule all nations with a rod of iron. That's not going to be in heaven. Would Christ be ruling us with a rod of iron? The saints up in heaven? No. It's after these events here, and it has no other fulfillment than the millennium, the thousand-year reign of Christ on the earth The on-millennialists, most of our Presbyterian brethren, they don't believe in a millennium. And I don't know, of course they have they they spiritualize everything away. And they would never have a time where Christ would be ruling the nations with a rod of iron. And so Christ was caught up, ascended to heaven. And then we have the woman, Israel We're told here at the time of the end, a couple times in this chapter, she flees into the wilderness where she's kept in the wilderness. Israel is kept in the wilderness for three and a half years A thousand two hundred and three score days. Then let's go on here, verse seven. And there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon. And the dragon fought in his angels, and prevailed not, neither was their place found any more in heaven. And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan. It's very clear here what the dragon is. Satan which deceiveth the whole world. He was cast into the earth and his angels were cast out with him And I heard a loud voice saying, In heaven, Now is come salvation and strength, and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, for the accuser of our brethren, is cast down which accused them before our God day and night, and they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives unto the death Therefore rejoice ye heavens and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabitors of the earth and of the sea, for the devil has come down unto you, knowing, having great wrath. Because he knoweth that he hath but a short time. So then here we have talked more about the devil, Satan. the dragon. And we have quite a bit stated about the dragon in this chapter. And so here we have a war in heaven at this time of the end. It would seem that it's not talking about war in the past sometimes, but it's talking about right here, because the accuser is cast down after this war. And so there's war between God's angels and Satan's angels and God's forces and the dragon, Satan. You wonder how they're going to fight this war. You don't know uh exactly what kind of weapons they would be using. Of course we have a lot of uh science fiction things about different weapons that are used and ray guns and Star Wars and all that. I don't know what kind of weapons they they they'll be using But anyway, we have this war between Michael and his angels and the dragon and his angels. And the dragon is defeated, and no place is found anymore in heaven. And the great dragon was cast out, who had been accusing the brethren and had deceived the whole world. When is the devil deceiving the world? Well, the devil is definitely deceiving the world right now. And the all-millennialists will tell you that Satan is bound right now. He's not bound. We can tell that for sure. He's not bound. He's deceiving the whole world. But he's going to be cast down and not be able to deceive anymore here in the future. So he deceives the whole world. He's cast out. His angels are cast out. And verse 10 Now has come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ. Strength That's what comes from God at this time. God is showing his great strength and power. And you know, that's really, when you get right down to it, the only thing that the wicked understand. is strength and power. Of course good old Mao Zedong, the Mao from Communist China, his great quote was, Political power proceeds out of the mouth of a gun. And there's some truth to that. And uh unfortunately. But uh here God shows his great strength and he overcomes them. The only time communists negotiate is when they have to, because they don't have the strength. But anyway, here we have salvation and strength. The kingdom of our God. The accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accuse them before our God day and night. And so in Job We're going to go back to Job in a little bit here, and we're going to come back to this about the accusing of the brethren. And then it goes on to tell us how down through history, as Satan has been accusing the brethren, And been fighting against the brethren. They had verse 11, overcome him by the blood of the Lamb, by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives unto the death. The people down through history were willing to give up what they could not keep, the life that they could not keep, to get what they could not lose, eternal life. And then we go on, rejoice, verse 12, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them, for the devil is cast down. But the problem is, down on the earth he's cast down in great wrath, and he knoweth that he hath but a short time. So here we have Satan finally and ultimately cast out of heaven. Satan goes in and out of heaven, evidently, what we have in Job and right here in this passage. And then verse 13, going on to the rest of the chapter, and when the dragon saw that he was cast into the earth, He persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child. And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place where she is nourished for a time and times and half a time from the face of the serpent. And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood, and the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God. and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. So here we have the devil is cast down to the earth. He has great wrath. And so what does he do? Well, he wants to get out God's people and what's left of God's people on the earth, and that's Israel as it has turned back to the Lord. And so he persecutes the woman. He persecutes Israel here at the time of the end, which brought forth the man-child. But once again, the woman is protected by God. God protects Israel here at the time of the end. God has the woman go to a place in the wilderness. And the woman is protected in the wilderness somewhere in a wilderness place from the dragon. And so the dragon sees that the woman is in the wilderness, and so he casts out water as a flood against her. Now what is this water here? It could be just if I think it's probably best just to take it as just regular water. It says water and uh we should take things in the Bible, especially in prophecy, as literally as possible. And if there's no real reason to take it other than what it's written, what it not what the natural sense is, we ought to take it just like that. And so I think best would be take this just to be water. And he pe cast out a big flood against the woman And the earth opens her mouth and swallows up the flood. Now the water here could be like armies. that he sends against her, and that's possible too. With Babylon the Great in 17 and 18, we have the the whore sits upon waters, which are people and nations. And so it could be either one, but I would go with the w just plain water to begin with. But anyway, whether it's armies or just plain water, God has the earth open its mouth and swallow up whatever the devil has sent out after the woman, after Israel. And so the earth helps the woman. And so the devil, of course, he's not very happy after this. And verse 17, the dragon was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. And that's talking about Israel that's saved at this time, the 144,000. They're kept off in the wilderness, and God is protecting them. And so in warfare, in order to make sure that you have a victory, what do you need to do in warfare? In the Civil War One problem with the Union armies in the Civil War, they had a tendency to fight piecemeal against the Confederacy And they would send part of the armies and the Confederates Confederacy would defeat them. And Lincoln, he was chiding his govern his generals and saying, you know, you need to put all your army in Wayne you're fighting. And uh so the devil, he's been defeated here. The earth opened up its mouth and swallowed up whatever he sent against the woman. So what's he going to do now He's going to gather together everybody that he can gather together. He's going to have his final supreme effort. to destroy the woman, Israel. And if you go back to chapter 16 and verse 16, I think what it's talking about here 1616, and he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon And so the devil, he's got going off to gather everybody together to the final battle where he's got all his strength together. And he goes to make war with the remnant of her seed of the woman. So that's where we leave chapter 12 here. of events that will really happen in the future. These are real events for the future where God is going to take the kingdoms of this world to himself. And he protects Israel in the wilderness. Now let's go back to Job chapter 1. Job chapter 1. Job chapter 1. And just look up just a little bit of the accuser of the brethren. Job tells us, the book of Job talks about Satan being the accuser of the brethren. And you know, Job is the oldest book in the Bible, the first book of the Bible that was written. It doesn't talk about creation. We have that in Genesis, but it's the oldest book written from the time of the patriarchs And it deals with the greatest questions of life, and one of those great questions is, why do the righteous suffer? And we have Job's suffering and God's reasons in that. But anyway, here in the oldest book of the Bible, in the first chapter of the oldest book in the Bible, here we have a scene in heaven. And verse six, Job One Six. Job One Six Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it So here we have the sons of God come to present themselves before the Lord. This would seem to be Christians, maybe angels. Anyway, they come to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan comes among them. And God asks Satan about where he's been. And where does Satan say he's been? He's been walking up and down in the earth and going to and fro, deceiving the nations. That's where Satan is right now today. He's not bound He's going up and down in the earth. And then verse 8: And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? That there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and upright man, and one that feareth God and escheweth evil. You know, eschew, that's kind of an old fashioned word, isn't it? Eschew, that means that you hate it, you want nothing to do with it. And but the funny thing is, I've seen a stew l used in modern newspapers quite often And in fact, we were list looking at a movie last night and it had an old-time newspaper there. And on the wall, it had a sign on the wall that said to use adjectives freely and eschew adverbs. And that was right in a modern movie. And of course that was showing something from back in the twenties or around then. But anyway. Eschew is still used even though people tell us the King James is too outdated and got words like eschew in there, and nobody would ever figure out what that word means. But Job hated evil. He eschewed evil. Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Hast not thou made an hedge about him and and I can't read thy word And about, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side every side, thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thine hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. Now, here we have Satan, he appears before the Lord, and what's he doing appearing before the Lord? He's accusing the brethren. He's accusing Job. And what's he accusing Job of? He's accusing Job of bad motives. And Satan says that the motives for Job serving the Lord was that he wanted to be protected and prosperous. And that's the only reason he served the Lord, and that he would turn away from the Lord if he didn't prosper, and if he wasn't prosperous. But we see that isn't true. But anyway, here he accuses the motives of Job. And that's what Satan is doing today. He's not cast down yet. He's still up in heaven accusing. He's accusing each one of us. And what's he accusing? Especially he's accusing our motives. Why do we do things? And you know, motives are very important to the Lord. In the Bible, we're told in Proverbs that the ploughing of the wicked is sin. When the when the I take that literally, when the the wicked plows his field, his farmer's field, you know he's just plowing the ground. But he's doing it for the wrong reasons. He's not doing it to glorify God. He's not doing all that he does to glorify God. And so it is not good. And we have to have the right motives in what we do. And Satan is accusing us about our motives, and we need to look at our hearts and see what kind of motives we have for doing things. Do we have the right motives? And the only right motive is to serve the Lord and doing what we would have we think the Lord would have us to do. But people have a lot of different motives for why they do things. People have motives of getting advantage of what they do. And I'm talking about works, good works. Good works. Why do people do good works? Well a lot of times they're not doing it for the Lord. They're doing it for some sort of advantage that they'll get about it, get from it. It's just like today we have the prosperity preachers. And they preach that if you give $100 to the Lord, the Lord's going to give you back $1,000. And so they're encouraging people to give to the Lord with the motive of getting more back. And that should not be our motive to give to the Lord. I mean, if the Lord wants to prosper us from our giving, that's good, but that's not our motive. That's not why we do it. And we can measure our motives a little bit by, would we do it if we didn't get anything back? Would we do it if we didn't have that thing that's our motive for what we're doing? That's the wrong motive. And people can have wrong motives for doing things as they want to get attention They want to get fame. They want people to lift them up. It's just like remember in the New Testament when people gave offerings in the temple, they would sound a trumpet. And everybody would look. And it was the people would get honor from what they gave. And uh, you know, you know, it's just funny here. I'm just looking here. There's a plaque here on the pulpit about uh giving and I'm not even going to read it. But anyway, the thing is, is some churches you go to and there's signs on everything in the whole church of who gave it And the thing is, is that I hope that the people that had the motive of giving to the Lord just for the Lord, but you wonder if they didn't have the motive that they wanted to get honor and glory from people when they did it. I mean I've even seen churches where where on the bricks on the wall they had on their so-and-so gave a hundred bricks. I mean, down to the bricks on the wall, the doors, the everything has got a plaque on it. And, you know, why do we do things It should be just for the Lord. And people do things to get things back. They do a favor for somebody because they want a favor back again. They do things out of jealousy, out of revenge. They do some things to get back at other people. Even good works, they do that. And so Satan's up there accusing us today, especially of our motives. Why do we do things? And we need to do everything for the Lord and to have a motive just to serve the Lord and do what the Lord would have us to do. And you know, we need to first of all come to the Lord and be saved. First, we need to ask the Lord to save us from our sins. We need to pray and ask Him to be our Lord and Savior. We need to ask for forgiveness of our sin and give our life to Him. And then after that, we need to serve the Lord with the right motives. And you know there is a payday coming someday. And we need to keep that in mind. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just thank Thee for Thy goodness unto us. We thank Thee for the opportunity to study Thy Word. And O Lord, we pray that Thou will bless it to our hearts. O Lord, we thank Thee for this window that we have to the things that are going to happen in the future. In Jesus' name, Amen.