Fourth of July coming here this week. And it's appropriate at uh fourth of July time we have that President Trump uh bombed Iran and uh Anyway, we're going to see a little bit of that in our message this morning with talking about peace by strength. And we wanted to do a message on 4th of July today, national patriotic type things. And we like to do that once in a while. And so we have that with the 4th of July today. Let's turn our Bibles to Romans chapter 3. Romans chapter 3 And starting with verse nine, Romans chapter three and verse nine. What then? Are we better than they? No and no wise, for we have before proved, both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin. As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one Their throat is an open sepulchre. With their tongues they have used deceit. The poison of asps is under their lips. Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction and misery are in their ways, and the way of peace have they not known There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped And all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. Thou in prayer, O Lord, just open up thy word to us this morning. Again, forgive us of our sin. Turn us from it, prepare our hearts for communion, and O Lord, we thank Thee for our opportunity to celebrate the independence of this country. We thank Thee for the heritage that we have in this country And O Lord, we pray that this country might be turned back to thee. In Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have A reason for having peace by strength is the fact is that everybody is a sinner. And people naturally tend to sin You know you have a cat, and you see the cat kill a bird, or it kills a mouse, or something like that. And sometimes we might think, well, that's terrible the way that cat kills that bird. But you know, that's what he does by nature. That's what he's set up for. He's set up to be a hunter. He does it by nature, and we understand that. And what about mankind? We should understand that mankind is set up to be a sinner. Remember in our call to worship this morning, we had that man comes out of the womb a sinner when he's born. Speaking wise. He doesn't have to do anything. He already has that sinful nature built in. And that's the reason we have to have strength. To have peace and to get rid of tyranny. And look here in verse 9 of chapter 3. Are we better than they? You know, I've been having a uh discussion about Calvinism with a member of the church in Collingswood recently. And that uh person from the Collingswood Church, they uh, you know, they have a real hard time with Calvinism. And with with and of course you don't have to call it Calvinism. Calvinism is a term of convenience. It could be doctrines of grace or predestination or something like that But they have a real hard time with it. And number one, they have a real hard time with it in that they cannot get over the fact that babies uh you know, the possibility that babies go to hell. We really don't know for totally sure in scripture But I believe the scripture, if you look at it, teaches that children of believers, you know, the minor children, babies of believers go to heaven But that doesn't include the children of unbelievers. But of course that's not totally sure in Scripture. But she can't get over the idea that They could possibly go to hell. You know, the thing is, is there's people that have never heard of the gospel. And if they've never heard of it, they still go to hell. But because of their sinful nature, they're condemned. And that's what it says here. And so as soon as we're born, we have that sinful nature. You know, you don't have to teach children how to be sinners. You don't have to teach him how to lie. We have our little grandson, and he's just learning to talk, and one of the first words he learns is no. No. And you know, you don't have to teach him. And he wants his way. He wants it bad. And they all do. And so we're just naturally sinners. And so here we have verse 9 here. It says, are we better than they? That's what it gets down to, you know God's election. Those who believe that we choose God, that it's all of ourselves, well then they have to say that they're better than their next-door neighbor because they chose God. But they're not better. Are we better than they? This is what Paul says here. No, everybody's under sin. And here the Jews and the Gentiles, they're all under sin. And it can't be any clearer in this passage about sinful people. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after good. After God, there is none that doeth good, no not one. And then it says their throat is an open sepulchre. You know, I was in a drugstore this past week Eh, here can't comes from the aisle next door a bunch of profanity. Well, you know, the thing is people's they're they're they're Their throats are open sepulchres, open graves of rotting things, and they think they have to spout out the profanity to give uh flavor to their speech. And it's sad. Open sepulcher. They have used deceit. Remember what Jesus said about Nathaniel? He was a man without guile. And people are with guile all over. And the poison of asps is under their lips, always saying something biting and cutting. That's no good. And then you go on to verse 14 again, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, full of the toilet humor. And their feet are swift to shed blood. The dictators of the world, they're swift to shed blood. The burglars, the robbers of the world are swift to shed blood, the way of peace Have they not known there is no fear of God before their eyes. And so all the world is guilty before God. And the the the the bad idea that people have is that man is born innocent. The baby is so innocent, he's neutral, and we just have to give him the good environment and he'll be good. But that's not how it works. That we're all sinners in the sight of the Lord. And you know, uh In the past, we had a lot of talk about disarming, about getting rid of all of our nuclear weapons. And because we'd get rid of our nuclear weapons, then the Russians would get rid of their nuclear weapons That's not how it works. They're evil. People are naturally evil. And if we disarm, we can't trust the others to disarm. And uh, you know, it's it's not just uh we're products of our environment, we're products of our wicked, sinful heart. And you know, the Book of Proverbs says, children left to themselves will bring the parents to shame. If they're just left to themselves, they're just naturally bad. And it's interesting that even in the where things are supposed to be better, they're not really. And of course, in the book of Ecclesiastes, it says in the in the seat of judgment Lo, I behold, wickedness there in the seat of judgment. That's how it is all over the world. In Brazil right now, they have this guy on the Supreme Court who's a dictator over the country And he's allowed to just throw people in jail, uh uh censor the internet, do just about everything because don't you know he's the head of the Supreme Court Well, is it that's how it is with wicked people. But anyway, even in places where it should be better, people are still wicked. You know, over in Cameroon, I taught in a seminary over there. And you know, these are guys studying for the ministry. They're supposed to be called to the ministry. Well, I caught a couple of them cheating right here for the test right in the classroom there. The one guy had written the answers on his hand there And he was looking at the thing on his hand there. And I caught him. And the other guy had a little teeny piece of paper that he had that I saw. And you know, these guys were thrown out of the seminary for cheating. And but you know, how is it that they're in seminary training to be pastors and they're at that point of cheating? Well, we just see how wicked the human heart is, even in the places where they're supposed to be better. And then uh we were walk uh, you know, uh I don't know, I think it was in a movie it was talking about the old phrase, know thyself. Know thyself. Well, you know, somebody in the movie actually gave a good answer to that, know thyself. They quoted the scripture that said, the heart is deceitful and deaf deaf Desperately wicked, who can know it? Who can know it? We can't really know ourselves the depths of the sin in our hearts. And so that's the reason why we need to have peace through strength. And you go back to the American Revolution. The colonists and George Washington and them, they decided to rise up against English. They wanted to rise up in the strengths that they had and with the force of God to oppose the tyranny that was over them. Well now let's turn our Bibles back to Matthew chapter 12. Matthew chapter 12. Matthew chapter twelve. And we read this in the responsive reading. Matthew chapter 12. And we have verse 22. Verse 22, and here we have the Pharisees, they were saying that Jesus cast out demons through Beelzebub, the Prince of D devils. Well, you know, Jesus is not going to throw out devils through the devil. And that's what he says here. And the devil is not really going to cast out demons through himself. He doesn't want to work against himself. And it says here, a kingdom divided against itself cannot stand. And so that's how it is in the church as well. A kingdom divided against itself cannot stand. But it's interesting, you go down to verse twenty twenty-seven. And he says, and if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? And evidently they were claiming to cast out devils, their children. And they were casting out devils. If they were casting them out at all, they were doing it power by the power of Satan, but they weren't really casting them out. They were just at the most temporarily casting them out. Remember, Jesus talked about when one devil is cast out, not in the right way, he comes back with seven more to inhabit. And so there's not going to be any real casting out of devils by the devil. But then you go down to the end of this passage, and it says the key verse here is down in verse 29. Or else, how can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods, except he first binds the strong man and then he will spoil his house? And you know, the problem is the world is full of wicked people. Of course, we're all wicked, but by the grace of God, Christians are better. And just by totally through the grace of God. But you know, the world is full of wicked people. And the wicked people in the world They always want to take away things that other people have. They always want to steal things from other people. But they see that there's things that they want, money that they want, and other things they want. Now, on the local level, a burglar will want to break into your house and steal the things that you have. And so here it talks about on a local level a strong man keeps his house in peace when he's armed. And just like today, if we have The right to keep and bear arms, we can protect our houses there through our arms. And praise the Lord for that. And uh you know, you never want to put a sign on your house that we don't have any guns here. And uh, you know, as the thing is, is that that that that's a deterrent against the burglars breaking into our houses. And you know, here we have the principle of self-defense. Self-defense. We can keep our house with being armed with a sword. Remember, Jesus told his disciples, he said, he that has no sword, let him sell his garment and buy one. That's pretty strong. Sell your garment to buy a sword. And once again, what did they do with swords? Swords had no use except for to fight close in close quarters contact with other people. They didn't use swords to fight with bears. No, if the bear got close enough for a sword, you were done. No, you wanted to get it with a bow and arrow, or today with a gun. But a sword is for close in with people. And Jesus said to have a sword, to sell your garment and buy one. And that's definitely the principle of self-defense. Of course, self-defense is not only on the local on the the realm of of our personal house and personal things, but it's also in society as well. And you know the problem is the government can be a thief How does the government steal things? Well, the government steals things especially through taxes. Taxes. It's been said that the power to tax is the power to destroy. And that's true. Very true. You just tax more and more and more until the people are destroyed And so in the American colonies, they were getting all kinds of taxes. And the English government was trying to steal what was theirs. And so they rose up in strength against those taxes. And they were putting taxes on everything. They were had a tax on tea. Remember when they had the tea party It was because of taxes on tea. And they had taxes on documents. If you had any kind of a document for anything, you had to have a stamp on it from the government, and that was the stamp tax And they had huge numbers of taxes. Well, what do we got today? We got huge numbers of taxes too. And in fact, we have more than they had back then. But They decided that they had had enough and they rose up against the oppression against the taxes to try to overthrow that tyranny Well, of course, you all know that I just got elected to the council there in Smyrna. And the reason I ran for council was for the very same reason on a very local level. Is the town council of Smyrna had decided that they'd steal our money. Steal the money from the people in Smyrna and double their taxes. And you know, they they want to just think they can get away with just getting more and more and more taxes. So finally I decided that was enough for the uh Lord leading me and uh so I ran for counsel and in fact I can't campaigned for a couple other candidates that that got rid of a couple of other incumbents that had voted for the taxes. But you know the government can can steal through taxes. And we need to be strong against that. And the colonists were strong against that. And, you know, there needs to be deterrence. Deterrence. And we need to have deterrence uh of of crime, deterrence of the government stealing our our money. And I figured on the local level, something that would deter them from stealing everybody's money was if they would get voted out of office. But you know they they don't get the message very easy. And there's seven people on the council. And there's only two left now that voted for the tax. All the rest of them are gone. Three got voted out and two resigned. And there's only two left, but these two are now controlling the council as the mayor mayor and vice mayor. And they have not got the message. They have not got it. And of course there's the deep state. There's a deep state in the federal government, and there's even the deep state in the in the local government. And they were all entrenched And just want more, more, more. And of course, if you ever talk about reducing taxes, that's almost never done. And of course that was my that was my platform, roll back the tax. We have yet to see if that'll get done. It'll be very difficult to do that. But at least the people will be put on record as voting against that, at least to begin with. And maybe we can vote out some more of them. But anyway, you know the deterrence effect of a strong man armed, the keeping and bearing of arms. You know, in our Constitution and the Bill of Rights is the right to keep and bear arms. And that's something that keeps crime away, keeps the burglars away, strength In Brazil, you see the the end result of not having that strength of bearing arms. In Brazil, for for many years, for long, long time, they haven't had the freedom to have guns. And of course the courts there let the criminals go besides. And you know the society is overrun by crime. It's completely overrun. And because there's not deterrent effect there. And so you need to have deterrence, deterrence for the burglars on the local level and on the international level. Well recently I've been reading the book The Peloponnesian War. The Peloponnesian War. Who can tell me what country that's talking about? Greece, exactly, Greece. And here we have the Peloponnesian War. There's a part of Greece, which is the Peloponnesus, which is where Sparta is. Yeah, it was in Greece. I don't know if it's still there today actually, but anyway, you had Sparta and Athens, and they had a big war. And it uh overturned the Mediterranean world back in about 400 B. C. And that's the same time as Malachi in our Bible Well, they had a big war there all across the Mediterranean between Sparta and Athens. But there's a couple interesting things in this book that I found as I was reading it through just recently. And it talks about here with with uh Sparta and Athens, it says, sometimes, however, this is way back 400 BC, he's talking about that Sometimes, however, the best way to prevent war is through deterrence, by conveying a message of strength, confidence, and determination. Well, you know, President Trump this week has uh definitely shown that. That's that uh uh message of strength, confidence, and determination And that's the best way to prevent a big war. And then, of course, then it says here as that war got started between Athens and Sparta It started, a big reason is, it says here, is that Sparta was afraid that the Athenians might become too powerful. And they feared the growth of Athenian power. And they had fear of future threats. Future threats from Athens. Well, what about the attack on Iran? We were afraid, Trump was afraid, we were afraid of future threats of nuclear bombs coming from there. And so he attacked And the trouble is, you know, if you don't attack and you just let it go on, it becomes so that you can't hardly fight against it later on. You have to get it while it's slow And so we don't want to be defenseless. We want to have strength. The colonists back at the time of the American Revolution, they rose up, they made armies They went out in the field against the British, even though the British were the greatest country in the world at that time and had the greatest army They rose up against England, and by the pro providence of God, God gave them allies in the French. And so they were able to defeat England in that Revolutionary War. But they did it by strength. They decided they needed there was a point where they needed to fight and to defend themselves against oppression. Well, you know, there's deterrence. What about capital punishment? Capital punishment deters murder. Through the threat of punishment. And burglars are deterred if they think there might be a gun there. And internationally, the the people are deterred from doing things if they think they might get attacked. You know, recently with the Russia-Ukraine war Uh at the beginning of the war, Putin was doing a lot of threatening of nuclear bombs. And he was, you know, threatening, you know, you better not cross me 'cause I might send nuclear bombs over there. Well then the French president had a good answer. He says, the trouble is we have nuclear bombs too. And you know the thing is that deters him. Deters him Do you remember back in World War II? World War II was a great example of not having peace through strength. Do you remember how they they appeased Hitler time and time again? They gave him the Sudetenland, they gave him Czechoslovakia, they gave him all these things. And it was a great example of appeasement. And you remember Chamberlain, the Prime Minister of England, there's a famous picture of him with the treaty that Hitler signed there, and he said We have peace in our time. Well, it didn't last at all. Hitler went on attacking And the world is full of w wicked people. And we have to be strong. And the colonists were strong against the wickedness of the British government wanting to oppress the colonists. And what about the communists today? Communists. You know a lot of times you kind of get the idea, well, communism that's passe, you know, don't you know the wall fla uh fell in Berlin and all that But actually the Putin over there is more or less a communist still. But but there are there are card-carrying communists in China, in Vietnam. And China is really the biggest threat to the United States today. And what can we know about the communists? Well, a famous book written years ago was You Can Trust the Communists. Well, it it what it what it was saying is you can trust the communists, and then in parentheses it said, to be communists. You can trust them to be communists. You can trust them to do their their plans that they have put in place, like the Communist Manifesto and all those things. Pursue that all the way through. You can trust them to be evil. Total government control is what communism is. It's evil. And the only way to oppose those people is through strength. Do you remember what Mao Zedong said? He said, political power proceeds out of the barrel of a gun. That's what he said. And remember Khrushchev, what he said is, we will bury you. Well, the thing is, you can trust them to be communists, and we have to be strong to oppose them And with Iran today, you've got to be strong against Iran. The only thing they understand, the wicked understand, is strength, is power. That's the only thing they understand Well now let's go back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 3. First Thessalonians chapter five and verse three Well, actually, starting with verse one. But of the times and seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you, for yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child And they shall not escape. But ye brethren are not in darkness that that day should overtake you as a thief. Ye are all the children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night, nor of the darkness. Therefore let us not sleep, as do others, but let us watch and be sober. And so here it tells about the Antichrist. Here it tells about at the very end. Things are going to continue on, things are going to get worse and worse. We look through the book of Revelation. But it says, verse 3: when they shall say peace and safety, what's going to happen? Then sudden destruction shall come upon them. And so the Antichrist is going to lure lull everybody to sleep. Lull them to sleep. Think there's security with the Antichrist And then sudden destruction will come upon them. Of course we have the Battle of Armageddon as well. But you know, we always have to be prepared, prepared against the thief It uses the picture of a thief here. Thief cometh in the night. He comes when we don't think he's going to come, and we have to be prepared at all times. Our government needs to be strong at all times You know, the old st old saying is eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. And that's what it is, eternal vigilance And just because they say peace and safety, they don't mean it. When they say peace and safety, sudden destruction will come. So anyway, we need to be strong. We need to be strong on the local level. We need to have our guns or whatever and defend ourselves. And on the national level, we need to be strong against the taxes and tax oppression we have. We need to be strong on the international level to have defenses and defenses that uh are deterrent to those around us. And so praise the Lord for the heritage in the United States we have, of our heritage with the American Revolution and the wars since then. that Americans have not been uh afraid to die for freedom and to fight for freedom Uh we just had a big uh uh uh mural was dedicated there in Smyrna at the uh American Legion there. And they wanted all the council members to come out to it and I did. But anyway. The the the thing on the mural says there, it says, all gave some and some gave all. And that's how it is with veterans, with the military, with trying to defend freedom And peace through strength. But then the conclusion of the matter is verse 6. Verse 6 of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Therefore, let us not sleep. Let us not sleep as do others. But let us watch and be sober. Watch and be sober. Watch, how do we watch? The last week we talked about Josiah. Josiah? How did he watch He was serving the Lord with his whole heart and mind and soul and body. He was the one that had served the Lord best in that way of all the kings of Israel, we're told. Even including David, Solomon, all of them. But you know, he served the Lord with his whole heart and mind and soul and body. What are we supposed to do today? We're supposed to be doing exactly the same as we watch for the Lord's coming, being ready for his coming, because his coming is going to come as a thief in the night. But we have to be strong. We have to be strong in the Lord. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would turn our hearts unto Thee. Help us to be strong in Thee. And O Lord, we thank Thee for the heritage that we have in this nation. And O Lord, we know that this world is full of wicked people, and we have to have our defense against them. In Jesus' name. Amen.