I tried to put it in my pocket, but I forgot to turn it on. So anyway, here we have something on climate and with Trump coming in. This is from the New York Post It says Trump's push to rescind the White House's 2009 finding on greenhouse gases marks another great milestone on President Trump's climate course correction. But it's long past time for the entire West to admit it The whole anti-carbon crusade declared in the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement has proved a disaster. Wrecking economies and worsening lives without making a real difference on climate change Here at home, the 2009 Obama-era finding declared that greenhouse gases endanger public health. And so provided a legal pretext for destructive climate agenda mandates on everything from power plants to cars to gas stoves. Rescinding that finding will start to roll back those dictates, boosting the economy and restoring Americans' freedom to choose the products and lifestyles they want. And finally, the New York Post says sanity has clearly returned to DC. So that's good. And uh that uh climate change stuff is all a big power grab to as an excuse to grab more power and more power Well, uh, we're going to go to 1 Corinthians this morning, and that's going to be the next book we're going to study. 1 Corinthians. We'll get started here a little bit ahead of time. We're still not done with 2 Kings. We're working on that. We've got three or four more messages in 2 Kings yet. But after that we'll go to 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians, and we like to switch back and forth Between New Testament and Old Testament, we did Revelation, and then we went back to 2 Kings, and now we'll go back to the New Testament to 1 Corinthians. And uh I wouldn't mind staying in the Old Testament all the time, but I wouldn't want people to think that I can't get into the New Testament either. So anyway, here we have 1 Corinthians chapter 1. And here we have this message to the church in Corinth. Corinth was a center of commerce there in Greece It was located on an isthmus between two different seas there in Greece. And there was they had boat. They even took ships across that isthmus uh to the other body of water. And so there's a lot of commerce there, a lot of wickedness in Corinth, and there were a lot of troubles in the church at Corinth. Lots of troubles And this church is very similar to churches today. People uh I I have a little booklet that I had on this church and it called it Corinthian catastrophe. Corinthian catastrophe. And that was especially having to do with the problem with tongues. and spiritual gifts. And Corinthians has something to say about that. And it's news for today with the problems we have today. Well, here we have chapter 1 and verse 1. Paul called to be an apostle. We mentioned apostles this morning. There are no more apostles. The qualification of an apostle was that he had seen the Lord. And of course, it had to be a man as well. We have women apostles out there today. And then we got which is no good. Then verse 2, unto the church of God, which is at Corinth To them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus called to be saints. So they had their local church there in Corinth. And what is a local church? Is it the building? No. The local church is the people, the people, that church. And there are an assembly of called-out believers, an assembly of believers. And you know, churches come and go. Assemblies come and go. People gather together here, and then they go gather together there, and they come and go. And some people have the idea that once a church is started it should continue off until into eternity. And never should close, never anything happen But sometimes churches do close, and the church in Corinth, for instance, is no more today. But anyway, here we have the church in Corinth. And that the people in the church are a called out assembly, the saints, the holy ones. Saints means holy ones. You're a holy one. I'm a holy one. We've been called out. from the world. And then it says, with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. And so there are Christians scattered all over. Then verse 3, Grace be unto you and peace. Always grace first, and then peace. We have the grace of God, we get saved, and then we have the peace of God that fills our heart that the world doesn't have. Then verse 4: I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ. How do we get the grace of God? How do we become a Christian? Well, God has to give it to us. It has to be given. Which is given you by Jesus Christ. God chooses us. We don't choose God. Of course, God first chooses us, and then we choose God, because He gives us the power. He gives us the desire. And then verse 5, then in everything ye are enriched by him in all utterance and in all knowledge So internally we want to be enriched in knowledge. We want to learn more and more and more about the Lord. And you know, when we study our Bible, what's more important than quantity is quality. And it's good to study a good bit of the scriptures. I like to take a good bit of the scripture when we study our sermon text. But we want to delve into it. We want to study it. And get some quality study and get something really for our lives out of it. So anyway, there's all knowledge we get. We also get utterance. We have that which comes out of us to witness for the Lord, to testify for the Lord in all utterance. Utterance and knowledge. Then verse 6, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, the testimony needs to be confirmed. And you know, when we make a profession of faith that we become a Christian, that needs to be confirmed by our lives. And I don't believe that you can say that ten people got saved when we went out on visitation today. You can say ten people made professions of faith, but time will tell whether they're confirmed. Whether there's really Christians. And then we go on verse 7. So that ye come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so here it mentions that subject that's very important in 1 Corinthians is gifts of the Spirit. Gifts of the Spirit are dealt with in detail, so that ye come behind in no gift. Waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ is imminent. It could be at any time. Christ could come back today. And that's what we believe. And it says, so that she bec come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And as we look back in history, we can see that certain things needed to happen before Christ came back. And we can see that the Jews needed to come into the land, but those things were not quite so clear in the past. But now they're a little clearer, and we can see that Christ's coming is getting near. Then verse 8, who shall also confirm you unto the end? And we as Presbyterians, we believe in the perseverance of the saints. That we're going to persevere to the end. We're not going to be saved and lost, saved and lost. Is the Pentecostals and the Arminians, they believe that. The people get saved and then they get lost again. Then they get saved again and they get lost again. And you know that that that means they become sheep for a while, then they become goats. Then they become sheep for a while, then they become goats. Is that how it works? No, it's not. Once we become sheep, we are sheep. And why is it that we persevere to the end? It's through the strength of the Lord, not through our own strength, but through his strength. Who shall also confirm you unto the end. And then it goes on to verse 9. God is faithful. He's the one that's going to confirm us. He's the one that gave us his grace. He's the one that saved us. He's the one that's going to confirm us until the end. And then we go on here to verse 10. Verse 10. And here in my Bible, it says this next section is an appeal for unity. The church in Corinth had problems with spiritual gifts, and they also had problems with unity. They had problems with divisions in the church. And all the things that the church in Corinth dealt with, we're dealing with today. The same exact things. So they had a problem with unity. In verse 10, now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing. And that there be no divisions among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it has been declared unto me, of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you. Now, this I say that every one of you says, I am of Paul, and I am Apollos, and I have Cephas or Peter, and I of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were ye baptized in the name of Paul? So here we have this big problem in the Church of Corinth that they had divisions. They were divided. And that's still a problem today. And you notice here in verse 10, he says he wants them to all speak the same thing and be perfectly joined together. How can people speak the same thing? You know, some people talk about when they get married. And when they're married and they say that the husband and wife always agree. Is that is that possible? I don't think so. I don't think so. And the way they always agree is that somebody has to give in. And or they each have to give in some. Is and of course the scriptural model is that the husband is the head of the home, and when push comes to shove It should be what the husband says. That's what the scripture teaches. But here in the church How can we all speak the same thing? Are we all going to always think the same thing? Are we always going to agree on everything? No way. That's never going to happen. So the how can we all speak the same thing? It's just like in the war in Ukraine today You know that war has been going on and on for three years or however many years, and it's pretty much a stalemate over there. And neither side can win the war, basically, it looks like. And it looks like it's just going to keep on going forever unless something is done. That's the way I see it anyway. And you know the thing is, in order to have peace over there, it seems that each side is going to have to give a little bit, gonna have to give some Give and take. And how is it that everybody in the church can speak the same thing? They have to give and take. Give and take. Give up a little bit. And take a little bit. And we have to make allowance for other people. That's how we can speak the same thing. We have to forgive each other. Forgive us the problems. And you know, everybody gets offended in the church. Did you know that? Everybody gets offended one time or another And I get offended, you get offended. And especially with the preacher, I've noticed that eventually as long as you keep preaching in the church, eventually you're going to offend everybody. Because everybody's going to find something offensive. Something, one thing or another thing. And the thing is, we all get offended in the church. But we have to try to forgive each other, try to speak the same thing. Try to be perfectly joined together. Try to get along with each other. And that's what Paul is telling the Corinthians here. Try to get along with each other. And we go back to the old thing of turning the other cheek. Well, turning the other cheek. And you know, turning the other cheek, that's an offense. That's an insult there. It's not like the person is getting murdered. They've been slapped on the cheek. But that's a very definite offense. A very definite thing that's been done to the other person, slapping them on the cheek. But it's we're told Jesus says to turn the other cheek. Of course, we that happens practically never, literally, but It's talking about if people offend us, turn the other cheek. Try to get along in the church. And you know, people in the church should have a thick skin The problem is, is that people tend to have a thin skin. And it doesn't take much to offend them. But we need to try to have a thick skin, to try to get along with each other. And so here it says we want to speak the same thing, be perfectly joined together. Then verse 11, it talks about he hears that there's contentions among them. What are contentions? Contentions are fights. fights in the congregation. They're important. And you know, as I go through my years as pastor, I've seen a lot of fights And there's always fights, and there always will be fights. And you know the thing is, as long as you and people talk about politics in the church. Well, as long as you've got two people together, you've got politics. You've got politics, you've got fights The old saying is: it takes two to tangle. It does. It takes two to have a fight. And so we need to give and take, try to try to get along with each other. And then they had the problem in the church in Corinth, so we'll get back to this a little bit more later. But anyway, they had the problem in Corinth of different parties in the church. Different clicks in the church, and there's always clicks wherever you are. Always. Why are there clicks? Well, especially there are clicks because people feel comfortable w with certain people and they don't feel comfortable with others. And of course, that's natural. But we have to try to work around that. Try to get al r get along with each other Well in the ICCC, we have people in all different denominations. We've got Methodists, we've got Anglicans, we've got Baptists, we've got Presbyterians, we've got Independents. And we try to get along together in the ICCC, not as a church, though, but as an organization that recognizes that there are other Christians in the world You know, when we get to heaven, it's not, as people have said many times, it's not just going to be the Presbyterians that are going to be there. There's going to be other people there. And we have to recognize that other people are Christians as well as us. And of course with a lot of false cults of false things out there, but there are some true churches out there. There are that are where they have really have Christians And we try to recognize that in the ICCC, the International Council of Christian Churches, and the American Council of Christian Churches. As Tim said, there's going to be a meeting of the American Council of Christian Churches in Ohio. uh this next week and I'm planning to go out for that as a representative of the International Council of Christian Churches But we try to represent uh the these different denominations and recognize that there are other Christians out there in the world and try to get along with them and try to encourage each other in the faith Well then we go on. Of course that's what we do in Presbytery as well. We recognize that there's other churches, like-minded churches in our presbytery. Then we go on to another passage here, verse 13. As I say, we'll get back there a little bit later. But it says Says 14, verse 14, I thank God that I baptized none of you but Crispus and Gaius. Lest any should say that I have baptized in mine own name. And I baptized also the household of Stephanus, and besides, I know not whether I baptized any other. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. So here we have a passage here on baptism. There's not very many of these passages in the Bible that talk about baptism in any length at all. And this talks for a couple verses about baptism. And the first thing we notice in this passage about baptism is that baptism does not save. Baptism does not save anyone. Because Paul says very clearly there in verse 17, Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not to baptize, but preach the gospel. There are two different things. Baptism is on one hand, and the gospel is on the other hand. And so the gu the baptism is not the gospel. We don't get to heaven by baptism. There are churches out there today that preach. The baptismal regeneration. We have the Church of Christ, we have basically the Roman Catholics teach that baptismal regeneration. But we don't teach that, and we can get it right from the scripture here, that baptism doesn't save. It's very clear. Well, Paul here he says he couldn't really remember how many people he baptized, but he knows that he didn't baptize very many, very few. And he wanted to make sure that people didn't lift him up and make him into something great. And that was one way that he didn't do all the baptizing. Other people did baptizing instead of him. But he did baptize a couple of them. That brings us to the subject of baptism. Is uh, you know, uh I was just thinking recently, you know, the thing is back in church history Back when the church first started, and for many centuries, it was pretty well the universal practice of the Christian church to sprinkle and to sprinkle babies And that was pretty much all the way through, uh witnessed by the Roman Catholic Church. They've just continued what was always done. But it's just recently in the past hundred, couple hundred years. that the Baptists have rose up and become very popular. When we were down there in North Carolina this past week at Presbytery, we were driving down a country road there Now in the country, it was just Baptist church after Baptist church after Baptist church, just one after the other. And the Baptists are very uh problem today, and of course most of the fundamentalists in America today are Baptists more than Presbyterians. Not very many pr uh fundamental Presbyterians. They're the Baptists But what distinguishes the Baptists from the Presbyterians and from the other churches, Methodists, Roman Catholic? And the practice of the church through the centuries. Well, they believe, the Baptists believe, that you have to be immersed. That you have to be immersed as an adult. And they don't believe in infant baptism. They don't believe in sprinkling. And so Baptists were always called at the beginning, way back, they were called Anabaptists. And of course the Mennonites were in with that. Anabaptists means re-baptizers. They baptized again. And so they would not recognize, and still today, the Baptists do not recognize sprinkling. They don't recognize it. And in fact, with me, I was sprinkled as a baby, as a Methodist. And my parents went to the Methodist Church, but they weren't very active or anything, but I got sprinkled. But then when I got saved in an independent Bible church in Ohio that was Baptistic I had to be baptized again. And I got baptized again by immersion. Well, you know, the Baptists are very, you know The Presbyterians have an advantage over the Baptists, I believe, in that the Presbyterians will accept Immersion. They will accept sprinkling or pouring. But the Baptists will only accept the immersion. And the Baptists pound on it and make it like it's so clear that but it's not clear at all. And in fact if you script study the scriptures It's clearer that we should sprinkle. And it's clearer that we should sprinkle babies. As you have the continuity of Scripture from the Old Testament to the New Testament. Continuity. And back in the Old Testament, what did they do in the Old Testament? Did they sprinkle or immerse all through the Old Testament? There was priests in the temple and the it was always sprinkle, sprinkle, sprinkle, sprinkle. It was never immersion. And I might go through a few proofs for sprinkling here. It was in the all through the Old Testament. Do you remember the Ethiopian eunuch? He was in his chariot, and he says, What does hinder me to be baptized? Well, what passage of Scripture was the Ethiopian eunuch reading but Isaiah 53? And the last verse of Isaiah 52, it talks about, so shall he sprinkle many nations. So the Ethiopian eunuch had just read about sprinkling, and he comes to the water. And of course the water there in Israel, they don't have water in Israel like we do here They don't have a bunch of deep rivers around or streams. They have very, it's a dry place, they have very shallow streams. Very shallow. In fact, in the whole land of Israel, there was only one river where you could immerse people, and that is the Jordan River. And all the other places in the land didn't have those streams. And so that indicates sprinkling as well. And of course you have John the Baptist down there at the Jordan River, and uh you know he was sprinkling, and people say, well, why did he go down to the Jordan River uh if he was sprinkling, well, because he didn't want to carry all that water around, even if it was sprinkled. Because he was baptizing many people. And as I were coming in here to church today, we went across Canowingo Dam. You know, Canowingo Dam, you have to go down to get down to the Susquehanna River That's how it is with water. You have to go down to the water. And you know in the Bible it says that they went down to the water to baptize. The Baptists make it into down into the water, but it was not down i into of course they did probably go down ankle deep or something. What were they going to do? Just be really careful about not getting their foot in the in the water? No. It is sprinkling through the Bible. And the Philippian jailer, where did he get baptized in the jail with his household? Well, the Baptists have really strained at that one and they said, oh, there was a horse trough in the in the in the prison that they got baptized in. And they had thousands of people baptized at the beginning there in Jerusalem. How'd they do all that with no big bodies of water around? And they had this the uh uh pool of Siloam, which was drinking water and was uh for the people of the city. It didn't take thousands of people down in there And it's very clear sprinkling, I believe. But we as Presbyterians will make allowance. We'll try to get along and we will recognize immersion And then what about, so we have the continuity of sprinkling from the Old Testament to the New Testament. We also have the continuity with the babies. In the Old Testament, the babies were sprinkled, I mean were circumcised And in the New Testament, we have baptism taking the place of circumcision. And we have that put together in Colossians chapter 2. And so it's a continuity between the circumcision of the Old Testament and the baptism of the New Testament with babies. And you know the funny thing is, is that the Baptists, they they basically have a baptism service for their infants. And they call it an infant dedication service. It's a dry baptism. Well, it's pretty much what we do with baptizing of the babies, except with water. Well, there we have a little bit on baptism there, but uh don't let the Baptists make you feel self-conscious and uh uh inferior when they get to talking about baptism, because I believe the scriptural proof is on the side of the Presbyterians there. Well, we go back to unity in the church. Unity in the church. We've got to try to get along with one another. Well, you know, when people act strange toward us, or they act funny sometimes, we have to try to get along. Try to get along. That's how it is in our family. In our family, we're stuck with our family, and we need to try to get along with our family. Even though our family might offend us, even though our family might act strange sometimes. We were over at uh one of our family members for dinner uh uh a week or two ago, and you know the family members were acting pretty strange there And uh when we got there, nobody was there. And then we let ourselves in, and then when they actually did get there, They came in and looked the other way or sitting there and they don't even look at us. And and they and they and they then they turn around. Oh are you here? Or I mean it was all and then And then one of the family members doesn't eat with us but goes and exercises on the exercise machine while we're there. I mean the thing is, is that family members act strange sometimes But we don't want to get offended. We don't want to take offense at that and never want to go there again or whatever. We have to try to get along. And then going to the church. You know, I had a lot of I'll speak from personal experience. I don't like to speak too much personal experience. Some pastors, they do nothing but talk about themselves But we try not to do that. But I am going to say that, you know, I've been kicked out of a couple different things in my church career. And uh number one, I was I was kicked out of my church I was in while we were on our honeymoon. I don't know if I ever told that before, but While we were on our honeymoon, I got kicked out by my presbytery. They had presbytery meeting while I was on the honeymoon and kicked me out. Well, you know, the thing is, is that of course we were having fights in the church at that time on the subject of fights, but anyway, the thing is, is that most people Most pastors, when they get kicked out, they leave. They leave the denomination, they leave the presbytery, they don't want anything more to do with it. But I didn't leave. I tried to get along and stayed in there, in the presbytery, even though they kicked me out of my church. And, you know, I was teaching at Shelton College, and the uh president of the college kicked me out of the faculty meeting 'Cause I was giving him hard time about the facul the faculty salaries. Well anyway, he keeps but I didn't go and quit the college right then and quit and go, no is that in fact that very night we had a a college banquet and I was the master of ceremonies introducing him at the master of cer uh the banquet. But anyway I was there and I did it and and w try to get along. That's what we try to do. And then one other thing I was kicked out from was the people that were basically in my presbytery kicked me off the one mission board. that I was on to to prepare for the field. And they kicked me out of that mission board. And of course what and those are basically the people in the Presbytery. Most people would just leave And I would never want anything to do with them, but I stayed with them. And I think that's what we should do. And it's possible to do that. And we should try to get along in the church. And you know, of course, the thing is, is you know with stocks. I always lose on stocks and bonds, all that stocks, because I never sell them until I lose money But the thing is, is that they say that you shouldn't go all up and down with the stocks and sell and buy And they you should consider is the are the reasons that I bought the stocks still good, even though the stock has gone down? Well, that way we ought to keep the stock. Well, it's like in the church. Is were the reasons good why I was in this church, why I'd been in this church? If the reasons were good we should uh try to get along. And so the thing is, I didn't pick the sermon, just uh Just for today because we are starting on the book of 1 Corinthians, and we are going to go chapter by chapter And so the thing is, and of course I chose today because I preached on 2 Kings last week, and so I don't like to preach on 2 Kings two weeks in a row. And so we have beginning of 1 Corinthians. But anyway, all that being said, what we need to do is try to have unity in the church Try to get along with one another. Even though other people are going to offend us, still we need to try to get along. Try to be perfectly joined together. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would turn our hearts to thee. And O Lord, help us to try to get along. Help us to try to work with one another. And O Lord, we pray that we might be the Christians that Thou would have us to be. Helps to learn from the church in Corinth, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So anyway, here we