Okay. Hezekiah chapter seven Just checking to see that you're you know your Bible's gonna open up to Second Timothy just automatically chapter three We're just gonna read through the entire chapter. It's been a little bit since we were on chapter three, and it's a good refresher for Perilous Times Part 4. 2 Timothy 3. This know also, writes Paul, that in the last days perilous times shall come, for men shall be lovers of their own selves. Covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient apparent, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof, from such turn away. For of this sort are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with diverse lusts Ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now, as Janice and Jambries withstood Moses. So do these also resist the truth, men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith. But they shall proceed no further, for their folly shall be manifest unto all men, as theirs also was. But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience. Persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Aconium, at Lystra Which persecutions I endured, but out of them all the Lord delivered me. Yea, in all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution, but evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And that from a child, thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that The man of God may be perfect, truly furnished, unto all good works. May our God be pleased to bless this his word seated in our hearts today. Let's pray. Our Lord God will pause in our service as we approach your word to ask that you would bring us to a place where we would understand and receive this as it is the Word of God. Not the words of man, not the words of your servant, but uh the Word of God. And so we pray your Spirit to be our teacher. that Christ would be honored and glorified in the things that are said here. You know our needs. You know what your word says. You know what uh is is able to be brought to our heart's attention today to be seated in and to bring forth an abundance of fruit and praise to your glory. And we'll ask it in Christ's name. Amen. You familiar with Cliff Notes? You know, those yellow and black little booklets and I think they were banned from high school, at least in my school, you know, they didn't want to ever see them. But college they would do that, you know. Kind of a A summary to help you along when in all reality they were I don't want to read that giant literature book, so I'm going to use the the Cliff Notes, you know, something like in that extent Today it's even a little bit different. Another series of books called Books for Dummies. You know? violins for dummies or basic math for dummies or auto mechanics or how to repair a washing machine for dummies, you know. They're everywhere. But what they tend to do is to break down the complicated. And make it easier to handle. To deal with something that's, oh man, how am I going to do this? Well, let me just look it up and walk through in these basic words that are said I know the Apostle Paul didn't have that in mind, but there's a portion of our scripture reading today that brings about an understanding. Last times for dummies, you know. And look at verses twelve and thirteen. He says, Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution, but evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. What two basic things does Paul tell Timothy and tell us that summarize the last days? Well, the first one he says out of verse 12, persecution is part of the believer's life. If you're going to stand and live for the Lord Jesus Christ, and we talked about this some weeks ago. uh persecution is just going to be a very part of life. It's by its very nature. The kingdom of God and the kingdom that is not of God. And so there's going to be a conflict. Persecution is there. The other basic point comes in verse 13, and he says here that evil men, impostors, deceivers are going to go from bad to worse. They're not thinking that, but by their very nature, it's going to go from bad to worse. And their deception is going to lead others along the way. uh their lies, and the problem is they're going to start to believe their own lies. As Paul states it here, initially the seeding of this untruth was a whole trick, you know. Uh those who had a form of godliness but denied the power thereof. You know, they're continuing on. He says, well, but they're going to start to swallow it. Spiritual snake oil They're going to try and get more and more people to buy it, and pretty soon they're drinking it themselves. They're drinking the Kool-Aid because that's what's happened. Yet in the midst of all of this, in the midst of Paul's description of those first nine verses of chapter three, Of all of the woes of the last times. He turns to Timothy and he tells him, I want you to be strong in the truth. Despite all that's going on, Timothy, all these last days' talks, the woe that occurs, the persecutions, and remember, Paul's in prison. Paul's suffering through these very things. He says, I want you to stay the course. Verse 14, he says, but In other words, evil men, seducers, deceivers, uh swallowing up other people, and it's going to get worse with persecutions. But Continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. You, Timothy, continue. Continue to learn those things that were taught to you, that were laid forth in your life, and stay away from the false teachers and their followers. If they go to the mountains, you go to the valley. If they go to the valley, you go to the mountains. Steer clear of their type of talk and their thinking and their whole attitude that's there But he not only tells him of the things that he has learned, but he also says: but also continue in the things that thou hast been assured of, convinced of. convince of. What school did did Timothy graduate from? Anybody? Ephesus high school? Or Ephesus Christian school? Hardly. Obviously he was a student of the Apostle Paul. We talked about that up in uh earlier parts of this chapter. Uh verse 10. He says, Paul says, but thou hast fully known my doctrine and manner of life and purpose and so on and so on Timothy walked with Paul, sat with him, he heard his preaching, he saw everything that Paul taught with his mouth. He saw Paul live in his life. So it was a school, a short-lived school, but nonetheless it was a school. And he learned very much from Paul. He says, continue in that thinking But then also he says, there's an education that you had long before you met me. Chapter 1 and verse 5. Paul's writing to Timothy at the beginning and he says, uh, of of your unf of the unfeigned faith, or the sincere faith that was first found in your grandmother Lois And then your mother Lo Eunice, and I'm persuaded in thee also. From Timothy's earliest years Grandma and Mom were there bringing to him the truths of the Word of God. Now what word was that? Paul's letters? No. Old Testament. These were Old Testament ladies. They had the Old Testament before them. They had by faith received what God's will was in that Old Testament. And the foundations of the gospel were there. Those truths were there. And all they were looking for was the fulfillment of the prophecies in that which the Old Testament was leading them to, which was Messiah. And so he says, the sincere faith of grandma and mom, when Jesus Christ came, they could see it. It was clear to them, obviously, he is Messiah. And what do you think they taught this young man? That very same thing Paul brought along the final chapters, at least in Timothy's life, so he speaks of himself as Timothy's spiritual father. He really, you know, Timothy, let's sit down, let's talk about this, you know. accepting Christ as your Savior. But the groundwork was laid by mom and grandma. The foundational truths brought all the way through, and the picture was completed with them. Now, although there are no other names mentioned, I firmly believe over the years there were additional men and women in Timothy's life that contributed to his walk. that contributed to his position as as a young Christian man going into the ministry and leading this particular church obviously instructions in the Old Testament, but training in morality, in holy living, teaching Timothy to love the Lord God with all of his heart and with all of his soul, with all of his mind and to love his neighbor, even as he would love himself. The basics of the Old Testament, the greatest commandment, I can't help but think that those were the the the the cream of the crop that Timothy received that was brought into his life. You know, when I think about that, it gives me pause to ask myself, what kind of influence do I have or have I had in the life of others, especially those younger? Where have I seated them with truth? Where have I brought to them encouragement and direction in their life? as a father or as a grandfather, as an uncle, as a neighbor, or even as a role as a pastor in the church, or just to people that we come and meet You know? How how does that how does that brought in light and truth for those things? The opportunity comes to all of us throughout life to be teachers Not in the traditional sense of sitting in the classroom with you with people looking at you and you presenting a lesson, but in the way we relate to them truth. The way that we relate to them, honesty, opportunity to be people of faith, to encourage and to direct to instruct with our words, but also to instruct with the way we act. Because everyone looks to somebody else and says, they said this, but they're not living that. They told me to do this, but they're not doing it. So we've taught, we've been teachers, whether we actually wanted to be or not. And the responsibility has come up to us What they hear from us, what they see us do, God alone knows that what we have brought to them, providentially He can use in their life to bring them through the difficult times to bring them through the the struggles of life, and so we leave that in God's hands. Yet teaching really here isn't enough by itself. Again in verse 14. But continue thou in the things that thou hast learned, okay, from Paul, from grandma, from uh mom, from others who were in Timothy's life But then he says, and has been assured of. He says, continue in the things that you've learned, but continue in the things that you are convinced of, that you're convinced of In the life of the Christian, what has been received and learned must be applied in the heart by the Holy Spirit. Words are just words. There are times that we've sat in church or that we've sat in school, that we've been in other engaging interactions, and it's gone in You can kind of see shine the light here and comes right out the other side. It's gone in one ear and out the other. It hasn't affected anything. But for the believer, we understand that when the Spirit of God takes the Word of God, especially, and He works in the heart, He convicts that person. And that conviction solidifies where there's change in life. When you first heard of something like the resurrection. You've got to be kidding me. Or the forgiveness of sins, really. But when the Spirit of God takes the Word of God and brings it to our heart and convicts us assures us that this is true, you say, man, I've got it. And when somebody comes along and tries to say something opposite, contrary to, in in, in opposition to what you believe and think, you say, no. I'm assured of this. I guaranteed it. I know it. I've studied it, but more so my heart has been brought about by the Spirit of God that these things are sure for me Timothy, stay the course. Follow the teachings of the godly men and women that have been providentially brought into your life. But also, Timothy, in conjunction with that, allow the Holy Spirit to move your heart to what is true and what is not true and hold on to those things. So now let's head into verse 15. Paul's continuing in this same thought, assuring Timothy of the things that he learned, and he says, and that from a child. And again we mention that from his infancy That particular word can even be a baby just born. I think Timothy was surrounded by those beautiful truths from the Old Testament. Thou hast known the Holy Scriptures. The instruction of the Old Testament by mom and grandma, bringing him to Christ. The Old Testament scriptures, again, preparing them for the coming of Messiah. I'd like to read a little paragraph from a commentator from the last century, Albert Barnes. He says the scriptures have power. They are able to make one wise to salvation. They are not a cold, tame, dead thing. There is no book that has such power as the Bible. None that is so efficient in moving the hearts, the consciences, the intellects of mankind. There's no book that has moved so many minds, none that has produced so deep and permanent effects on the world. You see, Timothy was instructed by those who believed these things in the power of the Word. He was convinced of those things by the power of the Holy Spirit. His life was changed. And Paul says, the days ahead, you're going to have to hold on to those convictions, those truths. It is indeed the Word of God. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, verse 16, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. All scriptures The holy writings. Again, for Timothy, the Old Testament was what he had, what Paul wrote at that time. Paul's writings, the Gospels, the works of John weren't included. But in time they were still considered to be all of Scripture, the works of God, the 66 books. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, the breath of God. God breathes, inspiration. Its origin and its contents are the source in divine breath. The Holy Spirit. You know, there's nothing like it. There's no book like it. From the very inception of it, through all of the writings, through all of the 66 books. to the fulfillment of the things that it says, to the things that we await, to the power that this particular book gives us This past week I caught some of the six-hour PBS special documentary by Ken Burns on Ernest Hemingway. Uh always wanted to see it. And it's on a couple of days, so I catch a little here and I catch a little bit there. And what jumped out to me as I read Quote Ernest Hemingway, one of the greatest and most influential writers America has ever produced. Yeah. You look at that. I didn't realize that he killed himself with a shotgun, you know. Kaboom. Influential. The most influential. Influencing what? Americans? Life? You know, it it's uh his children, his wives, his alcoholism, his depression How about somebody with a little more history? William Shakespeare is widely regarded as the greatest writer in the English language. We can go on and on of big names that the world looks upon as saying these works by these men or women Are great. They affect society. They change hearts. They move minds. They move lives. So I Googled it. The top twenty five books that changed the world. All right. Number one, nineteen eighty four by George Orwell. Can you imagine that? But it gets better. Number two, Aesop's Fables by Aesop, you know. Number three, the analyx of Confucius By Confucius. The writings, the collection of his little pithy sayings. Number four, The Art of War by Sun Chu. Books that have changed the world. Number five. They listed as the King James Bible. Not the Bible, not the Word of God, but the King James Bible. And I think they did that. mostly because of its its acceptance around the world for for generations and generations. They're not honoring God's word, but they're saying, this particular book. And there were others and you would probably turn your stomach to go through the rest of them. But I ask myself, how will the reading of Ernest Hemingway or George Orwell make me a better husband? It changes people, I say. The the writers with the greatest influence, you know. Or digesting Aesop's fables as I go to bed every night. How will that give me peace following the loss of a loved one? The owl and the grasshopper, the town mouse and the country mouse, the two goats. Yeah These change lives. Yes, I can sit with my grandchildren and go over these and they have some little colorful characters with it and they'll they'll find it amusing But where does it meet my heart? Where the rubber meets the road? This is what the world looks at. I'm feeling a heavy burden of sin. Well, let me check out something in Shakespeare. I'm sure he has something to deal with that if I read Hamlet. Hmm. Hmm. Or Macbeth. You know. You see, w it's it's entertainment that the world looks upon and says, these are the things that make the world. These authors, these particular works, sold so many because people love them and it changes their lives. But to look at the Word of God and say, no, no, no Has nothing to do with that. With our Bible human authors, from Moses to John, from Genesis to Revelation, All thirty-five authors were men, clearly stated and understood, but they were powerfully guided by the Holy Spirit So what that they wrote was as it is the very word of God. Their personalities didn't change. You see their lives, you see the things going on around them. They were not robots But as they penned, the Spirit of God moved them to write exactly as it is, the breath of God, saying exactly what God wanted to say. This book of ultimate supreme value to mankind, because it is everything that God intended to reveal to man. The Bible is everything that God intended to reveal to mankind. He's not coming into 2021 and saying, oh man, I wish I would have told him this. You know, it's a hard year for the folks coming out of this pandemic. I should have put some other verses in there, you know, some new prophecies. Let me read to you from chapter 1, paragraph 1, the Westminster Confession of Faith. It says, although the light of nature and the works of creation and providence Do so far manifest the goodness, the wisdom, and the power of God as to leave man unexcusable Yet they are not sufficient to give the knowledge of God and His will, which is necessary unto salvation. They start out by saying, everything around us tells us that there is a God, so man can't say, I didn't know, you never told me, you know. But creation and what God does isn't enough to bring man salvation. So, therefore, it pleased God in sundry times, diverse manners, to reveal himself. and to declare that his will unto his church afterwards, for the better preserving and propagating of the truth. And for the sure establishment and comfort of the church against corruption of the flesh, malice of Satan, and of the world, to commit the same holy unto writing Which make us the holy scriptures to be most necessary. What God wrote and what he gave us in his book, In these 66 books is exactly what he knew and what he wanted us to know. He says, These people, these human beings, need to know and need to understand, so I have given them everything Listen to Peter's words, 2 Peter 1. According to his divine power, hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness. Through the knowledge of Him that hath called us to glory by virtue, whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises. That by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. God says, I've showed you much, but now I want to show you salvation, to make you part of this family that I have ordained to be established in this world. As we say today, this book is our only infallible rule of faith in practice. This is what I turn to. I can enjoy Hemingway. Or maybe not Hemingway. I can enjoy some Shakespeare when I can understand it, you know. I can enjoy with the grandchildren some of Aesop's fables uh the art of war um never even touch that, you know. But but I can sit down and take the word of God and say This is where I go when this part of my life is threatened, or when I have this fear, or when I have this concern, and where I know what's going to take place, all of these things around. Had a interview from niece. She's doing a college class out in California, and she wanted to do a Zoom uh thing with me. And she's young Christian girl, just delightful. And uh so she'll put it together as a a Zoom presentation for her class. And some of the questions about your history and this and that. And uh one of the things was w what do you want to be remembered for And and uh w what about your life? And I basically presented, you know, what God has done in my life, you know, how he took me at a certain time in my life when up to that point it was all confusion. What's gonna happen to me? Where am I gonna go? And all this other kind of stuff. And then he brings me to himself and I says, from that point on And it took a bit, but from that point on I had the assurance that I'm a child of God and He's going to lead my steps. It doesn't matter what happens And and she says, Uncle, that's that's what I'm thinking about. It concerns me. You know, I've got this college mm where am I gonna go, what am I gonna do? And such and I says, you know, just Abby just Trust the Lord on this. You know Him, and that's how it works. And that's what God's Word has done. That's what God intends for us to receive and to be blessed by. How about the words of King David, Psalm 19? The law of the Lord, and in each of these verses he presents God's word. with a different word, you know. Um the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean. enduring for ever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey in the honeycomb. David says of all of the senses of life, whether it's with the senses to the body, you know, the sweetness of the honey and the honeycomb or the senses of power and within wealth, he says, this is to be desired more than all of those things that the world offers as being the epitome of direction. He says, that's my experience. That's what I can tell you for sure. One of the pillars of the Reformation, sola scriptura, scripture alone. It is sufficient beyond question. Sufficient for salvation, sufficient for life, sufficient for all things. There's no need for additional revelations or visions or words of prophecy. For our sovereign, omniscient, omnipotent God does not look down and say, boy, I think I shortchanged those dear people. It is sufficient for all time. For some people, God might as well be the wizard of Oz hiding behind that curtain throwing switches and pushing levers and and pumps and and and spewing out lightnings and thunders and and smoke and flames and everything else and and then all of a sudden to be revealed as a charlatan So there's no trust in him. There's no way to look upon him, his whole thing is a sham. But that's not the way our God works. For his love for his people has been clearly manifested in the revelation of Scripture. He describes us as we were describes us as what we can be and provides for us the beauty through his son Jesus Christ. All scripture is given by inspiration. God breathed And is profitable. So We're going to have to continue on this the next time we meet together because we're not going to deal with all these parts, but I'd like to leave us with a few practical applications as we deal with this. What we have here in the Word of God. You know, everything God would have us to know about Him, our relationship with Him, is revealed in the Word. God is spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in His being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. That's what he's revealed to us about him. Genesis to revelation, providing us with such a character. He wants me to know that he is a holy God, that I'm a sinful human being. And that's kind of a debatable thing to the people that you meet. What does it mean to be sinful? What does it mean to be this or uh this and this and this? Everybody's got an opinion. What does it mean to be a sinner? What does it mean to go to hell? I've really suffered in this earth enough. I've taken my laps, you know. I don't believe in any of that kind of stuff. Continuing to be a sinner shows me what I deserve. Friday's news, the death of Prince Philip, brought about a number of interviews that I caught. One of them, I think it caught the uh the British uh newsman a little bit by surprise and and uh the the lady says, uh what do you think about the Queen He says, Well well she's uh she's a very religious person, and I think she'll be praying for her husband. Well wait a minute. It's a little late to be praying for dear Prince Philip, you know. He's already gone on to his reward. Um but I did read one of the Anglican church leaders And he stated that his faith in Jesus Christ was an important part of his life and one which shaped who he was. Um and from other things I've read, it would surely seem so. Um Queen Elizabeth had a time with Billy Graham and apparently uh opened her heart. Uh she may not necessarily display it as the way, but I really kind of think that she is a a a believer. Same day the very popular rapper called DMX died. Um and uh you look at the comparison of both of the deaths of these men suffered a heart attack a number of days earlier His life was marked by drugs and arrests and music that I don't think any of us really would listen to or have listened to. Fathered fifteen children by different women Yet he credited God around 2016 for a change in his life that transformed him 180 degrees. He says he was a deacon in his church. He says that he eventually wanted to become a pastor. Both men are evaluated by the world in different ways. We look at one and we say, well here's Prince Philip and he was these, you know, way up here from the aristocratic family and he did this and then we got DMX over here, whose very suspicious life, uh led to a lot of, you know, this and that and so forth, you know, and and it's easy to judge. But when it comes down to it, uh it's really the truth of God's word, the one standard that will evaluate them both It doesn't matter what we see and how we understand. We can take words that are being said so forth, but it's in God's ballpark. And I say that to say for the most important aspect of life is where will where will I go for eternity? Where will I be? And what God says, I show you the way. I reveal to you the way. This is the way. Christ Himself said: I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes into the Father but by me. That's what the Bible presents. It's not anything else plus this or minus this or whatever. So I I rejoice in the fact that God's word has provided that. But not only does God's words tell us that we all need to know Him and about that relationship with Him, But it also speaks to the relationship that we have this way. There's the vertical, man's relationship to a holy God. But God's Word, as He has providentially provided for us, everything that we need to know about this relationship, the horizontal in life. Dealing with offenses and hardships and opportunities for acts of kindness and love and sharing and giving and providing for the needs of others. How do I handle situations in my community? Threats, words of this, actions by these people, or whatever I read, or whatever I perceive, how do I handle everything? And God's word is there. As Paul wrote to those churches in in Galatia and in Ephesus and in Corinth and in Rome, he's in prison and he writes back to the people back there. for this type of relationship. Obviously he had to make sure that the the the vertical was correct, but he writes about this because that's where the rubber met the road for these people, for us And so it's a pleasure to be able to see that. I mentioned earlier about Timothy, what I believed was one of the keys that he was instructed in. uh is what Jesus called you know the greatest commandment. You know, to love the Lord your God with all your heart and your soul and your mind. There's vertical. And then what was the second like unto the first? To love your neighbor, even as yourself, this way. And God's word doesn't just give us, you know, here's five commandments about this horizontal relationship, but it's replete. From Genesis to Revelation, how we deal this way. What makes us different from everybody else in the world? Yes, I'm a born-again believer, I'm going to heaven when I leave this earth But there's has to be something more. Jesus said, you'll know them, you know, by their love for the brethren Yeah, you know, if if if a man say he loves God and he doesn't love love his fellow man, you know, does he really know God? God who he hasn't seen? You know, it makes the difference. Again, we'll deal with the specifics, the uh the profitability of this next time we get together. But I lay before you this basic powerful truth that the word of God God breathes for us, given to us, knowing everything that we need to learn and to know Yes, you can go through the book of Numbers and say, Hee ya. You know, these names they're hard to pronounce much less putting them together, you know Or you you go to some of the other places in Revelation or Ezekiel and says, Wow, these are head scratchers, you know. He's not saying that you're going to get the the the cram course There's no there's no Bible book for dummies, you know, or or the the the the the shortcut in dealing with it. He just says, just take your time, open it up, work at it. We gather together in in times like this and at other times to feed. I don't think at any other time in history I've Getting ready this morning and they had radio on and there's some preacher on. I don't think at any other time in history has the word of God gone forth uh in in such a fashion sprinkled everywhere, you know By radio and by television. Some of it's, you know, Brother Tim was mentioning this morning, some of it's really kind of gaggy, you know. Uh they're there for the money, but there's a lot of good stuff. It's everywhere. We don't have an excuse for not doing it other than just saying, eh, I don't want to. You know, I don't want to. Um so approach this as from God's vantage point of saying, you know, yes I've given you my son, I brought you to this salvation point, but I've also given you the word. And this word is so important to your life. You know, where will I go? What will I do? It's brought to us from there. Let's pray. Father, we pause again giving thanks for just a few words in this uh verse. That from Paul's heart, he writes to young Timothy and lays forth a foundation upon which his life and ministry must be based. That he is to be staying on a path of the things he was taught and the things that his heart was convicted of by the Holy Spirit. And those things brought greater clarity because they were in the word from Genesis on through Malachi. And then later, as brought together in the Gospels and in the book of Acts, in the writings of John, and the writings of Peter, and in all of these works being brought together These 66 books, what you want us to have, just not as a book to sit on a shelf, just not as a book to carry about to look more pious than others but as a book that is for our own good. More to be desired than gold, more than the much fine gold, sweeter than honey, sweeter than the honeycomb. Oh Father, give us a hunger for your word. We prayed in Jesus' name. Amen