Good morning. Second Timothy chapter three, ten through seventeen. If you note the title of my message, Perilous Times Shall Come Part Three, I did that just because it's makes it easier on the people making up the bulletins. You know, they have to part one, part two, part okay. You know. It's a matter of short review. We've spent the last two Sundays together looking at this perilous times Um and we spent uh considerable of our time looking over the uh the the things of the enemies of God Those first nine chapters we understood all that Paul was referring to in the last days, the characteristics of life of the people who lived at that time We discussed the 18 evil characteristics that define the period. And then last week, sorry to say, we saw some of those who had gotten swallowed up, you might say. um the uh the casualties, at least in this Ephesian church and all through history, uh to the false teachers, who had a form of godliness but were in truth, men of corrupt minds and rubberite concerning the truth. Beginning of chapter 3, verse 10 here today, Paul doesn't change the topic. It kind of makes a shift But he doesn't change topic, but it's a little bit different aspect to the approach of these last times. So beginning in verse 10 and follow along as I read through 17. But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience. Persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra. What persecutions I endured But out of them all, the Lord delivered me. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect. thruly furnished unto all good works. God bless to our hearts these words. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the morning, for the privilege again of sitting before your word as a banquet table full of good things. Your Spirit, Lord, to be our teacher, bringing to our hearts' attention the things that we have need to learn, and entrusting your Spirit to cause us to make good application of these things in our personal life and in the lives of those around us. Empower us, Lord, to glean from this chapter, these particular verses, the treasures that are available to us even this morning in Christ's name. Amen. In matters of conversation, have you ever some said to somebody, You're just like your mother. Or you're just like your father. Or maybe vice versa. They came to you and they said those very same things. Does it ever happen? Sometimes, and probably not so much, it refers to the way we look. Maybe the shape of our face, uh the length of our legs, our arms, or the way our hair is, or something like that But more often than not, it refers to inner characteristics, the actions that we take. How much you tip a waiter and a waitress? Are you cheap or are you rather generous? Or am I willing to try different foods or I'm just a meat and potatoes person, you know? Uh how I handle stressful situations calmly or explosive Or am I free to feel to talk to people, or am I extremely shy? Some of the things that we do in life that make up our our life, the way we act and so forth, come or had come from the people we lived with, from mom and dad, living in the house all those years and unknowingly we imitated them. We picked up on their habits or their actions or their reactions. And therefore, if someone can come along and say, you're just like your father. You're just like your mother, you know, because they did it that way and and we do it in a very similar fashion There was an anti-drug public service announcement on TV back in the 80s. I recall it and I had to had to look it up 1987 actually. The father goes into the bedroom with a little box and the son is sitting on the bed, has some earphones on and he's enjoying the music and and the dad comes along to him and he says Who taught you to do this stuff? And he opens the box up and it's his son's stash, you know? And and he's trying to his son's trying to explain things and the dad keeps interrupting and interrupting And finally the sun bolts out and he says, You, alright? I learned it from watching you. You know, and and that ran along for quite a while. He learned his habits from his father. Have you ever heard the saying or had to say, do as I say and not as I do? Yeah. Proves the point. Picking up actions, doing them because we observe them by the people that we have been entrusted to by God oftentimes becomes the habits of life. I believe that one of the easiest ways to learn is by following example, something we see being done. I enjoyed playing football in high school and I do remember the classes that we would sit, coaches writing films chalkboard plays and this and such and such and we talk how are we going to play this and that. And it was okay. But the best part of it was when we got to the field and we actually put into practice the things that we learned. We saw it, we participated in it. It was there that we saw how the each player worked and and and in such. And I think that often is the way of life Not only as we practiced did we learn, but we were confirmed in our hearts the things that we saw as classroom, chalkboard, film. We saw and we participated in them in practice. For the most part, up to this point, the Apostle Paul was teaching Timothy, instructing him. uh not in the sense of writing down things down and taking notes and so forth, but he did so by giving Timothy guidelines and rules and principles of life and ministry. And we've talked about them for chapter one and chapter two. I'm telling you these things and even the first nine verses of this particular chapter. doing so especially because he knew the hardships that Timothy was facing. This is my last time with you, Timothy, my executioner is is waiting at the door. I'm writing this because I want you to learn from my instructions that I give you at this time. But then he gets to verse 10 and he makes a switch. From giving extra instructions to giving examples. From the classroom chalkboard work to listen, Timothy. These are the things of my personal interaction. Timothy was taught directly and indirectly as he listened to Paul's preaching. as he walked with him, as they probably closed the day and they sat around the campfire and and had their lunch or their dinner and and and he heard Paul or on the way on the roadsides and they they talked and I'm sure Timothy had all kinds of questions feeling them, Paul says This is the way you should do it. This is how it is. This is all of the things that we learned in life. But now those instructions were to be confirmed by Paul's example. So look again at verse 10. But thou hast fully known my doctrine, my manner of life, purpose. Faith, long suffering, clear charity, patience, persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Aconium, at Lystra, what persecutions I endured But thou hast fully known, Timothy, you know me. You understand me. You know all about me, many of the details of my life. In reading the book of Acts, you'll find that Timothy was with Paul on his journeys. Macedonia. Philippi, Thessalonica, Berea. And then when you got to Berea, Paul says, Timothy, how about you and Silas staying here? I want you to confirm the believers in this place. So he had instructed him enough. Now he wants to give him a little practical work. He says, this is a time for you to stay on He left Timothy there, but later he gets to Athens, and Paul says, Timothy, come on over. Sends him a text. Timothy, need you, over here in Athens. And Timothy says, Yeah, all right, I'll be on the way. He trusted him. He's entrusted the instruction, but he says there's some more practical experience that you need to learn. For the most part Timothy spent a lot of time on his second and third missionary journeys, Paul's second and third missionary journeys. He spent all of this instructional time. So Paul could say, thou hast fully known Timothy, you know the details of life. You understand all of the things that I've done. But during these many miles, not only did Timothy receive the preaching about what Paul believed, But he saw how Paul reacted or acted, how he responded to the things of of of life. Just getting instruction is one thing, but seeing what Paul did was even more important. I think we could say that there was no hypocrisy here. Timothy would have known it. We're often caught by saying, do this, but not as I do it, just because I say to do it. Paul never had to say to Timothy, Timothy, do as I say and not as I do. Timothy knew Paul's life by his words. and by his actions. So what did Paul know or what did Timothy know of Paul? What does he say here about these various characteristics? But thou hast fully known my doctrine. In other words, this teaching, the whole category of everything that that is presented. Outside of Jesus Christ, there's probably no theologian giving the principles of Christianity greater than the Apostle Paul. Ephesians received the letter, and Paul in that states that salvation was by grace through faith alone, and all given by God, in order that nobody could boast in saying, I had a part of my salvation. The key to this powerful theological presentation by Paul. This was Paul on how to live before a fellow man. This is Paul on how to live before a holy God. Everything he wrote, Timothy's listening, he hears it, he sees it, his doctrine about heaven and hell, redemption, and so much more. And he says, Timothy, you also fully know my manner of life, my conduct, the way we act, the way we react, his walk. And I think as you read read of Paul, you'll see how unselfish he was. Never never in a case being able to say, man, I'm ashamed to be a Christian. Paul always spoke forward of truth, irrespective of the people that were around him or the situation that he found himself in Timothy would know this is how Paul would do it. You never had to ask the question, how's Paul going to react to this? Well, Paul's manner of life was this, and that's what he did The third one, he says, Thou hast fully known my purpose. So you put Paul's teaching together with Paul's manner of life, and you get what? Say it purpose. Purpose? Yeah, yeah, that wasn't hard. What he taught and how he acted was his purpose in life. What am I living for? Where am I going? What's taking place? The French call it Raisent, the reason for existence. Listen to what Paul wrote. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended. In other words, I don't count my life as saying, I've made it, I've reached it. But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, reaching forth to those things which are before I pressed to the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Wow. His purpose of life is saying, what? It's Christ. And Christ alone. Of all the is there an innovation? Who is it? My my last two Sundays at yeah. My last two Sundays at the other church there in you know. Uh, we had a wasp going around like this and I'm preaching and all of a sudden everybody's eyes go like this, you know. And and But that's what it was. And then the next Sunday it was a train. You know, you they have those things and we're going along as brrrrrrrrrr you know, I thought, let's just pause and wait till we'll pick this up, you know, how it goes. Ah yes, I love those wonderful providential interruptions. Paul says this one thing, I forget everything that's behind. All his success, all of his degrees I put behind all of the failures, all of everything else, and I just put on those those blinders and I just have one thing in life, Jesus Christ and Him crucified. You know, when we think of our life, what's my purpose in life? How do I how do I accurately describe it? I'm pulled this way or I'm pulled this way, I hear this, or I see this My mind's going like this. What about this? Or what about this? You know? Paul says, No. In truth, Timothy, you've seen me, and this is all my life is focused upon. To Timothy's ears he heard the singular purpose to glorify God. And with Timothy's eyes, he saw Paul's life doing the exact same thing he talked about. There was no no no confusion there. He says, Timothy, thou hast fully known my purpose in life. The next one, he says, my faith. You surely know my faith, his trust in God for salvation, obviously. um of his his purpose of saying, Lord, I give my life to you. And that must have been clear to Timothy. And I think it was painful for Paul, as we've talked about already, to have those people who abandoned him Remember earlier in this in this book he says, you know, there's nobody here. Nobody came. I'm in prison. Nobody visited me. How would that make you feel? And yet I think with Paul's life, Paul's example to say I faith in what God is doing in my life, irrespective of all of the failures of the horizontal, the relationships that are around me Paul's faith and trust was always in the God who redeemed him. Now the second or the next one is my long suffering. And I want you to think about this because long-suffering is defined as patience with respect to people. Patience with respect to people. Timothy personally witnessed how Paul viewed and dealt with those who persecuted him. He was long-suffering, even as God is to us. You know how God looks upon us and he says, How you have treated me or did treat me for for decades and how you looked upon me with disfavor. Just push me away. I was long suffering with you because I know in time you'll come to know me and love me. And I think Paul did the exact same thing to those who persecuted him Paul knew the long suffering of God, his patience to us, so Paul acted in the same way. And I think he was following in the foot footsteps of Christ. Think of all that Jesus encountered, all of the uh the the yea sayers and yeah, we're with you, and then at the last minute, you know, crucify him. All of the officials, all of the religious people, and yet not a word against him. He was long suffering. And then he says, Timothy, you fully know my charity, my love. In Romans, Paul spoke of his love for Israel. He says, I just love Israel so whatever it would take if I could just have myself as a curse. For the sake of my Israel. He loved them with such a love that God had, even towards his enemies. It was evident in word and deed And then my patience. And again, I just emphasize that because it's similar to the situation of being long-suffering. Long-suffering is patience with respect to people. Here, patience is respect to situations. It's endurance. You know. You can have long suffering to people, but you know, when those long Days of confinement. You know, gotta stay in the house, can't get off to work, you know. I I'm long suffering. No, I'm patient towards these situations because God is working in Paul's patience with respect to his circumstances and situations in life. And those are evident in verse 11, the verse 2's two principles that are mentioned here, he says, persecutions and afflictions He says, I'm patient during those times. Thankfully, we really haven't suffered persecution per se, although there are some principles that are there. Let me read to you Paul's only testimony 2 Corinthians 11. He says, not as a matter of bragging, but he says, Of the Jews, five times received I forty stripes saved one. You know how many times that is? 195 If he would have taken his cloak off and saw his bat, you would have counted 195 whippings. And they would have hold off, he says, save one. In other words, if you're giving forty stripes And you you goofed and you gave 41, that meant the guy who's giving the stripes had to receive the same number of stripes. So he always holds back. Forty stripes means I give you thirty-nine, just in case somebody miscounted, you know So a hundred and ninety five stripes. Thrice was I beaten with rods, once I stoned, thrice shipwrecked, a night in the day in the deep Journings often, perils of water, perils uh in perils of robbers, in perils of my own countrymen. And perils of the heathen, and perils in the city, perils in the wilderness, and perils in the sea, perils among false brethren, in weariness and painfulness. In watching often, in hunger and thirst, in fasting often, in cold and nakedness. All which Paul did for the sake of Christ. All which he did for the sake of Christ. Was he a crazy man? Yeah? Was he off his rocker or was he the real deal? His whole purpose in life was to Honor the crucified Christ. And he says, whatever it took, whatever the direction was, he says, these are the examples of things I encountered. And what did Timothy think of this man? You know, yay, Paul's a little bit soft here. He's allowing himself to get beat up, didn't have to, no. He says, I saw what he taught, I listened to it, I heard. And then I witness the examples of all of these things in his life. Everything that he says, everything that he preached about is exactly what he did in life. He says, You know it all. Paul says, persecutions, afflictions. which came unto me in Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra, which persecutions I endured, but out of them all the Lord delivered me Timothy had firsthand witness to some of these, to beings, horrible. Timothy had personal knowledge and experience. He saw with his eyes what took place. But he also saw that the Lord rescued him each and every time. No sense in bragging about it, you know. And yet if it isn't the truth, it's the truth. Timothy couldn't have come back and said, Well, what about this time? The Lord wasn't good to you there. What about this time? He was unfaithful there. God's always faithful, isn't he? The deliverance of those situations we find ourselves in doesn't always come in the same pattern and the same way we expect it 195 stripes? Couldn't we have cut it down to maybe, you know, 50 or 60 or something like that? You know, out of them all, God delivered him, and it was God's purpose. Persecution has been mentioned a couple of times in this book so far, and especially the hardships sourced in the enemies of the cross. We talked about those in the first nine verses of chapter three. Things that are present even today and will continue to be and get worse Paul was convicted that what he taught and experienced would benefit tremendously for young Timothy and for us. We can read the same things and we can take this account as being accurate right down to the very jot and title. Especially the words, what persecutions I endured, but out of them all the Lord delivered me. I've got no way to support this, but I would like to think that more often than not a few folks would have come to Timothy in his life and said, You're just like your father. Paul and Timothy had that spiritual father-son relationship. And I can't help but think that somebody's going to come after Timothy experienced something. uh after Timothy preached or once you some hardships, and somebody who knew Paul and somebody who knew Timothy came to this young man and says, You're just like Paul. You know. In a complimentary way, he says that's how Paul would have done it, and that's how you did it. And he didn't do it for any other reason other than the focus of his heart and life. was upon glorifying the crucified Christ. But there's one more verse that we want to tackle today. We'll look at verse 12. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. In the period of time that this was written, it was written for Timothy and those followers. You know. We saw earlier in the book, uh Paul says, Timothy, I want you to teach these things to those who will be for the next generation and the next generation. So now there's these training some future church leaders here. So it's obviously going to be for them, and if you know church history, you know the persecutions that the church received. They were horrible. Absolutely horrible in those first centuries But in truth it says, everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus shall be persecuted. Everyone who is willing, everyone who desires to be in close fellowship with him, men and women. Who have made it, their earnest resolution, with God's help and grace, to live a life devoted to Jesus Christ will be persecuted. I remember when I first heard that, you know. It was Wednesday night prayer meeting at church. I came to know the Lord in, and the verse came up and a fellow stood up and he says You know, he says, I thought about that as being persecutions, being, you know, what Paul endured or, you know, these first century saints, the whippings and the beatings and the imprisonments. He says, but I've had a hard time at work because of my Christianity. And he talked about that. And he says it's not the same, not the same categories, the physical persecutions, but he says, I've experienced some of this. I know what it is to be a believer in Jesus Christ. As you first read that verse, you fall back and say, Not me! A little bit of apprehension and concern and fears. And he says, I'm praying for the rapture before those bad days start to happen, but they're already here We've talked about 'em from the time of Christ's first Advent to his second Advent. These are the last days And hardship occurs in greater or lesser amounts depending upon the period of time that God has permitted them And we talked about this, you know, the the the volcanic shakings and the the the steam and throwing out some stones and but one day it's gonna it's gonna go kaboom and one day the persecutions will get worse. In reality, the truth is found in Scripture. Living godly Living a life devoted to Jesus Christ has always been and always will continue to bring conflict with the world we live in. It's the very nature, it's the very characteristics of the life that we live. It's the way we are. The world's values, the world's morals, its goals, its standards could never be used to define a portion of the Christian's walk. You can't. There are two completely different works, two books completely different. What's set out of what we live in, we sometimes have become very accustomed to. But it's the way the world has directed things and and we can't say, well, I can pick and choose this part and pick and choose here and put together. No Paul says, for those whose heart's desire is to live honestly and godly before the Lord, he says, that means I've chosen to build my Christianity upon what God's Word says. And it will stand in contrast, stark contrast to the world that I live in. It's just by its nature. It's not because, oh, I did this and they're going to be mad at me Matthew 10, 28, fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him that is able to destroy both body soul and body in hell. Why would he say, fear, don't fear those who are going to kill the body? Talking to his disciples, so that means persecution, and there will be those who will And we are just living because of their power or authority in life. John 15, 18 to 21. If the world hates you, You know, how do they know? Because I told you, no. You know by experience the dichotomy between the world and the and Christ. You know that it hated me before it hated you. If he were in the world, the world would love his own. But because you are not of the world, but have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. Remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord? If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept my sayings, they will keep yours also. But All these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. Jesus' clearest statement on why there is this dichotomy in life. This is the framework of the Christian. And this is the framework of the world. It's the uh the oil and water. You can dump them together and shake them all you want, but in in in the end they separate, there's just such a difference John 16, 33, these things have I spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. So opposite is the spirit and the practice of the world to the whole of Christianity. It's by its very nature. that he who gives himself entirely up to God, making the Holy Scriptures the rule of his words and actions, he's going to be reviled and persecuted in one way or another. When we were in the Philippines there was a a brother and sister that came to the Bible school and the brother was the older of the family of all of the children and uh uh excellent student Um and usually at break time the students would go back home to their province or wherever they live. But this brother never went. The sister was able to go home So I finally got the sister aside and says, What how come your brother never goes home? He says, He's the eldest and he says in our family Um, he was to inherit the business and it was a very large store uh, you know, type of business. As the oldest son, he was to get it all. And when he chose to follow Christ and become a minister of the gospel, Dad says You're out. I don't want to see you anymore. Persecution. It doesn't have to be physical, but it can be mental. It can be the pressure of of the world that is around us. How harsh and how difficult it was. Suppose ye that I am coming to give peace on earth? I tell you, nay, but rather division. For from henceforth shall there shall be five thousand and five in one house divided Three against two, and two against three, and the father shall be divided against the son, and the son against his father, the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother and the mother-in-law against the daughter-in-law, and the daughter-in-law against the mother-in-law. Sometimes those verses are often kind of chuckled at, but the reality of the stand with Christ makes it clear. We love the relationships that exist within a family, but we find conflict within the family because of these very things. Persecution. of the worst kind continues in the world around us, but sometimes those heart persecutions are extremely difficult to understand. Where do you stand on those principles? Thou hast fully known. Thou hast fully known You know, when it comes time to making choices upon where we stand, we sometimes vacillate. We sometimes go this way, and when the tide goes, you know, it goes this way. Uh we used to live up in north uh west part of the the state of Washington and there's a place up there uh where there's a little island and and uh uh that when the tide changes uh all the the whole flow goes under the bridge back out to the ocean when the tide changes uh all goes back this way and you see these big uh tugboats with uh log booms you know going on out And man, when it's against the t the tide, you know, when it's flowing, I mean those boats can hardly move. Uh but ones with it they go through real real speedily Um sometimes we make those switches. Um we are uh examples. People observe us uh for our children, for uh our friends, our our spouses, uh whatever, how we make those choices um means an awful lot I'd like to just close with this illustration. It's from an American pioneer missionary by the name of uh Ed Nyram Judson. He went to Burma. I had a really difficult time. It was about 200 years ago. He wrote this. A life once spent is irrevocable. You can't get it back. Once life is gone, you know, the psalmist talks about that. A life once spent is irrevocable. It will remain to be contemplated through eternity The same may be said of each day. When it is once passed, it is gone forever. All the marks which we put upon it, it will exhibit forever. Each day will not only be a witness of our conduct, but it will affect our everlasting destiny. How shall we then wish to see each day marked with usefulness? It is too late to mend the days that are past. The future is in our power. Let us then, each morning, resolve to send the day into eternity in such garb as we will wish to wear it forever. And at night, let us reflect on one more day is irrevocably gone, indebtedly marked. Yeah, one day. You know. And let's begin the day by saying, I'm going to live it for Jesus Christ. And there'll be and you do it, and you know there's going to be somebody who's going to be in your face one way or another, you know, and it can be you know, something they've written or they're actually there or they're not going to give you the business or they give you the business or or whatever. It's gonna it's gonna happen. He says, but once the day is done If it's past and we look back and he says, I did it for Christ, that's how it's going to stand. And yet he says, if I don't, he's basically saying It's an irrevocable arc. It can't be changed. If I if I've if I've blundered away through that and I've wasted that time and I've made them my compromise with with this or that, it's passed. You know, we have one opportunity to do that. We are thankful for God's grace, thankful for His forgiveness. And even though the marks are made, we can say, Lord, I'm sorry, you know, forgive me for that You know, cause me to do that. When persecution comes, brethren, whatever way it is, you know, just have our eyes upon the Lord, trusting in Him, in living for Him, for it is the most worthy cause. Let's pray Father, we thank you as we uh sometimes fly through these verses. and and don't necessarily esteem the content as we ought. That your spirit can take these words as they are seated now in our hearts and bring forth fruit to harvest in the hours, in the days, in the weeks, and the years ahead. Cause us to find our hearts delight in this word. Help us to see the examples of a young man Timothy and then and an aged Paul as Paul gives not only words of instruction but the reflection of his days gone by. days that were um unchangeable, his examples, uh never a doubt where he stood Father, we're not Paul, and we're not Timothy. We're just asking you to assist us in our walk with who we are. as husbands, as wives, as children, as uncles, as aunts, as grandparents, and whatever it is that we might live a life that's pleasing to you. one that will uh be be looked upon with favor by you at one day in Christ's name. Amen.