And I'd ask you to turn with me to your New Testament book of Second Timothy, chapter two chapter three. And again the first nine verses The Apostle Paul writes, This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection. Truth speakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady high minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof, from such turn away For of this sort are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with diverse lust. ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now, as Janice and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth. Men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith, but they shall proceed no further. for their folly shall be manifest unto all men, as theirs also was. May our God bless to our ears and our hearts this his holy word. Let's just pause for prayer. Father, as we approach this your word, a letter that has uh we've been looking at and a passage that once and again we've read and with uh very uh familiar phrases and things that we talk about uh uh for a long time. Uh we pray that we'd set aside uh any preconceived understandings and allow your spirit to to be our teacher. Allow your servant to be hidden and Christ to be shown in his glory. Uh we also, Father, have our hearts and minds often filled with other things. And uh in order that your spirit might have the free course to work in our hearts, we'd ask you to just remove those distractions. and that uh we we would be able to sit in and feast at the uh the banquet table of your word to strengthen us and to be better equipped uh to serve you in this world. In Christ's name we'd ask it. Amen. In our last time together, we somewhat struggled through the eighteen vices that are listed here, hallmarks the apostle talks about of the last days. The ungodly characteristics in verses 2 through 5, as we have just read, have always been present, even in the church. And yet, as they continue, they grow more prominent as it draws near to the time of Christ's coming. It's kind of like as I think living near an active volcano. Not that anybody around here does, but If you think about it, you live there because everything is just nice and and all of a sudden there'll be a shaking, uh there'll be some signs of little puffs of smoke and so forth and and uh quiet down, maybe a little bit of eruption and once in a while some stones get thrown. But as time goes on, the the shaking and the violence from this volcano increases in frequency and intensity. And all of a sudden you know that someday it's going to blow his top. And so it is in these last days. We read of these things and we say, yeah, yeah, well. And all of a sudden there's an intensity and a frequency that more and more of these are occurring, much more powerful than of before. We continue this morning, and I ask you to follow along on your Bibles, beginning at verse 5. And we finished with verse 5 last time um in discussing it, but it has a real important connection to the remainder of this particular section. Paul says, having a form of godliness but denying the power thereof from such turn away, verse six, for this sort, what sort? Well, meaning the people describe those with a form of godliness, those who deny the power, those whose characteristics are seen there in verses 2, 3, 4, and 5. Those are the type of people of this sort of this kind of people from this group. Now, what does he provide us with? He says, From these people, having a form of godliness, are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women. Creep into houses. Um this isn't going around and seeing if any windows are are loose or any doors are left unlocked. It's not a physical thing. It's a spiritual thing. He said their whole intent is to see and provide deception, for sure. And what do they intend to do? He says, to take captive. Now they're not going to go into the houses and tie the women up, okay? They're not roping them around, but it's a it is a mental thing. He said their whole intent here is to gain, capture the minds, mind control, gain over who. And now what people are talking about? He says, silly women It's kind of an unusual phrase in the New Testament. And I remember reading through that long ago and I thought, silly women, just kind of unusual of a statement. It's a diminutive picture. It means little women. It means small in their understanding. We would like to prefer to use that as weak-willed women So here's a picture that's not too often talked about. Not too many years ago, I got an email from a pastor friend. At least I thought, you know, it said that. And he was supposedly stuck in a foreign country. He had written that he had been robbed of his wallet and his passport and he needed some help. Well, if it looks like a duck and it smells like a duck and it waddles like a duck, it's a duck. And I know this fellow and I could read this email and I could say, this smells very suspicious So I contacted him right away to let him know of this you know what was going on and yeah he wasn't overseas, he was just over in New Jersey. And uh I said, Oh, thanks a lot Well I shared this with some other people just as a matter of warning. And actually one of the people that I had shared it with said that she did uh receive something similar from somebody else. And she did send money. And she thought it was absolutely Uh how could anybody deceive like that? How could anybody lie? How could anybody do anything like that? You know? And she was embarrassed You know, it was it was very uh uh very hard on there. She was extremely ashamed of what had taken place Back in Ephesus, I'm sure the idea of of false teachers entering into the home, uh deceiving women was was especially pugnant to to uh to Timothy and and the other believers. How could anybody do something like that And yet this is the very nature of the people that Paul is talking about and warning, taking advantage of, targeting them. In our day, the news often speaks of the elderly as being targets going house to house, offering house repairs at pennies on the dollar, you know. And they get the money and part of the job is done and all of a sudden they're gone. Or how about that phone call? Uh mama seems to get all kinds of 'em, you know. And he says, but it's your your uh your car insurance or your this or that and you know and she says, Ah and and you know those keep on coming or the the one that calls and it says this is the IRS and he says, You're in trouble He says, please press one and we'll connect you with an agent or whatever, you know. And we we think funny of it And yet they wouldn't continue to do this, make an attempt to deceive, unless there weren't people who were falling for it. They wouldn't try it if it's not successful in some fashion or another. Somebody getting taken advantage of. Here in Ephesus, these false teachers, these wolves with sheep's clothing, were clearly targeting those who were vulnerable. Easy prey. There was something obvious about these women that that they saw that they were prime targets for this grand deception that they were going to be involved in. Back in our text, if you look at verse 6, Paul shares with us some of the characteristics that made these women targets of a great deception. He says they were silly women laden with sins. They were overburdened. They were heavily weighed upon. They were overwhelmed down with sins. The word is other other places used for loading a wagon. Here sins on top and more and more and more and more They were overburdened with it to the place that they were obviously looking for some relief from the guilt or the participation or whatever it was. They were looking for something to help them with this. silly women laden with sins. And then he says, led away with diverse lusts, led astray, swayed by various passions or impulses or evil desires. Sometimes our mind goes, oh, I know what that is, or that's easy to understand, but Paul doesn't say anything, does it? He opens it up to anything, any type of sin that was there How did they come to the place in their life when they were burdened down with sin? Quite probably, whatever this impulse, this lust for whatever it was. continued on and on and on and on to satisfy that whatever it was, and they found themselves deep in the debt of this particular sin. I know some people have impulses to buy. Credit cards provide an ample opportunity to get it now and pay later, especially when you don't have the money to pay for it now. And then as time goes on when the bill is due, or maybe an old what old uh comparison, you go to the loan shark, you know, and I'll borrow this much money when it comes to pay it up, I don't have it So the credit card you get another one or you get another loan and it keeps on going and going and going and pretty soon it's bankruptcy or you get your legs broken or whatever the loan shark desires to do Paul didn't go into the details of what these sins were, but it didn't matter. What the sins were, what their impulses were that were driving it to it The truth of the issue that he's speaking about, he says it was complicated. And the burden that these women had made a situation to be making them targets, prime targets for deception. We'll give you relief. We'll provide for you. We'll meet these particular needs. Just listen to us. And then the third one, verse 7. We see that these women were vulnerable because they were ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Overloaded with sin, swayed by impulses, made them targets for these who were having a form of godliness, but denied the power thereof. So here were men, false teachers, who legitimately had some outer appearance that we could help you. We'll do what it is, their kindness, their love, their whatever, whatever way that deceived them to get into the houses and they says will provide for you some type of answer, some help. I think it's not very hard to understand. How many cults have found their prime recruits among those who are looking for a relief from sin? Some weeks ago, probably months ago, we talked about Jim Jones and the tragedy down in Guyana. The 900 souls that were lost. And I'd just my guess, I'd say the majority of those people who joined him down there were looking for some relief. There was some burden in life, there was some tragedy, some some emptiness that they were coming to him, and he had the form of godliness, but he denied the power thereof, and they were sucked into it. So it's not hard to understand why these were in such a situation. And here in our text, the verse says that those who denied the truth false teachers, deceivers with a form of godliness, denying the power thereof, were silly f filling these silly women with truth, but it was not truth. It was falsehood and led them to destruction. About 200 years ago, theologian Albert Barnes wrote this. Nothing is more common than for persons to be very busy and active in religion, and even to learn many things about it. Who still remain strangers to the saving power of the gospel? 200 years ago, 2000 years ago, the same principle abides You can know all types of things about and be very active and be very busy in it, yet not know the power of the gospel. You can be born into a Christian home. You can go to Christian school. You can be participated in all types of religious activities and know all of the types of theologies and everything else and yet never tasted the saving knowledge of the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so these women surely could have been in that type of state. Yet they learned, ever learning, yet never able to come to the power of what is available. Later on in this same book, the Apostle Paul writes, For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. They're not going to put up with it. truth, they're not going to hang on to it. But after their own lust, they shall heap to themselves teachers. For the things that they desire, not sound doctrine, but whatever their pursuit is, whatever their desire is, they will find teachers to say that's what I believe. I'm I'm I'm not living correctly and I want to follow somebody who supports me in my incorrect living. Teachers, keeping to themselves, lusting, following after that, having itching ears, they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables They will follow a lie in order to satisfy their own lusts. That's powerful, isn't it? That's absolutely mind-boggling, and yet the reality of that is here before us. Then verse 8. Now as Janus and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth, men of corrupt minds and reprobate concerning the faith. You search your Old Testament and you won't find Janice and Jambries in there. Jewish tradition has it as two of the magicians that were part of those who opposed Moses back in Exodus You recall when Moses came to ask Pharaoh, demand of Pharaoh that the children of Israel be released, and he wanted to show, display the power of God, and Moses took a staff and Turned it to the serpent, and water turned to blood and other things like that. Pharaoh calls out his own magicians and sorcerers to combat them with the very same things, outperform Moses As he withstood Moses, though, he was really withstanding God. Paul says that these false teachers in Ephesus were doing the same thing. They were resisting the truth. What Paul had taught, what Timothy had taught, and others, these stood in clear, stark contrast to those And as clear as the opposition was to Moses, who represented God, the one and true living God, so these false teachers withstood the false teachings of or the true teachings of of Paul and Timothy and others. Paul refers to them as men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the truth. Brethren, the same enemies of God in the Old Testament were the same enemies of God Through the New Testament and even today. Remember, Paul is giving Timothy the unvarnished truth here He's laying it on the line for Timothy to see, and as painful as it was for Timothy to understand what's taking place in his church, amongst the people that were around him Paul comes to him and he says, Timothy, be encouraged, but they shall proceed no further, for their folly shall be manifest unto all, as was theirs also. He said there's a stopping point, Timothy. It occurred back in the Old Testament, as Moses was calling those miracles Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and sorcerers, now the magicians of Egypt, and they also did in like manner with their enchantments. They can mimic some of those, but if you read to that passage those passages in there when it talks about the plagues, it got to the plague of lice and then all of a sudden that was it They couldn't proceed any further. The sorcerers and magicians of Pharaoh could not reproduce. And from then on, not only was was were the sorcerers and Pharaoh, but all of Egypt were plagued by these things. And therefore the the the false teachings of the false accusations that they presented against God were made known to all The failure of the Egyptian sorcerers, Paul says, will show the failure of these false teachers. God's truth will prevail. If you read on through the remainder of this chapter from verse 10 on, it kind of becomes another section. Although it does continue, and we'll see that, Lord willing, next week. It's a little bit different. But I want to spend the remainder of our time seeing what we can glean as a total package out of these first nine verses. First of all, let's become clear that evil is insidious, it is sinister, and it is powerfully deceptive. Don't ever think of it as anything less. We label all types of things that are dangerous with signs, warning signs. Uh the little skull and crossbones, poison, don't touch, keep away, you know, back off. This is dangerous. But there are no such labels for sin and evil in our day. We can't go around and put a stamp on it. We can't say, keep away from this, don't do that. That becomes legalism in a sense Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. But that's the devil. But I present to you that sin and evil is just as Insidious, just as hungry as Satan himself, seeking whom he may devour Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. To sift you as wheat, to throw you up and let the wind blow through and blow the chaff out. The desire of evil, the desire of sin in the world that we live in is just there to do that. So deceptive, so hard to accept as being part of what we have in life. The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Do you know our heart? Why do we do that? Why do we get into trouble here? Why did we participate or why did we act that way? The heart's so deceiving. It's just hard to understand. To those silly women in Ephesus, they plowed forward to seemingly greater enjoyment. Their lust their desires to be, to have, to participate, and whatever it was, drove them to a place where all they were left with was not enjoyment, but they were heaped down with more sin and more sin and more sin to the place that was crushing them. There was no enjoyment in the things that they were doing. That is the truth of evil. Rather, an evil seeks out the weak. In the Ephesus church, the particular situation was weak women. And you read that and you say, well, he's not talking about all women. He's saying in this particular church, it was weak women. But never forget that evil is an equal opportunity destroyer. It seeks out weak women, it seeks out weak men, it seeks out weak children. You'll find any opportunity in life amongst anybody at any time. We think of it, evil doesn't play fair as we think of fairness. And the serpent said to the woman, He shall not surely die. And it all began there. It was logical Why would he think that God would bring me to a place of death if I just take the one fruit? It's not fair. And yet that's the reality of evil, of sin, as it is in life. It doesn't seem that way. I think of the Old Testament character of Achan. Imagine going through the wilderness all those years with the same pair of clothes, same shoes. The same life, eating the same foods, and he all of a sudden he comes up to this great victory that was had and and he sees some Babylonian garments and he sees some treasure there and he says, Boy, you know what This this ought to help my family out. We've had a rough time in the wilderness. We've had a rough time. This ought to help me out. And it doesn't seem fair that Aiken is killed and his whole family for that I mean, how many of us? What will we do in order that it doesn't seem right? But that's how evil works. That's how evil is deceptive. Ananias and Zephira, you know. They saw the great need, stand up in the churches there, and and we'll sell this. property, there's buildings and that we'll sell them, we'll give it to the work of the Lord, you know. And and and it this is my reading, you know. She says, what did you do? Don't don't you care? Let's keep a little bit on the side for us. Oh, okay, okay. Nobody will know, you know. I mean that's logical. We're going to give all of this to the church, to the furtherance of the church, and we got nothing for ourselves. It doesn't seem fair, and yet that's how evil brings us to that place For of these sort are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins led away with diverse lusts. Insidious, slimy, creeping in, coming to a place in life when there is weakness when there is uncertainty, when there is not a a a firm foundation to be able to build and say, no, can't do that. Or yes, we can do that. That's just how evil, that's just how sin works How does evil creep into our houses and potentially captivate us? Well, it's in those computers. It's in that cell phone, those electronic things, you know? It's in every advertisement, every form of media. They're out there trying to trick, trying to deceive. Who knows? So let's get rid of all electronics. But what about my neighbors? What about what they're telling me? Or what about what I see they have? Or the guy that I work with, or the people in the neighborhood, or whatever it is, relatives, friends. What do we do? That's how evil works. Drink this, wear this, drive this, hold this, touch this, taste this. It's all sirens call Remember, I said that evil is insidious, sinister, and powerfully deceptive. It approaches all of our senses at all of the time. And convinces me that this is the right thing, and then we end up by saying, Man, it is a burden It is a burden, and how do I get out of the burden? Well, here's some good book, or here's some TV program, or here's something like this, you know. We look for other ways to have relief. Evil does no respecter of persons. It cares not if you are the king of the country or a high school ballerina It cares not if you're a pauper or a millionaire, if you lived in a tent or a ten-story apartment building, if you wear a mask or if you don't wear a mask. It is no respecter of persons. It looks for weakness in order that it might. And it came to Ephesus, and Paul says, these men representing this, totally against the gospel, found weakness in these women. And it crept in. They didn't announce themselves, we're here to destroy the gospel. They snuck in, and it's not going to come knocking at your door. It's not going to have a big warning sign on it. It's not going to say to your heart, let me in, let me in. This is the picture of great truth. If you're weak-willed, if you're unprepared with the truth, you will be and are a target. Secondly, this passage talks about a truth principle: is that the task of the church is to make men and women and children mighty in the Word of God. Saturated with the Word of God, filled with the heart with the Word of God, so that men and women will not stand against the wiles of the devil, will be able to stand. And so that men and women will not be dabblers at sampling every new trend, tasting every new experience, having never anchored themselves in the foundation of the truth. Go to a Christian bookstore, and I I applaud ministries that have good books. But you go across in the categories, you know, counseling, women's uh men's children, and you look at a lot of it, and it is just garbage. It has very one one Bible verse and it writes a whole chapter on the experience of the author. And people, this is a good one, you know We're going to have a study with this book, or we're going to go into this, and it becomes popular, and then the bestseller, and then she writes another one, or he writes another one, and a whole series on it. And it's nothing but froth and foam It provides no real strength. Proverbs 23:3 and 27. 12, they both say the same thing. And this isn't Solomon saying, you know, now did I write that down before? Let me there was a good verse, let me write that down again I think Solomon is saying, this is so good I need to write it twice. Listen what he says. A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. The prudent man, he sees evil coming and he says, No way. I would prudence, be prepared. I know what's coming. This is dangerous. Avoid it. But he says, the other, the simple, he says, I'm going ahead. And he's crushed by whatever that particular temptation was. Spiritual prudence can never hurt a pastor. Spiritual prudence can never hurt a congregation. In life, spiritual prudence gives the believer the advantage Come around here and a lot of road signs, some lot of these curves and so forth, and the sign says 25 miles an hour, sharp turn. So what do you do? You gun it. You know, you watch one of those commercials for uh some Lexus sports car, and you see the guy flying around the corner, and I've just bought my new car and I've got to fly through this. No Prudence says, obey the sign and you get through. Tiger Woods, I'm not necessarily sure what happened to the young man, you know. He wasn't prudent, and what happens, you know So in life, spiritual prudence says, be prepared, understand the things that are going on, and therefore allow yourself to anchor yourself in the Word of God. Brethren, can you see God's singular love for his people? That he warns them that perilous times are coming. What has he done for me lately? He's given you a warning. He's given me a warning. Perilous times shall come. Are you listening to me, children? He says. People of God, and especially his ministers, his Timothes, should be so prudent as to know and to observe when perilous times are approaching, as the prudent man foresees the evil before it comes. Prepare ourselves. Whatever that takes. Twenty-four hours in the day? Maybe there has to be some time adjustment with my schedule. Maybe there has to be some other adjustments with my priorities. What am I feeding upon? You know? Wonder why, you know, is is Why am I getting, you know, this 20 pounds of winter, you know, insulation? Well, let me look at the diet that I had to pass over winter here. Well, spiritually, why am I falling for this Why do I feel so guilty? Why am I so burdened? Why is sin just ever there? Well, if I look at my spiritual diet, I find that I've not been very careful with it. I've allowed things to enter and it's been there. Brethren, prepare yourself with every divine grace that is afforded you. It's in God's time. Be prepared. Let's pray. Father, as we consider this few short verses, we grieve with Paul and with Timothy for the lives of those who were deceived, sucked into the lives of false teachers. Those who hated you hated the gospel and presented something that would lead to total destruction. And Father, as we examine our own lives, we oftentimes dabble into things that are not grounded in the Word of God. We oftentimes taste things that are involved in, we are tempted by, that we we lust after, we desire after, those things which have no spiritual profit. And Lord, it can end up that we find ourselves in those characteristics read earlier in this chapter, that we become people who are hardened towards truth. Don't find ourselves having a great love for the Savior. May Father you grant us access to looking at ourselves. The Word of God, quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. dividing the sun of soul and spirit, joint and marrow, that we can see who we are with the word. Help us to love it Help it not to be a burden. Cause your spirit to work in us a work of grace that we'll be prepared for these evil days in which we live. We can't hide from it, but we see it's coming. We see it's here now. May we be prepared, and we'll ask it in Christ's name. Amen.