There. I thought we were in darkness up here for a bit. Let's open our Bibles, please, dig into Second Timothy in chapter three. 2 Timothy 3. In in that there are just a few verses. I'm going to ask you to read along with me. We're going to look read verse 1 and then 14 through 17. And the reason for that is that verse 1 again introduces to us This matter of these final days, these last times, these troublesome days. And then 14 begins with but In other words, in complete contrast to what the troublesome times that are introduced there in verse 1 goes on and how it takes place. So let's all begin at verse 1, and then we'll jump to 14. This know also that I'm not hearing anybody, you have to read together out loud audibly. All right? I know, I know this is Oh really? Oh. You were re you were just reading in your minds. That's where okay, let's try that again. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. Verse fourteen. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by the inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Praise the Lord for His word and this understanding that His Spirit will give. Let's pray. Our Father, as again we open up to this familiar passage within the New Testament. This letter to Timothy written to this young man, read in the churches at his time, read in the churches throughout church history, even up until today And it gives us access to truth that we so desperately need. Father, we readily confess that we feel that these are indeed troublesome times that these indeed are days of last times, perilous by the very uh uh episodes that are ongoing around us. And it bothers us, it's concerning. And yet, our passage also grants us access to a great victory that Timothy was encouraged by and blessed And the church has been encouraged and blessed over the generations. So we ask, Lord, as we open up this portion, that we likewise would be blessed, strengthened, nourished, and we'll thank you in Christ's name. Amen. I don't know how many of you ever wanted one, but as a boy, the gift that I wanted above anything else was a Swiss Army knife. I mean I longed for one of those guys. And and the elation, the jubilation when I finally got one Oh, uh you know, you can imagine. And I remember it, you know. Um it had the the scissors, two blades uh Phillips and and straight slot screwdriver, can opener, bottle opener, um saw Toothpick, a tweezers, um, and spoon and knife. You know. I mean it was it was everything. It was indeed uh just uh a joy to me. I felt empowered Naturally it was one of those things that you never took to school, you know, but out of school it found a permanent place in my pocket. Because I felt I could do anything with it. You know, any uh you know like a and this is before MacGyver, if you know that sets anything. You know, I could do anything, any situation that I ever would have gotten into, which I never did But nevertheless, it just uh made me uh very proud, and it was mine. However, later on in life The knife became less and less important. Uh it found its place somewhere. Uh I guess it was lost in time. And the reason it became less and less important because the knife could not handle the things that I was involved in, engaged in, the troubles of life. It couldn't handle fear, it couldn't handle uh anxiety, it couldn't handle hatred, it couldn't handle things that were bound within the soul. Um and and therefore it just became less and less important. But what did find its place of relief was the Holy Scriptures, which indeed were able to make me wise unto salvation through faith that is in Christ Jesus. The author of Hebrews tells us, for the word of God is quick, meaning it's alive and powerful, and it's sharper than any two-edged sword or two-edged Swiss army knife. Piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Wow Here is something that addressed not only addressed my needs, but it was something that I could take wherever I went. And it was powerful. It was alive. It is a Swiss army knife of the spiritual value. In our previous Sunday, we looked at the book, the scriptures. um as seeing it as a book like none other, one that had been given by God. God breathed. One that he saw that he says My people need this, or humanity needs this, in order that they might understand me. Saw the vertical, in order that they might understand the horizontal, the relationship with those that are around us. It's interesting that in life many things once that product is produced and becoming successful, that that you find counterfeits coming along. You know, uh here's something that's made and and and with the Swiss Army knife? Well, I don't remember where my first one went, but um there were others who came along and gave me as a gift But it wasn't a Swiss Army knife. It was the Chinese version, you know? Um it looked almost the same. uh had uh similar colors, but there are some markings that you know prove it to be different. And and it wasn't as good because it wasn't as sharp and and the tools bent a little bit and they weren't quite as you know, it just never measured up. To what the original does, and it never would. Spiritually, in the same sense, in these last days Counterfeit products always have been and always will be compared to the original. And they'll come up and say, this is just like the original. This is just as good as, but they don't stand the test of time. They're not as powerful. The counterfeits simply don't work. They've been peddled as the real thing, but as we saw in verse 5, having a form of godliness counterfeit, but denying the power thereof. Counterfeit products Satan has always presented and continues to do so and people continue to buy into them because it's a little bit easier to get, and you don't necessarily have to, you know, hold on to them as you do with the others. Counterfeit gospel. Like those Chinese knives, they don't last, inferior in quality, and ultimately they fail. And those who buy into them end up failing too. When last we met, we saw the authority of the Word of God, the real thing. All scripture given by inspiration, the breath of God. God's sincere desire that we receive exactly the very words of God, and everything that God wants man to know is contained therein. There's no superfluous statements, no filling in of empty pages, no coming along and saying, you know, well, let's just uh just give them something, nothing is left out So then what does it mean? Verse 16 says that God breathes sacred writings and it's profitable. All scripture, all holy read, given by the breath of God, and is profitable. And to me, that's an asterisk when it comes to spiritual things. This is good for me. This is profitable. It's useful. It's useful in life. And if God says that, I think I need to take attention. If you don't mind, I want to use the analogy of the Swiss Army knife here. Again, that which we have is the real thing. It's authentic. It's uh calculated by God as being that which exactly what we need, not a counterfeit And although if you look through scriptures, we can probably come up with a number of blades that are involved in what God would say this is profitable for you, we're going to use four. And you can tell by this very verse what those four blades are going to be. And I warn you ahead of time that we're only going to get through two of them. But they're good blades. They're good blades. The first play we look at is doctrine. God's word is profitable for doctrine or for teaching. The Apostle Paul, in the very first book that he writes to Timothy, talks about elders, and he says, those who labor in the word and doctrine. In other words, church elders whose ministry is teaching and preaching. We say that pastors, a preaching elder versus a ruling elder, one who oversight with the church itself. So it categorizes here God saying the necessity of teaching and preaching, bringing the Word of God instructively into the hearts of the people that was necessary This doctrine or teaching is basic to everything else. Bible doctrine is our only infallible source of truth. The only pure source of truth, and that gives us real encouragement. In other words, you know, this is fundamental to our existence. It's teaching us what we need to know and to believe concerning salvation, concerning God, concerning Jesus Christ. concerning myself. There's no question. About God says, this is what I want you to believe about me, about you. How you can come to know me and be part of my family. There's no other way. Christ even speaks very heavily about that. It's fundamental also to the other blades of our knife, to the blade of reproof and correction and instruction and righteousness. For if the first blade doctrine, if the first blade teaching is weakened or is is is is less strong and powerful, then all of the rest will fail. If I fail in doctrine, then how can I truly rely on what God's Word says about reproof or correction or instruction in righteousness? It all fails there. The Old Testament book of Nehemiah, we come to a place where the children of Israel had finished 70 years in Babylon. And as they're on their way back, there were a couple of stages of this return home again, but as they're on their way back, they found that the walls of the gates of the city of Jerusalem had been destroyed uh earlier in Neomai, he talked about rebuilding these things. And once all of the work had been done and it was done, you know, rather rapidly and so forth uh all of a sudden the people were gathered together in order for a change, uh introduction back into the Word of God And to lead up to this one particular verse I want to share is, when they were in Babylon for seven years, think about how many were born in Babylon. How much was not introduced to them about the the God of of the one who they had left in in Israel when they went to Babylon in captivity? Even their own language. How many grew up uh knowing only Chaldee instead of Hebrew? All of the all of the traditions and all of the things that were there. And plus those who did make the journey from Jerusalem to Babylon and on their way back again, they maybe even forgot uh the truths that were presented there. So it comes to the place after the work is done. Chapter 8, verse 8 says, So they read, this is Ezra and the others. Work has all been done. They stand up and they get the word of God itself and they start reading. So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly And gave the sense and caused them, meaning all of the children of Israel there, caused them to understand the reading. Not only was it read, but it was translated. People are sitting out there scratching their heads. What's he talking about? Gave it the sense, read distinctly, gave them the understanding. In other words, they instructed in the Word of God. And you read that chapter and you see, this is everybody. They're all out there, children, and mothers, and fathers, and grandparents, and everybody. They're hearing the word of God. For some of them, a refresher course. But for most of them, this is brand new And God is saying, we're returning home. Just as I promised after 70 years we're going to come back And I want you to start on first base. I want you to start right. I want you to understand what this new life in Jerusalem is. So the instruction of the Word of God was basic to their lives and to their future. Another New Testament example we've mentioned before, after the day of the resurrection or the day of the crucifixion. There were two, uh Cleopas and another disciple, and they are on their way home to to Emmaus. And they're on the road and Jesus comes, uh he says their eyes are holding, in other words, they didn't recognize him And he says, Hey guys, what's going on? And uh why are the sad faces? And and they says, Where were you? You know? Uh didn't you know what took place? Didn't you understand the events of the past day? And he says, No And and and he they talked about the things that were there and Jesus saw their particular condition. This resurrected Jesus says, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. Now, in truth, Jesus could have come to them, see their face. What's going on, guys? Hey, look here. It's me. You know? Hands? Side? You know it's me, Jesus. He could have said it and boom, it could have been, you know, complete but he didn't He took the Word of God. He took the law and the prophets and he went through it all. He instructed them fully about what took place and why it had to take place. Why he had to be betrayed, why he had to be crucified, why he had to go to the tomb and be resurrected at the third day. In other words, the instruction of the Word of God had to be complete And all of a sudden the light clicks on, you know, and he says, wow, and then he was gone. And it changed their lives. It filled in the blanks. It provided them with an understanding of what the Bible had to say about the relationship vertical and the relationship horizontal. And they were different men. They got back to Jerusalem and said, you wouldn't believe what happened to us. The scriptures, God breathes, were profitable for teaching, teaching truth The very book that we've got here before us, Second Timothy, I think is a fantastic example. Uh we go through the the the things that we've mentioned before uh his mother, his grandmother, instructing him from the Old Testament, bringing him along, there's sincere faith found in Timothy, sincere faith there. Then the Apostle Paul and no doubt others who came along. all instructing him in the theologies of God's Word. And Paul comes and he brings all of these pieces and he brings all of the strings together and he says Timothy, this is Jesus. And so he says, you know, now I'm your spiritual father, because your scripture relates to that, but he says, now he sees, and all of a sudden Timothy sees, you're right Of all of the things grandma and mom were talking about and and others, and all of a sudden it comes together through the instruction of the word. It was profitable, useful in Timothy's life, and now where is he? He's in charge of the Church of Ephesus. He gets these letters from Paul in order for these positions of leadership. The instruction of the Word of God, extremely powerful in life. Doctrine is the largest blade of our Salvation Army's spiritual knife because it's basic to everything else. You look back to the Protestant Reformation, you read of the works of Calvin and Luther and many of the others, and they talk about the necessity of God's word getting into the hands of the people For their salvation, but then beyond that, about all of life. They're saying there's a need here that people can come to read God's Word and understand what it says, how to be saved The vertical again, but also the horizontal. How do we work? How do we have relations within families and so forth? And therefore they felt that that was an extremely powerful link that was tied there together Our American forefathers understood the very same thing. The first schools of America were started by the church for the main purpose of providing Christian education. If you go back to 1647, Massachusetts, it was called the 1647 School Law and required teaching, reading, and writing of scriptures to children in a school setting. 1647. And this becomes the the the foundation of the public school system for all kids within the within the obviously within uh Massachusetts, but within uh the the whole of the country. So the main purpose was to teach children the scriptures. Back then the understanding or the the purpose for making this law was that they held to the truth, that they felt that it was Satan's purpose to keep God's word out of their hearts, out of their minds, in order that they could control it, Satan could control them. Satan wanted to keep the people ignorant of the scriptures and therefore remained in bondage because of their lack of knowledge. This is the driving force before all of the education within our country. Higher education, the universities and the colleges uh the first institutions of higher learning in America originally started as seminaries. And the purpose was to guard and guide those who filled the pulpit that they would not only understand reading and writing, be able to glean from the scriptures that the pastors would be literate, but that they would be well versed in the scriptures. Out of the first 108 schools, universities in this country, 106 were Christian. 106 were Christian. Harvard University started students in the principal quote. That students should be instructed in knowing God, and that Christ is the only foundation of all sound knowledge and learning. This is the same Harvard, as you know, that's there today. Hardly from that. But this is looked upon as one of the highest uh levels of education in the world. But it was started with this understanding that God's word instructed not only to bring to salvation, but it was a basis for life in everything that went on. God breathed, God says, this is it. And it's profitable, it's useful, and how we need to know that. The second blade And you may we could keep the other one open. You know, it's sometimes you might get cut if you p open two of those blades at the same time. But we keep it open because everything's going to be relying upon that first blade of doctrine. The second one is reproof. God's word is profitable for reproof or refuting of error. Do you remember when your parents caught you doing wrong? No. They never caught you or you never did wrong. I recall, you know, uh probably more times than I need to. They had burning feeling in the ears. flushing of the cheeks, the gut-wrenching feeling that I was caught red handed. Hands down, you know, uh they saw, they had the evidence, you know, I was indeed guilty. There were no excuses to be offered. There was no disputing the facts, and my father family's case was factually laid out, and I was cornered And to be honest with you, I still dislike that feeling when I'm caught, when I'm accused, when I am challenged with my failures. Reproof isn't fun at any age, yet the end result is good. I think we all agree with that. Reproof, rebuke isn't fun at any age, yet the end result is profitable, not only because God's Word says it is, but because we've experienced it in our own life. In the original, the word reproof means to convince with solid, compelling evidence, especially expose proof, persuasion, and that by which a thing is tested. Probably the most powerful picture of reproof is out of Matthew 4, when the Lord Jesus goes and spends that enormous number of days in the wilderness. And at the end time, he's tempted, uh, tempted a number of times, uh uh approaching you physically and mentally and spiritually And he rebukes, he he reproves Satan with what? The word He outlines this is the true pattern of what things ought to be, and I bring you to that understanding, and because what you've said is wrong. Caught because God's word says, thus saith the Lord. You know, it has been said. Here's the word. And Satan couldn't say anything against it. He was rebuked. Another New Testament one I was thinking about when John the Baptist rebuked Herod Antipas for the evil relationship Herod had with his brother's wife. Everybody knew what was going on. But John the Baptist comes to Herod, and as a Jew, he had a responsibility to receive the Word of God in a rebuke and repent. It didn't quite go that way, did it? The rebuke caused him to lose his head John didn't do anything by Greek philosophy, his own opinion, of saying that, well, Herod, you know what's going on with this illicit relationship is It's affecting the economy of the country. You gotta change, you know, it's not good press. He brought to him the word of God. That's that first blade, instruction of truth. And he says, this is what's been wrong, and this is what's taken place, and you've got to stop it and repent of it Wasn't necessarily the best thing that Herod had ever heard. When the rebuke was done, Herod was angered because men loved darkness rather than light. And the light of the truth of God's word revealed to his heart brought him to anger. He was exposed. his deeds, light to his darkness, and he knew it. When we're rebuked by a brother or sister in Christ, with our hand caught in the proverbial cookie jar, What's our reaction? Do we say like Herod, you know, no, you know, do we defend ourselves? Uh it's not me, you know, it's something else, you know. Um God with Adam and Eve, you know. It was the woman, Eve says. It was the serpent. Always in defensive mode. When we're caught legitimately doing wrong, and the rebuke comes Or do we look at it possibly and recognize it as a blessing from God? There's an opportunity to resist, or an opportunity to look at our faults and repent and to learn from that. That's the whole principle behind what he's saying. It's profitable. There needs to be change within our hearts. We get instructed from the Word of God, but also the Word of God is there as a staple to be able to say you don't go over this or this is the pattern that you go with. In biblical reproof, this is all about maintaining God's truth in a fallen world, then I need to be subject to that reproof Is it right to do or is it wrong to do? And I need to look at it and need to understand what God's Word says. In our country, the pattern, whether people were believers or not, the pattern had always been the Word of God. This is right or this is wrong, and people understood that But when the Word of God is taken and shelved and watered down and just pushed aside, then the standard of living is whatever you want. You've all experienced that in life. You've all got interchange with people in business or in the marketplace or whatever. Well, it's whatever I feel like. There's no standard of truth So if there's no standard, then indeed the problem is that there can be no rebuke. The relation of the Christian to the great battle between light and darkness of truth and sin It doesn't just end when we accept Christ as our Savior. There are those who come and they're appealed to them by accepting Jesus as your Savior and everything will be right from now on, you know? But it doesn't end like that It's just really the beginning of understanding relationships. The everyday challenge, Hebrews 12, 5 and following reads And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as children, quote, My son, despise not thou the chastening Okay? The rebuke, the reproof, the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him, exposed of him. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. He took that out of Proverbs 3. 11. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord neither be weary of his correction. There are times that God doesn't personally. And we say, why did you do that to me? Why? That was painful. That was hurting. You know, it didn't have to be, you know, the the two before side of the head. Could have done it a little bit easier. But we're still, we've received a rebuke in one form or another from him, and there's a resistance. And so the author of Hebrews says, Why are you so upset? The only reason he's doing it is because he loves you. As parents, sometimes that's the most difficult thing to bring forth is is a matter of reproof or correction to our children. And they love those words. We're doing it because we love you. You know, they'll quite see the bigger picture. And God says, I'm doing it because I love you. This is necessary. Genuine believers who are sincere about their walk with God value reproof, though it's often a medicine that's hard to stomach. It's a medicine that we take that's hard to receive. In the big picture, it's good for the soul. Psalm 141, verse 5. Let the righteous smite me It shall be a kindness. Let him reprove me. It shall be an excellent oil, which shall not break my head For yet my prayer also shall be in their calamities. Who would you like to have reprove you? The world or the righteous? And the psalmist says, let the righteous do it. And he says, I'll receive it. It's an oil upon my head. It's not a burden. It's that which I needed It's that which was necessary for me. So God can reprove us directly, and yet I think he often uses others to carry out the exposing of our calamity. Nathan's words to the guilty David, thou art the man You know. Close relationship. David trusted this prophet. All the things were exposed in the story and it leads it up and David's ready to, you know, let's get this guy and David points his finger and he says Thou art the man. Peter was walking, not walking as he should. conflict was his old Jewish nature, and he comes to be with some others and there was a s division within the church. And Paul comes in and he says, Peter, what's going on? It was a it was a public action that that everybody was looking at, Jews and Gentiles, and Peter siding with those who were Jews, and and and he says, why is it like this? And Paul comes and he brings the words, I withstood him to the face, because he was to be blamed. In other words, publicly, Paul gets up and he says, this is a public sin, therefore I'm publicly rebuking you. You read of Peter's letters later on, and he says he refers to him as Brother Paul. He received the rebuke with joy. It was a medicine that was hard to swallow, but it was necessary. Both Nathan and Paul were instruments of God, bringing reproof and rebuke. In order to maintain God's truth. And what was so beautiful in these cases, and there are others within the scriptures, is that there was change by those who were rebuked David's repentance brought sorrow. Thou art the man, you know, it brought sorrow to his heart. And it was beloved, as Peter refers to Paul later on, because he has accepted that rebuke. There was no defensive stance. They didn't sit back. David could have said, hey, wait a minute. I'm the king here. You know, we're all entitled to make a few mistakes, okay? Wasn't the case. Peter didn't stand up and really go into the defensive place, throwing chairs and punches and so forth, losing tempers and shouting profanities. Didn't happen. He accepted the rebuke as it was. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for reproof. Two blades. There are two more in this particular knife, and by the grace of God we'll handle these next Lord's day. But the subject of reproof and rebuking Coming uh a couple of weeks as we finish this up. Uh second Timothy four two, we see Paul tells Timothy Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. There are categories, and sometimes we as believers think that uh instead of an we don't think of exhortations, we think of rebuke, you know, like we gotta get out with guns and we start blasting away. You know, we'll try and deal with that when we get to chapter four, but I think it's sufficient to see what we've got here. Let me close with a few thoughts. The word teach is found 123 times in the Old and New Testament. Teach. But the direct pattern that's pointed out about teach me is found only 15 times, and 14 of those are found within the Psalms. Fourteen times throughout all of God's word, the words of the psalmist were in this particular case, teach me, teach me And so we ask, how teachable are we? How teachable are we? The psalmist says, teach me thy statutes, teach me thy paths, teach me thy judgments, teach me thy way. Teach me to do thy will. How teachable are we when it comes to God's word? Sometimes the old patterns of life, you know, are hard to get rid of. They are ruts. had the grandkids over Friday night three out of the four. Um if we look a little bit wearied, we understand why God gives children to those who are younger. But we had a delightful time. But you we watched a YouTube one of uh a bike race, you know, in the French Alps And it this the guy who was filming it, you know, he was in the last place almost and he passed a thousand b well, I said bike rice, bicycle. No, a thousand guys going through the snow and all this and and and coming back and down through the Alps, you know. And and most of the time the only way that he could make these things was the rut that the bike tire could go into And it was almost impossible to get out of. A lot of our theology were in a rut. We had a dear brother back in the church that we had with years ago who was of a Lutheran background. And there was a particular aspect of theology that he questioned me on. So afterwards, we got down and we opened the word and we sat down, we looked at it, you know, and he says, wow, you know you're right. Hmm, it's good, okay. A couple weeks later the topic comes up again. And he's back into the old rut of what he had thought of before. And and I came back, but didn't you didn't we go over this? Yeah, but I still think, you know, theological ruts aspects of life, teachable moments. Lord, if there are things that your word is to teach me, help me to get out of the rut that's not to be there, and help me to find the things and to be on the path that I ought to be on. It's easy to get into those things. We've always done it that way. We always thought it that way. You know, that's how I was taught, you know, and never, never, just never considered it, you know. He says, teach me thy, teach me thy. And so as we come, whether it's here or your private times and devotions and so forth, begin by saying, Lord, teach me. Just don't look up the passages and say, I like this part of the Bible because it it it supports what I believe. You know It it tells me that what I'm doing is right. It doesn't mean that's what this says, but you found a passage that says that's what I believe and I support that. For coming at, let it be a teachable moment in order that it will strengthen you. And then secondly, will you allow the Word of God to reprove you? To bring you to a place where you know you did wrong and that you accept it and confess it. You know, that'd be one of those areas that we just flipped through, and I don't like reading that Or that was about David, you know, or that was about so-and-so, and they were lived thousand years ago. It has nothing to do with me, you know We have to allow God's word to be if it's going to profit me, it's got to profit me in how what it teaches and when it pokes my heart that that that painful spot, God says, I want you to learn this, I want you to get out of this rut, I want you to to profit in this, then I need to accept it. And so as we come to that, you know, again, whether it's coming to Sunday, Wednesday, anytime God's Word is open, we pray, Lord, teach me. that I could learn. If that I'm wrong, may the word there be there and and may I come around and say, wow, I'm sorry for what I did. If it's a personal, you know, whatever, or if it's a general one or or whatever Just allow the Word of God to provide that. That's what we mean when we say that this word is quick and powerful and it's alive. It's working in me. Let's pray. Father, we'll pause as the word is settling within our hearts now. A lot of dust is kicked up and and sometimes it's a little bit difficult to manage what we see or hear. But we want to have your spirit to provide some clarity that what is true, um, what is uh accurate, what is profitable would be received and and brought to a proper place in each of our lives, you know best, your spirit, to be the one to take that and make it applicable to my situation. And not that we would look to somebody else and think that it's better for them to listen to it than me. Lord, we're a product that continues to be transformed from the old man to the new, from a man of the world to a man of Christ, to a woman of the world to a woman of Christ. And we ask that this would be a powerful uh picture of of what it takes place. May Father your word continue to deep dive into our hearts, our lives, our souls and spirits, our joints and mirrors, because it discerns my thoughts and my intents And there is nothing that is hidden from you. Thank you for loving us and giving us such in Christ's name. Amen.