We the first great event was Trump is now our president. And that was on Monday, at two great events on last Monday. Trump is our president now, and praise the Lord for a lot of the actions that he has taken. Praise the Lord that you can't be anything but a male or female on your passport anymore for the moment anyway, and you have to put down what you are biologically. And so that's uh really a step in the right dire uh direction. Then there's cabinet appointments Uh people were against Teg Seth for Department of Defense because he he has not been on the inside already in uh the government agencies and things like that. Of course that was his strength. He wa hadn't been on the inside. It's good that he hasn't been. And that there we have some outsiders going in today Can anybody tell me what the other great event was that happened on Monday? Israel believes on the event. Palestine process. Yeah, I think something like that. Actually Afghanistan released released a couple too. But the uh great event on Monday was Monday night. And Monday night, Ohio State became the national champion in football. And they won the championship, but I'm patriotic for my hometown. I grew up on the campus of Ohio State University. I went there, my dad graduated from there And uh even though they're not it's not the most godly place in the world, just like uh our country, I'm patriotic for my country, but it's not the most godly place either But one nice thing with that football game, both of the quarterbacks were given Christian testimonies that night. Both of them. Uh the one that lost from Notre Dame, of course that's a Catholic school, but anyway, from there he s he he wears on his wrist wrist that uh God will abase the proud and lift up the humble And then the quarterback of Ohio State said, I give praise to to my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So that was good. And so praise the Lord for that. Let's turn our Bibles to 2 Kings. We're continuing in our study of 2 Kings. We've been doing this for quite a while already, and we're up to chapter 21. We're getting toward the end of the book. 21 of 2 Kings. And once again, it's inspired history. It tells us what God has to think about things. And how God works in this world, as He worked in the past. And let's begin with verse 1 of chapter 21. We Read that in the responsive reading, but we'll go again. Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-and-five years in Jerusalem. And we might go back to verse 21 of chapter 21. And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would open up thy word for us this morning. And we just thank Thee for giving us the help and strength to come out to church this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. And so here we have Manasseh. Manasseh is the son of Hezekiah. And he reigned a long time on the throne. Just because somebody's somewhere for a long time, does that make them good? Nope. And uh You know, of course that's even in churches. You know, sometimes a lot of pastors like to brag about they've been in the same church for 50 years. Well, that's not necessarily good. It could be good, but it might be bad And so anyway, he reigned 50 and 5 years, long time. But what about him? Was he godly or was he not godly? Well, the scripture doesn't make us wonder Is God tells us what his opinion is of Manasseh and was. Verse 2, and he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord after the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord cast out before the children of Israel. For he built up again the high places with Hezekiah his father destroyed, and then it goes on. Well, he did that which was evil. And you know how is that? How is it that Hezekiah was a very godly king? Very godly king, one of the best ones, even though he did have a bit of a problem with pride, we saw the last time that I was here when he showed the Babylonians all of his treasures But he was very godly, and yet his son was very ungodly So how how can that be? How can that be that his son is very ungodly of a godly parent? Well, that's the same thing as we have today. How do you get ungodly children? Well, probably the same way Hezekiah got ungodly children. Is number one, what's normal what does normally happen with the princes and the sons of the kings Well, they get everything they want. Everything they want. And nobody ever says no to them And so they're built up in pride, pride against God, pride in themselves. And so they were s he they are spoiled, these king's children tended to be. And what happens today when a child is given everything he wants, never says no, never disciplined Well, he's spoiled too. That's a pretty good word there, spoiled. He's spoiled for the future. And that's what happened here with Manasseh. And that's one thing. One way you get a spoiled child is you give them everything they want. And what's the second way you get a spoiled child Well, a second way that's a good way to get a spoiled child is to have somebody else other than the parents raise him. And you know, other people are not going to discipline your children or my children. And so if somebody else raises them, that tends to make children that are undisciplined intend to be spoiled. And of course the king here, King Hezekiah, he had his whole palace entourage, and he had his tutors, and they were raising Manasseh and Hezekiah himself probably had very little to do with the raising of Manasseh. Well, what about today in our world around us? Are there other people raising children today from than their parents? You see a lot of that. A lot of that. And it's seen as normal in America It's seen as normal to have other people raise your children. Well, what other people are we talking about here? Well, I I think of daycare especially Daycare. You you send your kids to daycare all the time and the daycare raises them. And do they get disciplined? No. And so you tend to end up with some spoiled children. And other other times you have the grandparents raising the children. But you know, grandparents aren't known for discipline And so they get spoiled that way too. And so the parents need to be actively involved in raising their children. They have to be with the children in order to lead them up in the right way. Then we go on here, verse 3. We said he built up the high places. You know, in the Old Testament they were told that they should worship at Jerusalem only, only Jerusalem. But they had these high places up on the hills where they liked to worship God, and that was bad. Hezekiah had destroyed the high places, but Manasseh built them again And going on here, verse 3, and he reared up altars for Baal and made a grove, as did Ahob, king of Israel, and worshiped all the hosts of heaven and served them. And so back in those days and even today, when you see the great heavens and the huge expanse and the stars and planets and all that Well, people have always tended to worship the stars and the planets. They still do today with astrology and horoscopes. And here we have they worship the whole host of heaven. And he worship Baal. And he made a grove, Manasseh did. Made a grove. What's a grove here? A grove is a they like used to like on the top on the hilltop, a grove of trees And they had their altars and their idols in that grove of trees, a sacred grove. And so that was a grove, as did Ahab, king of Israel. And verse 4, and he built altars in the house of the Lord, of which the Lord said, In Jerusalem will I put my name. And he built altars for all the hosts of heaven. in the two courts of the house of the Lord. And he made his son pass through the fire and observed times and used enchantments and dealt with familiar spirits and wizards He wrought much wickedness in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger. Well, Manasseh was not a very good guy, and he lasted a long time, fifty-five years. And sorry, he did all these things even in the temple of the Lord. See, he set up altars For the host of heaven. In verse seven, he set up a graven image in the grove which he had made in the house of which the Lord said to David and to Solomon and his son in this house And in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name forever. Well, he set up an image in the house of the Lord. He turned away from the Lord. You know, I watched a film uh just a week ago or so, and it was a film about whatever happened to the Ark of the Covenant. Remember the Ark in the temple and they had the Ark there of course with uh Indiana Jones he gets the ark back and all that and it's buried somewhere But that's always been a question what happened, dude. The Bible doesn't tell us. And this film has probably the l leading theory, if they say they they know it all, the leading theory is Is that you go back to this point right here in our text. And the leading theory of the ark is, is that in Manasseh's time, when Manasseh desecrated the temple that the priests decided they would take the ark out of the temple right at that time in the time of Manasseh and they first took it down to Egypt and then they took it down to Ethiopia And of course in Ethiopia today they claim to have the Ark. And they claim to have it in this little building there. And The trouble is they don't let anybody into the building. Nobody sees it, but they claim they have the ark, and all the Ethiopians believe that And so their their thing is that it was taken down there from the time of Manasseh. Well, I don't believe all that. But the thing is, is that I think the natural thing to believe is just that the ark was destroyed along with the temple when the Babylonians came in. And they destroyed everything there, and so it probably was destroyed there. But they go back here to Manasseh with their theories. And so we have abortion here. The same thing as abortion, verse 6, he made his son pass through the fire. Well, it was mentioned this morning at Sunday school, Jimmy Carter. You know, Jimmy Carter, he's like a great hero to a lot of people, and they had a big deal about his funeral And all through Jimmy Carter's life he's always said that he was a great Christian. Or he talked about being a Christian and and he was even preaching in the church down there when he was old. And he He re supposed to have this great Christian testimony, but he was pushing abortion. And he thinks he thought every liberal evil policy of the Democrats was good. How could he be a Christian like that And uh he just thought that was all great. But here we have Manasseh, he made his son pass through the fire. He observed times and used enchantments. He had spells. And we have wizards right here. He dealt with familiar spirits and wizards. What's a familiar spirit? Well, back in those days, and they do today with seances, they claim to get the spirits of the departed to come and talk to them. And that's where we have familiar spirits, familiar to them. And so he messed with all these things, familiar spirits with wizards. Are there wizards today? Yeah, there are witches today. And of course, Hollywood glorifies the witches and the wizards And of course we have Harry Potter and all that. But anyway, the thing is, is they had about here and Manasseh was into all these things and all of this wickedness And let's go on, verse 8. We go to some new path part of the passage here that we didn't read with this responsive reading. Verse 8 Neither will I make the feet of Israel move any more out of the land which I gave their fathers, only if they will observe to do according to all that I have commanded them And according to all the law that my servant Moses commanded them. But they hearkened not, and Manasseh seduced them to do more evil than uh than did the nations which the Lord destroyed before the children of Israel. And so here once I'm it The text wants us to remember history. History is always important in the Bible. And the history is going back to when Joshua went into the land. You had the Canaanites. And the Canaanites were very wicked And they had human sacrifice, they had uh uh having their children passing through the fire. And they uh have all kinds of wickedness there. And so God executed judgments against them with Joshua And uh they were very wicked, and it says here, Manasseh was worse than they were. Worse. He was really bad. And he sued Israel to do more evil than did the nations whom the Lord destroyed before the children of Israel. And you notice it was a conditional promise that God gave to Israel here When he said, I will not make them in verse 8 move out of their land, only if they will observe to do according to my commandments. And of course, we're not saved by good works, but we will do good works if we are saved. And so they were told if they kept the commandments, if they kept on with the Lord, they would be not moved from their inheritance. And you know, in Brazil today, they have a whole bureau of the government in Brazil. Whose whole job is it to make sure that nobody messes with the Amazon Indians And that no missionaries go to them, that nobody tells them anything, that they're left by themselves. Well, is that good? No, they're left by themselves in their sin. We're told to give the gospel to everybody, even to the Indians. And of course, these Indians and these people that they want to leave in their native states, they have human sacrifice quite often. They have cannibalism quite often. They got all kinds of things. And we don't want to leave them in that state. Anyway, so but here Manasseh he did worse than the Canaanites before him. And verse ten, and the Lord spake by his servants the prophet, saying, Because Manasseh, king of Judah hath done these abominations, and hath done wickedly above all that the Amorites did which were before him, and hath made Judah also to sin with his idols Therefore, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah, that whosoever heareth of it, both the ears shall tingle. And I will stretch over Jerusalem, the line of Samaria, and the plummet of the house of Ahab. And I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipeth a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down. And I will forsake the remnant of mine inheritance and deliver them into the hand of their enemies, and they shall become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies, because they have done that which was evil in my sight And have provoked me to anger since the day that their fathers came forth out of Egypt, even unto this day. So anyway, here we have all that wickedness of Manasseh, and God decrees judgment against them. God decrees that they will be punished. And how did the people get this decree? Through the prophets. And the prophets, as we've said before, their job was to tell the people what they didn't want to hear. And here they didn't want to hear that God's judgment was coming. They didn't want to hear that they needed to turn back to the Lord, but the prophets gave the message. And many times the prophets were killed for that and persecuted Here he says that they were going to get great judgment because of their abominations. What's an abomination? It's a really bad sin. You know there's different levels of sin. And that's really definitely taught in the Bible. All sins will get you to hell hell, and all sins are bad, but some are worse than others. And we have these abominations. What does the Bible call homosexuality? Abomination. It's an abomination. And Biden and the Liberals, they wanted that to be completely accepted. They wanted to have their DEI training to get everybody to accept the homosexuals as they are, as normal And of course Hollywood is always trying to get us to accept the homosexuals as normal. But in the Bible it's an abomination, and that's what we have here. Manasseh did many abominations. And here it says God would give such judgments that their ears would tingle after hearing of that judgment. And verse 13, he gives a great picture of the judgment. It'd be like turning a dish upside down and wiping it up and getting the last little bit off. That's what God was going to do to Jerusalem and to Judah. He was going to wipe them clean with judgment, a complete judgment. And God even says here, verse 14, I will forsake the remnant of mine inheritance. Did that mean that God was forsaking them forever? No, it's clear it doesn't mean that because God didn't remember them later and brought them back from Babylon. And Ezra and Nehemiah came back, and they built the temple, they built the city, they built the wall. But God would forsake them for a while. And God did forsake them when they fell to the heathen. I will forsake them. Well, I have a friend of mine there in Delaware, and he's a uh been a good friend and Christian over the years And and he just self just self-published a book, fairly thick book. And the promise of that book is that We shouldn't favor the Jews because God has completely forsaken them. And we shouldn't look at current events having to do with Israel to To find anything out. We need to completely forget about the Jews. And then he says, Well, can't you see Israel today? Can't you see the Jews today? They have forsaken God. They don't accept Christ. They're not saved? And so they've been forsaken. Well, they have been forsaken for a while, but God's going to bring them back to himself later on. And like right here, they were forsaken for a while. They were carried into captivity, but God remembered them later and brought them back from captivity. And God will never forsake the Jews completely Never. And it says here that their fathers and the Jews have always forsaken the Lord over and over and over again. It's nothing new today that they're forsaking the Lord. But God has chosen that people. God has chosen them. He will bring them back to himself. Of course, just because he's chosen them doesn't mean they all go to heaven. No. is that they have to come to the Lord Jesus Christ to go to heaven. But God has his eye on them and will continue to have his eye on them and will have all Israel to be saved at the time of the end Well then we go on to verse 16. Moreover, Manasseh shed innocent blood very much. till he had filled Jerusalem from one end to the other, beside his sin wherewith he made Judah to sin, and doing that which was evil in the sight of the Lord. So he shed innocent blood very much. What about in America today? How innocent are babies in the womb? They're as innocent as a person could be, although they're not completely innocent. They're born in sin But they are as innocent as you can be, and we're murdering them by the millions in America And praise the Lord, another thing Trump did, he released some right to life people that were in jail. And that was good. And uh but we're filling the U. S. with innocent blood, and Manasseh filled Jerusalem with innocent blood. And uh Manasseh figures in in different uh extra-biblical stories, of course I just said it, Manasseh figures and why they took the ark out of the temple and down to Ethiopia, supposedly. But he also figures there is a book of the Apocrypha. A book of the Apocrypha is the prayer of Manasseh. And so there's a whole book of the Apocrypha that the Roman Catholic Church accepts. The church has never accepted that book. But there's a whole book about the prayer of Manasseh when he was in captivity. And then another thing that's extra-biblical that they talk about from this time is they say that Isaiah was killed by Manasseh. That's what tradition says, that Isaiah was killed by him. Well anyway, he s he did shed innocent blood very much, and that's a that's very possible that that Manasseh did kill him. He shed innocent blood very much, filled all Jerusalem. Very bad guy. Verse 17. Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh and all that he did and his sin that he sinned Are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzzah, and Amon his son reigned in his stead They buried him right in his garden. That's the custom in Cameroon, where we were missionaries. People were buried right in front of their front door. So you drive down the road and you got graves in front in front of people's doors all over the place. And that's like back here in the Garden of Uzzah. And here we have Manasseh, and it refers us to the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah. What is the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? Well, that's 1 and 2nd Chronicles. And these stories of the kings, these histories of the kings are very important and how do we know that? Because they're all repeated twice, basically, in Kings and in Chronicles with a few different with some different details. And let's go over to Chronicles and see what Chronicles has to say about Manasseh a little bit. 2 Chronicles 33. 2 Chronicles chapter 33 and verse 9. 2 Chronicles 33 and verse 9. So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err and to do worse than the heathen whom the Lord had destroyed before the children of Israel. And the Lord spake to Manasseh and his people, but they would not hearken. Well, who spoke to them? The prophets and others. Did it do any good for the prophets to speak to Manasseh? Did it do any good? Yes. It made him accountable That he had received the truth, even though he'd rejected it. Does it do any good for us to give a track to somebody who throws it on the ground? No, it does good. Then they are accountable And they they can't say that they never had a chance. And so here we have they would not hark, and then verse 11. Wherefore the Lord brought upon them the captains of the host of the king of Assyria, which took Manasseh among the thorns, and bound him with feathers, and carried him to Babylon And when he was in affliction, like with that prayer of Manasseh, when he was in affliction, he besought the Lord his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers. and prayed unto him, and he was entreated of him, and heard his supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord he was God So these are details that aren't given in Kings, but here in Chronicles it tells us that Manasseh was taken among the thorns into captivity. Does that mean he was hiding in a thorn bush? I don't think so. I think that they were uh you know, whipping him with thorns or putting a crown of thorns on his head, things like that with pleas with Jesus. He was taken among the thorns, and he was bound with chains. Bound with chains, and carried to Babylon. But when he was there, he prayed unto the Lord. He humbled himself before the Lord, and he got saved We have Manasseh, that very wicked king. He gets saved in the end. Can anybody get saved? Anybody can get saved. Anybody can, but most people won't. And remember Paul, he co he cooperated with putting Christians to death. He was a great apostle. And here Manasa, he was a very wicked guy in so many ways, and yet he finally became a Christian. Became a Christian and turned to the Lord. Well, he turned to the Lord and became a Christian. And you know what? The title of my message this morning, getting to the title, is The Point of No Return. The Point of No Return. Now Manasseh him personally, he never got to the point of no return. He was able to return, come to the Lord at the end. But there is a point of no return for people and for countries. Has the United States come to the point of no return? Well, uh, unfortunately, it looks like it could be as we continue to murder th millions of babies But anyway, let's go back for a second, back to our scripture there in 2 Kings, and just look at a couple verses. In chapter 23, chapter 23 of 2 Kings, we read this in the call to worship this morning. And we'll start with verse 25. 2 Kings 23, 25. And like unto him This is talking about Hezekiah here. Was there no king before him? No, not Hezekiah. This is talking about Josiah, Josiah. And like unto him there was no king before him that turned to the Lord with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his might, according to all the law of Moses, neither after him arose any like him. So Josiah Josiah comes after Manasseh, and Josiah really turned to the Lord with his whole heart more than any other king before him. It probably includes David here. Turn the Lord with all his heart. And then verse 26, but, but, a big but. Notwithstanding, the Lord turned not from the fierceness of his great wrath, wherewith his anger was kindled against Judah. Because of what? Because of all the provocations that Manasseh had provoked him withal. And the Lord said, I will remove Judah also out of my sight As I have removed Israel and will cast off the city Jerusalem, which I have chosen, and the house of which I said my name shall be there. So, here there's a great revival under Josiah. They celebrated the Passover better than any Passover in the history of Israel. We have Josiah who turned to the Lord with his whole heart. And we also have Manasseh, who himself actually turned back to the Lord and became a Christian. But in spite of all that, God would still judge Judah and Jerusalem. And it says, for the sin of Manasseh. So that's the point of no return. That had already been paid for all that judgment, and it was going to come. And uh no matter what Manasseh did after that, no matter what Josiah did after that, no matter what Israel did after that, after Manasseh, they were still going to get judged. And they were going to still get the punishments come upon them. And notwithstanding, he turned not from the fierceness of his great wrath. So we have the point of no return. His anger was kindled against Judah because of all the provocations which Manasseh had provoked him withal. And once again, here we have that God says that he would cast off Jerusalem out of his sight, but God does come back later on and remember Jerusalem. So it was a point of no return for Judah and Jerusalem for that moment anyway, for those times. And they were judged greatly. They were killed. They were carried into captivity. But God didn't forget Israel forever as they would be brought back. The same thing today, God is going to be brought back at the time of the end. And you know, my friend with his book, he says, oh man, he's got all these people looking at current events and and seeing uh relating them to the Bible, you know, you can't do that. Yes, you can do that Christ said, when you see the budding of the fig tree, he wants us to look around for the budding of the fig tree and relate that to the coming of Jesus. So Jesus is coming, and are we ready? And hopefully we have not passed the point of no return. And that we have given our life to the Lord. And hopefully America is not past the point of no return. Although it doesn't look very good. And of course we got Trump, he he's doing all these good things. And it could be just like Josiah. in the history of Judah. Josiah came on the throne, great revival, everything was good for a little while while Josiah was there, but then it went back to evil and back to the end. And unfortunately, that's possibly what's going to happen, probably what's going to happen. But praise the Lord for the respite that God has given to America Praise the Lord that a lot of this wickedness has been undone, and at least undone for a while. And so praise the Lord for that. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we just thank thee for thy goodness to us We thank thee for the lessons from the life of Manasseh. Help us not to pass the point of no return. Help that the United States has not passed that as well. In Jesus' name. Amen.