The Bible don't do miracles. John the Baptist never did a miracle. And so here is this time of miracles here with Elijah and Elisha. And so here we have Elisha asked to have a double portion of Elijah's spirit, and that would be some of the boldness of Elijah. Elijah was a really bold prophet. He went up against the 850 prophets of Baal and just him by himself. And you know these were one-time miracles There are churches today, the Pentecostal churches, they say, oh, you know, we should be able to do all the miracles that are in the Bible today. But you don't see these miracles and they aren't meant to be done other times. And uh this chariot of fire You know, uh Pentecostal might say, hey, I'm gonna call a chariot of fire down to take me up into heaven. Because that's what happened in the Bible. But you know, that's ridiculous, and the thing is Is that that's something that's proud too? Does he think that he deserves a chariot of fire? No, is that Elijah deserved God uh gave it to him And so we have this chariot of fire. And Elijah never died like other men. He was taken up. And just like Enoch never died way back in Genesis, he was translated. And that's one reason that people think the two witnesses in Revelation will be Elijah and Enoch. And some think it's Moses and Elijah. But anyway, we go on here. Verse 12. Verse 12. And Elisha saw it and cried, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more. And he took hold of his own clothes and rent them in two pieces. He took Up also the mantle of Elijah, Elijah that fell from him, and went back and stood by the brink of Jordan. Bank of Jordan. And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and smote the waters and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he also had smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither, and Elisha went over. And when the sons of the prophets, which were to view at Jericho, saw him They said, the spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha. And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him. And so here we have Elijah's taken up into heaven. Elisha is left behind. And so, first off, here we have Elisha tears his clothes. Why did he tear his clothes? Well, that's a sign of mourning. And you know, Elijah was blessed greatly being taken up by a fiery chariot, but still Elisha was mourning why He was mourning because he had lost his good friend and mentor, Elijah. And so he was mourning, he rent his his garments in two pieces. He also took up the mantle of Elijah. And he took the mantle and he went and smote the waters of Jordan. And what did he say? Where is the Lord God of Elijah? I always remember when I was back in college in Florida, we went to a Baptist church for a revival meeting, and there was an evangelist speaking there. And you can bet he had invitations, just like we were talking about in Sunday school. But anyway, uh we were there with the evangelist, and he spoke on this text, and I always remember it Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And of course he is most baptist Evangelists do. He got very enthused, stood up on the chairs and whatever, and was going back and forth. But I still remember him speaking on that. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And then he went through a whole list of places where the Lord God of Elijah is not. And the one place I remember from back then, he said that the Lord God of Elijah is not in hippie type churches. And of course that was back in the time of the hippies or close to it. And of course he uh I guess he was talking about contemporary churches with people with long, men with long hair and whatever But anyway, you know, that's an interesting question. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And of course, God is everywhere. But it's talking about where is he with a special presence and a special working? Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And, you know, the Lord God of Elijah is not everywhere. People think that the sign of the church doesn't matter and all the churches are good. But they're not all good. And the Lord God of Elijah is not everywhere. He's not in liberal churches. He's not in churches that divide the Bible. He's not in churches that preach prosperity. That God wants you healthy, wealthy, and wise. And as we mentioned in Sunday school this morning, is that God never promised those things. He promises that he'll help us. He'll promise that he'll be with us, but not that we'll be necessarily healthy and wealthy and successful. So where is the Lord God of Elijah? Well, the Lord God was with Elijah, don't you think? And you know when there was that big confrontation on Mount Carmel with Elijah and the prophets of Baal, there were 850 prophets of Baal. And one prophet of the Lord, Elijah. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? He's with the one God. The one guy. He's with the small groups, generally. He's with the tiny churches, generally. You know, when Gideon was going to go with his big army, he had to have it all whittled down to 300. And so, you know, God is always showing that it's God that does it and not us. Yeah, the one guy against 850, God showed that he was with Elijah. And he was with Gideon. And you know, God is still with the small groups, and especially in this day of apostasy. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? He's not with the big movements, the big crowds. He's not there. He's with the small groups. And of course, remember when Elijah was on Mount Carmel, the God passed by. And he was not in the thunder, he was not in the earthquake, he was in the still small voice there. And so there we have Where is the Lord God of Elijah? He's with the small groups that are faithful to him. And so Elisha went over the river there And the sons of the prophets, they could see, let's get some water here The sons of the prophets could see that the Spirit of God rested upon Elisha how? Because of the miracle that Elisha did. with the parting of the waters. And you know, the miracles had specific purposes back in the Bible, and especially with Christ and the apostles, they showed that they were a we they were inspired of God. And they were inspired to give us the rest of the Bible. And we don't need those miracles today because we already have the Bible. And this miracle here showed something. It showed that Elisha was following Elijah. And the Lord God of Elijah was with him. And so, then let's go to our last section here and read that, starting with verse 16. And they said unto him, Behold, now there be with thy servants fifty strong men. Let them go, we pray thee, and seek thy master. And peradventure the Spirit of the Lord hath taken him up and cast him upon some mountain or into some valley. And he said, Ye shall not sin. And when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send. They sent therefore fifty men, and they sought him three days and found him not. And when they came again to him, for he tarried at Jericho, he said unto them, Did I not say unto you, go not? Now this is a very interesting section here. Now, Elijah is taken up by a fiery chariot into heaven, into the heavens. And what did the sons of the prophets think was going to happen to him? They thought that God was going to take him up in a fiery chariot. and then throw them down in some out-of-the-way place out in the boondocks, out in some valley or mountain. Did that make any sense at all? I mean, if God's going to take you up by a fiery chariot, he's going to take care of you. He's going to finish the work that he did. And those sons of the prophets thought that God just worked haphazard, and he would send a fiery chariot and throw somebody here, throw somebody there. It's just like these uh Pentecostals they have with uh people supposedly getting the Spirit of God upon them and they're thrown against the wall against the all the walls and thrown down and falling back and everything. God's not the author of those things. And God is not the author of confusion. And God is not the author of a He would not take him up in a fiery chariot and not take care of him And so these guys went out, 50 guys went out for three days, but they didn't find him, of course. Well, you know, there's a good lesson with that. You know, God, when God does something, he finishes it. He takes care of it. Let's uh just look at for us for a second at a verse in Philippians Philippians 1. 6, you don't really have to turn there if you don't want to, but Philippians 1-6, just one verse. You know, when God saves us, he takes care of us. And it says, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. And you know there's churches out there that think, well, God's going to call you to be saved, and you're going to get saved, but then you're going to fall away and be unsaved. But then you're going to get saved again, and you're going to get saved and unsaved and saved and unsaved. Every time you sin, you are unsaved. And God's not the author of that type of thing. You know, if God's going to call us to be saved, he's going to preserve us. And you know we have as Calvinists, uh Presbyterians, we have tulip with uh letters of the five points of Calvinism. Well, you know the last point is P Preservation of the saints. And God does, or perseverance of the saints, but anyway, God does preserve us. After we're saved. And he will preserve us until the end. And so we're not going to be saved and lost, and saved and lost. God does something, He finishes it. And you know, it's not dependent on us, our salvation. God keeps us in the way And you know when we sin, if we're really a Christian, God will bring us back. He'll bring us back through chastisement. He'll bring us back and make sure that we stay on the way. And he will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Well, God took Elijah up by chariot. He was going to take care of him, take him all the way to heaven. God calls us to be saved, and he's going to keep us unto the end. And what about when God calls us to do something for him? You know when God calls somebody to be a missionary. God is going to supply the needs. He's going to supply when he calls. And God's not just going to call and then just leave you to your own devices. No, God calls and he leads. and keeps on supplying. And then that brings us to what I want to make my main point here about this You know, those sons of the prophets that thought God was going to just throw Elijah somewhere, they're like people with Bibles today. You know, we believe that God inspired this Bible. 2,000 years ago for the New Testament, before that for the Old Testament, God inspired this Bible. And you know, if God's going to inspire this Bible, he's going to keep it pure for everybody from then on. He's going to preserve it. Preservation. God's going to see this Bible through to the end. And you know, here in this church we use the King James Version And we use the King James Version. I've talked about it quite a few times, but I'll continue to talk about it now and then. But you know, the King James Bible, we use it not because You know, it's what we were brought up on, or that's what my father or mother used or anything like that. No, the King James Bible is dependable. And the people that translated the King James Bible believed in the preservation of the scriptures. They believed that God has preserved his word down through the centuries. He didn't just give out his word and let it fall on the ground and we've got to go find it somewhere and gather it up. Well, you know with the NIV, the ESV, all the new versions out there today. You know, they believe that God gave the Bible, and then he let it be corrupted and fall away. And so today we have to go out and find the pure Bible and study it and try to piece together the true Bible. And so they go to Mount Sinai and they find manuscripts in the trash can there. They pick them out of there and they revise the Bible according to those manuscripts. They go to the Library of the Vatican. The Vatican is not a very reliable place, is it? Well, anyway, they go to the Library of the Vatican, they find another manuscript And they revise the Bible according to that. They think they found the pure, good word of God now. No, God didn't give it to just let it fall down somewhere and be lost. No, he has preserved his word. And getting that down into practical terms, as I've said before, These new versions, they say that the end of Mark 16, the last twelve verses of Mark 16, are not really in the Bible. And so they say that those uh crept in and God didn't preserve his word and they crept in and they're not part of the Bible because they're not in this Manuscript that was found in the trash can, and they're not in this manuscript that was found in the Vatican Library. And therefore, the 16th chapter of Mark is literally not in the Bible. No, we can have confidence in this King James Bible, that it believes in the preservation of God's Word. We believe in the textus receptus, the received text. That God has passed down his word down through the centuries, and he has preserved it. And you know, God went to great lengths to preserve his word. And you know, back in Israel, they had the scribes, and they took great pains to translate, I mean to copy God's word. They took great pains. And they used to count how many letters in each line, how many letters here, how many letters there, and they would make sure that all the counting lined up, and they were very conf uh. Careful in copying God's Word. And then in the New Testament times, you know, after the New Testament was given, it was a time of great upheaval. During the Dark Ages, during the Crusades, during all these things going on in in Europe and the Middle East And you know how did God preserve his word through all that time? Was through the Eastern Roman Empire, through the Byzantines. And the Byzantines, that empire stood there at Constantinople for a thousand years after the fall of the Roman Empire, stood there until 1453, until it fell. But you know, it stood all that time, and they had scribes there in Constantinople and in the Byzantine Empire that just like the scribes of old of the Jews, they took great care in translating the Bible. And these scribes, they used to take a different pen when they wrote the name of God, and then they'd put that away and then they'd use their usual pen And they were very reverent and they were very careful, and we can trust the Bible that we have. We can trust it It wasn't lost or corrupted or anything like that. God has preserved his word. And then after the Eastern Roman Empire fell, the scholars fled from there from the Muslims into Europe and that's w how the Reformation got going because they brought over the scriptures and so God preserved his word all through the centuries. If God is going to give his word He's going to preserve it. If God is going to take Elijah up by a fiery chariot, he's going to preserve them all the way to heaven. And we know God didn't cast him down somewhere because Elijah appears again at the Mount of Transfiguration. He is there. And when God calls you to do a job for him, God's going to supply the needs. Remember Moses Moses, he had five different objections, how he could not go and lead the children of Israel out of Egypt. But God answered all those objections. And God was with him. And God gave him the strength, and God supplied the needs. And when God calls us to be a Christian, when he effectually calls us. When God elects us, and when he uh pays for our sins, you know he's going to preserve us to the end. He's going to preserve his word to the end, he's going to preserve us to the end. And we're going to sin, but God's going to bring us back. And God's going to deal with us. And how can you tell if somebody's not really a Christian? It's because they continue in sin and God doesn't deal with them. And they're not a Christian. And God deals with us when we sin, and He preserves us to the end. He that has begun a good work in you will perform it until the end. Let's bow in prayer O Lord, we pray that Thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, we thank Thee for Thy preservation, Thy preservation of the Bible, Thy preservation of us and our salvation. We thank thee for the preservation of Elijah, and help us to always have faith in thy preservation, that thou wilt preserve us unto the end. In Jesus' name, amen.