Looking this morning at the book of John, chapter six, verses sixty through seventy one And as you all turn there as an opening, we see this morning the reaction of the multitude and the faith of the few. And all down through history, there's been a faithful few remnant. And so this morning we're in John chapter 6, verses 60 verse 71, once again, and the title of the message is The Reaction of the Multitude in the Faith of the Few. Many therefore of his disciples, when they heard this, said, This is an hard saying, who can hear it? When Jesus knew in himself that his th that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth this offend you? What and if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before? It is the Spirit that quickeneth, the flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life. But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not and who should betray him. And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me except it were given unto him of my father. From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the Living God. Jesus answered them, Hath not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil? He spake of Judas Iscariot. the son of Simon, free it would, that should betray him, being one of the twelve. Up at this point, to this point, Christ had come off with a very long standoff with the Pharisees The last chapter we had seen we would see a healing. If you've read the book of John, you know that it's filled with miracles, and it comes from a perspective of heaven. where you see other narratives in the New Testament that have infancy narratives in the book of Matthew, Mark, and Luke. But here, all of a sudden, John the Beloved writes a book inspired by God And it's the heavenly perspective of the walk of Jesus Christ here on this earth. And here we see that Christ had been healing. He had come off the healing of the man at the pool of Bethesda. And what I think is very interesting about that healing, real quick, before we go into this, this is a side note. is how many days and how many years the Jewish council would walk right by this poor man who was sitting by the pool of Bethesda. And then all of a sudden out of nowhere, Jesus comes, sees the man at the pool of Bethesda, and heals him right then and there. He pays attention. And here he is paying attention to his apostles. Here there's many people that were following him. And here we see that the Jews had pursued him and purposed to kill him for violating their interpretation of the provisions of the law for the Sabbath day. This has great significance as to what's going on in this part of this text here in John chapter 6. For the reason that all of a sudden, when Christ goes and heals this man On the Sabbath day, all the Jewish council could think about is conspiring against him. Instead of uplifting Jesus and going to him and thanking him for performing a perfect work because a lame man was healed. They're all now smart conspiring and saying, well, he did this miracle on the Sabbath day. He is guilty of death because he violated our law. And here we are here, Jesus going to the next chapter, and here he is once again being pursued by the Pharisees, and they come against him. He fires back and he talks to them. He says, I have a greater witness than that of John. The Father sent me to finish the works that he gave me. And he says the scriptures speak of me. The disciples speak of me. Moses spoke of me. And you do not believe? Well, you go all the way back. You go back to John chapter 5 and you go to the last several verses Proof claims of Jesus. There were endless in the book of John proof claims of Jesus Christ who He meant, who He said He was. And all through the book of John, you see I am statements. I am the way, the truth, and the life. I am the living water. I am he. I am the bread of life. And here he brings all this together. And then after this miracle, he feeds the 5,000. He goes over to the Sea of Capernaum and he walked on the water right in front of the disciples. And he was sought out by the multitudes and asked what signs and wonders he could show them. He says, I am the manna that Moses wrote about. I am the bread of life. You go back to verse 54. We see, Whosoever eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. And then Christ speaks about the applications of his death and how he gives us new life. And he's laying out in this chapter the all the components of communion, the components of baptism. And he says here that if you drink of my blood and eat of my flesh, then you are one with me. He's then rejected by men that followed him. He's rejected by many. Hebrews ten twenty-nine we read Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done Despite unto the spirit of grace? Certainly the Son of God here is being trodden underfoot. The count at this time was roughly about 120 disciples and followers of Jesus Christ. They had gone through all, many of them had gone through the wonderful parts of his ministry where there were endless healings, there were miracles, and there were thousands of people following. We just saw here If you read you back to the last chapter, there's a feeding of the five thousand, and if you study that, you understand that the feeding of the five thousand was really translated into more than that because they brought family And all of these things that happen, and all of a sudden in verses 60 to 71, it's like a pause button is now hit in the middle of Jesus' ministry. All of a sudden things start to unravel. They start coming apart. People start seeing that there is some hissings and there is some absolute negativity against the ministry of Jesus because the Jewish council now is getting angry. What's what's really sad about this is now we see an abject hint, an abject Look of ungratitude, ingratitude for what Christ had done. The ingratitude's horrible. Have you ever broken your back helping someone and never even getting so much of a thank you? Have you ever done things very unconditionally and wonderfully from your heart to help someone else and you don't get any kind of thank yous back? You know, you can imagine the way war heroes over the years have felt and how they come back from the wars but especially back in Vietnam and they get off the planes and the boats and they come in and People were there spitting on them and cursing at them and they were treating them horribly. Can you imagine how they must have felt about that? How about when they came back from some of the wars in the Middle East and all of these governmental issues had taken place and all these things had happened that that that turned the people against the American soldiers and they come back and they get mad at him and they do these things. Can you imagine how Christ must have felt when these hundred and twenty the so-called these so-called disciples they just started leaving him? Well, we see in these verses that there is a talk. How important was this conversation? Here Christ stands alone in front of hundreds, if not thousands, almost like he is on trial. He's sitting there and he's reproving them of the carnality. He's reproving them of all of their sins and what they had done and was wrong. It reminds me if you read the book of Romans and you go to chapters 1 through 11, Paul starts his Magnum opus, one of his greatest writings. by talking about the problems of the idolatry of the Jews. And this is what Jesus was talking about. He starts talking about their sin and he starts telling them what was wrong with them. And he goes into these verses And we read here how many of the disciples they heard this and they said, This is a hard saying. Have you ever noticed the hard sayings of Jesus Christ in the New Testament? They're very important to remember and to listen to because you read them in Matthew chapter 5 and Matthew chapter 6, and he gave many, many hard sayings. This verse begins with two words that says, many and therefore. That means there was a great crowd and they were diverse. They were from all over. And if you read in the book of Acts, you find out in the book of Acts, chapter 2 and 3, that they were from all kinds of different nationalities that followed him. And it says, many therefore, and that word therefore comes with a necessary conclusion. Something was about to happen. These disciples, these followers of Jesus Christ, were about to break apart. There was a multitude of Jews here, and they were conspiring against Jesus. Matthew 7, 13, we read, Enter ye in into The straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat. Because straight is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. Matthew 22, 14, we read, For many are called, but few are chosen. Then went the Pharisees and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk. And this presents a conclusion. In other words, so many disciples that followed Christ in public, hearers that walked after him were only following him for a pretense. We talked about that this morning in the Sunday school class. There are so many followers of Jesus Christ with a pretense. They know that there's something attached to the name of Christ that there is comfort, that there is happiness. Look at Christmas. Look at how Christmas has been so sensationalized, and you have lights, you have all these wonderful warm movies, and all these things. But it comes from what happened in the infancy narratives of Jesus Christ. And all of a sudden, these disciples who now were following Jesus with a pretense, they're now getting upset. They said, these are hard sayings. This is hard for us to understand. What is this about your blood? What is this about your body? What are you talking about? Well, you know that the sentiment of the day, if you understand and you read this, the Jews and even the disciples at this point in Christ's ministry, they wanted a Avenger. They wanted a Messiah. They wanted a Jesus to stand up to completely wipe out the Roman Empire right now. Remember the triumphal entry And they wanted a king right now. And they wanted their version of a king. They wanted a king to come and make things right for themselves. But that's not what Jesus had planned. He's our Savior. So we move forward. Some of the hard sayings of Jesus we see in the Bible. If you look in Matthew 8 verse 22, let the dead bury the dead. Matthew 10, 28, fear him who hath the power to cast into hell. Matthew 5. 20, except your righteousness exceed that of the scribes and the Pharisees, ye shall on no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven. Look at chapter 6, verse 53. Then said Jesus unto them, Berily, verily, I say unto you, except ye eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. They said this is a hard saying, and they had no idea what he was talking about. What are you talking about? Eating my flesh, drinking my blood? This is a hard saying by Christ? This is a very interesting evaluation, but with an absolute errant deduction that they made. They are saying our Savior, the God, the second person of the Godhead, what is he talking about? Drinking his blood and eating his flesh? Well here Christ is laying out like he lays in the upper room of the communion with him. And isn't it really distorted today in many religions of really what the blood means and what the bread means in his flesh? That communion is very distorted. Well, Christ had many hard sayings, and they were important prophecies. Some were oracles of woe, they were oracles of hardships. And the prophets of old were called prophets to deliver the words of the oracles of God. And other places we see that in in Scripture where in the New Testament the Lord told of the end times and him how hard they would be. He gave these hard sayings and these prophecies and these oracles. Many times he gave oracles of weal, beginning with the prophecy of the word blessed, like in Psalm 1, which we read this morning. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. This is a prophecy. And these oracles of woe would many times start with the word of woe, like Micah chapter two, verse one. Woe to them that devise iniquity and work evil upon their beds. When the morning is light, they practice it because it is in the power of their hand. And this is from our Savior, who is the ultimate prophet, once again, in Luke chapter 10, verse 13. Woe unto thee, Korazin! Woe unto thee, Bethsidah! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in you They had a great while ago repented sitting in sackcloth and ashes, but it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you. And my point is here, these oracles of weal and will, they're all we see these here in John chapter 6, verses 60 to 71. We see that all of the wonderful encouragements that the Lord gave along the way, the people loved it. But then when he starts accusing them of their sin and telling them what the problems are and how to fix their lives, all of a sudden now they become hard sayings. And he says that you have an obligation, you have an obligation to be part of me. They murmured Just like the ill the Israelites in the wilderness that could only imagine tasting the physical food that were only table scraps from Pharaoh's refuge, and could not imagine physical and spiritual bliss of the guaranteed promised land. These disciples could only follow the prosperity message of the Pharisees, sacrificing animals and paying the duty, not believing on Christ as the ultimate sacrifice. They wanted the bread and circuses. They loved the great big shows at the temple where thousands of people from all over would come in. And all of a sudden, this little man from Nazareth comes in and he starts preaching the gospel, and it's an offense. It's a hard saying and it's a problem. And Jesus asks, he says, Does this offend you? Does this bug you? Do you have a problem with what I'm saying? Is this something hard for you? Well they said that it was a hard saying Or is this a stumbling block to you? You know, I find it very interesting how the gospel said that Jesus constrained the disciples to leave the multitude. How many times did he separate them? because of how hostile that they would be and how they were so separated in their thoughts. Matthew 14, 22 said, and straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into his ship and to go before him under the other side while he sent the multitudes away. And why is this significance? The multitude including this other large number of disciples had just Separated from the twelve. They were all seeking that Messiah, Avenger, that would fit their desires. And here Christ whittles down this 120 people, down to 12 faithful apostles, to now disciples. But then there would be another one that would fall away, wouldn't there? There would be one who would be demonic, one who is the betrayer of Jesus Christ In my application, my point to you this morning of encouragement, all down through the ages, the Christian church has been whittled down to almost nothing. I talked last night to Elder Ed Zimmerman, and he said that when they started their church over and they lost their pastor, they were down to six people. Last week they had 27 people. We have this going on in Charlotte. They had a split many years ago in 2003. They were down to 20 people. They now have three new families. We have encouraged them, and over the years they have encouraged us, and the Lord keeps his church the way he wants it. Pastor Keith Coleman said to me as an encouragement, he said, no matter what happens, chain yourself to the chair. Chain yourself to the chair. Be faithful. Keep going. People will come and go. This is what's happening right here. 120 people. They just kind of fall away He was separating them. John 17, 12, while I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name. Those that thou gavest me, I have kept. And none of them is lost but the son of perdition that the scripture might be fulfilled. You know, if it's good enough for the Lord Jesus Christ. To go back to Scripture as applications for exactly what we're supposed, what he was supposed to do. I believe that that's a very, very perfect GPS system for us to find out what we were to do with the trials in our lives. He's encouraging the disciples. He gives back the scripture. Go to Matthew chapter 4. Remember the horrible time Jesus went into the wilderness. What did he do to get Satan away from him? What did he do? He had the power and he chased him away like a scalded dog. When he's in the middle of the desert, there's scorpions, there's cactus, he's there by himself, and it's just an absolute barren wasteland. Satan comes after him after he fasts for 40 days. And what does he do? He quotes Scripture. And he goes back at him with Scripture and he says, This is what the Father said. And when he did that, that's what pushed him away. The people murmured, they complained. I was talking this morning in the Sunday school class about John the Beloved. You know, over the years we complain and murmur because we don't have church filled with three, four, five hundred people. I've never been into a church that big, never. In fact, this is like a mega church to me because I grew up in a living room with six people for about ten years. A church with chairs, a piano a wonderful piano player, men that help and all we were getting up in the morning and putting these great big heavy wooden chairs and unloading them out, waiting, hoping people would come one day for years and years and years And it's a great wonderful blessing to be able to have a church with people and to have fellowship. And it's a real blessing to that the Lord wants us to have accountability and have other people around us. And then we go forward and the Lord asks many different questions here. He says, Doth this offend you? What and if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before? What a question. Look at verse 62. What? He asked the question, what if you see me ascend up into heaven? What if you watch that? He's saying, I don't even know that if you'll believe that, that you'll even understand that. And to see how the glorious uh entrance into the right hand of the Father With Jesus Christ, if you even see that, I don't even believe that you'll understand that. And he asked these questions. What if he what if I ascend? He says, It is the spirit that quickeneth. The flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I speak in you, they are spirit, and they are life. This collection of false disciples, they walked no sadly, they had walked no more with Jesus. He condescends by continuing to speak to these weak disciples, to teach them, to be faithful, to the faithful eleven here. And we read this today that Jesus is encouraging us and he's telling us to be faithful. He's telling us to stay together. He's telling us to continue in his word and to do what's right. The collection of the false disciples walked no more with Christ sadly, and their abandonment was divisive, and it was decisive. They knew that they would not pull away from the comforts of the world and the philosophies around them. They were done with Christ. First Peter two seven, unto you therefore which believe he is precious. But unto them which be disobedient the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made, the head of the corner. and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed. 1 John 2 verse 19, they went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But they went out that they might be made manifest, and they were not all of us. Okay. So you have all these disciples that had followed Jesus. I wonder what really happened to them And the question is, where did they go? What did they enjoy? Were they guilty? Did they feel bad that they had left Jesus behind? Did they go back and remember that maybe some of their family members were they healed by him? How many people after Jesus ascended into heaven they saw him crucified? How many people asked, wow, if Jesus was here, he could have absolutely healed one of my family members that may have been sick all these years. You know, it's amazing the finds that they make in archaeology. They found Caiaphas' sarcophagus. They they found his coffin. And they looked inside of it. When they looked inside of it, this was only a couple years ago. They found a little baby in there, bones of a little baby. You know, I wonder if he would have trusted in Christ. I wonder if Jesus would have healed that little baby. You wonder what happened there. I I asked the question with when these men they departed from him. What were they thinking? Were some of them saved? Maybe they were. Maybe they just were scared. Maybe they had health issues. Maybe they had family they had to get back to. But did they love Jesus in their heart? And so, do you ever get scared? Do you ever think to yourself, what am I going to do? Do I love Jesus? Is he there? Is he watching over me? Do you ever pray to him and feel like he's not listening? Well, the only reason that we feel that way is our blindness. It's not the blindness of Jesus. He doesn't have blindness. He's always there. I am a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. And so what I'm leading up here that I think is very incredible. These men left. These disciples left Jesus. Here's the question: What about the apostles, the men that become the apostles? What is Peter thinking right now? What is he thinking about his friend? Are they thinking of scattering? Because we know in the book of Matthew, when you read chapter 28, the Lord tells them at the crucifixion that they are going to scatter That was a prophecy, and that would be fulfilled, and they would scatter. But what is Pete Peter feet he what is he thinking right now? Jesus says, but there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not and who should betray him. I love that verse because John the Beloved is making it very plain here that Jesus knows everything. He says he's God here by saying that. He knows who believes and who doesn't believe. How can anyone know what's on someone else's heart if they're not God? How could they know that? Well, John knows here, and he writes that. Verse 65, and he said, Therefore said I unto you that no man can come unto me except it were given unto him of my Father And then from that time many of his disciples went back and they walked no more with him. He had given them eternal life. He had talked to them the words of life. He had given them hope. And many people in here you read about this. They had no idea what he was talking about. You're gonna give us extra life? What are you gonna give us? A few another ten years onto our life if I'm sixty or seventy or eighty years old, are you gonna give us another ten years? You're going to give us another 15 years of health? That's the kind of life? Absolutely not. If you put this all together and if you understand he's speaking of his blood, he's speaking of the water of the baptism, of his flesh. He's speaking of eternal life here. And then here comes a really big, a really big reply, and it reminds me of what happened to Peter. A necessary of Philippi confession. And this proves that Peter, with no doubt, from this verse, and let's lead up to that, then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life Peter, once again, he reifies that he believes. He's a believer. John 6. 68 proves that Peter was a converted Christian. All the way back to where Jesus said, follow me, because all during that ministry, Jesus said, Thou art the Christ. I will die for you. I will do anything for you. And Jesus said, remember, Satan would have you and sift you like wheat, so don't get too cocky, don't get too proud, don't get too all over yourself because You are going to have a ministry after I ascend into heaven. I am going to guide and direct you. And one day, as an older man, you're going to be lifted up. Which means he's going to be crucified. He's going to be executed. But don't you love the words of Peter here? Once again, he was the impetuous one. He was the one that would spoke at he would speak out of turn. You go into John chapter 21. He was the one that rebuked Jesus. And he was the one over and over where Jesus said D Peter, do you love me? Yes, Lord, I love you. You know that I love you. You know that I love you. And he rebuked the Lord, he rebuked the Lord, saying that, Lord, thou shalt not surely die. And then Lord the Lord would come back all the way back in Matthew chapter sixteen and say, Satan would have you and sick to you like wheat. But in Matthew sixteen, sixteen, and Simon Peter answered and said Thou art the Christ, the Son of a living God. Peter then he says, We believe. And he says, We are sure. And that's the question this morning. Are you sure? Are you sure that Jesus Christ resides in your heart? Do you have surety of that? Are you sure in your prayers? Are you sure in your Bible reading? Are you sure in your life? that the Lord Jesus Christ is part of your life. Because Peter was sure. And there was no doubt at this point that he was a saved man. Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. This has been taken two different ways. I've heard this message preached a million times. Some pr some theologians say that he was saying kind of sarcastically, well what do you think we're going to do? We have nowhere else to go. You're the only one we've been following. Some say it that way. I don't kind of believe that. I believe that he meant what he said. We have nowhere else to go. We love you. Peter always said, I love you I love you, thou art the Christ, thou art the Christ of the Son of God. And he always made sure when he said it, he backed it up with scripture, he backed it up with a sure scripture reference to make sure that there was no doubt of how he felt. Then you go to the denial. As soon as you think of this, you go outside of this chap these chapters, and I don't consider this a rabbit trail at all. Everyone goes and picks on Peter because of the denial. The denials, the three, the denials of Jesus. I hear that every time I listen to a sermon. And it usually comes up, of course, around Easter. The denials of Peter. Let me tell you something about Peter with those denials. He was on trial out in that courtyard. There was a trial going on inside of Caiaphas's dungeon. A mock trial, a kangaroo court trial with Jesus. And on the outside there was a trial going on against Peter. I don't know that any one of us would have done anything any differently than he did Consider the situation. Consider the horrible executions right not even a couple miles up the street that were happening on a regular basis. And there is Peter. He denies Christ. And I'm not saying it was a good thing for him to do. But you know, you can understand that he was a weak man, and we are all sinners. Peter was very conscientious about making sure that he loved Christ. We believe and are sure. The question is, were they? They would scatter. At this time of the the prevailing culture, there was great trepidation. Peter loved Jesus. He confirmed who he is. But this is a hint here that there was something coming, something majorly coming, because here in John 6 You only go a few chapters later in chapter 13, and this consolatory discourse of Jesus Christ gets started. And here Jesus starts consoling the disciples. He starts telling them what's about to happen. Get ready for it. It's coming. I am leaving you. And he had told them over and over and over, my hour is coming. It's coming. And you can't deny it. Christ reminds Peter that he chose them. He said, I have chosen you. You know, today in our culture we have a big, a very big push in different religions to say that we have decided Jesus. We choose him. We have the power to choose him. And if we do so many works and we do so many things That it's out it's on us. That our salvation is predicated and we have a joint venture with what Jesus Christ did on the cross as the basis of our salvation. There's actually questions out there, and I've literally heard pastors say, how is your justification today? We're not, our justification is not predicated on our works. It's absolutely by the eternal decree of Jesus Christ, of God. We're chosen by God. Many are called, but few are chosen. He says, and we believe and we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God. Then Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil? Look at the verses. How would Jesus ever know these things? How would he know them? How could he know what's on their hearts? How could he know whether they believed or not? How could he know which exact names were of the twelve? And if you look at the miracles all through Scripture and He speaks of these miracles How many times he knows facts in people's lives all throughout scripture of their personal lives. Go back to the woman of Samaria, and I maintain that in the history of the whole world I maintain that Jesus Christ was the greatest emancipator and the greatest lover of women there ever was He loved their position. He loved their faithfulness to him. And you see that with the woman at Samaria. You go all the way back to John chapter 5, the woman in Samaria, how did he know that that woman had other husbands How did he know all these things? He had to be God. I mean interesting people when I work. Very interesting people. And one of and there's an interesting family that I've met last April and they bought some uh equipment from our company and there's this little 12-year-old boy, and he's a precious young little boy named Aaron. He's a Jew. He's Jewish. He lives down. They live in Roysterstown. They worship at the temple. They worship on Saturdays. And I finally something broke down of theirs and I wanted to go down and help him. And I took him down some tracks And little Aaron came out and he spoke to me for about a half an hour. We're talking about this, you know, shop stuff and all. And then I looked at him and I said, What do you think about Jesus? It just came out. I just I wanted to say something. I didn't know how to present it to him. But he's a little sure, real nice little fella, and he says I said, What do you think about Jesus? And I said, He was good. And I said, Do you believe that he's God? And he goes Oh no. My heart just dropped. And I was like, and I looked at him and I said, oh well, I'm really sorry about that because I can tell you that it's true. He is God. And I gave him some tracts and I said, to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. I promise you that it's true. Jesus is real. And I begged him to study. I said, please read this. Well, I helped him fix this this this piece of equipment and he said, Well, what can I do for you? They have a candy store. And he brings this big bag of candy out for me. And he goes, Well, what can I do for you? I said, Read this tract I said, please read it. I said, Jesus is who he said he is, and there's so many poly people that have no idea that Jesus is God. You go to John chapter 10, verse 30, and that is the most provocative six words that Christ ever said that probably got him, if you look from a practical standpoint, from the worst trouble he had ever been in. I and my Father are One. There is no separation there whatsoever. I love it. Peter says, we believe and are sure Now the question is, were they? How sure were they? Because now the trials are coming And at this portion of Scripture, the trials are coming, and Jesus is now getting ready to go right to the cross. And what's going to happen? Are the disciples going to stand up and they're going to defend him? They're going to scatter. But I want to encourage you with this. Don't ever believe that they weren't Christians. Don't ever believe that their faith was so shattered that it shows that they were just absolutely unconverted, that they were not Christians. They were going through the same problems that we're going through here today. I love taking Scripture and I love plugging it into our present life. Look at the prevailing culture around us today Look at how there is such a lack of desire to worship the name of Jesus Christ. You look at social media, you watch television. How many times do you see a politician or some kind of teacher or somebody in a talk show say the name of the Lord Jesus Christ? You don't hear that, do you? The prevailing culture is to talk against Christ, to talk maybe a little bit about God, and say because God can be can be many different types of idols and religions in this world But the name of Jesus Christ is so is is so sensitive and it's so very hard for people to have to say, I don't understand that. Well, as we get ready to finish here, we see here that not only did Christ know who believed, not only Christ know who didn't believe. But he says, Therefore said I unto you that no man can come unto me except it were given unto him of my father. And then you read two very sad verses. We've already read, I believe, one of the saddest verses in the Bible. And it says that it says that the disciples went away and they walked no more with him. Well you know what's sad about that They had had it with Jesus. They were tired. They didn't want to do the work anymore. I understand that. It's not right, but I understand how people get tired because they get complacent. Maybe we're not reading our Bibles, we're not praying like we should. It's easy to get that way. I can see what they're saying here, but it's the sad one of the saddest verses in the Bible that they walk no more with him. Do we want to be separated from the comfort and from the protection that Jesus Christ gives us? Is that what we want? Do we want to be separated from that wonderful protection and that gospel that he gives us? Well, there was one that was. Except it were given of him by the Father. Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil? He spake of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve. How can you betray Jesus Christ being one of the twelve? How could you walk with him for three years, see miracles, have the power to perform miracles? See salvation and all along not be converted. Well, this is direct proof that you can talk until you can spin on your head and you can tell people about the Lord Jesus Christ, then they will not be saved until it is of the Father and the Lord reveals it. It shows that amongst the twelve that there was one who saw everything He was the keeper of the money. He knew everything that was going on. He knew where Jesus was. He knew where the disciples were. And even with all of that He tiptoes away. The Lord says he walks right up to him. What thou doest, do it quickly. Get it over with. Get it done. And he goes right down to the Pharisaical order gets the g gets the money, takes the bag, turns and betrays Jesus over into the hands of all the wicked. And there he is up there praying. Here's Christ praying in the Garden of Gethsemane. He walks away, and there comes this cohort of soldiers. And there's Judas standing right there. Right here. Jesus says one of you is the bad one. One of you has not been converted. So what's the difference between Peter denying Christ three times and the difference between Judas betraying Christ? Well that was a betrayal of sorts with Jesus, wasn't it? Denying him thrice Well, remember when Jesus said to him, but Peter, I have prayed for you. You never see a verse that says, Judas, I have prayed for you. This was of the Lord's choosing This is very, very important to understand that Christ knows everything. At this end of the chapter, he shows a falling away. And that falling away has been very evident all throughout the centuries that there is a falling away from the truth. Well, I believe that it's very important for us this morning to understand truth. Even Pilate asked Jesus, what is truth? What is it? When Jesus had replied in John 18 20, as I spoke ever in the temple, and in secret have I said nothing. Why askest thou me? Ask those that heard me. They know what I said. They know exactly what I said, because he spoke the truth. He always spoke the truth. You read scripture, you're reading truth. So it says here, he spake of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve. Well, it begins here we see the grandeur of many loving to be with Jesus, to partake in his miracles, but when true Drach doctrine faces them with the multitude, they scatter. So the question this morning is, what category of the multitude do we identify with and fit in with? Who do we identify with? Do we identify with Jesus? When you're alone, do you identify with him? You love to hear about him. You love to read his word. Do you love to listen? You know, when you're driving in your car, you know you've got all kind of social media now you can actually hear the Bible read to you That's a one way wonderful way to do it. It could be a short chapter, a few verses. Do you pray? Do you love to talk about them? Whenever you talk to somebody and they're having problems, and you're going to face that as Christians. People are going to come to you and they're just going to say, I don't know where if they're hurting enough. My mother's dying. My mother's been in the hospital for a year. Do you have them a verse? Do you pray for them? Do you pray with them? I'm sure. I'm sure it's it's been on your heart. I'm sure you see these things and it it it happens. Do you have a wonderful encouragement for them? John 1120 to 1126 and 27. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this? She saith unto him, Yea, Lord, I believe thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world Do we believe in the Lord Jesus Christ? Do we know for sure that it that it's He who is our Savior? Because we live in a day and age where there are a lot of Saviors. There are a lot of idols. There are a lot of ways of running to interventions, rehabilitations. There are psychiatrists, psychotherapists. Twelve-step programs, churches that offer all kinds of bread and circuses, but do we know from our heart who our Savior is? But do we know that our Redeemer liveth? Well, I love in this church that for all these years the songs that we sing, you can hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. Everyone that's ever spoken in this pulpit over the years that I've ever heard has a wonderful gospel message to encourage us about the Lord. And it's a wonderful, cohesive, understandable salvation that we've been taught. And I love the fact that the Word of God is lifted up in our church. So I leave that with you this morning in praying for you. And we'll see where the Lord directs us next week. And I know Pastor Olson will be here, so he'll be here, he'll be here to give the message. And so let's all be praying, praying and uh praying for one another. in bearing one another's burdens. Our heavenly Father, we thank thee and praise thee, Lord, for this message this morning as thou hast given us from John chapter 6. And we pray from our hearts, Lord, that thou wouldst just encourage us as Christians to be unified, to pray together, to do thy work, and to love thee and keep thy commandments. We pray, Lord, for all the families here this morning, Lord, that have trials and tribulations, that have friends and family who are sick, and we pray for their healing, and we just pray, Lord, that thou wilt watch over them. Give us this day our daily bread. I pray that this week we'll be remaining in our Bibles, and that thou wast encourage us through the Word. And all these things we ask that not our will, but thy will be done, we pray. Amen.