And thank you all for your prayers for that trip. So let's turn our Bibles to Revelation chapter one, where we already read in our responsive reading. And we'll go to Revelation chapter 1 here. And Lord willing, I'm going to start speaking on Revelation. I already spoke on chapters 2 and 3. In the messages to the seven churches. We finish those up. And so Lord Willing will speak on the rest of Revelation coming up. And some people think the book of Revelation is a closed book, that we should never study it, because there's too many different problems, too many different views, and everybody has a different view, and so we can't even look at it. And of course, Calvin, he didn't want to deal with it. He wrote commentaries on the whole Bible, but he didn't write one on Revelation But be that as it may, we see right here that there's a blessing to study the book of Revelation. And let's go on and read here, chapter 1, starting with verse 1. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to show unto his servants the things which must shortly come to pass And he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John, who bare record of the word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ and of all things that he saw Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written. Therein, for the time is at hand. John to the seven churches which are in Asia. Grace unto you and peace from him which is, and which was, and which is to come and from the seven spirits which are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father, to Him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him. Even so, Amen. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come the Almighty. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would just bless as we study Thy word this morning. Forgive us of our sin, turn us from it, bless in the communion to follow as well. Prepare our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. So once again, this is the book of Revelation. And it starts out the revelation of Jesus Christ. Revelation, what is a revelation? A revelation is something that's revealed. It's opened up and revealed. The book of Revelation is a revealing, opening up. And it's good to study it, this revelation. And it's a revelation of Jesus Christ. And then there's an order how we came to get this book of Revelation It says, this revelation which God gave to him. God the Father gave this revelation to God the Son, this book of revelation that we have right here. God gave it to Christ, God the Father to Christ, and then it says, to show unto his servants the things which must shortly come to pass. And so then it was given to Christ and Christ, and he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John. And so then Christ gave it to the angel to give to John. And that was the progression, how we ended up today, and John bare record. And he wrote it down, and now we have it today, that book of Revelation. That God gave to us. Why did God go to the trouble to give us a book of Revelation? It's for us to study it. And to learn what's going to happen in the future. This is a book of the future. It's no accident that the book of Revelation is the last book in the Bible. Because it's a book primarily dealing with the future. And even future today. 2,000 years after it was given, it's still future today. But it's things that must shortly come to pass. And once again, a day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is as a day. And uh so if it's been 2,000 years since these things were given, that's just like a couple days to the Lord. And once again, these days and thousand years, those are literal days and literal thousand years. A literal day is equal to a literal thousand years to the Lord, but that's just because he's eternal. And God does work in time. So it must shortly come to pass. What is time? Time is a progression of events And God has his progression of events that he has programmed down through the centuries and down through the millennia. And these things must shortly come to pass. I've heard preachers talk about, oh God, he's outside of time. You can't think of God in the context of time But God does use time, and God is working in time. And we have the things that must shortly come to pass. And of course, John was his servant. And he was serving the Lord with his whole heart and gave us this book. And the book of Revelation is not a closed book. It's a book that we need to study, that we need to learn much from. It's to show unto his servants the things which must shortly come to pass. And then you have there in verse 3, the verse that we really want to center on some this morning, is Blessed is he that readeth. And they that hear the words of this prophecy and keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. Again, the time, the time is at hand. And so here's a blessing upon reading, hearing, studying the book of Revelation and putting it into practice And blessed is he that readeth. You know, God wants us to be readers. We're supposed to be readers, readers of God's word. All through church history, especially since the Reformation, the church has put emphasis upon reading and upon teaching people how to read. It was used to be back in history the churches and the preachers taught reading to their congregations, to the people. And it's important to read, important to read this book of Revelation So we're supposed to be readers. We're also supposed to be hearers, hearers of the book of Revelation. And where do you hear the book of Revelation? Well, right now you're healing hearing it here in the service. We hear it in the church. So we're supposed to be readers. Hearers of the book of Revelation, and then we're supposed to put it into practice. We're supposed to keep those things which are written therein. And we'll come back to that a little later. Then we go on to verse 4. It says, John, to the seven churches which are in Asia, grace be unto you and peace. From him which is and which was and which is to come, and from the seven spirits which are before his throne. Now, the book of Revelation Once again, the reason that people don't want to touch it is they say there are too many different views of revelation. And basically, there are three overall views of the book of Revelation and of prophecy. You've got premillennialism, amillennialism, and post-millennialism. And simply put, premillennialism has Jesus coming back before the millennium, pre-millennium. And our millennial says there is no literal thousand years. And post-millennial says that Jesus is coming back after the millennium, post-millennial. And those are the three main views, and you've got all subordinate views to those as well. But you know, you know, we have all these different views, and we in the Bible church We take the premillennial view is basically our official position, I believe, of the Bible Presbyterian Church is pre-millennialism. But we leave liberty for people to believe other things if they want. But basically our official position is premillennialism. That Jesus comes back before the millennium. Millennium. And you know, in Presbyterianism, that's a very minority view. Most Presbyterians believe in omillennialism, and they believe that there is no literal thousand-year reign of Christ on the earth And they say that it's just a period of time and that we're in the millennium right now and Satan is bound right now. Does it look like Satan is bound right now? I don't think so. But they say, oh well, Satan is bound because the gospel is going out. Well, that's not exactly Satan being bound. He's really working hard here in this world around us today But most Presbyterians are all millennialists. And they have been. And they take a very spiritualized view of prophecy and of the book of Revelation. When I was in seminary, I read a All Millennial Commentary on Revelation by Hendrickson And I read the whole thing, and it cured me forever of our millennialism Because all he did was he made the book of Revelation into a bunch of gobbledygook. It was just all spiritualized, a very indefinite battle between good and evil And it didn't really mean much of anything. And this book of Revelation is supposed to show us something. It's to show us what's shortly going to come to pass. And you know, people are thrown off because there's a lot of symbolic language in the book of Revelation. There's a lot of language that's a little difficult to understand. You have to realize That John was given this vision, and he saw a lot of things, even we would have seen it the same way, he saw a lot of things that that he had never seen before, that were completely out of this world, and he was trying to describe all these things that were out of this world. And it was very difficult for him to describe all these things. And so we have to see how John is trying to describe these things. It's just like if John had seen a car. in his vision, an automobile. How would he describe it? It would be hard for him to describe it. They never had a it's a cart with wheels and uh You know, he'd and it moves by itself and uh he would have a hard time. And uh but uh that's how he he did the best he could and he was inspired to give an accurate description. But we have to remember that he's describing it in his language as he saw it. So here we have John verse 4. And primarily this church originally was addressed to the seven churches That we already studied about, Ephesus and Smyrna, Pergamus, Thyatira, and all those. But it's also addressed to the church as a whole. To the seven churches which are in Asia. Asia was Turkey. What we have today, it was the Roman province of Asia. And so we have John, and he says, Grace and peace to you. And often in Scripture, that's the order: Grace and peace, and that's significant. First, we get unmerited favor. We have the salvation from God and then we have peace. Grace and then peace. And so John he says that this is grace and peace from God the Father, first of all. God the Father there in verse 4, from him which is and which was and which is to come. Now, Jesus is described in those same terms because he is also God. But here this is talking about God the Father because it goes on to talk about the Holy Spirit and Jesus Christ. Because then you have from him which is and which was God the Father, and from the seven spirits which are before his throne, verse 4. That's the Holy Spirit. We have the Trinity here The three persons of the Trinity. The first person, God the Father. Second person, the Holy Spirit, in this order here. The Holy Spirit is described here as the seven spirits. See, that's kind of uh uh interesting way to describe the Holy Spirit, the seven spirits. We don't know exactly how that fits in or how that come comes apart with seven spirits But it might be seven different aspects of the Holy Spirit, seven different parts of the Holy Spirit, but it would seem to be the Holy Spirit. Because we've got the Trinity here, from God the Father, from the Seven Spirits, from the Holy Spirit, and verse five, from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness. From the Trinity. The Jehovah's Witnesses, they don't believe in the Trinity. All they have is God the Father. And they don't believe that Jesus is God, the Holy Spirit is God. But the Bible is clear that all three of those are God. God the Father, God the Spirit, and God the Holy Spirit, and God the Son. And you know, they're all important. And we can't emphasize one at the expense of the others. I was in a church recently. And uh they had a student preacher there preaching and he was from seminary and he gave w gave out questionnaires to the people in the congregation about his preaching that they were supposed to fill out for his seminary class to show how he did with his preaching. And one of the questions on there was, how did his sermon preach point you to Christ? How did his sermon point you to Christ or something along that line talking about how did his sermon talk about Christ? And you know, I believe that was a faulty question there. Because what they're saying is that every single sermon you preach Is supposed to deal with Jesus Christ. But you know, Jesus Christ is extremely important. He's the author of our salvation by his death on the cross. But we also have God the Father. We also have God the Holy Spirit. And we have the triune God And in every sermon we ought to mention something about the triune God, but to mention something just about Christ every time. That's really not necessary, and that's emphasizing Christ at the expense of God the Father and God the Holy Spirit. And we need to have a balance in how we approach the Trinity And so here's the balance right here in Revelation chapter 1. We've got all three of them here. And then verse 5. And from Jesus Christ. Who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and prince of the kings of the earth, unto him that loved us. And washed us from our sins in his own blood. So Jesus, he's the faithful witness. We can have trust in what he witnesses to us. He's prince. Of the kings of the earth. He's over all the kings of the earth, all the potentates, all the presidents. And he's the first begotten from the dead. In what way is Jesus the first begotten from the dead? Well, he's the first one who was raised with a resurrected body. His physical body was resurrected, and he got a glorified body. You know, as soon as we die, we all go to heaven if we're Christians, absent from the body and present with the Lord But we're still waiting after we die to have our g glorified body and have our physical body raised. And Jesus, he was the first one who got his physical body raised and had a glorified body. And he was the first begotten with his physical body. You know, our physical body is important. And that's why uh when people cremate, uh people that die, I think that's wrong. because it uh it doesn't show much respect for the body. Even though the body might decay, uh, for us to burn it up is Jesus was the first begotten and we're going to c follow him and be resurrected from the dead. And then we have verse six. And he has made us kings and priests unto God and his Father. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. He's made us to be kings and priests. That was a big thing of the Reformation. The Reformation, those were principles that we're kings today, that we have individual responsibility. To take this Bible and study it for ourselves. Before the Reformation, the Roman Catholic Church just dictated what you were supposed to believe And you couldn't figure out what to believe on your own, you had to take it from the Roman Catholic Church. But after the Reformation, we have individual responsibility. And we're like the Bereans studying the scriptures daily whether these things are so, and which we need to be doing. We are kings and we're also priests. We can go directly unto God. The veil of the temple was rent And we're priests now, the priesthood of believers. We don't have priests like in the Roman Catholic Church anymore, where just the priest can go between us and God. Well then we go on to verse 7. Behold, he cometh with clouds And every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him. And so it talks about Jesus coming back. The first time he came, he was a servant who came to die on the cross for our sins. But the next time he comes back, he's going to come back in the clouds in glory. And he's going to judge this world. And it says, when he comes with the clouds, every eye shall see him. How is every eye going to be able to see him? Well, it might have to do with modern technology It might have to do with people will see it uh from cameras and video and every eye shall see 'em, I don't know And of course, it also talks about they also which pierced him shall see him. I don't know if they're going to see him at that exact time, but they're going to see him. And we know that every knee shall bow to God and to Christ. So they're going to see him. And then it says, all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him. We usually think of the second coming as something great and glorious and good and to be expected and to be desired. But here it says, all kindreds of the earth, they're going to wail because he's coming back. And why will they wail? Literally, in the Greek, that they will beat their breasts because of him. And they will wail. Why will they wail? Because he's coming back in judgment. And the great judgments will fall on the earth. And the book of Revelation goes through all of those judgments in great detail. That will fall upon the earth. We're going to have the seven seal judgments, the seven trumpet judgments, the seven vile judgments, more and more judgments upon the earth And so they're going to wail. Then verse 8, I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord. which is and which was and which is to come the Almighty. And I believe here we have God the Father speaking again, because it says, Seth the Lord. That's the you usually have for God the Father. Seth the Lord. That's what the preacher ought to preach from the pulpit. Thus saith the Lord. And here God is saying that he's the first and the last, saith the Lord, and he is God Almighty. And that term is used generally of God the Father. Which was and is and is to come, the Almighty. Well, going back to verse 3: Blessed is he that readeth. And they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. Once again, we're supposed to be readers of God's word, studyers of God's word. You know, we don't just go through the Bible flippantly. We're supposed to study it and take it to heart The Bible says, study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. So we're supposed to be readers, even though I've heard people say that they don't like to read, that they're really not a reader, and people today are not much of readers. And of course we have all the internet today and people looking at the internet and people glued to their phones. But you know, the thing is they look at a lot of things, but they don't study much When they look at all those things, it's all very superficial. What they look at on the cell phones, uh, generally speaking. Uh I re I remember one uh hearing one college professor I don't know if I heard it here or not, but anyway, about a college professor that had the class uh uh look up things on the internet and look them up in an encyclopedia Was that here that I heard then? I don't know. But then they worked looked it up in the regular encyclopedia and they saw how much more detailed the description and the count was in the encyclopedia than on the internet And so we need to dig into God's word. We need to dig into it. Read it. Study it. And hear it. Come together in church. Assemble ourselves together to hear the words of this prophecy. And then probably most important of all, we need to keep those things that are written. We need to practice the things that we learn. And as we studied the seven churches in the church days gone by, we saw a lot of different things to keep in the messages to the seven churches. If you remember. We're supposed to keep our first love being the Lord. We learned that in the message to the church at Ephesus And we're supposed to endure persecution, endure tribulation as good soldiers of Jesus Christ. We had that in the message to Smyrna. We had in the message of Pergamos, we had, we shouldn't have unity with false teachers, with Jezebels, with Balaam's. And uh uh we have in those messages to watch and not be half-hearted. And we need to put the things of the Lord first. in our lives. And so, you know, we're not saved by good works. We're saved just by the blood of Jesus, by saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And giving our life to Him until we're saved, not by works, but after we're saved, then we are supposed to do good works. And all those messages of the seven churches talked about, I know thy works. As something that is positive, that we need to do works for the Lord. We need to keep those things which are written in the book of Revelation and in the whole Bible. And uh, you know, the book of Revelation is the last book of the Bible. It's meant to be the last book of the Bible, and the things in the book of Revelation apply to the other books of the Bible, but there's a special blessing. Upon studying and keeping the things that are written in the book of Revelation. So we need to be active in the things of the Lord. God didn't save us just to sit back and do nothing God saved us to keep active in the things of the Lord. It was interesting in the Congress there in Chile, we had Hal Ricker there. And he was there at the Congress, and he's going to be ninety-seven years old this year. And he's still an active missionary. With the help of his sons down there in Guatemala. But, like I say, God keeps us on this earth for a purpose. And God has been keeping Hal Ricker on this earth for a purpose, 97 years. And we saw one of those purposes when we were down at the Congress. When we were there at the Congress, we had an open-air meeting on Sunday morning. We went to the town square and the whole Congress went to the town square, the center of town there, and we had a Sunday morning service there. uh singing hymns and preaching and giving out tracks and witnessing it was very good. And uh I was uh about a block away handing out tracts and you could hear the the sound of the hymns going up around the the center of the city and it was great And uh and we were able to give out a witness. But you know the only reason we did that was because Howell Ricker suggested it. uh when they were planning the Congress. And so that was one reason that he's still on this earth is to uh keep doing things like that. And you and I are still on this earth Because God wants us to keep on keeping the things that are written in this book. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, we pray that we might be hearers of the Word and readers of the Word and keepers of the Word. And O Lord, we pray that thou bless this communion to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen.