Well let's turn our Bibles to Second Kings chapter twenty-two. Second Kings chapter twenty-two. And we're not doing the book of 2 Kings today, but we're just reviewing a couple verses here. We're looking at the Reformation today. results from the Reformation, and we're making that sort of an election day sermon as well, as I said, in Sunday school. The Puritans. We saw a movie about the Puritans in Sunday school, about how they have a lot to do with our getting freedom and free elections uh freedom from absolute power. But anyway, uh the Puritans also in America about the same time as Cromwell They had the the pastors there had the custom to give election day sermons. So we'll talk about our political freedoms, about our heritage this morning. And let's turn to 2 Kings 22 and verse 8. And Hilkiah the high priest said unto Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan and he read it. And Shaphan the scribe came to the king and brought the king word again and said, Thy servants have gathered the money that was found in the house, and have delivered it unto the hand. Of them that do the work, that have the oversight of the house of the Lord. And Shaphan the scribe showed the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest hath delivered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king, and it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the book of the law, that he rent his clothes Let's bow in prayer, O Lord. We pray that thou wouldst drive home to our hearts the lessons of the Reformation and after, in Jesus' name, amen. So we have them finding the book of the law here. We've seen this passage already, here back in 2 Kings chapter 22, I believe. And, you know, the thing is, they found the book of the law, and there was a great revival when they found God's word. And we read the responsive reading earlier from Jonah. When the people of the city of Nineveh heard the word of the Lord through Jonah, there was a great revival. It's a revival here in 2 Kings, a revival in the time of Jonah. But the greatest revival in the history of the world, especially so far as extent of revival, was The Reformation. The Reformation. It spread across Europe and across the world. And praise the Lord for the Reformation. And every year At the end of October, we celebrate Reformation Day, Reformation Sunday, to remember what happened with the Reformation, that great revival that God sent And we read in our call to worship here this morning from Isaiah, the people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. And the people of Europe saw a great light at the time of the Reformation. Before the Reformation, it was darkness. in Europe, by and large. And people had all kinds of false doctrines. They had the doctrine of purgatory, relics, they had the doctrine of worshiping Mary, they had indulgences, they had all these things, and they had no political freedom. You know, before the Reformation, there were never elections. They never had elections to elect the king. Or elect, I mean it was at least on any scale. They never had any elections in a country to elect the leaders of a country And within the Roman Catholic Church, they never had elections for officers in the Roman Catholic Church either. There was no popular sovereignty at all. But that principle came through the Reformation And as I worked its way out to the time of the Puritans and Cromwell, a hundred years after the Reformation had started. And you know, the Roman Catholic Church had the Inquisition, and it was a time of terrible persecution. And time of torturing people and whatever. And there was darkness upon the face of the earth, but God prepared the way for the Reformation. God prepared the way by the printing press To disseminate the news of the Reformation. He prepared the way by the Renaissance as people looked for new ideas. By the discovery of America, people were looking for new ideas there as well And by the fall of the Roman Empire in the East, Constantinople, the Greek manuscripts went over to the West, and Greek was studied, and the Bible was found. Well, you know, with the Reformation, did the Roman Catholic Church just sit back and let it happen? No. They had the Inquisition to begin with, and they also caught the leaders and burned them at the stake. We saw in the Cromwell movie, they were trying to catch the leaders there of the Puritans, too. But anyway, they caught Uh John Huss burned him at the stake. They caught Savonarola, who preached in it in Italy, burned him at the stake. The only reason they didn't burn Luther at the stake was because Frederick, the elector of Saxony, protected him. And so praise the Lord, the Lord protected him through Frederick And the Reformation grew and grew and grew and kept on going. But there were always the Roman Catholic Church kept on trying to extinguish the Reformation They didn't like, of course they didn't like the threat to their authority, the threat to what they were doing, that their total control. And so a big thing they did was they sent the Spanish Armada there against England And they sent the Spanish Armada, they called it the Invincible Armada, and it was on paper, it was invincible It had a huge number of ships, a huge number of troops. England could not merely match all that, but God fought for England And said a big storm as the armada was on its way and scattered the armada, and only part of the armada actually got to England. And then God prospered the small ships of England to have the victory over the armada. And so God protected the Reformation. And then the final big great event of the Catholics trying to get rid of the Reformation, their final battle of the bulge, as we have in World War II, but the final big battle they had to get rid of the Reformation was the Thirty Years' War There was a war for 30 years, from 1618 to 1648. And that was their last great attempt to get rid of the Reformation. And there was war raging all over Europe, and there were different wars at different times, and there were famous Reformation leaders like Gustavus Adolphus from Sweden. And then at the end of the Thirty Years' Wars, it was interesting, Thirty Years' War, it was interesting that Cardinal Richelieu who was the Roman Catholic Cardinal of France. He had put down the Protestants. He had destroyed the power of the Protestants in France. He had destroyed the power of the nobles there, put all the power in the king going on to Louis XIV. But anyway, Richelieu, at the end of the Thirty Years' War Lo and behold, Richelieu brought France in on the side of the Reformation. And why did he do that? Because he was afraid of the power of the Holy Roman Empire And of Spain, and he was more afraid of their power as a threat to France than the Protestants. And so he came in, and finally the Thirty Years' War was over, and that great threat To the Reformation. And you know, right at that time, 1648 is when the Thirty Years' War was over, and right at that time we have Cromwell. Cromwell, right? The end of the Thirty Years' War, Cromwell comes on the scene with the Puritans, and there is the Westminster Confession made at that time. And we have the King James Bible also comes in at that time. And so, you know, the Puritans. And the Christians, through the Reformation, they wanted to set up their governments on the lines of Scripture. And let's go over to Acts just for a minute. Acts chapter 1. At the very beginning of the book of Acts, just going to look at a couple little things in Acts to show. where the Puritans and where the people from the Reformation got the idea of popular sovereignty. They got the idea that people are supposed to vote in their society And in the church. And here we have Acts chapter 1, verse 23, and they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justice, and Matthias. And they prayed and said, Thou Lord, which knoweth the hearts of all men, show whether of these two thou hast chosen, that he may take part of this ministry and apostleship from which Judas by transgression fell. that he might go to his own place. And they gave forth their lots, and the lot fell upon Matthias And he was numbered with the 11 apostles. So when they wanted to find a new apostle, they didn't just appoint one. They had an election. An election. They had two candidates, Matthias and this justice here. And uh, you know, the thing is, they had the two candidates and they gave forth their lots. They voted for who the candidate should be, who should be the new apostle. And it has this word lots here. That's what we have when they gave forth their lots. If there is a a pronoun before their lots, not just cast lots, you know, with Jesus on the cross they cast lots That was like with dice for uh Jesus' garments. But here it's their lots, their lots, their boats. They gave forth their boats And so the Puritans and Christians after the Reformation they saw this. They saw the right of the people to elect, and they got that from the Bible. And of course the Presbyterian Church has this in its government And the government of the United States has often been remarked that the government of the United States is based upon Presbyterian church government, which is based on the Bible. Which is right here. And then we go over to Acts chapter 15, just one other illustration here in the book of Acts about the people deciding things. Acts chapter 15. Acts chapter fifteen and verse one And certain men which came down from Judea taught the brethren and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, he cannot be saved. When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain other of them should go up to Jerusalem under the apostles and elders about the question. So they're going to go up to the apostles and to the elders for the question, to decide the question. They're going to have popular discussion. They're going to have popular deciding of this In the church. And verse 6, skip down to verse 6. And the apostles and elders came together for the consider of this matter. And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose up and talked to them, then James rose up and talked to them. But anyway, and they had a consensus there after they dis disputed the thing and discussed it. and came upon a decision with the people deciding the things in the church, and they took that over to society and to the government that people should decide things in the society and in the government. That was the light of the Reformation. And you know it wasn't just uh fate and chance that uh popular elections came about and democratic government. You know, even today in the world around us, there are countries that continue on to today and don't have any democratic government. We have China. China is a nation in the modern world that has all kinds of high-tech And yet they have no freedom. They have no free elections. They have none of that. Because they don't have the light of the gospel. The light of the gospel has not got there to them. And then finally, let's go back to 2 Chronicles. 2 Chronicles. 2 Chronicles chapter 23. 2 Chronicles chapter 23. And this passage here, we've seen this before, but we're looking at it in a little bit different light here. 2 Chronicles chapter 23 and verse 10. Verse 10. And we see a godly revolution here. We've talked about this when we talked about the godly revolution of the American Revolution. Well, 2 Chronicles 23, 10, and he said all the people, here's Jehoiada, Jehoiada the high priest. He said all the people, every man having his weapon in his hand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of the temple. Along by the altar and the temple by the king round about. And by the way, they had kings back here. Remember in the movie we saw how they're going to get rid of the king? But to get rid of the king's total power anyway. They did have kings back in the Old Testament, and that's because they had the theocracy back in the Old Testament They had direct rule by God, they had God's kings there, they had God's rulers, they had the judges, they had Moses They had all of that. But we don't have that today. We don't have the theocracy of direct rule by God today. And so democratic government has come about. And so they were by the king roundabout with their weapons, then they brought out the king's son and put upon him the crown and gave him the testimony and made him king. And Jehoiada and his sons anointed him and said, God save the king. And of course, this was the baby that had been saved, had been raised, he was still a boy And he was the only one of the royal line to survive the slaughter of Athaliah. And so they said, God save the king. Now verse 12, what did Athaliah think of that? Well, now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the Lord, and she looked, and behold, the king stood at his pillar. At the entering in and the princes and the trumpets by the king, and all the people of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets, also the singers with instruments of music, and such as taught to sing praise Then Atheliah rent her clothes and said, treason, treason. Remember on the movie? They were always, the king was accusing Parliament of treason, and parliament Parliament was Accusing the king of treason. Well, the thing is, here Athaliah is saying treason, treason. Well, it was treason against her They were setting up the rightful king. She was not the rightful queen. And so she cried and said, Treason, treason. Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of the hundreds that were set over the host, and said unto them, Half her forth of the ranges, and whoso followeth her let him be slain with the sword For the priest said, Slay her not in the house of the Lord. So they laid hands on her, and when she was come to the entering of the horse gate by the king's house they slew her there And Jehoiada made a covenant between him and between all the people and between the king that they should be the Lord's people Then all the people went to the house of Baal and broke it down and broke his altars and his images in pieces and slew Matan the priest of Baal before the altars So they killed Apaliah. She was guilty of treason against the people. She was guilty of murdering all of the royal line, all of the sons and grandsons of the king. And so they executed judgment upon her here. And that brings us to Cromwell. We were there in the movie this morning. Most of you saw the movie this morning. And we left off when they had civil war. They had been trying to reconcile things between the king and parliament, trying to give parliament its due its due authority and the king was refusing to do that. Finally the king dissolved the parliament. They went into civil war. So what happened after that Well, what happened was they did have a Civil War. And Oliver Cromwell emerged during the Civil War as a great military leader He was one of the great generals of history, Cromwell was. And he was a great military leader, and he and the Parliament's forces defeated the king. And then after they defeated the king, the king still wanted to get back into power. And so the king set off to France. and to Ireland, to the Catholics, to have them invade England to put him back on the throne. And when the king did that, that was too far. And the parliament and Cromwell decided that he needed to be judged. and he needed to be convicted of treason, and they did. And finally they ended up chopping off his head, chopping off the head of the king, of King Charles I. And you know that was the greatest illustration of the fact of what they did there. They broke the power of the royalists of absolute power and the king. They chopped off the head of it. And from that time forward, things were different. Well, after they did that, then the Scots, who were Royalists From Scotland, they decided that they wanted to have Charles II, his son. Remember in the movie, he was sitting at the table there and said that he prayed there. But anyway, he the Scots wanted to put him on the throne. Instead of Cromwell and the Puritans, and so the Scots invaded England, wanting to put Charles II on the throne. Well, Cromwell went out against them and defeated them in a big battle. So he had defeated the king in England, he had defeated the Scots, and then the Irish in uh In Ireland they had a big army over there and they were killing the Christians over there, the Protestants, and they were trying to stir up things to get the king back again. So Cromwell went over to Ireland with his army. and defeated them too. And I might say, in our movie this morning, when they went to that first battle there, actually Parliament was defeated in that first battle. In the first battle, after the battle, Cromwell said, How are we going to win with just a bunch of serving hens and farmers to fight? So then Cromwell created the new model army, and he got a trained army together, and that's how he was able to make the other victories. But anyway Cromwell, you know, people hate Cromwell. They really hate him. Who do you think really hates him? Well, all the royalists, the people that like royal power, absolute power, they hate him. And also the Roman Catholics hate Cromwell, especially the Irish Catholics Hate Cromwell. And so Cromwell gets a bad press many times. But he was a great leader. Great leader. And so as we come to Reformation Day, we're coming to Election Day, we're coming to the things of political freedom that grew out of the Reformation. And it was Cromwell and the Puritans that got things going. And so when Cromwell was in power there, the Navy of England was very powerful and went out on the oceans and destroyed the Spanish Navy to a great extent, destroyed the s treasure fleets and did a lot to diminish. the Catholic power. Even uh Cromwell, the the Europe was all afraid of him. They were afraid that he was going to bring his army over to the mainland of Europe and fight against them Even though he never did. And so Cromwell just said the word to some of them to stop some of their persecution of the Christians, the Waldensians, and he got them to quit that Under Cromwell, the uh the English had their Western expedition and they took Jamaica from the Roman Catholics Spanish. And that's how Jamaica was British from then on. And under Cromwell, they wanted to make him, he ended up being the strong man, the leader, and they wanted to make him another king. But he refused to be king. But then they ended up calling him Lord Protector instead. So he was Lord Protector. And so Cromwell, to a great extent, he broke royal power. To a great extent, he broke the power of the Roman Catholic Church The Roman Catholic Church after that time never rose up to try to extirpate the Protestants by a big war. They never did it. And so he was uh very instrumental there. Well, you know, uh I have a quote here from Paul Johnson. Paul Johnson is a very famous historian. secular historian, and he wrote a book, The History of the English People, among other books that he wrote. And here's what he had to say about England with Cromwell. He said the England he created, the Cromwell created, or rather unleashed from the bonds of the past, was entirely new, strange, and wonderful. The year 1640 is the great watershed in the history of the offshore islanders, the English. During the next twenty years, many things were done in the islands that all the force of conservatism were later unable to reverse. And so the thing is, is when Cromwell died, he was in power for seven or eight years When he died, they put his son on the throne. Remember they had him, his son there, he needed a sword there for the battle. But anyway, they put him on the throne. But his son, as is so often the case, with sons of great men, they're not very great. And the son immediately gave over power to the royalists And immediately they called him, his name was Richard, but they nicknamed him Tumble Down Dick. And he tumbled down. And so then, after two years of tumble-down dick, the English called back in Charles II. The Son. They called him back in. And if remember the Scots had wanted to put him on the throne. They called him back in. And Charles II was there for a while, and he instituted great persecutions, especially in Scotland. And he persecuted greatly the covenanters there. That was the killing time in Scotland. And Charles II did that. And isn't it ironic that the very people that wanted to put Charles II on the throne, the Scots, were the very ones that Charles II persecuted and killed and They they they should have just hit themselves in the head with a hammer, getting Charles II to rule over them. But anyway, but it says here That all the forces of the Royalists and conservatism in later time, even though Charles II came, they could not reverse the good that had been done with Oliver Cromwell and the Puritans. The England of 1660 contained the chromosomes of a modern country, the first in the history of the world. So Cromwell and the Puritans, these godly Puritans, these are the same Puritans that set up uh Plymouth there in Massachusetts with the Mayflower They laid the foundation for the first modern country, as this secular historian says, the first modern country being the first one that had democratic government in elections that wanted those things. And then we go on here. The image of Cromwellian England handed down to us This is the image that's often given, a negative image of them. Puritanical, intolerant, hating pleasure in the arts restrictive of liberty, a military dictatorship informed by a narrow, narrowly religious view of life Is not only false, it is the exact reverse of the truth. So all those things you hear about the Puritans about how bad they were and how they hated pleasure and they hated the arts and they were restrictive and all that. That's all the reverse of the truth And then he finally says the movement movement Cromwell led unleashed the latent energies of the English people. He himself was as Milton, you know, Milton was a great poet in history, and he was a poet of the Puritans of Cromwell. He himself was, as Milton later put it in Samson Agonistes, a person raised with strength sufficient. and command from heaven to free my country. And so praise the Lord for the memory of Cromwell, praise the Lord for that outworking of the Reformation. And we have elections next week here in America as a direct result of them back there, and that going on through history starting back then Well, as we say, they didn't like Cromwell. And when Richard II came back into power, they dug up the body of Cromwell. after two years, and they cut off his head after two years. And then they took his head, Cromwell's head, and stuck it on the spire of the big cathedral there in in London. And it was up there on the head of the on the top of the cathedral for years. Cromwell's head. And actually the wind blew it down after a while, and then people picked it up and it was passed around for a few years. And finally, after a while, they finally buried it uh in an unmarked grave so nobody would dig it up or whatever. But anyway, they hated Cromwell so much. So much they hated him. Well what's really interesting in the end, you remember in the movie they were going to Parliament House there, and Parliament was what Cromwell was in there. Well, you know, in Parliament House in England today, they have statues of every king in the Parliament building. They have statues of all the kings. Well, they wondered what to do with the Lord Protector Cromwell. He was sort of a king. And so they had been want uh some people wanted his statue to be there in with the kings. Well the Royalists and the Catholics and whoever, they didn't want him in Parliament building. So they had a compromise measure. They took Cromwell's statue and planted it in front of the front door of Parliament. Outside. And you know, in the end, it's still there today. Today is Cromwell's statue right in front of the front door of the Parliament Building in England. You can go over and see it today. And he has more publicity there and a more prominent place than all the kings in the prominent parliament building And so God turned things around. And so praise the Lord for the heritage that we have, the heritage that we have of freedom. And it came through God's word. It came through the Reformation. Before the Reformation, there was no freedom. No freedom. Remember in the movie, it was always the king has absolute power. The king says it, that's it. That's it. But since that time, since the Reformation, since the Puritans, since Cromwell, we have had that freedom to go to the ballot box. to cast our votes. And you know, of course we have our voting is kind of miscarried many times. And we uh We always remember the saying of Stalin that he didn't care who votes, but he cares who counts the votes. And we have that problem in America today. And we have that problem with bad elections and whatever, but still we have the vote, and we can praise the Lord for that, and hopefully we can get things cleaned up on that. And so it's a world, a different world as a result of the Reformation, as a result of the Puritans, as a result of Cromwell. A different world. So, how should that impact us today? Well, you know, before the Reformation there was no Bible Nobody had a Bible. And the Bibles they did have were Latin Bibles that were chained to the pulpits of the churches. Well, now we all have a Bible in our hands. And what should we do with it? Should we leave it up on the shelf? Have it collect dust and be a safe place to hide things? No. We want to take it down, we want to read it every day, we want to study it, take advantage of the freedom that we have through the Reformation Praise the Lord for that. And then what about in society coming to the election? You know, it's really difficult to find any perfect candidates or even close to perfect. It's very difficult. But you know, I think we need to participate. We can't just be isolated and say, well, they're all bad. Well, they are pretty well all bad. But you know the thing is, is we need to Exert some influence on our country, and we're not going to exert any influence if we don't, if we completely withdraw. I believe we should vote for the lesser of two evils, as long as the lesser of two evils is quite a bit better than the other evil. And as long as they're not too bad So the thing is, uh in New Jersey right now, it's interesting. In New Jersey, there's a guy running for the Senate of New Jersey. And this guy that's running for the he's in the election right now, he's the Republican candidate for Senate in New Jersey. And did you know that he grew up in the Collingswood Bible Presbyterian Church? He grew up in the Collingswood Church. I went to college with him. And I was his RA. I used to go inspect his room whether it was clean or not. But anyway, he is running for Senate in New Jersey. Well, would you vote for him just because he came from the Bible Presbyterian Church background? Well, it depends on what he advocates. And did you know? That in his ads in New Jersey today, he stands there with his homosexual lover. He's a homosexual, and he says, I'm pro-choice. And he says that I'm not like the usual Republicans. I'm homosexual and pro-choice. Well, even if he was the lesser of two evils, I wouldn't vote for him. And no way. But the thing is, we do need to do some voting. We need to find out what the candidates are. We need to have some idea. And we need to try to have some influence on society. Because the Puritans, because Oliver Cromwell gave us that freedom. And we should use it. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we just thank Thee for Thy goodness to us. We thank Thee for Thy word. We thank Thee for the freedom that we have. We thank Thee that we can go to the ballot box. We thank Thee that That we have this heritage of democratic government. We thank thee for the light of the gospel. We thank thee that the people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. And O Lord, we pray that we would continue to see thy great light in this country. We pray that it would not be completely obscured. We pray, O Lord, that thou would just undertake And O Lord, we pray the candidates true to thy principles might be elected next week. We pray the candidates true to the principles of the Bible might be elected. And we pray that thou would undertake And be gracious unto us even though we don't deserve it. In Jesus' name, Amen