In chapter eleven, this morning you're going to be getting a prosperity message. Not the kind of a prosperity message you would imagine, but it's one that the Lord gives us this morning to help us to Really consider where our walk is in the Christian life. And Romans chapter 12, we pick up, backing up a little bit, in Romans chapter 11, verses 33 to 36. And then chapter 12, verses 1 through 8. That's Romans chapter 11. Here we're going to pick up in verse 33. Paul proclaims here: O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who hath been his counselor? Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? For of him and through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever. And then Paul makes a transition and you see the words change. A little bit of the literary structure changes and goes into Christian living. And he comes out and he says in f verse one, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your body as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove that is what good and acceptable and perfect will of God. For I say through the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office, so we, being many, are one body in Christ. And every one members one of another, having then the gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering, or he that teacheth on teaching, or he that exhorteth on exhortation, he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity He that ruleth with diligence, he that showeth mercy with cheerfulness. Romans 11 33, we started out. Here, Paul the reason I bring that up, Paul finishes out his discourse In relation to the first portion of the Romans, all of Romans can be summed up as, for many, many hundreds of years, a theologian, Paul's Magnum opus. I believe it's his greatest work. Put his heart and soul into talking and writing to the Romans. It was his most renowned achievement as an author. And he's writing this treatise to the Romans. He had not even been in Rome yet, and he was already writing to the laity of the church to the Roman Christians. The Roman Christians, they were dispersed. They had been through a lot. They had seen crucifixions. They had seen these really horrible acts of terror coming through the Roman Empire and through the Jewish Council. And they had been scattered. And Paul in the first eleven chapters, he makes it very clear. He molds this around and he goes right into chapters 12 to the end of Romans in the Christian living and he makes a case first. And the first part of that case, he's ending this discourse here in chapter 11, and it sounds like the writings of King David Doesn't it? It's like a Davidic Psalm. It's like a praise. It's like these verses in Psalm 7719. Thy way is in the seas, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known Psalms 145. 3 says, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. And even in Job chapter 9, verses 10 and 11, where Job proclaims, Which doeth great things past finding out, yea, and wonders without number. Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not, he passeth on also, but I perceive him not. And the reason I bring this up is these last verses are a benediction on the first eleven chapters about what was wrong with the Jews What was wrong with their theology? What was going on around the prevailing areas where there was Gnosticism, there was humanism, there was this Jewish council that was giving all of these laws But it was all legalism. And the legalism was very, very serious because it had people questioning, are they ever going to get to heaven? And Paul brings this all together. Paul says, God is unsearchable. Who can know him? He is created of no one, has always been and always will be. And what does he owe us but nothing? He gives it to us freely and most generously, but owes us nothing. Then he concludes and he says, Of him, through him, and to him are all things, everything. Where do we see people today giving honor and praise like this? In different churches, saying, of him, through him, and to him are all things. People question God. They don't even believe today. I talked to many people, and they don't believe that God has an exact number of people already picked that He's chosen for heaven. It's in our confession, it's in our church constitution. There is a number. There is nothing that God doesn't know. Pastor Mike Mike Britton is still in a coma. His dear wife is taking care of him. He's down there at Genesis, right next to I believe it's St. Joseph's Hospital. I'm never forgetting hearing him preach, and he m if he said it once, he said it a million times. He's either Lord of all or he's not Lord at all. And I remember exactly how he said it. And he would say that with such fire. You know, this verse 36 is very important because it was the foundation for the greatest reformation we see in this world, the days of Knox and Luther and Calvin. Of him, through him, and to him are all things. So where do we go from here? Verse chapter 12. We see here that Paul makes a transition. After he speaks to he speaks in the first eleven chapters and he's speaking about the sacrifices, he's talking about the sins of the Jewish nations, he's talking to these dispersed Jews, and he's telling them You have a better life than this. You have a prosperity that God gives you that comes from Christian living. Now, here's the question this morning. Is he telling him to take this bullet form of Christian items? And to use that as the basis of their salvation. We must clarify that. No, the Lord saves us, but works follow. And that's very, very important here So he's now writing to the Christians in Rome, and he starts off here in Romans chapter 12. He says, I beseech you. Or in other words, I encourage you, I exhort you, I beg you. And he shows the concern of a pastor He implores them to receive God's blessings through obedience. Here Paul is giving, he's speaking to the laity of the church and the members of the church and the different church parts and he's now building a case and he's building like a template on what happens in the church and how there were so many people with so many different gifts and he starts it off and he shows them he says I beseech you think about that a minute I love that. What he's saying is, I beg you. Can you listen to me? Will you open your ears up? How humble. Her Paul is the one who always said that I am the least of the apostles. the greatest of the sinners. And he shows a humility that is just incredible and it's so encouraging. And he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God And we understand that anything we have in our life is by the mercy of God. You get another day, you get another minute, you get to breathe, you can eat, you have your family. Everything you have is by the mercy of God And you know, I just don't understand how people get through life without honoring that and loving that. Lamentations chapter 3, verses 22 and 23 And this reminds me of of Bob and Bev because they put this version in their emails many times and it's an encouragement every time I read it. I love seeing that verse, those verses flash up. They're there And it reminds you where you stand as a Christian. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. New. Isn't that wonderful that they're new every morning? What does that mean? That they never get boring. You can't wear them out. You can't sit back and say, well, I've had enough mercies from God. My showers of blessings are done. No, I'll take over. You can't really say that at all. Well, you see the Hall of Fame of you go to Psalm 136 and how the refrain all through Psalm 136, Oh give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. For his mercy endureth forever. And all through what Psalm 136 the refrain ends. His mercy endureth forever Then he says that she presents yourselves a living sacrifice. Now what does that mean? There are still countries in the world now that still believe in worshiping animals You have ever in Samaria, you still they still believe only in the first five books of of the Bible, and they still sacrifice animals. They believe their still supposed to have blood flowing out of the quartering of animals and they still do this. They're still being left way, way back in the beginning of of ancient times in the Old Testament. We know that Christ is our ultimate sacrifice, but what is Paul saying here? That we are supposed to be sacrificing animals, that we're supposed to be doing all these things? No, he says, are you willing to make sacrifices in your life as a Christian for the Lord? Are you willing? Are there some things that you need to give up? We're going to talk about being conformed here in a second. But are you willing to make sacrifices? I have some examples here. Are ourselves, are we to be burnt offerings? Of course not. Are we willing to sacrifice our time? Are we willing to sacrifice our money? How about our thoughts? How about our Sabbath days? You know, we live in a world where, you know, if people really love the Sabbath day, I don't think there'd be a church that couldn't fill up all the seats. But there are so many people that aren't willing to make that sacrifice on Sunday. And it's very sad because working in the business that I do, I have people all week long saying, my day off is Sunday. That's the day I can come down and look at a certain piece of equipment or something to buy Can you meet us at 11 o'clock on Sunday morning? And they never stop. And I bet I've told them a thousand times, no. Honor the Sabbath day, keep it holy, and we're at church on Sunday morning. And they'll come back and they'll ask over and over again Are we willing to sacrifice our Sabbath days for the Lord? It's right in the first it's right in the book of the law. Honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy. You know, sacrifices actually can be a little more can be a little more uh uh sensitive and can be very difficult. Sometimes we have to sacrifice family, friends, jobs, comforts. Here's a tough one. Our old sin nature. That's a tough one. There's some sins that we look back on and you know we used to have fun, didn't we? There are things that we it would just get you going, but there are things we need to get rid of. And we live in a very self-centered culture today. I think this is fascinating. You ever see, I don't know if it's social media, usually when you go into your computer and you see the news and all, there are once in a while there'll be a blurb that says that this person lived to be 104 years old. And it has a whole list of things that people use to get to being a hundred years old, a hundred and four, a hundred and five. This is what keeps them keeps keeps them thriving. And I thought that some of the quotes that were were out there I think are very interesting I was reading these quotes. There were several men and women who had lived past a hundred years ago. And here's some of what they said kept them going to a hundred years old. So, you know, this is supposed to be their way of longevity. There were 32 altogether. I'm not going to read them all, but here's just a few. The secret to their longevity according to them was very self-oriented, and they highly recommended their secrets for long life. Here's love, work things. One said two swigs of scotch a day. Other said eating lots of soup, getting involved in humanitarian causes, getting up early, eating one cup of ice cream. But out of all the 32, one said, I believe in God. One out of 32. Our purpose in our life is to be transformed by the blood of Jesus Christ, to serve our King and prepare to meet the most important being in our life. Matthew ten verses thirty-seven thirty-nine teaches He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me And he that taketh not his cross and followeth after me is not worthy of me. He that findeth his life shall lose it, and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it. And you know, I think one of the biggest problems here is what really is talked about in churches today referring to the cross of Jesus Christ and how the real message of salvation has been so confused and how people don't really know where salvation comes from. I had the privilege about five years ago of going to see Brother Steve Lawson preach. And he was in lightener ministries, and he gave a wonderful message about what the problem with the cross is. See, today in our culture, today, instead of having pastors, you have key speakers, Bible counselors, directors, youth leaders, and it's more like they're basically spiritual physical therapists. Than they are shepherds. That's what you have today. And it's very it's very sad. Congregations are not being taught that they must be transformed by the renewing of their minds And Pastor Lawson preached about how the cross for many years in the church has been prettied up, sensationalized, misrepresented, and been varnished to hide what it really means. And he reads in 1 Corinthians 1 verses 18 to 20, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and will bring to naught or the bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. And then the question comes up to Paul asks Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolishness the wisdom of this world? The wisdom of this world has really confused what the real truth is. The real truth is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I think until we make very simple what the gospel of Jesus Christ is, it can get complicated. What is it? It is the good news of Jesus Christ. It's what we read in the beginning of the infancy narratives in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and then you go into the book of John, and John brings it all together from a heavenly standard spiritual perspective of who Jesus Christ really is. You go to chapter 5 and you get the infallible proofs of who Jesus said people were witnesses of him. Even his own enemies, creation, the pastors, the shepherds, all those around. He said, even creation, you look out your window, and the heavens declare the glory of God. So what do what is our view on creation? What is our view on our Lord Jesus Christ? Paul reifies what he says in Romans 12, he says There are two categories of people in this world: those that are conformed to this world and those that are transformed by Christ from the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we see here that the problem is And where the real, the real, I would say, the provocative nature of the cross of Jesus Christ When it comes from the transforming of your mind and being not conformed to this world, is that the cross it divides, it disturbs, it defies, it destroys, and it distinguishes. And we're going to be looking at that more next week. What do those five D's, what do they really mean? Why does the cross divide? It is divided nations, it's divided families, it's divided churches. Very sad. A reasonable service. Paul says, which is your reasonable service? How few people Serve the Lord thinking it's their reasonable service. You want to know what that means? It's the least we can do. It's a wonderful blessing that our reasonable normative service is to thank the God that created us and saves us from our sins. And I often pray, Lord, I often pray, Lord, save me for myself. Because it's myself that gets in the biggest way of my life. I'm always tripping over myself. I'm always trying to do things my way when I'm not thinking. I'm not in the Bible. And I have, Lord, save me for myself. I have reasonable service. You have gifts. We're going to talk about gifts in a minute But it's by the mercies of God that we can even have the opportunity to serve Him. Did was in any way, here's a question for you this morning Was there any way, shape, or form God had some kind of obligatory obligation, or whatever you want to call it, to give us his revealed plan of salvation? Was that an obligation? Did he have to give it to us? He could have kept quiet and we would all go to hell. That's what it would have happened. Oh, but he gave it to us. Not did he give it to us. He gave it to us all throughout the scripture when the prophets were murdered, when his son was murdered. When his people, the apostles were murdered, all throughout Scripture, his people were constantly being executed, murdered, and killed, and he still, all the way through the book of Revelation, tells us exactly what we need to know about eternal life. He didn't have to do that. So why wouldn't it be our reasonable service to honor him? It's our reasonable service. Oh, and then he goes, Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of our minds and we become new creatures in Christ, part of the unified body in Christ. I love that part. Can be not conformed to this world because it doesn't mean exactly what it doesn't mean what most people think that it means up front. Be not conform to this world. Lock yourself in a house and stay away from everybody. Don't go near the world and make yourself like you're in a bubble. That's not what it means. Be not conform to this world I love to hear Christian radio. And I always love to listen to Renewing Your Mind. And I love it because the reformed gospel of Jesus Christ has always been taught very carefully And it's been very, very theologically bringing together the mission of renewing your mind is to get people from Sunday school to the seminary in a sense To get people from a base knowledge of Christ who just come into the Lord and build their knowledge of theology so that they have apologetics. What are apologetics? Apologizing for your religion and for your faith? Of course not. That is teaching people the truth about it. Being not conformed to this world. And what I love about renewing your mind, I was listening to it the other day and this precious lady, they had call-ins. I love question and answer sessions because I learned so much from that. And then they had call-ins from all over the world because Table Talk magazine goes all over the place. This precious lady from Columbia calls in and says Thank you so much for the Reformed theology because I live in Colombia. And in down here in Colombia, there is no teaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ anywhere She said, and she didn't even say that the number one problem is the Roman Catholic rituals. She said the number one problem down there now is the prosperity services. That they speak about Jesus. He's an advertising point. He brings lots of people in because they take the gospel and they twist it, like we just talked about the different parts of the cross that are really tarnished. And they use it as advertisement schemes to build these great big massive megachurches. And I love what Pastor Olson said when he was here last week, and he said he loves the little churches because that's They put their trust in the Lord. And when they get sometimes too big, they become the preeminence. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of our minds, so that we may become new creatures in Christ Part of unified body and Christ. God created us in such a manner as this. Our minds are the avenues to our hearts. What we put into this database is what comes out of our hearts. And very sadly, there are many people that missed the kingdom of heaven because of 18 inches. Things that went into their heads, but never came down into their hearts. That's where it comes. We need to have it embedded in our hearts. That's where the Holy Spirit resides. What does it mean to be not conformed to this world? Does it mean that you're just in the basement and a bubble and you stay away from everybody? If people would stop finger pointing each other and telling each other within churches what to do all the time and encourage one another and live a lit live and let live a little bit, I think people can grow in their hearts I've seen over the years so many people go after other people because they just don't have the thorough knowledge of the Bible that maybe another person thinks And they go after them. And they put look down on them. We were all there. We were all there in that little spiritual high chair at one point, weren't we? where we didn't really understand what does it mean to be reformed? What does it mean the doctrine of election? What do these things mean? And there are some people that might even question the Bible because they just haven't gotten that far yet. That doesn't make them heretical. That doesn't make them unworthy of growing. That's our job. No matter who walks in the middle of that door, comes down here, no matter who they are, they need to be here And we need to do everything we can to wrap our arms around them and encourage them, teach them, give them the tools that the Lord's given us. That's our job. And that's what Paul's talking about. And he goes into all of the work in the church that we're called to do. He says, be not conform to this world. Paul is saying with be not conformed to this world, be drawn in by it, that we meld with the world, that we enable their wickedness And we are to let our lights so shine for our Savior. I don't know how many of you have lost yourselves in the book of Colossians It's not very long. Lose yourself in it. I mean get in it so you can't think about another thing in this world and read the book of Colossians. It's colossal. I love it. And you want to know what it's about? I'll give you a little bit of a hint to give you kind of a little plug for it. There was a problem back in the day in Colossians, and Paul saw this. He knew all too well the wickedness of the Greeks. He knew the Gnostics that were out there, and they had all kinds of ways to heaven. And he even laughed at some of their gods because he said, You even have an unknown God, you don't even know who he is, and you're worshiping an unknown God in the Agora. He comes back and he's warning the church at Colosse what was happening, though the Greeks were turning Jesus Christ into an angel. They were saying that he's an angel. You know, the Jews said he was a good teacher, and they said he was a good this and good that, but the Colossians were being confused about who Jesus Christ's true identity really was And Paul was bringing them to being not conformed to this world by falling into thinking that Jesus Christ is not the Son of God, that he's not God incarnate, but he's an angel. Now, if you can turn Jesus into an angel. Oh, you can make lots of money off of artifacts, can't you? You can have pictures, you can have statues You can have, you can pray to angels. And there are a lot of religions to do that. That came from the Gnostics. And Paul in the book of Colossians was saying exactly who Jesus is and saying he's not an angel. And he brings up all these verses about how angels are created beings, and Jesus Christ is the Son of God And so that's what the problems. That gives you a little opening on Colossians. That's how they were being conformed to the world. They were starting to pull away. The church at Ephesus was having problems. The church at Ephesus Corinth. Oh, they were having problems. They were right in the middle of the trade region, and they had so much filth in and out of their churches. Paul spent endless hours writing to them and begging them to come out of it. Be not conformed to this world We may prove that is good and acceptable and perfect will of God and it takes work, it takes lots of work, and we should love that work. Because why It's a reasonable service, right? It's what we wouldn't want to do in our hearts if we love the Lord, and He says we may prove that as what what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. It takes work So Paul here by the will of God and through his grace he lays out duties as Christians. You know, you go back to being conformed to this world. This is what I'm talking about. I have three stories here, real quick, I'm going to like to go through. But being conformed to this world really, really affects your ability to reach out to those in the lost and dying world and give them the gospel. Remember in Daniel chapter 5. 25, the wickedness and the horrible destruction of Belshazzar. Daniel 5. 25, and this is the writing that was written: Mene, Mene, Takela Parshan. This is the interpretation of the thing. Mene, God hath numbered thy kingdom and finished it. Tekel, thou art weighed in the balances and art found wanting. Perez, the kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and the Persians. Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scarlet, and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamation concerning him that he should be the third ruler of the kingdom. In that night was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans. Lame. He conformed to this world, and what he did was horrible. There was all kinds of false idol worship, and the Lord was done with him. What about the parables? Teach your children and your grandchildren the parables of Jesus Christ. Those parables, Christ said, those that understand me know my parables. Those parables are powerful. Parables are powerful and we need to have them. What about the parable of a man whose life was centered around the working for this world? Luke chapter twelve, verses eighteen to twenty. And he said, This will I do, I will put down my barns and build greater, and there he said, and I will build greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods And I will say to my soul, soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take this ease, eat, drink, and be merry. Verse 20. But God said unto him, Now God takes over. Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then who shall those things be? which thou hast provided? The question, what's going to happen to all your wonderful barns that are filled? What's going to happen to them? I used to listen to this old pastor on XM Radio. I used to have it years ago. I don't have it anymore. His name was Pastor Scudder. And he and his son used to fly around in this old beat-up airplane and could deliver Bibles to churches all over the place And one of his mission uh missions was to go into libraries and go after the computers because people were going to the libraries and watching pornography. And he'd go to all the libraries in the area and he'd go blast in the libraries, he'd go in He had him and he had a mouth on him too. I loved it because he didn't hold back nothing. And he was talking about these verses and he goes, Hey, is it brother? He goes, I tell you one thing, there ain't no U-Hauls behind a hearse. That's one of the things that he said You you can't put a U-Hall trailer behind a hearse and take some of the things home with you. And he says, and the Lord says, What are you going to do with them? Your soul's been required. Once again you get on the internet, you're getting ready to go on your email, and I see a picture of Jay Leno. He's got a $13. 8 million island he just bought. Look at a picture of him. He doesn't look that young anymore I mean he doesn't look terrible, but he's getting kinda old. He's in his seventies. That's not real old, but I'm telling you right now with him he look there's people I know in their seventies that I think they're in their fifties and their forties and they take good care of themselves and that's all great. And you know people can live to be a hundred, hundred and ten, whatever years old. And that's not really that that old. He looks old. And I looked at him and I think to myself, what good is that it's going to be hard for him to relinquish, isn't it? And he's got a car collection that would make any motorhead just d just salivate. What's he gonna do with it all? That's what his whole life's been about. The parable of the sower. These are the seeds that fell amongst the thorns that were choked because of the cares of this world. Matthew 13, verse 22. He also that receives seed among the storms is he that heareth the word and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of the riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. But he that receiveth seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word and understandeth it. Which also beareth fruit and bringeth forth, some in hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. I think that's massive in that parable. There's an understanding. Are we willing to understand it? So then we move forward. Paul gives the most supreme and wonderful encouragement. We are all members of the body of Christ. What does that mean? We have to remember that once, and I have this written in big letters, always to be a reminder, we must remember that once we become Christians through Christ, saving us, works follow. Now there's a gospel theology out there that says I need to keep looking up, and once I am saved and I am under the blood of Christ, I can do whatever I want. I can't lose it. it. And I don't have to do anything anymore. I don't have to go to church. I don't have to teach. I surely don't have to come in during the week and do anything during, you know, any any kind of conferences or any kind of prayer meetings or anything like that. I have no obligation to do that. I am That's a big thing. That is a big big very big lie that's out there today. Very, very that's very very dangerous. 1 Peter 4 1011, we read, As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same, one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth, that God in all things may glorify, be glorified through Jesus Christ to whom be praised and dominion forever. So in other words, we're learning here, if we're called to teach, we're to teach. If we're called to give, we're to give. If we're called to just encourage one another, we're to do that. I know people. I know through the years. I remember this gentleman that my father knew, old brother Turner. Brother Turner, he lived in this teeny tiny little hole in the wall, right in the middle of Lancaster, Pennsylvania. We saw him a few days before he died, remember we prayed with him. He his last year of his life at least was on a gurney, 'cause he was sick as he could be, and he had minimal care up there. And he, his ministry was sitting there, as he was he was he he thought any day he could be going home. He would sit and write letters and just mail them to people and all the money he had went in the stamps. And he would send letters to people and he would pray. And that was his calling, that was his gift. He would pray. And that man smiled from ear to ear when he loved the Lord Jesus Christ. I mean, it just glowed. I mean he was old, he was withering, he was dying. It was like the glory of the Lord was right in that room. Dear brother Turner. But if we're called to teach, we're to teach. Our minds are the avenues to our hearts, and we are members of the body of Christ. Isn't it a most wonderful blessing that as members of the body of Christ, Christ is the head, and he's the mind and he's the brain power? Now let's put all this together. Paul says we're the arms, we're the legs. We're the feet, we're the heartbeat, we're all the church put together. Okay? And we're all endowed with all these wonderful gifts Some people in the church we see working around here are people have gifts of working in the office, of teaching, fixing things. doing maintenance inside the building, doing maintenance outside the building, and these are all gifts. You see somebody in the Lord's house doing it with a good heart, taking a trash can out. That's a gift That's all part of it and it all comes together. But you know what's so wonderful about all that? The head is Christ. He's the computer center. He is the central motif and the central theme of the church. He is the brains. He is the head of the church. He is the church. Why do you think if you read in the book of Revelation, there is no temple in heaven? There is no physical building in heaven. We're not going to be congregating and meeting in some great big edifice with golden pillars and with all kinds of ornate uh carvings like Solomon had delivered in from Phoenicia when he built the temple. Millions of pounds were these great big pillars, beautiful churches. And then you go back to the book of Matthew. I think it's Matthew chapter 24, and Jesus said He comes out of the temple and the disciples look, wow, look at the grandeur of that temple. And he goes, Oh, you like that? Well, wait till you hear this. And in a few about 40 years, it's going to be burned to the ground, and there's not going to be one meter, one centimeter left of that temple Don't look at the buildings. Don't look at the edifices. Don't look at the guitar players and all the entertainment and all this stuff. You look at Christ. And if you're not coming to church for Jesus Christ first, you'll never last You can't last because that is the central thing. If you come to church predicated on mankind, you will fizzle out. This is not an intervention. This is eternal life we're talking about. This is not something you want to miss. And it's not something you want to miss. Have the opportunity to talk to others about because there are a lot of people out there that are really on the highway to hell It's very sad and it's very dangerous because people are led away. I find the hardest people to talk to are people that have been led by other pastors and been lied to and trying to untangle and pull that out of them and just say I don't care what religion you're in. If you don't believe in Jesus Christ, you have no hope. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. That's it. I can't say it any plainer than that. Those are not my words. I love them, but they're the words of our Lord. Christ is the brain power. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 20, verses 19 to 22. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us who believe? According to the working of his mighty power which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places, far above all principality and power and might and dominion in every name that is named not only in this world, but also in that which is to come, and hath put all things under his feet and given him to be the head over all things to the church. He is the head of all things over the church. Everything. Then we get getting down to the wire here. I'm sorry. Exhortation. What is exhortation? What are we exhorting? What are we to learn about verse 8? Well, verse 7 says, Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering, or he that teacheth on teaching, or he that exhorteth on exhortation. He says, let us wait for ministry. But I think it's amazing how Paul doesn't say, let us wait on exhortation. We are always to be ready to be exhort to have exhortation of the Bible given to others. What is that? Exhortation can be broken down into two two really very important applications. This refers, number one, this could refer to a gift that enables a follower of Jesus Christ To effectively and efficiently call others to obey and follow God's truth. Perhaps to warn against the perils of Satan's attacks that bring on one sadly to stumbling through sin. Let me say that again, because I think this is the number one problem amongst Christians. People don't handle other people's problems with tact and with compassion and with love. It's always with fingers pointing at you. Remember what Pastor Britton also said. If you point one people uh one finger at one person, you're gonna get three back at you. There's a way to handle exhortation, and if you're trying to bring somebody You're trying to protect them and you see they're falling into a trap and they're doing what's wrong, and you're trying to to honor them by bringing them the Bible. You need to do it in tears. You need to do it with compassion. And you need to do it telling them you were there once in some form or another, because we all have sinned and come short of the glory of God We don't stand there and finger point people acting like we're perfect and they're below us ever. Once again it says perhaps to warn against the perils of Satan's attacks and bring one sadly to stubbling through sin. Bring one out of that. Who is someone that is sadly stumbling through sin? Bring them out of that with compassion. To exhortation, give them scripture and encouragement. 2 Timothy 4:2, we read, preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. Paul says, be patient. Do it with long suffering, do it with love. For the time will come when they will not endorse sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. and they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. What does this say right here? Oh what what this is ancient. This happened two thousand years ago. This Bible is nothing but an old dusty relic. that's something that could be like some kind of an old dinosaur. What Paul just said in his verses exactly explains what we're going through today. Fables, itching ears, people wanting to hear things that aren't truth. Isn't it amazing how people love to be lied to? I mean look at the people that go into the movie theaters. They just love being lied to for two hours. That do it like on a regular basis. And I'm not saying we don't do that, I know It's all the overcomers last Sunday. That was a good movie, by the way. The Christian movie. But you know, there are there's people that just have their whole lives that they love to follow after Hollywood and actors and actresses, and it's all a big lie. And people love to be lied to. They go to churches and they're hearing nothing but lies and they they they just support it. By the minute they get as long as they're made to feel good, itching ears, as long as somebody will scratch them and make them feel good about themselves. Well, here's a that's the first part of exhortation, is bringing someone out of something maybe they're sadly stumbling and long-suffering, and encouraging them and loving them and encouraging them through the word of God But there's also a call to steadfastness and not wavering. With prevailing false doctrines all around, there's a way of encouraging and comforting others The other part, the exhortation, is to comfort one another. Al said the blessing of exhortation can manifest itself by a great comfort, encouragement, for a strengthening of struggling brothers and sisters in Christ. Who amongst us as brothers and sisters in Christ are not struggling? What do you look at people and you say, oh, you know, I'm the only one that's struggling? Maybe that guy is and that guy is. The rest of them, they're fine. They're okay. You have no idea what goes on inside of people's lives I have a little better idea being an elder and I hear things and all, but there are a lot of things people are struggling. These wonderful exhortations are comforts that we give with compassion to each other. 2 Corinthians 1 3 says, Blessed be God. Even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulation. that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolations also aboundeth by Christ And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer, or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation. Why did Jesus weep at the tomb of Lazarus? We've all lost loved ones. We've lost children, spouses, grandmothers, grandfathers, brothers and sisters. We've lost them We're all struggling because we have holes in our hearts, all of us this big over the losses that we have. But why did Jesus weep at the tomb of Lazarus? Shortest verse in all you memorized scripture this morning, kids? John 11, 35. Jesus wept. There. You just memorized the Bible verse. Shortest verse in the Bible. He didn't weep because he lost Lazarus That's what we weep for. Oh, we lost them, they're gone, we can't see them anymore. No. He wept because he was showing compassion and he was exhorting everyone around him. to believe on him. You're going to see Lazarus tomorrow morning, this afternoon. I'm going to heal him. You see, if I can do that and I can bring him back from the dead I have the hearts of all your loved ones and you're going to see them one day. They love the Lord. They love the Lord Jesus Christ. You're going to see them. That's what our job is. To bring them to the well, to bring them to the gospel of Christ. Look what he says about the consolation here that the Lord gives through exhortation, through witnessing, and being an encouragement. And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation. Yes, we're going to go through hard times and it's hard. We're going to share as Christians, perhaps in the thorns that Christ had in his head or in the or in some of the wounds that he has, because we're suffering with him as as metaphorically speaking. We have arms, legs, eyes, and etc. , and our brains control the operational movement of our bodies. But in our spiritual warfare on this earth and in our work with Christ, He's the head of the church. And this whole message was written by Paul to unify the church in the proper way. Paul wanted to unify the church with truth, not by gimmicks. He wasn't doing it with physical things. He was doing it with binding the people's hearts together. And I believe that comes from trying to understand when when disagreements come, trying to understand each other, try to work through it and encourage one another. And I and I am very confident that we can do that. Christ is the head of the church. And then you go back through the rest of the book of Romans And all of a sudden you go back to the first eleven chapters of theology, good, sound theology, and talking about the different doctrines of grace, justification of faith, justification by grace alone Sola fide, sola gratia, and he goes to this really big sermon, and then he finishes off the book of Romans with these bullet form ways of doing it as Christians. abhor that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. Love one another. Encourage one another. Use your gifts. And do this to encourage the church, not to break it down. And he makes a a real shift in literary style. And he had been giving many long sentences and paragraphs, and now he goes into grace, gifts, and the vocations, and his applications are wonderful. Read the book of Romans. I think the book of Romans will fill your heart with gladness. It was Paul's Magnumophus. Next week. When we get back when we get back to to the Bible here, we're gonna go in the first Corinthians. We're gonna read after Paul writes this. He writes another letter. We're going to talk about that next week. What a blessing the Lord gives us here through his scriptures. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee, Lord, for these words. We thank Thee that they are the words of life. Then when the heavens and the earth be destroyed, thy word endureth forever. People say we can't take anything with us to heaven. That's not true. We can take Thy word with us to heaven. We can also take family members with us through the salvation from the gospel of Jesus Christ. And let's our job to give exhortation. Help us to do that, Lord. Bless us and give us the strength and the courage to be studying and to understand thy word. Bless us and keep us from falling. We ask this day that we will be able to go away from thy house, saying it's been wonderful to be in the Lord's house and all these things we ask in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Our Messiah, Prophet, Priest, and King, we pray. Amen