And uh uh on a bad note, the uh this week is noteworthy in that they have issued for the first time gender the wrong bottle Yeah, that's right. They have issued gender neutral passports for the first time for the US. And so we don't want anybody to be just masculine or feminine or or to or to be born that way. You have to choose that way. And then uh One other thing wanted to give the update on Leah. Leah is doing pretty well Uh she considering that she hasn't been having her thyroid medications to to uh make her ready for the iodine that's radioactive And some sort of level of hers, I didn't really catch what it was, but some sort of level and her blood work wasn't too good this past week. So they didn't have the radioactive iodine this last Friday, but they're supposed to have it this coming Friday. So continue to be in prayer for her that that radioactive iodine might uh get rid of all the cancer. And so praise the Lord that she's doing uh as well as she is. And the family is doing well. Well, let's turn our Bibles to Acts chapter 17. Acts chapter 17. Acts chapter 17. We had a good sermon in the video this morning about the Reformation. And you know, today the stars are aligned because today we have both Reformation Day and Reformation Sunday on the same day. And so this is the very day, October 31st, when Martin Luther nailed his theses to the door of Wittenberg, and that was on the eve of All Saints Day. Which is now Halloween, which it is today. And the Trick-or-Treaters Treaters and Smyrna will be out tonight. Of course, you know, we don't really believe in all that stuff too well, but you know it's an opportunity to give out the gospel with the uh trick-or-treaters coming to your door, I think. And you can give them tracks, uh tracks for children. Because they come asking for them. And so anyway, it was on the eve of All Saints Day and in Brazil Uh being a Catholic country, they still have All Saints Day on November 1st. They have they call it the Day of the Dead. And everybody decorates graves and all that. Well here we have Acts chapter 17 and verse 10. And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night unto Berea, who coming thither went into the synagogue of the Jews. These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of mind. and searched the scriptures daily whether these things were so. Therefore many of them believed, also of the honorable met women which were Greeks, and of men Not a few. Let's bow in prayer once again. Oh Lord, open up thy word to us this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we had the video this morning and we're going to talk about Reformation today. And we're going to talk about the Bible. You know, the The place we were in Revelation last week really ran right into today of Reformation Day. Last week we were talking about the Bible. Don't add to the Bible. Don't subtract from the Bible. They're at the end of Revelation. And we were talking about how we have a totally reliable Bible today in the King James Version. And so we've got a reliable Bible. Now, today, that's our heritage of the Reformation. And as we saw in the movie this morning, it was a time of great darkness before the Reformation. And the Reformation was the greatest movement of God's Spirit in the history of the world. Whole nations, millions and millions of people actually came to the Lord You know the guy in the video this morning, he um had kind of a broad-minded outlook there. He says there's two point two billion Christians in the world. Well, he's almost implying that they're Almost like real Christians, and they aren't. Just a small minority of those are real Christians. But in the Reformation, it's millions become true Christians In the Reformation. And so it was a time before the Reformation that people did not have the Bible. They looked to the church for their instruction. And whatever the church said to do, they shook their head yes. They followed blindly the church. The church before the Reformation was all powerful. And even the kings of the earth had to bow before the church, the Roman Catholic Church. And they have the uh uh very famous story in church history where this king was having differences with the Pope. And was doing things that the Pope didn't like. And finally that king ended up having to come barefoot in the snow to knock on the door of the Vatican To show his submission to the Pope. And the Pope was all powerful, the Roman Catholic Church was all powerful, and that's why they were able to put in the Inquisition. to stop all kinds of any uh opposition to the church of Rome. And they would torture people, they would kill people. We visited the museum there in in Peru where they kept people at the Inquisition. And it was terrible what they put people through, and the church was doing that, the Roman Catholic Church, to keep people in line and keep them on their knees before the church. And so the church was selling indulgences, we saw. That's where you pay money. To get your sins forgiven and even pay money for your dead relatives to have their sins forgiven or have them have less time in purgatory. And of course, purgatory was a great doctrine of the time. And of course they had those saints, and the saints had merits, and people prayed to the saints. And of course, all these doctrines that we talk about before the Reformation, they're still in the Roman Catholic Church today. That's what I was saying in the video this morning. And they have not recanted of these doctrines. They're still there. Even though the Roman Catholic Church has gotten rid of the Inquisition, they've become more socially acceptable. They've had to. But it really hasn't changed. And as we say, the Pope was infallible. And you know, the Roman Catholic Church really cannot say that they were wrong about anything. Really, because they're infallible. And so that would go against that. And they can't even say the Inquisition was wrong. And of course they had relics back in those days. They would find these relics and they uh uh there were these relics And they'd have pieces of the cross and bits of the bread of the Last Supper after 2,000 years. And they'd have all these different things that they would adore. When we were over in Italy a few years ago, we visited the church there in Italy that has the remains of Saint Dominic there. And his bones and skull are there in the church, and they have kneeling benches before the bones where people can kneel and pray to the saint. And they still have that today, and they had that before the Reformation. The trouble is, before the Reformation, there was nothing outside of the Roman Catholic Church. It was a time of great darkness Well, uh people thought they got to heaven by their own good works. Back then, people in the Roman Catholic Church today think they get to heaven by their own good works. And whenever you witness to a Catholic today and you ask them, Are you sure you're on your way to heaven? They always say, I hope so. Because they don't know if they've done enough good works yet. They said enough Hail Mary's and all of those things. Well, it was a great time of hierarchy, as we said, back before the Reformation. It was a time when the priests stood between God and the people. The priests changed the Eucharist into the body and blood of Christ and gave it out to the people. And uh they were celibate, which showed their power over the people, that they were higher than the people, and there was no freedom. It was uh the church was all-powerful, all-knowing, and you couldn't interpret the scriptures for yourself. You had to look for the church to interpret the scriptures. And so when anybody got out of line, when they got some Bible ideas, well, they were made to recant, and they were tortured and killed, and so was a bad time. Which brings us to the Reformation. And you know, this film we had this morning was on Luther. And Luther, you can't believe that Luther was the guy who did it all by himself. He did it. And in fact, Luther was just the little spark that got everything going Everything was ready, everything was dry to grow up in flames. And he just was the little spark there. And the Lord had been preparing the world for the Reformation. And we're told when Jesus came and was prepared The world was prepared. When the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son. And when the fullness of time was come, the reformation came. And uh Tim brought up a really good point. You know, there were various events that happened right at the time of the Reformation that prepared the way. And one of them was the discovery of the New World by Columbus. And so men's horizons were going out, and they were looking for new things. And they were becoming open, open to other things and to the gospel and to the Reformation. That was one way the world was being prepared. And in a great measure it was prepared by the printing press. The printing press came in about 1450. The Reformation was 1517 and after. And just before the Reformation, we have the printing press invented by Gutenberg. And you know we had in the movie this morning that the 95 theses were printed and distributed all over. Well, that was due to the printing press. And the printing press helped along the Reformation greatly. And then a big event that happened about the same time as the event of uh of the printing advent of the printing press was the fall of Constantinople. The Eastern Roman Empire had stood for a thousand years after the fall of the Western Roman Empire, and the Eastern Roman Empire was there at Constantinople But finally in 1453 it w fell. And the Muslims took over Constantinople and the Eastern Roman Empire. But you know what happened when it fell? The language in Constantinople was Greek. And they had all the Greek manuscripts there, and they had preserved the Bible down through those thousand years, copying over Greek manuscripts over and over and over again. And so when Constantinople fell, the Greek people fled with their manuscripts over to the West. And so all the Greek things came into the West, the manuscripts came in. You know, I think I'm doing like uh somebody said Pastor Britton had a trouble with is with the code here. But anyway, so the thing is the Greek manuscripts came into the West. And Erasmus did the New Testament in Greek, the first edition. And so people were studying the Bible in the original languages in Greek and Hebrew. And God was preparing the way for the Reformation. You know, by the way, we're talking a lot about history today, Reformation. People don't like history today. People are trying to rewrite history today. We got them pulling down the statue of Lee, the statue of Jackson, and getting rid of plaques around that are Christian. And they're trying to rewrite history, but you know, history is important. Very important. And you know, God loves history. Over and over and over in the Bible, God says, I brought you out of Egypt to cross the Red Sea. Over and over and over refers back to that history. We were reading in Micah this week, and you know, in Micah it talks about going crossing the Red Sea. It also talks about Balak and Balaam, all this history. Back in the past. And the Bible is full of history. Of all the historical books. And we need to love history like the Bible loves history. We need to be interested in it. And here we have the Reformation. And God prepared the way for the Reformation, the printing press, the discovery of the New World, the fall of Constantinople And uh also one thing that was neglected in the move movie this morning that I in particular that I noticed was one guy wasn't named that was very critical to the Reformation. Why was it that Luther was not burned at the stake just like John Huss? Why was he not burned at the stake like the Monarola? They wanted to burn him at the stake. They issued decrees to have him burned, to have him silenced, to have him killed. Why wasn't he? Well, it was because at that time there was a rising nationalism In Germany and in Europe. And the princes were starting to see their independence from Rome. And the prince of Romans district there was Frederick, Elector of Saxony. And he defended Luther and he protected Luther. And that's the only reason Luther didn't get burned. And the only reason the Reformation was able to keep going. And in the same church there, where Luther is buried, he's buried on one side and Frederick is buried on the other side. And Frederick was a key figure in the Reformation. So a lonely monk He's born in 1483. He feels the weight of sin. One other thing, of course, the movie couldn't cover everything, but one other thing it doesn't give him there. is didn't give in there was the great text really of the Reformation, the great verse, Romans 1. 17. We had it in our scripture, our call to worship this morning. The just shall live by faith. And that's what Martin Luther came to that verse in the study of Romans and stood on that verse, and that we are saved by faith and not by works. That was the principle of the Reformation. And the principle is that we have the Bible, and we need to search the scriptures daily. Whether the things we learn in church are right. And so the Roman Catholic Church had gone far away from the Bible They regarded tradition and the Pope councils as having equal weight with the Bible. And so Luther, he put up the 95 theses. They were published all over. And, you know, the doctrines of Rome are not found in the Bible. Where do you find celibacy enjoined in the Bible? It's not enjoyed there. And Peter said, I have power to lead about a sister, a wife. And, you know, where do you find indulgences in the Bible? They're not there. And you know, we have our sins paid for by the blood of Christ set on the cross, not by indulgences that are paid for. What about purgatory? Where is that in the Bible? It's not there. Purgatory is completely foreign to the Bible, a place between uh earth and heaven where you pay for your sins for thousands of years. That's not in the Bible Purgatory is not there. It says, and as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. Calling the priests father and the Pope father. The Bible strictly says not to do that. Call no man on earth father in the sense of in the church. And then they have the Mass with Christ being crucified, time and time again. That's not in the Bible. Is that Christ was offered up once for our sins, according to the Scriptures. And so there's all these things in the Bible, but they're not what the Roman Catholic Church taught. And you notice on your bulletin today, on the cover of the bulletin, It has the Latin and also the English, sola gratia, sola fide, sola scriptura. And you know, those were the principles of the Reformation, especially sola scriptura. Scripture alone. Scripture alone. And we have to base everything that we believe, everything that we teach. on the Bible. You notice here in Acts chapter 17, the people in Berea were more noble than those in Thessalonica. How were they more noble? That's because they searched the scriptures daily. Do you search the scriptures daily? Every one of us should search the scriptures daily. Every one of us should read our Bibles daily. We should get into that Bible, get into all that history, get into all those things. All those details we need to get into. Because that's where we get our faith from the Bible. We don't get it from the Pope. We don't get it from the Church. You don't get your doctrine from me, you get it from the Bible. And you notice here, the people in Berea, they received the word, verse 11, with all readiness of mind. They received the word with readiness of mind, and then they searched the scriptures daily whether those these things, those things were so. What things? They searched the scriptures daily whether what Paul preached was true. They compared what Paul preached to the Bible And you need to compare what I preach to the Bible, what Pastor Coleman preaches to the Bible. We need to compare everything to the Bible. And we have a reliable Bible, well translated, excellent Bible, and we need to search that daily to see whether those things are so. And we should never let the Bible be something in our house that gathers dust. And then with the Reformation. It was mentioned in the film that we've got individual responsibility. Each one of us is individually responsible before God. We can't say that we did something because our pastor told us to do it. We can't say that we didn't do something because our pastor told us not to do it. That's not the reason. It's got to be by the Bible that we do things. And on Judgment Day, there won't be any defense on Judgment Day that I was just following orders. That was the defense at Nuremberg after the Nazis fell. And people like to say that I was just following orders, but that's not a defense on Judgment Day. We have to look at the Bible, see if what is taught. is taught in the Bible. We have the dignity of the individual with the Reformation. And uh So we have to interpret the scriptures for ourselves. We have to look at them for ourselves. And the church can give us help on that, but ultimately we have to look at it for ourselves. And the people in Berea were more noble. And Paul said, if I or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than that I've preached, let him be accursed. And so we can't get our doctrines from an angel. When you drive around Washington, D. C. down here, you see the angel moroni. Up on the Mormon temple there. Well, you know, uh Joseph Smith says an angel came and gave him all his heretical doctrines Well, even if an angel came and preached any other doctrine than that which we have in the Bible, we have to go far away from it. So we answer every one of us to God alone for everything we believe. And so Praise the Lord for the reformation. Praise the Lord for the heritage that we have. A heritage of searching the scriptures. And so as we come to communion this morning. Let us all search our hearts. Let us all search our hearts and see if we are searching the scriptures daily. You know, when we come to communion, we want to search our hearts to find out if there's anything we're not doing right. And so every one of us needs to have personal devotions every day. Every one of us needs to uh read some of the Bible every day, and it's not just reading it to get through it. Or reading it. You know, some people have a deal where they read through the Bible every year. And that's okay, but sometimes I think that might get to the point where you're just reading it to finish it. And what we need to do is we need to read it, to study it, and to understand it. And read the Bible daily, search the scriptures daily. We need to have personal devotions every day. And we need to have God talk to us through the Bible. And then how do we talk to God? We talk to God in prayer. So we need to have prayer and Bible reading every day on our own. To search the scriptures daily and be more noble than those in Thessalonica. And you know, also, besides personally reading the Bible and praying, we should have family devotions as well. And we should get together every day generally, or maybe not every day, but pretty close to it. Get together and get together with our family. and read the Bible and pray together with them as well. And we need to be in the Scripture all of the time Because we don't want to be led into error. How do we keep from error? We keep from error by knowing God's word. The old story is the guys that are experts on counterfeiting. How do they get to be experts on counterfeiting? Well, because they know really well a real twenty dollar bill or a real fifty dollar bill And so how will we know when somebody out there is counterfeiting the God's Word and s teaching false doctrine? It's because we know our own Bible. We know what the Bible preaches. And we can check them against the Bible. So let's search our hearts. Let's uh have that as one thing to consider as we come to Reformation Day and as we come to communion. Search our hearts, whether we are actually searching the scriptures daily, whether those things are so. Let's bow in prayer O Lord, we pray that Thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, we pray that Thou would bless as we come to communion. We pray, O Lord, that thou would prepare our hearts, that thou would forgive us of any sin that's in our lives, show us any sin that's in our lives, and turn us from it. And O Lord, help us to be the Christians that Thou would have us to be in Jesus' name, Amen