And that per about homosexuals, and this person was known as the principal archenemy of the homosexuals. Well anyway, this person was a former beauty queen and pop singer of the 1960s. Whose career led her to become a spokesperson for Michelle? No, but you're you you got the first two letters right? Anyway, she was led to become the spokesperson for Florida Oranges in the early 70s. Anita Bryant. That's it, Anita Bryant. Anita Bryant. And an evangelical crusader against gay rights later in that decade. She died December 16th at age 84. Anita Bryant. And you know, you can't have any higher praise than what was given about her there. And anyway, I want to read a little bit about her to begin with here, to introduce the thing. And this is right from Variety Magazine of Hollywood And it was a it was uh right up on her after she died. It says, a brunette who personified wholesomeness Bryant was crowned Miss Oklahoma in 1958 and finished second runner-up in 1959 Miss America. She landed on the hit charts in 1959 with her pop songs. She released a string of albums, earned Granny Grammy nominations, was a frequent guest on variety and talk shows, and traveled for seven years. with Bob Hope on his USO tours, making trips to entertain the troops in Vietnam. So she went over with Bob Hope, but probably every time Bob Hope went over there to entertain the troops in Vietnam, she was with him. And so one of Bryant's biggest fans was President Lyndon Johnson. So taken by her rendition of the Battle Hymn of the Republic during the Super Bowl halftime show in 1971, can you imagine She sang the battle hymn of the republic at the Super Bowl halftime show. Back can you see how the world has changed? Who do we have singing at the halftime show now? I mean we got some pretty shady people there and uh but anyway battle hymn of the Republic well anyway Lyndon Johnson was so taken with that that he asked her to sing at his funeral, and she did in 1973. She sung at both conventions of the Republicans and Democrats in 1968, both of them the same year. Anyway, she appeared in commercials for Coca-Cola, Kraft, Holiday Inn, and other things, became a household name. after signing on as the spokesperson for the Florida Citrus Commission in nineteen sixty-eight. For more than a decade she poured glass after glass of orange juice in dozens of nationally aired TV spots while singing. Do you remember her with the orange juice commercials? I do. Yeah, we've got to be a little bit older to remember that. But anyway, uh that uh she was there for ten years doing that. However, and we'll just introduce her anti-homosexual things here until later, but however, Bryant's reputation was put to the test in 1977 After she organized the Save Our Children movement to repeal a Miami-Dade County ordinance prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. A born-again Christian, she did not want gay people teaching school children. And so that's quite a testimony, and then we'll go on with that later. So that's sort of an introduction here. And let's go to our Bibles. After hearing that, let's go to our Bibles to 2 Kings chapter 23. 2 Kings chapter 23. 2 Kings chapter 23 and verse 1. And the king sent, and they gathered unto him all the elders of Judah and of Jerusalem. And the king went up into the house of the Lord and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great And he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of the Lord. And the king stood by a pillar and made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord and to keep the commit his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all their heart and with all their soul. to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book, and all the people stood to the covenant. Let's bow in prayer, O Lord, we pray that thou bless as we study thy word, forgive us of our sin in Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have the people of Israel and Josiah getting saved here. At least a big portion of the people. And they made a covenant with the Lord. That's what we do when we get saved. Remember this morning we talked about in Sunday school the publican and the sinner. And the publican said, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And that's what we need to do. We need to say that when we come unto the Lord. And then we need to make a covenant with the Lord to serve him with all our heart. And be our Lord and Savior. Well, anyway, that's what the people of Israel did here. And you remember last time that I was here, they had found the book of the law in the temple. They had found the book of the law that had been disappeared disappeared. They hadn't seen it for years And for a long time they had forgotten all about the book of the law. They were going through the motions in the temple, but they didn't have God's word. And finally they found it back in chapter 22 And so the king read it, the people read it, and that's what we have here. They come together, everybody comes together to read God's law. They had found the book of the law. That's what happened in the Reformation. In the Reformation, they found God's law. Martin Luther found it, and he said, the just shall live by faith. And so they found the law. We found the law. We find the law right here. We're looking at it. We got the law right here in front of us open. But anyway, here are the people of Jerusalem, the people of Israel all gathered together, the people and the prophets and all the people gathered together. You notice it says, and the prophets plural gathered together. Back in those days, they had uh set office in the in God's kingdom there of the prophets. And they had the school of the prophets And people were raised to be prophets, and they had a recognized office as the prophet. And once again, as I've told you a million times, a prophet was somebody who told people what they didn't want to hear. And so there were people that were in that office, and they were there hearing this reading of God's word. So they made a covenant And notice here in verse 3, they promised to serve the Lord with all their heart and with all their soul. What do we do today? We promise the exact same thing to the Lord. What does Jesus say in the New Testament? The first commandment of all the commandments is to love the Lord our God with all our heart and with all our soul. Put God first in our lives. First in our lives with all our heart and all our soul. And so, it was the same back in the Old Testament. People in the Old Testament were saved in the same way we're saved today. They gave their life to the Lord And they prayed for forgiveness of sins, and they looked forward to Jesus coming later on. They looked forward to the Messiah. And we look back to the Messiah who did come and did die on the cross. Well, so what did they do after they got saved? What did Josiah do after he got saved? You know, just yesterday I was hearing about somebody in my family that faults John MacArthur and false all these other preachers for having a works religion And they said he she she said they all have a works religion, and their works religion is that they tell you you have to do works for the Lord in your life Well, a true works religion is you get saved by works. You think you get saved by works, and that's completely false. We don't get saved by works, but After we get saved, we do do things for the Lord, and we should be doing things for the Lord. And so what did Josiah and the people of Israel do after they got saved? Well, they were like a whirlwind here. Search and destroy. You know, it's just interesting. I had that title already before I was going to talk about uh Neita Bryant But Anita Bryant, she went over and entertained the troops in Vietnam and also in Thailand. I I learned that they she came to the bases in Thailand where I used to be too But anyway, they would go over there and entertain the troops. But over there in Vietnam, they had what they called search and destroy missions. And they'd search for the Viet Cong. They'd search for the North Vietnamese and try to destroy them. Well, here in this passage here, Josiah has a search and destroy mission. There in Israel. And you know, we all need to have search and destroy missions in our lives. And he's searching for sin. He's searching for sin to destroy. And he found a lot of it. And let's go on here, verse 4. And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest and the priests of the second order and the keepers of the door. To bring forth out of the temple of the Lord all the vessels that were made for Baal and for the grove and for all the host of heaven And he burned them without Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron and carried the ashes of them unto Bethel. So we're going to have him destroying all these things of false worship. He gathered together all the heathen vessels and he burned them. Number one, how come he didn't sell? There were probably some very precious vessels. How come he didn't sell them? Well, because he didn't want to corrupt people. He didn't want to uh you know have that uh filthy money from that baby He didn't sell them, but he destroyed them. And where did he destroy them? He destroyed them in the book Kidron. By the Brook Kidron. You know what the Brook Kidron was in Jerusalem? That was the garbage dump. The garbage dump there. And it was just outside of the walls of Jerusalem. And they had fires in the garbage jump there that were burning 24 hours a day, burning up the garbage. And in fact, that is a picture of hell in the Bible, the Kidron Valley there. And so they had all these fires burning. And you know, in Cameroon, where we were missionaries, they'd do something like that. They'd take the trash out in the street in front of their house and burn it. They didn't have much in the way of trash pickup there, and actually didn't have any trash pickup. But anyway, they just pile it up and burn it, and you'd see fires here and fires there burning And that's how they did here at Jerusalem, except they did have a trash dump, and they that was the Brook Kidron. And so he brought all those heathen vessels out there and burned them up. And then verse 5. Then he put down the idolatrous priests whom the king of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places of the cities of Judah. And in the places round about Jerusalem, them also that burned incense unto Baal, and to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the hosts of heaven. So he puts down the idolatrous priests. And then verse 6, and he brought out the grove from the house of the Lord without Jerusalem unto the brook Kidron. And burned it at the Brook Kidron, and stamped it small to powder, and cast the powder thereof upon the graves of the children of the people. So he wanted to really destroy this grove. And he not only burned it, but he stamped it small the powder and threw it on the graves, which was a place of defilement. And so they were completely defiled. He was searching and destroying all through the land, all the sin that was found in the land, and all the different things that had been made for sinful worship in the land. Over the centuries, actually. And notice verse 7. Here we come to Anita Bryant, and we come to the homosexuals. And he break down the houses of the Sodomites that were by the house of the Lord, where the women wove hangings for the grove. Did he give the homosexuals equal rights? Did he look at them as just people with an alternate lifestyle? You know, if it works for you, you go just go ahead and do it. No. It's not an alternate lifestyle. It's an abomination in the Bible. And what did Josiah do? He broke down their houses. Got rid of them. Broke down the houses of the Sodomites. Notice that name, Sodomites, coming back from Sodom and Gomorrah with the homosexuals there. The Sodomites, and they had their houses right by the house of the Lord here. And he got rid of that. He was like a whirlwind going through the land. And you notice on TV and movies, they always like to hit put a homosexual in there these days And they want to make it look like, oh, don't you see that a homosexual is just a regular person just like all of us? And they just have an alternate lifestyle and it's okay. No, that's not okay. And it wasn't okay here with Josiah. And it wasn't okay with Anita Bryant. So let's go back to Anita Bryant. So we learned about she was a very nationally known figure, and she put her reputation on the line there with this fight against the homosexuals. And she gave an interview and she says, I got involved only because they were asking for special privileges that violated the state law of Florida, not to mention God's law. You know, when I was a child, you didn't even mention the word homosexual, much less find out what the act was about. You knew that it was very bad, but you couldn't imagine what they tried to do. That was back when she was growing up. In Oklahoma, actually. Well, she was an activist against the homosexual rights And then it says in this article from Variety, it says her activism against such regulations made her a poster girl for the religious right. She was a heroine of the religious right, at least for a while, and the foremost public archenemy of the gay community and social liberals. Her activism also led to the end of any substantial career that Bryant had beyond the conservative Christian community. So her career ended with. Fighting against the homosexuals And then her former husband, her ex-husband, Bob Green, said, blame gay people, I do. Their stated goal was to put Bryant out of business and destroy her career. And that's what they did. It's unfair. So the homosexuals had their stated goal to destroy her, and they did a pretty good job of it, destroying her secular career. And not only that, they hated her so much and continued to hate her so much that she had become a pop culture punchline. And they were making fun of her on Saturday Night Live, the Gong Show, The Golden Girls, Will and Grace, and the movie Airplane. They all made fun of Anita Bryant. And in fact, in 2018, they had a musical about her called The Loneliest Girl in the World. I was a lampooning her, making fun of her. Well, finally, what uh uh uh close with her testimony here in that interview she did, she said She said, I know now that I'm a human being, just like ever anybody else. If it weren't for Jesus Christ in my heart and life, I probably would have married several times. I probably would have slept around with guys and whatever. I always say that I'm just a sinner saved by grace. And that's a good testimony. So she's somebody that's good to remember. Man, my voice is gone today. Well anyway. So here we go to Josiah, back to Josiah. He didn't give equal rights to the homosexuals. Can I get a little m more volume, okay? He didn't give equal rights to the homosexuals. And Anita Bryant didn't believe they had equal rights either and campaigned for them not to. And then we go on with verse 8 And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah and defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense. from Giba unto Beersheba, and break down the high places of the gates that were in the entering in of the gate of Joshua, the governor of the city, which were on a man's left at the gate of the city And then going on to verse 9, and he defiled Tophet, which was in the valley of the children of Hinnam, that no man might make his son or his daughter to pass through the fire to Molech. And so here she was, I mean here Josiah was going through the whole land. He put down the idolatrous priests, he broke down the high places They were worshiping all over in high places and not worshiping in Jerusalem. And they should have been worshiping in Jerusalem. So they were doing all this false worship and he was putting it down. And then he was putting down the place where they have uh the sacrificing of their children And you know this morning Tim said that sins don't change, just the people do. And that's so true. The sins back here in 2 Kings, back in Josiah's time, are the same sins that we got today. The same exact sins. And we got homosexuality here. We got abortion here. We got all that back with Josiah. And so he put down abortion here. He got rid of the place where they had abortion. And you know the thing is, these people were sacrificing their children to the God because they were giving the thing that was most precious to them, their children to the God. What about today in America? People sacrifice their children on the altar of abortion, and that's because they don't regard them as the most precious thing they have. They regard them as trash to be thrown away. And they are without natural affection. Without natural affection. And that's what it says in the end times people will be without natural affection. It's natural to love your children. That's so natural. And to kill your own children, that's a terrible thing. And yet here in our society they act, they act like that's normal. That that's To be expected. The medical establishment gets all involved in that. The doctors get involved in that. And it's terrible. Well, Josiah put that down here. Now we go on here, verse eleven. And he took away the horses that the kings of Judah had given to the son at the end of raining of the heart. house of the Lord by the chamber of Dathan Melech the chamberlain, which was in the suburbs, and burned the chariots of the sun with fire. And the altars that were on the top of the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made. In the two courts of the house of the Lord, which did the king beat down and break them down from thence, and cast the dust of them into the brook Kidron. So we had all these false worship things around there that had been there for centuries. And here it says here that he cast down the altars which Manasseh had made And which Ahaz had made. And he beat them down, he broke them, he uh beat them small the powder, cast the dust of them into the brook Kidron. And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which were on the right hand of the Mount of Corruption, which Solomon, the king of Israel, had builded for Ashtareth, the abomination of the Zidonians and Kemosh and Bilcom. Did the king of defiled? So going even back to Solomon, Solomon remember he was turned aside through his heathen wives. And he had made these things for the false gods, and they were still there here hundreds of years later, and Josiah finally throws them down and gets rid of all this false worship out of the land. He's going everywhere to see what he can see that's false. And it's not God's worship. And he cast it down. And verse 14, and he break in pieces. the images and cut down the groves and filled their places with the bones of men. And see here the bones of man, the dead, it was a thing of defilement there And then verse 15, moreover, the altar that was at Bethel, which in the high place which Jerusalem, Jeroboam the son of Nebat Who made Israel to sin had made both that altar and the high place he break down and burned the high place and stamped it small to powder and burned the grove Look at this, he's just like a whirlwind. He just breaks it down and he burns it. He stamps it small to power uh powder. He burns the grobe. He does all of that here. Getting rid of the sin in the land. And so here he goes up to Bethel, which was the center of false worship from the northern kingdom in the past. Remember Jeroboam made the false altar there. And he threw that altar down. At this time Israel, the northern kingdom had already been carried into captivity But there was wasn't much up there now. And so he went up into the northern kingdom area and even up there he was going around and searching and destroying the sin that was up there. He found the The false all are from before. And then that brings us to our reading that we had for the responsive reading, verse 16. But anyway, he was there, and he saw the grave of the man of God that had come from Judah and cried out against the false altar. And the the man of God had cried out, and it had been prophesied. And let's look back there for a second. 1 Kings chapter 13. Go back to 1 Kings chapter 13 and verse 1. 1 Kings chapter 13 and verse 1. And behold, there came a man of God out of Judah by the word of the Lord unto Bethel. And Jeroboam stood by the altar to burn incense. This is when Jeroboam is first setting up this false altar. And he cried, this man of God cried against the altar in the word of the Lord and said, O altar, altar, thus saith the Lord, Behold, a child shall be born unto the house of David Josiah by name. This is hundreds of years before. Hundreds of years before Josiah's name is given. And the prophecies in the Bible are exact. And they should be taken literally. And this was literal Josiah, a guy actually by the name of Josiah, was going to come. And he was going to cast down the altar. Josiah, Josiah by name. And you know, in the world they have people that claim to have prophecies. One of them is Nostradamus. And no Stradamas, they claim he has all these prophecies. But when you look at his prophecies and other prophecies like his, they're very general things. And so here, this is specific, Josiah. He says, by name, and upon thee shall he offer the priests of the high places that burn incense unto thee. And men's bones shall be burnt upon me. And that exactly happened. Exactly. And he gave a sign the same day saying, this is the sign which the Lord has spoken, the altar shall be rent and the ashes poured out. And verse 4, and it came to pass when King Jeroboam heard the saying, he said, lay hold on that man. And then verse 5, literally, the altar was rent. And the ashes poured out. Literal fulfillment of prophecy. And so when in the book of Revelation it says, fire and brimstone are going to come down that there's going to be things, great upheaval in the world, all these plagues are going to come. They're literal. They're literal. We can take prophecy literally. So anyway, let's go back to 2 Kings chapter 23. And so here we have what Josiah is doing is prophesied hundreds of years before. And so they point up that fact. And here we have Josiah, he burns the bones upon the altar, pollutes it according to the word, verse 16 that the man of God proclaimed who proclaimed these words, 2316. And you know here What do we have going on here? Josiah takes men's bones and burns them on the altar. Now, he's defiling the altar by doing that, burning men's bones there. Does that remind you of anything that goes on in our world today? Well let me say that reminds me a lot of cremation. What do they do with cremation? They burn the whole body and the bones until you just have a little urn of ashes. They burn all the bones. And of course, uh people don't like when I talk about cremation, but and the church is accepting cremation, but I don't believe it's according to God's word I'm sorry. And here we have they burn the bones up for a sign of pollution. And you know, I was thinking, you know, in Ezekiel, there's a picture of the resurrection in Ezekiel. And what is that? That's the valley of dry bones. The valley of dry bones. And when there's a resurrection there, the bones quake and shake and come together, and then the flesh comes on them, and they're resurrected. Well, what do they begin with? The bones. The bones are there. They don't resurrect from a bunch of ashes, although God can do that. But we don't want to, it's in keeping with the resurrection to have the bones. And you know, bones, you know people say, oh, hey, you know Uh don't you know that the whole body is going to decay and it's all going to be like ashes? It's really not, because the bones will still be there for centuries The bones last for a long, long time. And they go over to Egypt, they go to other places. uh Mount Vesuvius and uh Pompeii and they find all these bones around still today from these people way back then. But anyway, here we have Josiah does cremation here as a sign of defilement and pollution there. And then we go on here. Verse 17. We have Josiah sees the title of the man of God there who proclaimed these things that were done against the altar. And verse 18 he says, Josiah says, Let him alone. Let no man move his bones. So they let the bones alone and the bones of the prophet that came out of Samaria that were buried together, that we see back in 1 Kings. And then verse 19, Josiah, he goes all over the northern kingdom area. And he goes up into Samaria, the kingdom, the capital of the northern kingdom. that had been conquered. He goes up in Samaria and he goes up there verse 19 the houses of the high places which the kings of Israel had made to provoke the Lord to anger. Josiah took away and did to them according to all that he had done in Bethel. And then going on, verse twenty, he slew all the priests of the high places that were there upon the altars, and once again he was burning men's bones. Upon them and return to Jerusalem. And verse 21 And the king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the Passover unto the Lord your God as it is written in the book of this covenant. What are we going to do here next week? Next week we're going to keep our Christian Passover. The Christian counterpart to the Passover is the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper. Remember the first Lord's Supper was there at the Passover when Jesus was there with the disciples. And so The king commanded them to keep the Passover. Next week we're going to be keeping the Passover. Verse 22 Surely there was not holden such a Passover from the days of the judges that judged Israel. Nor in all the days of the kings of Israel, nor of the kings of Judah. That's really saying something. For seven hundred years, I was adding it up, something like seven hundred years it had been since the judges. Since Samson, since Gideon, and you go through Saul and the kings, David and Solomon, you go through all the other kings, 700 years. For all that period, they kept the Passover, off and on through their history. And it says here that this Passover with Josiah was the best one. And remember last time we were talking about this was the death rally of Israel, of Judah. And so this is just before the end. There's a death rally here just before the end, and it's such a rally that they have a Passover that's better than all the Passovers they had had And verse 23, and in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, wherein this Passover was holding to the Lord in Jerusalem. Well, what made that Passover the best Passover? What made it the best Passover? Well, what made it the best Passover to a great extent was that searching and destroying. That they got rid of all the sin that was in the land before they had the Passover. And all a lot of those sins had carried over for hundreds of years. Solomon's heathen altars had been there clear since the time of Solomon. And he got rid of all that. He got rid of the heathen altar that Jeroboam had made. And so, what do we need to do as we prepare ourselves for communion? As we prepare for communion next week, let us do search and destroy missions in our lives. And find things that need to be gotten right between us and the Lord. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we just thank Thee for Thy Word. We thank Thee for giving it to us. We thank Thee. For the example of Josiah and the people of Israel, help us to hold our Passover communion with our hearts right before thee, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.