I ask you to open up your New Testament to the book of Nehemiah. And no, we have not forgotten Psalm 23. But Nehemiah chapter two, and I'm going to just read the first eight verses. This book of history. Nehemiah two, beginning at verse one. And it came to pass in the month Nisan. 20th year of Artaxerxes the king, that wine was before him, and I took up the wine, gave it unto the king. No, I had not been before time sad in his presence. Wherefore the king said unto me, Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick? This is nothing else but sorrow of heart. Then I was very sore afraid, and I said unto the king, Let the king live for ever, and why should not my countenance be sad when the city, the place of my father's sepulchres, lieth waste, and the gates thereof are consumed with fire? Then the king said unto me, For what dost thou make request? So I prayed to the God of heaven. And I said unto the king, If it please the king, and if thy servant has found favor in thy sight, that thou wouldest send me unto Judah, unto the city of my father's sepulchres, that I may build it. And the king said unto me, the queen also sitting by him, for how long shall thy journey be? And when wilt thou return? So it pleased the king to send me. And I set him a time. Moreover I said unto the king, If it please the king, let letters be given me to the governors beyond the river. that they may convey me over till I come into Judah. And a letter unto Aseth, the keeper of the king's forest. that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the palace which appertain to the house, and to the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into And the King granted me, according to the good hand of my God, upon me. May our Lord be pleased to bless the reading of this word into the hearts of his children today. You know, as we open this passage, I'd like us to take some time to consider the goodness and the love of God. uh to his children, to each of us as individuals, as couples, as families, as a as a congregation, as a body of Christ And yet not forget Psalm 23. And specifically for today, it is verse 5: Thou preparest the table before me in the presence of mine enemies, thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Just stick that verse 5 in the back of your mind and we approach Nehemiah here as we consider this. It's not this passage not in the contest to context of Thanksgiving, yet Nehemiah grants us access to something that is truly what God's hand was doing through Artaxerxes the king. a beautiful illustration of God's love and of God's goodness and supply for his children. Um the scene here is the winter palace, the King of Persia. They had a number of them, you know, like down in Florida, you got one and then the White House and you got one over here and over there. You know, it's just where they spend the winter And Arxerxes was the king of Persia, the most powerful nation in the world at the time. Some 445 years before the time of Christ, they ruled the known world. We come to this particular place here and we see this illustrations with this relationship in our office We just finished going through a devotional book on Nehemiah and Esther. And as we finish this up, uh my heart just kept saying, you know, there's a lot to say of of what God was doing, and I'm thinking again of Psalm 23, of God's goodness to um the children of Israel in this particular time. There are some really powerful parallels here. You may or may not remember that Nehemiah was the king's cupbearer. Simplicity of thinking, it's not more than just carrying a cup. Uh he was a trusted confidant Arta Xerxes. Uh he made sure that the king's drink and the king's food uh was safe uh no doubt tasted it himself. Made sure the things were taken over. He was a a counselor with the king. If you're trusting this man to make sure that your foods are right, you're going to trust his words So I think there was a real close relationship, as we even saw some of the context of what he was speaking about here. Nehemiah in chapter 1 hears of the deplorable condition of Jerusalem. some friends had come or uh fellow uh uh uh citizens of that land. And he hears the discussion and he hears how the gates had been burned and the walls are still torn down and the people were afraid. They were in in horrid state. And so he goes before the Lord and he prays. And the opportunity now comes unto him, as we had read. th that the king sees him. We read where the king comes to uh the the the attention of Nehemiah by saying, What's the sad face, buddy? Not sick, are you? What's what's the situation? It's a heart matter, isn't it? And so he expresses himself. So yeah, it is a heart matter. And he says a quick prayer, you know, see I'm going to before the king and I've got to say something and I hope he accepts it. We know God was already working in there. He said, the city that I come from, uh it's it's in uh b a bad state. And so the king says, in response to that, and I think it's so beautiful, how long are you going to be when you're coming back. Doesn't say, all right, you can go, but he's saying, I've already made my decision. When are you coming back? I I want you I want you here with me. Already God's working in the heart to present this wonderful situation. And then Nehemiah says to the king, If it please the king, you let letters be given to the governors beyond the river, that they may convey me over till I come to Judah. A letter to Aesaph, king of the king's forest, keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make the beams for the gates and the palace which appertain to the house and the wall of the city for the house that I will enter. And the king granted me according to the good hand of my God upon me. confident in God's direction, already understanding what the situation was. He presents to him something more. You know, uh not only am I able to go, but he says, can you also supply? Letters of safe conduct. Uh the journey subs 1600 miles. And that's just as the crow flies, not the actual roads between the the the Jerusalem and and uh the palace here. And so there were a lot of governors, generals, uh, people that are all under the influence of Persia that letters of permission to go through had to be given. And she says, sure, not a problem. And then he says, well when we get there we need some supplies. And can you give me the opportunity to take from the King's Forests And he says, sure, whatever is needed. Marvelous introduction into the hand of God. Back in Nehemiah 1, verse 4, it says, And I sat down and I wept and mourned certain days and fasted and prayed before the God of heaven When Nehemiah first heard of the situation of his home folks, the city, it says he fasted and he prayed certain days. If you look at the months that are here, that period of time was about four months it took him. The burden upon his heart comes to the Lord. And not that he hadn't seen the king, not that he hadn't serviced the king. But it was that place in God's hands where he had to come before him and go for four months of prayer, and yet God answers and answers abundantly As you look to this past year or past couple years, has God answered prayer in your life in abundance? where you can clearly say he took my sadness and made it to joy. Where he took seeming defeat and made it to victory You know it's needed. Um, our first hymn, you know, we talk about uh goodness and faithfulness of God As we reflect upon the past, the profit of it is not only to give God praise for what he's done, but it's also A foundational principle upon the future. If he's done this in the past for me, he's continuing to do it now, I can trust him for the future. It's a link that ties it all together. And this is what Nehemiah felt. He says, I understand the situation on the home front, and it's not too good. But as I prayed and I offered up this unto my heavenly father, he answered prayers. I not only got to s talk to the king, didn't cut my head off for being such a bold person He not only gave me permission slips to go from here to there, but he allowed me to get whatever wood that I needed to accomplish the task. And then he says, I'd like you back. And he reflects upon that, and it just brings, to me, it brings great joy and great encouragement. And there are times We may have to wait four months of prayer or four years of prayer to see some answer, to see some light, or whatever. But it doesn't mean that God has ignored us. It doesn't mean that he's forgotten all about us. But I'd like to go back again here to Artaxerxes and his gracious giving. To be honest with you, this seemingly gracious gift that he gave to Nehemiah began even before that. Prior to Nehemiah's going back, there was a smaller group under Ezra the priest that returned And Artaxerxes gave him permission. And listen to this. Not only gave him permission, but he gave some twenty-two to thirty tons of silver and gold and bronze to take back with him. Whoa. That's a little bit more than permission slips and a little bit more than timber. Twenty-two to thirty tons of precious metals. To go back, and that was for the the adornment of the temple. How great was our God to be able to work in this situation. What a picture. For seven years Israel had basically walked through the valley of the shadow of death under the tyrannical rule of Babylon. Remember how they had taken Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed and all of the upper crust of the children, and they brought him in, and then they brought others along the way. And they were not necessarily the most pleasant years. But now the king of Persia had not only permitted them to return to their own land, but also had furnished them with everything they needed for the journey. For the building and the supplies that were there, even gave them a military escort along the way just in case. Everything that could be imagined for the successful rebuilding of Jerusalem was completed. And somebody might say, well, that's too a great praise to the king, but not necessarily so. I'm sure Nehemiah knew the Psalms. For sure Ezra the priest knew the Psalms, especially Psalm 23. But I can't necessarily tell you that they associated verse 5 of Psalm 23 with their situation. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil. My cup runneth over. The banquet table that was prepared for Ezra, for those who had gone even before Ezra, and for Nehemiah for these returns, was only prepared by the one who could prepare. Prior to uh Artaxerxes there was Darius and then Cyrus and then Artax Xerxes. And although they may on paper have gotten the credit for doing certain things There was only one who was able and was willing and did commit to the return and the supply in meeting of the needs The banquet table was prepared by the one to whom Nehemiah was serving. Solomon writes in Proverbs twenty-one one the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord As the rivers of water he turneth it whithersoever he will. The heart of Cyrus and Darius and Artioxerxes is in the hands of the Lord. And he turns that heart whatever way he will. He moved, he raised up, he tore down. For the accomplishment of his purpose, but never forgetting that in all of these things, the banquet table was provided for his children. He said, you will not only permit them to return, but you will aid them and you will protect them and you will provide for them every step of the way. Thou preparest the table before me. God had prepared blessings for his children of Israel long before Nehemiah's prayer long before Ezra had returned with the gold and the silver and the bronze, long before others had returned, the completion of that seven-year captivity It wasn't as if God said, Hmm, seven years are going to put you and park you there in Babylon and then Persia, you know, and then after the seven years I'll come back and see what's going on, you know. You're here and gonna stick you in this this hardship of life. He never did that. God's hand was upon them all the way through. Through the hardships of life, through this time of captivity, and then way beyond that. He always had them in mind. His table of blessing was always upon them. Prepares the table before me in the presence of mine enemies. As you read the Old Testament, you'll see that it had an abundance of enemies. Sure, the Babylonians, but before the Babylonians there were the Assyrians. Then after the Babylonians came the Medes and the Persians. And after the Medes and the Persians were the Greeks, and then the Romans. And all the way down the line, there was always in the presence of mine enemies. The enemies were always there. But as David said, astutely says, you prepare the table before me. The banquet table of God's supply had always been before me in the presence of enemies. The presence of mine enemies, we can come up with a list of enemies of the gospel today, can't we? There's no shortage of isms. There's no shortage of cultic groups that place us as unacceptable as far as the understanding of what life is. Many parts of the world, the enemies of Christ, have become quite evident. 2019 4,305 Christians were killed for their faith. And that's official numbers, obviously. A lot of those you wouldn't even be able to know about 1,847 churches and other Christian buildings were attacked. Officially, you know, unofficially, nobody can tell. Some 3,150 believers were detained without trial and arrested, sentenced and or imprisoned. Just in a year's time officially of things that went on, in the presence of mine enemies. And does God look upon those and say, Wow. Well, it looks like pretty difficult situations. You know, I'm gonna be over here building my church here. The banquet table has always been prepared. Satan and his minions take no holidays. They seize upon every occasion to rob believers of the joy and confidence that we have in Christ. in the presence of mine enemies can be those overt actions when it's not correct, politically correct, to do as we do and worship as we worship. Vicious attacks from the media, law from those in authority over us, or what might be referred to as religious hate crimes. There's no shortage of those in our own country and around the world. Or it could be something simple as the heart filled with anger, jealousy, fear, pride, etc. , etc. He uses that. As an enemy in itself, because it's an enemy that takes me away from the confidence I have in Christ, in His Word. It removes that just as if I was thrown in prison Thou prepares the table before me in the presence of mine enemies I believe that times we do indeed struggle to recall the table that's been prepared for us. The blessings of God remembered sometimes on an occasion of a miraculous healing. Or the windfall from some financial transactions. And we stand out and we say, that was an answer to prayer. You know, praise God, his banquet table was there, and those things were met. But do you realize that as a child of his own, he has prepared a table for us, just not on certain occasions, just on those those obvious answers to prayer? But the table's been prepared for us at all times, graciously provided for. For the most commonest of things. Give us this day our daily bread. Daily food and clothing and transportation and shelter. Sure, I can set my house and I say it's a walking distance of the shop right down there. And I can go down there and I can buy that that uh pound of ground beef, uh 90 ten by the way, we'll lull fat, you know And and and I can get my tomatoes and my salsa mix and so forth and the taco wraps and I can come back and I can fry it up and I can wrap them up and I can enjoy my handmade tacos But who gave me the ability to go and earn money? That I could buy that? Or the physical ability to walk down or To even have a place where I could cook it, or even have the food there that I could buy, and knowing that it's safe. Thou prepares the table before me. Social pleasures, like friends and family and loved ones, we crave fellowship. Don't like being alone, you know. The the the the psychology of of the uh the prisoner being locked in solitary confinement, you know We need each other in that type of relationships. We have to have it. How miserable life would be without others. Especially those that we love and those that we love to be with. And I would like to think that that would include all of the household of faith, although at times that doesn't always necessarily fit out so Religious privileges, a place to worship where God's people can come and dine spiritually together. His Holy Spirit to fill our hungry souls with those things that are needful, that he knows best what I need and what you need, and what you need, and what each one of us needs. And with his love, abiding with us, sealed by his Holy Spirit of promise, we have his word that he will never leave us nor forsake us forever. Those are simple things. Removing all of the biggies that we'd like to say this is necessary, the simple parts of life of just common, ordinary things that we take for granted is part of his banquet table prepared for us in the presence of the enemy And it's constant. It's always there. Yet it doesn't seem like much because we always have it. We can take it for granted, but it's part of the banquet table that God has prepared for us before the foundation of the world. Just kind of an ordinary stuff, you know. Go to a third world country and spend some time out in there and boy you come back here and you say, wow, we've got it so beautifully. But even the believers living there are saying, God's blessed us in such tremendous ways. Thou anointest my head with oil. Perfumed oil was often poured upon the heads of distinguished guests at the Feast of Great Notables, recognition, honor, privilege. Woman of the Gospel poured the box of ointment of Spike nard on the head of our Lord other occasions His feet were anointed. Read the Apostle Paul opens his heart for an examination, and he proclaims, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am. Chief, I am the pits of the pits when it comes to sinners. In a in a purposeful self-examination I'm not saying I'm Paul, but I'm saying I can associate as I look at myself and I can say with him that the more I examine myself, the more I see myself as the chiefest of sinners So who am I to be able to say that I don't? No, he does. He anoints my head with oil. Who am I to be able to say I can sit with the great notables because he has provided for me because I'm his child? He has chosen me, redeemed me, brought me, adopted me, put me into his family. And he says, I provide for you beyond what you've ever expected, beyond what you ever could have deserved. In abundance. Finally, my cup runneth over. Not only in abundance given, but his blessing overflows. Some probably last year it was instead of the regular oats, I got a container of steel coat oats. and read up uh how how to make steel cutouts, you know, and he said we can do 'em uh the night before or you can do 'em right then, you know, about thirty minutes and So I put 'em in a pan and and turn it on and it says, you know, heat 'em up and and when it gets to a place of boil, um th then you you turn it down and you could either let it set all night or, you know, let it cook So something distracted me. Maybe maybe my wife had asked me to go get something. We'll blame her And so I turn away and I forget about it. And I get back and I sit down and I hear this. And I get back to the stove and they're and they're boiling over and they're just flowing over. Oh what a mess that made. My cup floweth over. It goes to the abundance more, and it flows, and it flows, and it flows far beyond anything that I ever could have imagined As Christians, we often state confidently that God will provide, don't we? Oh, God's going to provide. God will take care. Genesis 22, 14, we read, and Abraham called the name of the place the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord it shall be provided. Jehovah Jirah was the name that the patriarch used at that time. Confident in God's provision. But has it not been so with all of us all of our days? Yes, in answer to prayer, he has poured out his portion to that banquet table. But beyond that, far more. To the Philippians, Paul says, But my God shall supply. All your need. My God shall supply. There's the table. All your need Obviously, that's not necessarily the things that I've thought for or asked or wondered, but he supplied everything, even as we saw in the beginning of Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. It didn't mean that David desired other things that God would supply those. There was a limit to what he would supply, but David says at the end of his life that there was nothing that I needed that God had not supplied. And so Paul says, God shall supply all your need according to the ri uh the rich his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Paul's own experience and one that we could confidently point to, the banquet table that has been prepared for them. Look, Paul says. He has provided. Look at the table, the banquet table that you can sit at, and that's provided for in an abundance. In a special way. Psalm 37, 25, David writes, I have been young and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. Sounds like very pious words, you know. If he sat in his palace and never went out to see anything? No You know David's life and you followed along his trails from from uh his his meager life in the beginning to being chosen to all of the uh the the the chasings down by Saul and And then into the palace and all the things that went on. He confidently says this. Some 200 years ago, British Bible scholar Adam Clark wrote this. I believe this to be literally true, meaning what David said in Psalm 3725. In all cases I am now gray-headed myself, and I have traveled in different countries, and have had many opportunities of seeing and conversing with religious people of all situations in life And I have not, in to my knowledge, seen one instance to the contrary. I have seen no religious men forsaken, nor any children of righteous begging their bread God puts dishonor upon all that fear him, and thus careful is he of them and of their posterity. It's not means that we go out and we search out and we try to find anybody who is in impoverished conditions and say, are you a believer? You know, that proves this verse isn't right We're trying to show is that throughout history, God's name is on the line. And with confidence, David says, God has provided a banquet table, and that's been my experience. in the presence of mine enemies, in presence of all that are the obvious enemies of God Himself, but even in my own self, even the struggles that I have in my own self, He's provided for me. He's anointed my head with oil, and he's supplied to the great overflowing of his grace. He knows best what I need, my daily bread, my social pleasures, my religious privileges. If he has done this in the past, I take great confidence that he will not forsake in the future. That there is nothing that he would withhold from us that was not of our own need. We sometimes measure those needs by the things we see or the things we hear. We evaluate life by a comparison to what others may have or what others may see or what they're doing. But God says, no, you are an individual sheep in my flock And I deal with you as an individual. Not as a herd, but I individually deal with you, and you're special to me. And so to you, a banquet table is provided throughout your life. And you may dine from that special privilege. And we recognize that there is a day coming as we enter into glory. And the Lord says, be girded about, wait upon me at the table. Hard to understand what that really translates to being, but I think we'll understand it fully in one time. We're thankful for David's opening up of his heart for what we see throughout history of the scriptures, of God's goodness to them, and they're no different than us. And I think you can cling to that very principle of what has been laid before us in verse 5 today for now and through eternity. Let's pray. And so, Father, we will close and ask that you will seal upon our hearts the tremendous blessings that we have as children of the Almighty God. the creator and sustainer of the universe, who has not only provided unto us eternal life, but has granted us an abundant life. a life that we have found of great joy as our eyes are upon him. And one that has supplied for us over an abundance of that which is needed. And one who has led us through uh valleys of the shadow of death and continues to lead us through with the promise that one day we will enter into the joy of the Lord and see all these things in completion. Assist us, Lord, as we continue on through the Psalm Walk with us as we continue on through life. May our eyes be on you. May our hearts be confident in your faithfulness to your children. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.