So what are we doing here today? Let me see. What did I have planned here today? Okay, see it here. Alright. So we're gonna have to open up our Bibles. We're looking here in Romans chapter 6, by the way. Romans 6 will be taking some comments there. Or I should say taking my comments. From Romans chapter six. And of course, as soon as I get up here, my my nose starts to run. And do I have that tissue? No. Well I could use I could blow my nose on a dollar bill or something. I guess they could do that, right? Excuse me why I blow my nose on this ten-dollar bill. I'm not going to do that, but thank you for the war. Okay, so here we are looking here into here in Romans chapter 6. And I've been going through Romans if you if you can remember when I'm here, I've been going through Romans verse by verse and so forth. So run in Romans chapter 6 Now, chapter six in oh I'm looking I'm looking here in Acts chapter six. That's not good. Acts Romans Six. Okay. Now, now I'm running right there. I'm on your page. Romans chapter six. And a lot of it is simply about sin. Who knows what the Greek word is for sin? Do we have any Greek scholars here today? Okay, it's the word Hamarton. I can't it's I can't I'm not saying it right. I can't say this word because a combination of R's and A's and I have a hard time saying it. The word is Hamarton is the word. That's the Greek rendering for sin. But what does Hamarton, what does that mean? It means missing the mark of God's perfection. So when you say the word sin, actually you're saying missing the mark of God's perfection. When the Bible says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God It's saying all have come short, all have missed the mark of God's perfection. You know, so we're not perfect. We make things and therefore we're labeled a sinner So why do I say that? Because my discussion today has a lot to do with the issue of sin missing the m which is missing the mark. Okay? So now If we look here in Romans chapter six and verse thirteen, is our context here, Romans six. 13. And um so if I were to read that to you and you were to cop follow that along in your Bible, know you not That to whom you yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants you are to whom you obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness. So we're making that statement there. And again, this whole thing is about sin, the nature of sin, what is sin, who sins. How do you deal with sin? So I guess our t top topic today is somewhat negative. You want to say a lot of times hopefully you want to talk about something positive. And you know, I I spoke to a nationally known preacher years ago. If I mentioned his name, you would know him, but I'm not going to tell you anything. And so I went to one of his conferences and somehow I got to be alone with him. I don't know how that happened because you know when you go to these conferences and you have the big speaker, everybody is always around and say I can never get to him. Somehow I ended up right next to him, alone with nobody with us. And I what the c I asked him a question. about um you know how are how are you able to I guess preach so well all the time and you attract such cr wonderful crowds. How do you do that? And um so he really didn't give me much he didn't say, well, pray a lot or trust the Lord. He didn't say that. He just said, Well Just do the best you can do. It's not really I was a little sort of disappointed in his answer. But uh anyway, why is the reason why I'm telling you that? I don't know what it is. I sort of lost my my thought here. But We're here in Romans, it'll come back to me as I look in Romans chapter six, verse thirteen. Look at this, Romans, Romans six and verse thirteen, which says Neither yield yourselves as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead And you were members as instruments of righteousness unto God. There's quite a bit, if you want to go through all that. So we're talking here about uh presenting ourselves unto God, yielding our time, really what I hope to incorporate in my teaching today for to analyze analyze yourself, your life, and hopefully we can plan to yield. Our time, your talent, your money, and your intellect. In other words, all that you are, all that we have, we want to you yield that to the Lord. So I guess I would ask today. Are you doing that? Are you are you looked at your life in that way? Try to analyze my life. And I am I using my time, my talent, you all have the skills, different skills, my time, my talent My money, you know I have money, my intellect, all that I have, am I using that as best as I can for the Lord? Now only you can you know only you can answer that question, but think about your life. Are you using what it is that God has given you for his glory? And as we look at this, um the faith that Jesus called for us to possess and to do is creates a departure from the norm of mediocrity. As we look what the Lord has called us to do, He's called us to depart From settling for mediocrity and all that we do. Now, I don't know about you, that's that's a battle for me, because I settle for mediocrity when I shouldn't. And and you know, I f you know my as you know, my life has mostly been athletics and sports and things like that. And I think, you know, in the the sporting world I never Didn't I never a try to settle for mediocrity. I worked hard to to you know to excel And yet when it comes to our Christian life I could be careless and sort of, well that's good enough or I'm I can't make it to church these weeks. Well, that's all right, it doesn't matter. And really not striving for excellence in all that I do. But we should do that. And that's what I want to basically challenge you today. In your Christian life, as you serve the Lord, strive for excellence in all that you do. Not just, okay, it's good, it'll it'll pass, it's good enough. Yes, I come off I come from a family that thinks that way. Well that's good enough. So I grew up thinking, ah, that's a good enough job, but it really isn't And as I began to associate with other people, more professional people, realizing you can't have that attitude. It's good enough. It's a good enough job. All right. But you want to strive for excellence in all that you do. So think about your job. What do you do? What do you spend your time in? What are you interested in? Seek excellence in it. Don't be satisfied with it's alright, it'll pass, it's alright. You want to get rid of that attitude and seek for don't not seek for excellence. Don't be happy with just a fair job. Okay, so I'm looking here, with all that said, I'm looking here in Romans chapter 6 and verse 14, and I'm going to take these verses apart. Normally, this is the way I think, you know, we all think differently And I'm I'm a pretty simple person intellectually. So I break the Bible down little phrases and address the phrase and go to the next phrase and go to it. So that's what I'm going to do with you today. That works for me. Some of you can take big long swaths of scripture and expound on them and go on and on. I can't do that. I gotta take two or three words and and meditate on them. So looking here, Romans 6, 14. And that says, sin not sin shall not have dominion over you. Well, let's talk about that for a minute. What a statement and again found in God's inerant and found the word of God, the book of Romans, a great doctrinal treatise of the whole Bible, is Romans. And here it's telling you here, sin sh again, Romans 6, 14, sin shall not have dominion over you. Well, let's first of all talk about sin, so we're all on the same page. The word sin comes from the word homarton, the Greek word homoton, maybe have mentioned that already, it comes from the word, and it literally means missing the mark of God's perfection. So that if we are not perfect in what we're doing, then you're a sinner. That's the technical use of that word hamartan. It's called for perfection. If you're not perfect, then you are a sinner And uh we find this that that the the uh instruments of sin, scripture tells us this and we know it by observation. Various instruments of sin, I'm gonna mention three of them to you. The world is an instrument of sin. The flesh is an instrument of sin. And the devil is an instrument of sin. All these are the things we have to deal with every day. As we live for Jesus, as we study our word, and as we try to serve the Lord, you've got to deal with the world. It's all around it's here. You've got to deal with it. You've got to deal with your own flesh And you know the scripture defines our flesh as that which is against God. It's always it's inter it's a rebellion against God. That's your fles that's the part of you which will rebel against God We all have it. Now scripture tells us to control it, but if you don't control it, then it'll run rampant in your life. It's the world, it's the flesh, and of course, it's the devil who now many people you don't believe in the devil and so they'll just laugh but you know that's exactly what the devil wants people to believe he doesn't exist now he can do whatever he wants with them But that you know, I know, that's our enemy, that's our battleground. And so that's what's going to resist us in getting the gospel out to others. Now let's talk for a moment. I want to leave that and I'll talk about the gospel. The word gospel comes from the word Ewangeleon, and we all know literally it means good news. So when I say the word gospel, I'm saying good it's it's it's good news. In my understanding, one of the best verses about the gospel. Actually, it defines the gospel. Who knows where the gospel is defined? So when I say the word gospel, you know there's a specific definition for the gospel. Does anybody know what it is off the top here? I didn't give you a chance to study it, but The specific definition of it's in the Bible. Specifically, what that word Yuangalion or Gospel, what does it mean? First Corinthians turn to this in your Bible if you would, First Corinthians chapter 15. So you already know when I say that, right? 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Now we're getting specific here with the gospel. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 1, and we're going to be looking at verses 1, 2, 3, 4. Defining the gospel. 1 Corinthians 15:1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you, here it is, the gospel, which I preach unto you, which also you have received, wherein you stand. By which also you are saved. Look at that language, you're saved. If you keep in memory what I preach unto you, unless you have believed in vain. That's a scary phrase. Believing in it's possible to believe in vain. That's possible. You're not believing in Christ, you believe in something else, but you can believe in vain. Number four, excuse me, verse three For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures. That he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That's the gospel. The gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection. Now you could argue, you could go to the next verse too and say, well isn't this part of the gospel, verse five, that he was seen of Cephas and of the twelve After that he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater greater part remain until this present, but some have fallen asleep. You could say that's part of the gospel too, defining Who saw the resurrected Christ? That that's this is key stuff. Christ resurrected and he was seen a people. Not just one person, not just two, but many, many groups of people saw the resurrected Christ So that they could not make a normal Jesus never resurrected. That was just something the disciples made up to further their story or whatever. But you can't say that. Because he was seen of many different groups of people. The resurrected Christ was seen of those of those people mentioned there, especially First Corinthians fifteen, one to four. That's a good verse to remember. Remember those verses right there. A lot of times you're going to get in trouble as you gospel, you're going to get in trouble talking to people about the resurrection. Well, where does it tell me the Bible of Jesus resurrects? I don't think you get that kind of stuff. But you remember 1 Corinthians 15 1-4, it lays it right out. Jesus resurrected and he was seen of witnesses. That is a powerful weapon. That's a powerful account. Not that I saw Jesus resurrected. Okay. Who saw it? Who can verify it? And you have a list of those who verified the resurrected Christ. Always remember that. Put that in your mind, that memory. 1 Corinthians 15, 1 to 4. It's the gospel. The gospel is what? The death, the burial, the resurrection of Jesus. That really, that's the gospel. When we're witnessing to people, we want to tell them obviously Christ the Son of God, etc. But he died. What did he do? He died, he paid for our sins. God is holy, we sinned before him, we're in trouble. Jesus paid for our sin He was and and you know sometimes we'll say well Jesus when we're preaching Jesus died for your sins now we need to believe in him that's a good statement however probably it may be No, I would say more accurate, but that's just my own opinion. But we went don't forget to mention the resurrection. That's that's that's what really sets the death of Jesus apart from everybody else. He resurrected But if we don't bring that out in our witnessing, you lose that powerful part of the of the testimony. Jesus was died on the cross for sins. He was buried, showing that he died And he rose resurrected. And he was seen of witnesses. Now that puts Jesus separate from everybody else. So you don't want to forget that, that wonderful, powerful resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And always remember, where's the gospel found in the Bible? 1 Corinthians 15, verses 1 to 4. That is the gospel. The death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So when we're witnessing again, you want to make sure you get that God the resurrection in there, because that sets that's what sets Jesus apart. And that's where unbelievers begin to resist. You can tell Jesus died on the cross for your sin. All right. He was buried, yeah. And he resurrected. What? No, I don't believe and then then you get into issues, but then you can really begin to talk to people about their situation, about the Lord. And uh but as the God the resurrection will always get a response and that's good. That's the way it should be But that's getting the gospel and here's the bigger thing I would say about this simple that's a simple message. Christ died on the cross, he was buried, and he resurrected. That's the gospel. And that's the message that he puts you God the Father puts us in trust with the gospel. We're we are instructed various times in Scripture to preach the gospel. The gospel Technically, is limited, it's referring to death, burial, and resurrection of Christ So, and now here you many years ago, you know when I'm learning all this, I went to you know Bible college and things and that's what I began to learn. But then I began to think, okay, now what I want to do with my life, Lord, I want to be able to be Uh uh I'll say an expert an expert in understanding the gospel. When I say gospel, I'm thinking death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. I'm not talking about six days creation or Other thing, I'm talking about the death of Jesus, his burial, and his resurrection. And I, you know, would pray, Lord, that help me to be an expert on that subject. So that I can understand it and then have the skill to communicate it to people in such a way that they would receive it. And I would share that uh you know I would ask you if you've never done that, that just consider that. Focus on that. Because look, okay, who can tell me? Um How many chapters in the Bible? You don't know. There's 1,189 chapters in the Bible. How many verses are in the Bible? 788,280 verses in the Bible. How many letters in the Bible? 3,556,480. How do you know? Well one day I went one, two, th no I didn't do that, but you know you you can you can get the statistics as you look them up. That's a lot of material that we are to call to understand and to communicate. But if we're going to be major in majors, we can't you can't go out and talk about creation and get all the details of that, because it's just so much. And God doesn't expect us to, but he does expect us to be able to present and defend the gospel. That gospel. Death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, and that's what the sinner has to receive in order to get saved. He has to believe the gospel So therefore, it it goes to my own faith, it only makes sense that I would dedicate my life knowing how to present the gospel. How to argue. Sometimes you have to argue. You don't want to argue, but something it turns into arguments sometimes. You don't want to yell and how but but you know it come I'll I'll use the word a debate I have many many debates on this. But that's okay, that's what I do. I debate the gospel. And so if a guy comes to me and he wants to argue, okay, he better know what he's talking about because I can You know, give them some facts to think about and and ask them, and why wouldn't you then I usually this helps me a lot. I say, well now you believe in Christ, you have your sins forgiven, and you have a home in heaven Now give me one reason why you wouldn't want that. Why wouldn't you want to go to heaven? Well, I don't know if it's true. I know, but just assume it is true. I sort of say that to keep them talking. Well just assume it is true. Wouldn't you want that? I don't know if well why wouldn't what If you don't want that, you know what the alternative is, don't you? More, you're going to tell me hell. Yeah. Right. If if we're talking about The Bible, God's word, yeah, the alternative is hell. Do you want hell? Don't tell me you want hell. Well, no. Well, okay, so here's here's something to solve here. How can you avoid hell? Oh no, well what what does this say? You know, uh sh anyway, so you get these kind of discussions and you know you try to talk to people to receive grace. And sometimes they will. If you go long enough and you can understand what they're saying and the Lord gives me wisdom to answer that question, sometimes they will pray to receive the Lord. That does happen. Doesn't happen often, but it has happened And you know that's a go you know the best friend I had was fun was my my college roommate. And he used to curse at me all the time. Uh you know, he'd say something. I said, Well, um Have you ever considered Christ? Because his mess his life was messed up. He was from Montreal, Canada, a screwball. Oh man, what a mess. Now since then though we became very he's not my best friend, we became very good friends. And I wish he was here today. I think like did he ever come here, did it ever have a friend here named Al? He he visited us some time. He lives in he's living now. Where's he living? Montreal, Canada. He's from Montreal, Canada. That's not where he lives now. Where does he live? Anyway, anyway, so he will come to visit me once in a while, and if he comes, I bring him here. So if he comes again I'm gonna give him the the um have him come up here and give a testimony or something. It's really very good. So we were roommates for y for three or four years. And he was an angry, bitter person. Oh my gosh. And but I would witness to him. I w every once in a while I'd witness to him. And he's oh will you stop that? I don't want to hear that stuff again. Britain, stop that. So then I'd be c and I'd shut up and just be quiet And I'd wait for a while to some obvious situation where it would be appropriate to bring the gospel up again. I would bring it up. Britton, I told you, stop with the stuff, with the religious stuff. Alright. So I did. And then one day he says, You know what? Oh, I'd like to receive the Lord. So what? We talked about it and and he prayed to receive the Lord. Today he's my best friend. We're best friends today. And it was a I'm sure I've told you his story before anyway. You probably heard that before. But um so that always encouraged him, get the gospel out. Sometimes when it when you think it's impossible, maybe your next door neighbor, you wanted to witness to your next door neighbor, but he's always complaining or and you know you sort of shy away. I do. I shy away. I'm I'm a big coward. I shy away all the time. I just tell you the thing the few times I'm able to go through. With a witness. A lot of times I just sort of shrink up in fear and you just walk away. But we want to be bold. You know, we want to be more bold than what we are. Why am I saying this getting way off here? Okay, let's get back to this now. We're looking here at the verse here which says in Romans 6. 15. What then? Shall we s shall we sin because we are not under the law? But under grace, God forbid. Now here's the reasoning. We are not under the law. Here's Paul saying, understanding the New Testament thinking we're no longer under the law. And you know that was a great revolutionary change in thinking back in that in that day. Because the you know the the law, the law, the law, everything was the law. And here's Here is uh Paul saying that that you're not under the law. Who in the world are you to tell us what we've done for thousands of years of tradition we're not under the law? Who in the world are you? And that these are the arguments that we go on. And um so let me just talk for a few minutes about the law, that we may have the same understanding when I use that word pneumos. That's the word law comes from the Greek word pneumos Now let's talk about this for a minute. How many laws are there? Okay. First thing you're going to say is ten. Ten commandments, and you're partially correct. The Ten Commandments comprise the moral law. But there's also in Israel what's called a civil law And then there is a ceremonial law. So if you take the moral law, civil law And the Ten Commandments, you put them all together, it comes out to be, it comes out to be 714 laws. When the Bible says man can't keep the law, actually technically it means that, all 714 laws, of all those 714 laws, you're going to break one of them. We tend to use it because all we know, all we're familiar with is the Ten Commandments. And you can use it with the Ten Commandments, but understand proper understanding of that text. It's talking about the 714 laws that are in the Decalogue and or in the in the Old Testament. So so that's something there you need to know The Bible tells us though that all men are guilty before God. We all know Romans 3. 23, right? The wages. No. Romans 3. 23, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. That's you and that's me. We've all done that. We've all fallen short. And the problem is God is holy. If God was not holy, what would it wouldn't matter? But God is holy and sin is a great offense to God. That's just who he is. That's God. And we have a hard time understanding this because God is totally different than us in many ways. So the slightest sin is a great offense to a holy God To you and I, we compromise with sin all the time. What's the big deal? Because God is holy, 100% holy. That's the problem. When you take in all the information in the Bible And why is there a problem between mankind and God? Because God is holy. That's the whole problem. If he wasn't holy, we wouldn't have a problem. But he is holy. He's perfectly holy, and we are anything but holy. And that's why we're called sinners. So that's some of the pressure and and and difficulty that's going on around here. All men are guilty before God. All men are guilty before God. You're guilty before God. I am guilty before God. The most innocent baby before God is guilty. Well, what do you mean the baby didn't have a chance to sin yet? He's a sinner by nature. He's guilty before God. Well he didn't reach the age of accountability yet. Well, no, there's really not such a thing like that in the Bible anywhere, but So, you know, what I use a lot of times, I'll probably show you this too, so I guess if I repeat too much, just say raise your hand. You already told me that. We can go m move on. You know, I I I've done this many I know I did this with you, but this does help, so learn this. So I'm talking to somebody about these issues and he th he's like, huh? What? So I j I go well look look at this John. I'm talking to a guy named John. John look Let this hand represent me. Let this represent my sin. Now, John, the Bible tells us that God loves me, but he hates my sin. I cannot go to heaven because I have sin. Now I can stop sinning today and never sin the rest of my life, but I've sinned in the past. I'm disqualified. I can't go to heaven. I have no hope of heaven Wonderfully, that's not the end of the story, because the Baba goes on to say that there is a God. And there is a loving God, and he loves his creation. He loved his creation so much that he solved this sin problem. And the way he did it was sending his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. To pay in my place, as a substitute in my place, to pay for my sins. And he did this with his death on the cross. When Jesus is on the cross, he is taking my sins on himself. See, what does Jesus say on the cross? My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why? Because he's carrying the sins of his people, not just my sins, the sins of all those who believe in him. Could you imagine that? Taking the penalty for all your sins. You know your miserable sins, my miserable sins, and all the sins of his people for whom he died. Jesus taking that sin. What we're called to do is to receive Christ, to believe in him. When we to believe in him, that sin is taken off of us Placed on Jesus, and now we appear before God with how many sins to answer for? None. We can now go to heaven. That's why you find 1 John 5. 13. These things have a Written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that you may know you have eternal life. There's that word k um what is that word? Um is I know I can't say right now. Anyway, you can know. That is to say, you can be certain. You can be certain of of having eternal life. These things have it written unto you. Look, you can look it up, 1 John 5. 13 And I show that to a person when I'm sharing Christ with them and they believe in the Lord, I shake their hand. Congratulations, you're now going to head to heaven whenever you die, whether it be tonight or many years from now. Well, how do you know that? Turn over to 1 John 5. 13. Read that for me, please. And so I'll have him read it. These things have a written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that you may know That's the word Ginemite. You can be certain that you may know you have eternal life and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God. So you can know it. It's possible to know before you die are you going to go to heaven. How do I know this? Do I believe in Jesus? Have I received him into my heart? If I have, I know I'm going to go to heaven. What I don't know is when I'm going to die. That's all right. Probably better off not knowing But you do know that whenever the Lord calls you, you're headed for heaven. But now you know this is really important for your family, for your wife, for your children, for your husband. Making sure your family believes in the Lord Jesus because you don't know when they're going to depart. I mean somebody could be run over by a car or get a di you know all all things happen So you want to make sure your children, my children, are four children, but wonderfully, they all know the Lord. And I thank the Lord so much for that. I've been blessed. You know, you know precious Vicki, she loved the Lord, so I know she's in a better place. I shouldn't bring her up when I start to cry if I start talking about her, so forget that statement. She's with my first wife, Faye Hard to talk about her too. That's why I cried. I cry a lot. And the Lord's they're in heaven. Isn't that beautiful to think they're in heaven with the Lord Where there's no more sin, sorrow, sickness, disease, none of that nonsense that we have to deal with every day. Those wonderful people in my life, and I'm sure you have them too. You've got Parents, maybe brothers or sisters, children, friends who have gone on. And if they know the Lord, it's a beautiful thing. So, anyway, get the gospel out, especially to your family. Make sure they know Jesus. Make sure they receive the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going way off track here. So let me see if I can find out where I'm supposed to be here 714 laws, we talked about that. Romans 323. I don't think I gave you that. That's probably a memory verse that you know. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Is that right? Or is that Romans 6. 23? Romans 3. 23, all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. That's it. That's you, that's me. We've all sinned. Now we need a Savior. Then Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ. That's how you get over the sin problem Receive Christ. You believe in Christ. Now, I've seen all of you people every time I come here and I enjoy. I look forward to coming here. It's a long ride, but really it's fun. I always look forward being here with you. I know you love the Lord. very sincere in your faith and your doctrine is quite sound, very good, so it's a fun place to be. But I still have to ask the question, do you know Christ? It's very young. I've met people, they go to church all these years And you think they're a Christian because they say the right things, do the right thing, only to find out years later they weren't saved. They were just gone to to please the wife, the husband, or who knows why they're going to church But the fact that what you do know their heart was never circumcised. They didn't they did not believe in Jesus as their Savior. So that's why, and I've learned from that never to assume that people you're talking to are all saved. There's probably somebody here that doesn't know the Lord, probably. So I would just say if to that person, receive the Lord today. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ what's the verse? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved, and thy house. So if you have any doubt in your life, I'm not going to ask you to come forward and and all that, but I'm just saying, you know, we can have a prayer about it at the end of the service, but If you have any doubt, talk to the Lord about it now. Oh Lord, you know I'm religious. Maybe I'm religious, but I don't know Jesus. I don't know the Lord as my Savior. And if you don't knew that, then tell tell the Lord, Lord, please save me of my sin. I'm a sinner. I'm a dirty, rotten sinner. Please forgive me of my sins. I want Jesus as my as my Savior. Please forgive me And if you have any doubt about that, do that. I'm going to close in a few minutes in a prayer. Do that. Only thing that would keep you from doing that would be pride. Well, I've never done that, but I don't have to do it. Why do I have to do it? I don't think, you know, you go. That's how I would argue if I wouldn't say it, I'd argue that way. Let me get back to this. I got about let me see, I have about um fifteen more pages yet to preach on, so I'm I'm I'm just kidding. I'm gonna cut this short here So why don't we talk about this? We talked about the 714 laws. That's what's in the we call the Ten Commandments, but in the commandments, the Decalogue and in the Commandments. 714 laws. Therefore, nobody keeps the law. Well, I'm going to go to heaven because I keep the law. You don't keep the law. Do you really keep all 714 laws? No, you don't. You violate them every day before a holy God. You're in big trouble. That's why we need Jesus, just name. Alright. Now you might we don't talk much about all of the laws, 714 laws. So you might want to research that and you'll find it's very in interesting actually. Most people think there's only ten laws that God gave to Israel. He gave 714 laws to them. The Ten Commandments is just the moral law. But as I said earlier, there was a civil law and a ceremonial law. So when that word pneumos translated law in our English Bible, it means all 714 laws. Certainly everybody's broken them. That's why everybody needs Jesus. Alright, moving on here, what else what else do I have written down here that I might share with you? Other than of course Romans 3. 23, we know this. All are guilty before God. All have sinned to come short of the glory. And yet here's another thing. I hope I say this right. Of course, God is perfectly holy. But think, if God was not holy We wouldn't have a problem with sin because God wouldn't be holy. That's a stupid thing to say because who knows what so many terrible other things would come with that as a result of that But the reality is God is holy. He's perfectly holy. We understand his holiness from the law. It tells us what he is, what he's holy about, what we need to be concerned about, and you need to repent and Get right with God and trust in Jesus as your Savior since you can't keep the law. We need Christ. That's why we have Christ. We can't keep the law. That's why we trust in Christ, who paid the law for our, who paid the penalty in our place. And that's that's by the way, that's the good news of the gospel. That's what the gospel is all about. Jesus paid for our my sins. That's what you know, that's what the cross is about, because I broke the law And I can't help but break the law. And before the day is over, I'll break it again. And probably you will too. We need Jesus. Hence he went to the cross for miserable me and for you But he calls us to believe in him, to trust in him. Yes, Lord, I believe you died on the cross for my sins. And I want to follow you. That's what you gotta say. In some way, that's what you gotta do. Have you done that? I'm assuming that. But I don't know. Wouldn't it be terrible? We're all Here comes judgment or the day when we're we're called home. And one of you plunge into hell. Wouldn't that be terrible? You sat in the services and heard all this and you never did open up your heart to the Lord That would be tragic. And it would be tragic for people in your family, your church or or your your children, your your parents, your neighbor So we want to get the Word of God out so that people hear the gospel and receive it. Are born again, have heaven as their home, have the Holy Spirit living in them, and now they're ready to really enjoy life and understand what the life is all about But if we keep it to ourselves and don't say anything, because I know we're afraid if I say something he's going to be offended, he's not going to like me, they won't talk. I know I know I I know all that stuff. And that's all happened to me too, by the way. I've had people I won't talk to Britain equally does this talk about the Bible and all that. No, I don't want him. Let's go let's go some I you know I get that. I get that a lot actually. But I don't care. I want to make sure they know the gospel And if they laugh at me or mock me, what do I care? I care that they get to heaven. That's what I care about. Alright, let's go on here. I just got a few more things to say. I'm going to stop here Of course, the answer to all this is the gospel, G-O-S-P-E-L. Going back to the Greek, it's the Ewangelion. It's a little bit longer word, but it means the good news. Christ died on the cross for our sins. He offers forgiveness and a home in heaven as we receive him, as we believe in him. And that's the good news. And whoever does it. Regardless of what sins you've done, some people will say I've had this response. Well you now you don't know what I've done. You have no idea what I've done. God would never accept me Of course, that is wonderful to explain, yes, God will accept even the worst vile sinner. But the sinners must repent, must believe, must change. And that word repent, don't trip over that word repent Repent metineo means to change your mind. So if I'm not a believer, I need to change my mind to believe in Jesus and receive him. Okay, go on here Alright, so here we have here, let me just read something here from our text, verse 16. If you look in your Bible and then just comment on this verse 16. Know you not. That to whom you yield yourself servants to obey, his servants you are to whom you obey. So let's break this down for a second. You see that phrase, know ye not. That's like saying, Don't you know? Don't you understand this? Come on, you idiot. Don't you understand it? That's what he's saying here. No, you not. Break these things down. You should know these things. And that you know, I just have this written down here by this comment here Let me encourage you to memorize scripture. Memorize it. It's good to read it. Memorize. You know, someone challenged me to to Memorize a chapter in the Bible. I said, are you nuts? Are you crazy? I can hardly do a verse, much less a chapter. But I started thinking, you know, I'm going to try it. You know, and so I did that. So I'm able to I've memorized a couple chapters in the Bible. It may take a year that you do it. It's a wonderful thing. Let me encourage you to do the same thing I'd probably have done this before. I'd say this about this before. I probably repeat myself all the time. I know what he's going to say. But do that. This is just a second reminder. Maybe the Lord has me say it a second time to you because Maybe that's the direction the Lord's leading you. Memor plan to memorize a chapter in God's Word, a chapter that's meaningful to you. Memorize it. And give yourself a year to do it. Don't write, oh, never get that. Yes, you will. You can do that. Look. If I can do this, any of you guys can do it. And I can do it. I've done it. I can do that. Paul, servant of God of the Lord Jesus Christ, of the 12 chapters are scattered abroad, greeting. My brother kind of old joy when you fall into rare trials, knowing there's a trial of your face works, patience, but let patients have her perfect work and you be perfect and tired of wanting nothing. If any of you like blah blah blah blah blah. And the point I'm just trying to make is this. If Waco can do it, you can do it much easier than I can. So start memorizing that Bible and start getting it done. Get it get a chapter memorized. Okay, look at this. Verse 16 That to whom you yield yourselves servants to obey his servants you are to whom you obey Now notice this, yield yourselves. Do you see that phrase? Yield yourself. That's giving yourselves over to something. Giving yourself over to the Lord. What is what are the sins that you struggle with? Now you're a human being. You struggle with sin. We're all tempted tempted tempted here, tempted there. Give yourself over to the Lord and have victory over these things. You can do this Verse 16 again, that to whom you yield yourself servants to obey his servants, you are to whom you obey. Anybody here obeying the wrong voice? Obeying the wrong Suggestion and you're tolerating sin in your life. Alright, it's not to work. You're a human being. You're gonna do it. I've done it, you're gonna do it But you know what you should do here? Point. Before we close the demo, have a prayer that we will talk to the Lord. Confess our sin. Confess it. Confess it to God. Yes, Lord, I and name it. And that's the pathway of forgiveness, and that's also the pathway of having a clear mind and a clear conscience, doing that. That is such good psychological and physical health to confess your sins Because you try to hold you you know better. You're a cricket, you know better than hold s some of these things that go on, you know better than this So for you to say, yes, Lord, I did this, blah, blah, blah, please forgive me of it, that is freeing for you. That's going to give good mental and emotional health for you to do that. But if you hide the sin and try to justify it, it's going to bring all kinds of confusion in your life. That's why the Bible says. Well, 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sins, if we confess our sins, let it out. To God, not to people, but to God. Not to the priest, not to the pastor unless you want to do that, but no, to God. If we confess our sins, Lord, I've done this, I've said that, blah, blah, blah. Please forgive me That's a freeing practice. Start doing that. If you don't do it, start doing that with regularity. List what you look list your miserable sins. Name them before God and ask him to forgive you. We know he will. We already know what he's going to do. And that will free you up. Amazing how that will free you up. Okay, let me finish up. I'm going getting long-winded here Try not to do that. So what else can I say here? Look at the next phrase, weather of sin unto death Or sin, you know, sin that's that association between sin and death. That's what sin brings. Sin brings misery and it brings death. Next phrase, or of obedience unto righteousness Being obedient to the Lord from lead leads to a righteous life, and that's what the Lord wants for us. Knowing this, know you not that to whom you yield yourself servants to obey you sir, servants you are to whom you obey. Did you see that there? Look at that verse there. I'm going to comment on this. I think that's verse 16. And then I'm going to close, shut this down and close. Although I'm only halfway done. Thank God I'm going to cut it in half because I know you're, you know, I guess you're getting tired. I don't blame you. Know you not that to whom you yield yourself servants to obey his servants, you are to whom you obey. You hear that? Now I ask you, what servant are you obeying? Are you obeying the Lord, his word? Are you obeying is is there another foreign power or interest in your life that you're obeying that and not the Lord? Because you're you're you're on you you're on planet Earth. This is a fallen planet. You're gonna struggle with sin all the time The world, the flesh, and the devil. You're gonna have the everybody has these struggles. I know you have them. Doesn't mean there's anything wrong with you. You have them. You're a Christian, you're gonna have these things Know you not that to whom you yield yourself servants to obey, his servants you are to whom you obey What are you going to listen to? The Lord or to the Word? Verse 17. But God be thanked that you were the servants of sin, but you have obeyed from the heart. That form of doctrine which was delivered unto you. And just analyzing the change that people went through as a result of receiving Christ. So you go through a change, you go through a metamorphosis You're a sinner, you're into the world, you're of the world, blah, blah, blah, blah, but now Christ comes into your life, now it's going to call for change. You don't want to change, but it's going to call for change. We know this, and you have no excuse not to change because the Lord has given you the Holy Spirit, which empowered you to live the Christian life. So I'll just say I'll just close here. I'm I'm going I'm going really long here. I apologize for that. I said I don't I'm not gonna go long. I'm going way long. I'm about one-third done. So if I come back, if you ever let me come back again, I'll finish this up and move on to other things. So analyze your life. And it's you know it's time to move forward in in all seriousness. If there's s sin in your life, get rid of it. Confess it to God and get away from it. You can you can beat this. Husbands, are you loving your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it? That's something to think about. Wives are you following the leadership of your husband? How are you handling your money? Are you tithing your income or what's going on there? What are your personal sins that only you know about your life I'm going to close in a prayer. Confess them before the Lord. Things in your life you know aren't right, and you're letting still go on and on and on. That's nonsense. Stop it. You're going to have a chance to confess this before the Lord. And put it behind you. And get it behind you and move forward. Seek to be filled by the Holy Spirit and have power to have victory over these sins that cause problems over and over again. All right, let's do it. Let's pray. Lord, we come before you today. I pray here for this wonderful this is such a wonderful congregation you put here together, Lord. You know my joy in coming here every once a month or whatever it is. And it's a long ride, and yet it's a joyful. It's a fun time because I know the wonderful congregation is here. And I want to say thank you for it. Lord, I want to say thank you, not only how These people have ministered in my own life. But how? How helpful they were to dear Vicky. She loved coming here because she was always built up and encouraged. You ladies did a great job in encouraging my precious wife But now she knows all these things much better than I do. She's with the presence of the Lord, and we'll be with her too one day, but our battle's still going on. So I pray for this group of people right here, Lord, that we will be engaged in the battle for souls, that we'll be engaged in the battle for the Lord. Till the day you take us home, keep us engaged in the battle. Whatever the cost is, it doesn't matter. Keep us engaged in the battle, saving souls, edifying believers, building up one another, building up this church. May this church be a great monument for the preaching of the gospel where many souls would get saved Thank you for letting us be here today, Lord. And Father, you know, and I know I don't deserve to be here. Of all the people that are here, I'm the one behind the pulpit. And you know that doesn't really make much sense But you know, I know faith doesn't make sense. But thank you for letting me be here. Thank you for trusting me to let me do this. Help me to do it again, if if that be your holy will And and so be with our church congregation today. Take us home safely. Bring us back together on Wednesday night that we can come together in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that on Wednesday night this place will be fat-packed. With believers coming together in prayer and seeing our lives changed for the good through the power of prayer. Thank you for this moment. Thank you for this hour. Take us home safely. Bring us back together again. We love you, Lord. Thank you for saving us. We all confess we don't deserve to be saved, but we are, so we glory in this. Thank you so much. And I pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen.