Oh, it's a pleasure to be back with you again today. And I hope I won't have any ill ethics from having drunk the water this morning. from the tap downstairs. But uh probably not. I haven't felt any so far. But anyway, uh it's a pleasure this morning uh to tell you that we have our son visiting with you uh Matthew from North Carolina and he's the first of our three sons, the oldest one of our Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And uh he's from North Carolina, he's uh maintenance supervisor in a local hospital down there and in uh North Carolina. And he's been coming up to help in our house, to help uh shore up our house, to raise up the house because the house has been sagging. It's a hundred-year-old house And so we've been putting in footers and jacking up the house a little bit, so we're continuing to do that. So it's always a pleasure to have our children come and visit once in a while And uh so it's a pleasure to be here this morning. Yeah, it's a really uh uh an absurd world we live in today, uh, talking about abolishing the police. What a great idea. We can abolish the police. And of course they don't want to come right out and say abolish, they say defund it Yeah, but uh I mean what are you gonna do if you defund it? You're abolishing the police and uh uh yeah, it would be complete chaos Of course the fitting thing is, is that they're doing most of the abolishing in the in the real liberal places in the country and the liberal cities and they're gonna have to deal with it and with all the chaos there. So. But anyway, we have all these events that uh point forward to the end of time, to the end of the age, the book of Revelation. We've been going through Revelation And seeing what's going to happen in the future. But today we're going to take a break from Revelation since it's Communion Sunday. And we're going to go to 2 Timothy. So would you turn with me in your Bibles to 2 Timothy chapter 1? We're going to start a new series on 2 Timothy, probably mainly when we do communion. or other times for a break from Revelation. But anyway, we have Second Timothy. Second Timothy chapter one 2 Timothy chapter 1. And we'll start reading with verse 1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, according to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus, to Timothy, my dearly beloved son. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience That without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which was which was first in thy grandmother Lois, in thy in thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee. by the putting on of my hands. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind Let's bow in prayer, O Lord. We pray that Thou would bless in our study of Thy Word this morning. We pray that Thou would open it up to us. Turn us from our sin. Turn us closer to Thee as a result of having been here this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, 2 Timothy is the last book that Paul wrote. This was his last will and testament, the last one. He was in prison. And he gives his parting words here in the book of 2 Timothy. And we don't have to wonder who wrote it. We have the first word there, Paul. Paul wrote it, an apostle of Jesus Christ. And the Bible gives us lists of different offices in the church, and always apostle comes first. First of the offices, and then there are others that come after that, prophets, teachers, pastors. And Paul was an apostle. He wasn't there with Jesus, going around with Jesus on this earth, but he had a special calling from Jesus on the road to Damascus and Sunday school. Recently, Tim has been going through that And he has that special call. Christ appears to him. And that was a necessity in being an apostle, that Christ has to personally call you or be with Christ And that's where we have Paul and Apostle. We don't have any more apostles today, although we have some churches that like to talk about apostles. Uh but no, there's no apostles today. Nobody's been right with Jesus. They got their commission right from him. And uh but uh we have do have the other offices today, prophets I believe there still are prophets today, at least with prophetic ministries, and we have pastors, teachers, and many other offices in the church. But Paul, he doesn't leave it to doubt what he was, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus. Promise That's what we have as a Christian. We have promise for the future. So often the modern churches focus on the here and now. People love to focus on the here and now. God's going to help me right now, right here. He's going to help me with my problems, with my job. God's going to help me with the sickness. God's going to help me with all those things. And God can help us with all those things. And Does help us with all those things But really, the essence of Christianity is the promise for the future, the promise for heaven, for eternal life And Paul, he was an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the promise. And there's more than the here and now. There's more than here. There's heaven and hell. There's, in fact, there's not more than here, there's other places in the world. And there's more than the now. There is the future to come, the hereafter, and future things on this earth as well, and there is the past also. And so here we have the promise of life, which is in Jesus Christ, and we have who this book is written to in verse 2. To Timothy, my dearly beloved son. And Timothy was the one that Paul was training to take over. He was his protege. And here we have Timothy. My dearly beloved son. And we have more about Timothy as we go on here. And he says, Grace, mercy, and peace. From God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. Grace, mercy, and peace. That's a good order on those things. First, we have grace, unmerited favor. God saves us from our sins when we don't deserve it. And with the Apostle Paul, we have a really striking example where he's going to attack the church, and all of a sudden the light shines from heaven, he's stricken off his horse, and God stops him in his tracks. and saves him. He wasn't looking for God, but God was looking for him. And God stopped him and saved him. And that's grace. Even though Paul didn't deserve it, even though we don't deserve it, God saves us when we come unto Him and we pray for forgiveness of our sins and we give our life to Him. And so grace first, and then mercy. As God has shown his grace unto us, we have mercy. We don't have to suffer in hell according to our sins. We don't have to pay for our sins. Christ has paid for our sins. And then we have peace. The world doesn't have peace. And you know, uh, people they always are in search of riches. And so they get all the riches, and they're work, work, work to get the riches, and what do they do after they get the riches? Well then they work, work, work to keep the riches, to try to keep somebody else from taking them from them. And it never ends. Never have peace. The world might have a lot of things, but they don't have peace. Peace is what the Lord can give us in our hearts. Peace that passes all understanding. And that's a promise with a Christian. A Christian ha has peace, should have peace. And of course there are Christians that don't have peace, but they should have peace. And that's not the way it should be. And so grace, mercy, and peace. And then verse 3. I thank God, whom I serve for my forefathers, with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day. Here, Paul talks about how he prayed for Timothy. Without ceasing, he prayed for him. You know, the Bible says that we should pray without ceasing. There's a verse just to that effect: pray without ceasing. And you can take that two different ways. You can have that pray without ceasing. That means you never stop praying. You're always in an attitude of prayer, praying in a prayerful attitude all the time and going in and out of prayer all the time, and that's Good way to take it. But you also can take it as well, pray without ceasing for specific requests and never give up. And that's how the Apostle Paul was doing with Timothy. He was not giving up in his prayers for Timothy without ceasing. And you know a lot of us have unsaved relatives, and we tend to get the idea to give up sometimes on praying for them, but we should never give up. Keep on praying till the day we die. Without ceasing, I have remembrance of thee. And you notice as he was praying for Timothy, he was going out of himself to think of others, to think of Timothy And that's what we need to do is go out of ourselves. Think not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others, we're told. And we have to go out of ourselves to think about others. That's why there's this police ministry, hopefully this week, and other ministries where we minister to people, where we witness to people. Uh we're thinking of others. And that's something that's very rare in our world. I I don't know if it's always been that way. I'm sure it hasn't been that way all the time as bad as it is now, but Today is the day of the selfie generation. And everything's about self. You know, a few years ago, there was no such thing as selfie. Nobody ever heard of a selfie. Of course they didn't have ex cameras exactly that would work very well for that, but uh uh but they had you know I had an old camera and had a timer on it. You could set it up and take a picture of yourself But uh uh nobody was interested in that ver that much anymore, but any in the past, but now everybody wants to take a selfie. Selfie, selfie, selfie And you know what? Uh Facebook should have the name of it Selfie Book. Because uh, you know, it's where people just talk on and on and on and on about themselves. And tell everything they ever did, everything they ever do, if they take a bite of food, they tell about that, they tell about if their if their child cried, if their child did this. I mean it's everything's on there And it's a focus on ourselves. And that's not what Paul was doing here. He was focusing on others. And that's how a Christian should be, by and large, focusing on others. Others. And here we have Paul without ceasing praying for Timothy night and day, thinking about him. And then we have verse 4, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. And here's a good scripture for today for our lockdown Chinese flu that we have. Well, today it's no longer necessary. The churches seem to think it's no longer necessary to see each other in person. Well you can do virtual things. It's virtual church. Virtual this, virtual that. There's always been virtual church for a long time with television. But now we act like it's something new. But here is Paul. Paul was using a media of sorts right here. He was writing a letter to Timothy. They had letters back then. They could have communicated with people far away. They could send off letters. But Paul wasn't satisfied with that. He wasn't satisfied with just sending letters to Timothy. He wanted to see him face to face, face to face. And there's great value, still great value in seeing each other face to face. And uh churches should be in person. It's uh it's not a place where you should do it uh virtual on the telephone or whatever. Those things might be all right for a Very short time, very extreme situations. But what we should be looking for is to see each other face to face, just like Paul wanted to see Timothy. Greatly rejoicing to see thee. And then here he says he was mindful of Timothy's tears We're really not told what those tears were about or what that had to do with, but Timothy had some sort of a problem, looks like, and he was shedding tears for something Uh of course I suppose he could have been just shedding tears because he hadn't been able to see Paul, but I don't know about that. But being mindful of thy tears, a lot of details we don't have in the Bible. We have the details we need in the Bible and we don't know exactly what this Tears is about. Being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. Then verse 5: When I call to remembrance the untained faith that is in thee Which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also. And here Paul points to the family of Timothy. His grandmother and his mother were Christians They were serving the Lord. They brought them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And you know, family is important. Family is important in the Bible. It's important in our lives. It should be important. And here Paul points out the importance of family, the unfeigned faith which came from Lois, his grandmother, and his mother, Eunice. Unfained faith. That's faith that's not a show that we put on for other people. It's a faith that's real inside of our hearts. And it's not just a show. There's so many people that put on a show with their faith, with their Christianity. Judas was one of the original ones there with Jesus. He put on a show for the apostles and fooled them For three years with no problem. But Timothy had untamed faith. It wasn't a show And he got that unthane faith from his grandmother and his mother, and the family was very important to him. You know, back uh the bare the very last two verses of the Old Testament, Malachi chapter four, verses five and six. point to the importance of family because it says that God would send forth John the Baptist, send forth Elijah, John the Baptist coming in the Spirit and power of Elijah. And it points out what would John the Baptist do? He would turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers. And uh we take that literally. And when people are turned to the Lord, they're turned to their family as well. And so then we go on to verse 6. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God Which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. And here's where we're going to pause on stir up the gift of God a little later. Uh we'll skip over it here right here, but we're s he was told to stir up that gift of God. And that gift of God, that gift of putting them in the ministry was Recognized by the laying on of hands of Paul and others perhaps in ordaining Timothy to the ministry. And we Presbyterians, we like to follow the things that are in the Bible in our church government, in our churches. We take our name from the Bible. Presbytery. Presbytery is a word in the King James Version in the Bible. And the laying out of hands of the Presbytery. Presbytery is uh something that where we have different courts of the church, our U. S. government was patterned after Presbyterianism. And here we have Presbyterianism also pointed out right here, the putting on of hands, the ordination. To the ministry by the Presbytery, by those that went on before. And then we go on to verse 7. Verse 7: For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. And here's another very good scripture for today. Everybody's filled with fear today. And the news media is promoting fear. When you look at the news reports, they like to put as many people died as possible in there and make it look like everybody around is dying of Chinese flu And they like to uh uh make it bigger and bigger and bigger, a spirit of fear. And then they like to make these riots as big as possible and uh the whole world turned upside down with these riots And uh they want to uh promote that spirit of fear. But the Christian doesn't have to have that spirit of fear. We have the spirit of power, of love, and of a sound mind. And of course, today they promote that spirit of fear, and people are afraid to get together for church because they're afraid of the Chinese flu. And that spirit of fear, but we don't have to have that. We have power with the Lord. The Lord's going to be with us. He's going to take care of us And we don't want to just hunker down in a hole all the time. How long are we going to hunker down in holes? They're going to keep this lockdown going forever and close down everything forever? is that uh God has not given us the spirit of fear. And there's been worse, as we said before, there's been worse plagues in the past, a lot worse. And people didn't all hunker down in holes And so the spirit of power we have and of love. Once again, love, concern for other people. That's what love is. Going out of ourselves to have that love for others. In the King James, we have 1 Corinthians chapter 13. It talks about love as charity. Charity suffers long. It uses the word charity, which is good. Charity kind of focuses on the outward manifestation of love. And so here we have power and of love. Why do we witness to other people? Because we want to show love to them. Why are we concerned about showing our love to police? That's out of love. And uh uh it's uh love t to care about other people. And I've said before that, you know, a Christian can talk a lot about love Uh but you know, uh love is shown just by being friendly. That's the first step of love. Just being friendly. Christians should always be friendly. And then the first step of being friendly is just saying hello. And it's really a struggle to say hello to a lot of people, to my neighbors there in Smyrna. It's a struggle to say hello. They're not friendly. But a Christian shouldn't be like that. A Christian should be friendly and show love and go out of themselves to other people. And so we have not the spirit of fear, but of power. And I've uh done a lot of door to door over the years. And you know, I I may have mentioned it here before Yeah, Pastor Britton likes to sometimes say he doesn't know if he's mentioned something before or not, and that's the same thing with me. But anyway, uh, you know, I like to go door to door, and uh it's always a problem you come to an apartment complex. Should you go into the apartment complex or not? You know a lot of apartment complexes don't like that. Some of them have signs, no going door to door. Well usually they say no soliciting. And of course we just say we're not soliciting because we're not selling anything. But anyway, uh the thing is the the question should you go in there or not? And a lot of people that go door to door, they just don't go into the complexes. They figure they don't like it. They shouldn't do it. But my attitude is do it until you're told not to. And so just go in there, go door to door, and if they come up to you and say, Hey, you know you can't do this, oh yeah, okay. Well then you can just leave then. And uh so anyway, God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, but of power. And it reminds me of another story that I don't know if I told here before, but you know the thing is, is that I was in this Baptist church. They're in Smyrna and the we go there some Sunday night sometimes and he was asking the congregation the question uh that his wife had, that his wife was working with a homeless lady, and she wanted to give the homeless lady a ride down to the shelter, and he told her, no, don't do it Don't give her a ride down to the shelter. You don't know what kind of people those are, or you don't know if they're gonna be an axe murderer or what. And you can't do that. Of course This pastor is a former policeman and he's seen all the axe murderers and so he's got that all in his head. And so So he told the wife not to give the ride to lady and his wife wants to give the ride to lady and he was asking the congregation should he do it or not or should she do it or not And that's just back to this is a spirit of fear or of power and a sound mind. And uh I mean the chances that she her she's that this homeless lady is going to do anything to his wife are really very small. And we shouldn't have that spir spirit of fear. So we have the spirit of power, of love, and of a sound mind. That's something that we get from Christianity: sound mind. You know, today is a day of a lot of mental problems. People have the depression and they have terrible depression. They have all other mental problems. And you know, a Christian really shouldn't have those problems. They should not have them. Now, a lot of them do have them. And a lot of us have problems that we shouldn't have. And of course just go back to sin. You know, we have sin and we shouldn't have sin. But you know, God has given us peace and should give us peace, and God has given us the spirit of power, and he's given us the spirit of a sound mind. And we should just be depending on him and a person with depression. They the problem with them generally is they focus too much on themselves. And on how bad they have it, and they need to go out of themselves to speak it, focus on other people. So anyway, he's given us power, love, and a sound mind. Now let's go over to Matthew chapter 25. Matthew chapter 25. Timothy was told to stir up the gift of God that was in him. Stir up the gift of God. And Timothy had a gift. He had a gift to be a preacher, to be a teacher, to be a minister for the Lord. And he was told to stir up that gift, get it going, do something with it. And you know, God has given every one of us gifts, I believe. Everybody has Some gifts, or at least one gift. Everybody's got some gifts that they need to use for the Lord. Stir up the gift of God. And so here we have this parable that we read earlier in the responsive reading about giving out the talents. And that's very good here in the King James Version where it talks about talents. Talent has a double meaning. Talents, we use talent today for an ability, for a gift. But also talent primarily back then was a weight measure. It was about a hundred pounds. And so these these servants were given you know, five hundred pounds of silver or a hundred pounds of silver and these different uh talents that they had. And they were given according to their several ability. And so God gives different people different gifts. He gives them different amounts of gifts And not everybody is the same. Paul talked about that in his books about not everybody is a nose, not everybody is an ear in the body of Christ. We all have different gifts. And we need to stir up those gifts, just like Timothy was told to stir up the gift of God. And so we have this story here where the guy that was given five talents, well He went and traded with those five talents, he used the five talents, and he got another five talents, so he had ten talents. And the guy who had two talents, he used the two talents, he got another two talents, And he had four talents But what about the guy with one talent? You know, he didn't have very much compared to the other guys, and he thought, well. You know, I don't have very much. I can't do very much. And he so he just went and hid his one talent in the ground and buried it. Well, the Lord here was not very happy with that. And we have that, starting with verse 26. After the guy with the one talent answered and said he had hid it, verse 26, his Lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant. Thou knowest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not straw. Thou mightest therefore to have put my money By the exchange exchangers, in the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. And so the Lord was not very happy that he didn't use that talent. And he told him he should have said sent the money to the exchangers, to the moneylenders, to to earn some more, put it out with usury. That's always been a question in the Bible. The Bible talks against usury quite a few times in the Old Testament But here it's pointed out as something good to get interest. And so it would seem that interest is not bad. But usually excessive interest is bad. And also they had special rules for the Jews, getting interest from other Jews. But anyway, it's not all bad. And he should have got some interest on his one talent. And then this Lord goes on, verse 28, take therefore the talent from him and give it unto him which hath ten talents. And we read it in our call for worship. The next verse, for unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance, and from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. You know, we don't have communism in the Bible. Communism says the opposite of that. It says from each according to his ability to each according to his need, communism is supposed to be take from the rich and give to the poor Well what does the Lord say here and Christ say? He says, take from the poor and give to the rich, in that you know, there's a big difference between Christians and non-Christians And God gives everything basically to the Christians, and not much to the non-Christians, even though He does give the sun and the rain and other things, other blessings to the non-Christians, but they don't get much In the end, especially. And so here we have he takes away that one talent from that guy because he didn't use it for the Lord's honor and glory And then he has verse 30, Cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness, and there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. It's clear that this was not even a Christian he was talking about, talking about hell here. And a sign of being a Christian is that we use the things that God gives us. We're not saved by using them. We're not saved by works. But a sign of being a Christian is that we use what God has given us for His honor and glory. So each one of us has gifts. What's your gift? What's my gift? And I've heard people say, oh, well, hey, I don't have any gifts. I just don't have any gifts. So I don't have anything I need to use for the Lord. But everybody has gifts. And gifts can be things that we don't normally think about. Of course, just pray being able to pray for other people is a gift. A gift of doing that. To say a word in due season is a gift. Being able to do that. And another one is it's a gift to be able to listen, to listen to people. That's a gift. Some people are good listeners. You know, not very many people like to listen. Most of them like to talk. And their favorite subject is talking about themselves And but you know, being a good listener, a good listener is is a gift. You know, we can help other people. Gifts of helps, helps in many ways. Just making friends, being able to make friends is a good gift. That's a good way to witness and be a good witness by making friends. And we can work with children. We can use our gifts of cooking, cleaning, whatever it is. We can use those for the Lord. But of course, the best gifts are the ones where we're doing spiritual work, doing spiritual work itself In 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 31, it tells us, covet earnestly the best gifts. Covet earnestly the best gifts. There are some gifts that are better than others, but they're all gifts. And we want to covet earnestly. We want to want the better ones, which are the spiritual gifts, doing spiritual work. The work of a missionary is to do spiritual work. primarily not to do social work, but to do spiritual work. That's the best gifts. But a little bit of social work is all right. And uh we can have gifts to do some social work. We can have gifts to do some physical work. Those are gifts as well that we can use for the Lord. And of course, when we're using gifts for the Lord, we're using them to we're not using them to get any personal gain. You know, if we get paid for it, well, then it's not really uh for the Lord exactly is the the of course we can be a faithful bricklayer laying the brick and do as unto the Lord, but it's not really doing something for the Lord when we're getting paid our normal salary for it It's uh as unto the Lord when we do it just for the uh good w well done that we get from the Lord. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. I remember there in Cameroon, we had a big church there nearby that the missionaries had built way back in the 1920s And there was a big mission compound there where we were in Cameroon that had been established by the Presbyterians. But anyway, they built this big church there. And the natives always like to talk, and the nationals always like to talk about it as the church that was built by thank you. Because it always kind of stuck in their craw that the missionaries didn't pay them to build the church That they were thanked to build the church because the missionaries wanted them to do it as unto the Lord. And that's the way it should be, if possible. And uh uh so they just said thank you and that and the Lord especially said thank you. And it was as unto the Lord and we get the eternal reward out of it. And that's what we should do when we do things for the Lord. And so, are we stirring up the gift of God? We all need to be doing that. We all need to be stirring up the gifts that we have, even if they might be small gifts. We consider to be small gifts, even though they might not be uh spiritual gifts exactly But we can stir up those gifts and use them in the service of the Lord and to work for Him. And the sign of a Christian is that He does stir up the gift of God, at least some, at least sometimes. To do things for the Lord. And God didn't save us just to sit on our hands, but uh do some things for Him Stir up the gift of God. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, help us to be the Christians that Thou would have us to be. Help us to stir up the gift of God that is in us. In Jesus' name. Amen.