We got we have um a Thanksgiving message this morning. Oh thank you, Bob. There he is again, see Keeping keeping me straight. All right. This is a Thanksgiving service, and we're going to see where the Lord leads us in Hebrews chapter 11, verses 13 to 16. And let's read Hebrews 11, verses 13 to 16. Remember, Hebrews 11 is the hall is the hall of faith, has been called by many theologians over the years, and we see how this has been written. I personally believe, and I think that many pastors and all I'm I'm not a pastor, I'm an elder, but other pastors and theologians would agree that it's a good chance by the literary style that it was Paul the Apostle that wrote the book of Hebrews. That's not confirmed. We don't know that for sure But if you read it, really, really sounds like it. So as we read, let's go through to Hebrews eleven, verses thirteen to sixteen These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. There's that word pilgrim. It's in the Bible. For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out of, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country. That is in heavenly. Wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. What is a pilgrim? We are called Pilgrim Presbyterian Bible Church. Pilgrim. It's not just a historical name. It's not just the claim to a new arrival to Plymouth, Massachusetts, or Jamestown. And it's not just a name for the strangers that are in a strange land, but it is a biblical word. And it's one that greatly described many that are listed here in this hall of faith. The word pilgrim, the definition, it's a Middle English definition. From Anglo-French, it's the word palarin, palagrin, from Latin, palagrinous Or it means in one who journeys into foreign lands. We hear a lot in the old Western movies. Remember John Wayne would say, whoa, take her easy there, pilgrim. He used the word pilgrim many times. You hear that in some of the old Westerns. Very awesome movies. Foundational principle here what was the basis of the courage That drives a pilgrim. That's found in our passage this morning. Look at this church. Everybody look up. Does anybody know the design of this church and why the rafters are up over our heads? I think some people know here. You're welcome to say it if you'd like. Anybody? Who said that? Who said Matt? You got it? It's a boat. What happened to the pilgrims when they came over? They took their boats. They didn't have anywhere to live. So they took their boats and they put them upside down and they then they broke their backs with hardly any really good professional tools to put up foundations and put up pole b like they were like pole barns and they took the boats and they put them over their heads and they worshipped with the boats being a roof. That's why this roof is constructed this way. That's part of the design of Pilgrim Presbyterian Bible Church. I'm not going to stand here and not and not bring up Pastor Keith Byrd. That would be horrible. That would be almost blasphemous not to do that. It was his heart and it was his work that put into this building and made it look, and I miss him this morning because he preached these messages many times and he knows the history of that picture out in that hallway better than anybody That picture out in that hallway is the only other representation in the whole world of the picture of William Brewster and Bradford, which he went all the way down to the rotunda in DC and got permission to get a picture of that, and he himself had it made for this church and preached many times. I'm very thankful. I remember one of the Wednesday nights what we did with him he took everybody from the sanctuary. We the Wednesday night prayer meetings here were always awesome And he took everybody and asked us all to be out in the foyer, and he stood there, and he gave for a Thanksgiving. It was right before, it was Wednesday night, the day before Thanksgiving. the night before Thanksgiving, he pointed at every single person in that picture and he had a write up on every one of 'em. That picture is incredible out there, and I'll never forget the time and the love and the effort that he always put in it to make sure we knew the meaning of pilgrim. We have an inheritance that is heavenly and not earthly. And it took faith to pursue it. We see Christian patriarchs that are listed here in Hebrews chapter 11. We see in we're going back to verse 3 Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. We see that we through faith we understand these things. Why? Because they are heavenly. These are things that we must trust God for, things that we cannot see. Faith is substantive. Faith is not logical to the worldview. Faith is substantially in our lives to know that there is something Someone above us mining the store that he is there and he is more real than the nose on our faces. Do we have that kind of faith? Faith of substances, of things of hope for by the apparent evidence, of things that cannot be seen by the human eye, but are there without a shadow of doubt? Do you have faith The evolutionist swears and sadly by swears that we were just blown into existence millions of years ago. That's blind faith. They even have a faith. It's not our faith, but they believe it happened. We see that's a very sick and demented of teaching. That today the prevailing faith in our culture is that something came from nothing millions and billions of years ago, with absolutely no empirical evidence that takes very blind faith, and they mock us because we have faith in Jesus Christ. We have faith in things that we can't see. That's why I want a little bit of difference. Ours is real, and theirs is not. Does that prick your heart? It should. Faith is real. You have faith that someone in the kitchen knows how to cook. You have faith that a pilot, if you get on a plane, knows how to fly. Do you ask him what college he came from? Do you sit there and check his background before he pulls that big Tens of thousands of pound piece of metal off of the off of the tarmac and in Lange somewhere else? Do you ask him? You have faith Do you have faith the pilot knows how to fly the plane? Faith that the surgeon can repair the torn tendon or ligament, set a broken bone, repair a damaged heart valve? We have faith. That's common grace. That's a faith. But a saving faith is what we need. A faith in a Jesus Christ that exists. Look at Noah. What a member of the hall of faith. Hebrews 11:7. By faith Noah being warned of God of things not as yet seen, moved with fear. He had faith of things not yet seen. You remember. When he built the ark, there had never been a drop of rain on the earth yet. They had never seen a rainstorm. You know, that's a faith, isn't it? By faith, Noah, being warned of God of things not yet seen, is yet moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. Genesis chapter 6, 2, and God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through him. Behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Noah left his home to serve the Lord. He was a pilgrim. He would spend the next hundred years of his life in the service preparing not his fields for rain but his family and his life. He would lose everything, even his extended family. Can you imagine the horror of knowing that perhaps nephews, nieces, and cousins, uncles and aunts were swallowed up by the rain, by the great flood. He had faithful to obtain a great resurrection. His inheritance was heavenly We see Abraham, Hebrews 11, verses 8 through 9. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed and he went out, not knowing whither he went. Abraham left his home. Have you ever had to do that? Have you ever had to leave your habitat where you're used to? Isn't it incredible? By faith he sojourned in the land of promise and in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him. of the same promise. And he said unto him, I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldes to give thee this land to inherit it. And he said, Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle dove And a young pigeon, and he took him all these and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another, but the birds divided he not. And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram, and lo, and har great darkness fell upon him. And he said unto Abraham, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a strange land. A stranger in a land that is not theirs and shall serve them and they shall afflict them 400 years. That took a lot of faith, didn't it? Took a lot of faith. Abraham trusted in the Lord and become a stranger in a strange land. In this account of God's covenant with Abraham, God gave him a covenant to say, He said, Trust in me, I am giving you a covenant of redemption. That if you have faith in me, and if you have faith that is the substance of things not seen, I'll take your generations. Now let me tell you a little story about what the Lord told Abraham. He said, if you trust in me, if you fear me, I will bless your wife. I will bless your children. I will bless your family. I will bless your grandchildren. I will bless your cattle. I will bless your home. I will bless everything that you do. And I have never seen that fail. For those that love the Lord, trials will come, but the Lord will be there. Moses. What a great transition in his life. From Egypt educational system, wealth and provisions to the wilderness, eating manna and quail and spending years of training and shepherding a massive multitude of the seed of Abraham. Hebrews 11, 23 says, By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season Esteeming the reproach of Christ, greatest riches, and them treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured and seeing him who is invisible. How do you see something that's invisible? He was a pilgrim. He was a stranger in a strange land. He could see things that were in front of his face. When these pilgrims who we have mentioned had not received a promise yet, they sure enough saw them from afar off Why is that so difficult? Where is our faith? These men were prophets and they believed their prophecies. How can you be a prophet if you don't believe what you're prophesying about? Wouldn't that be tough? What a tough vocation that would be Battle in the picture out there in the foyer. Ed Elder William Brewster. William Brewster, born 1567, died 1644, Plymouth, Massachusetts, leader of the Plymouth Colony, New England. Brewster spent his early life at Scrooby, Nottinghamshire, and acquired his first separatist ideas while at Peterhouse College, Cambridge, which he attended for a short time. 1589 and Scrooby there from 1590 until September 1607. Brewster held the position of post or postmaster responsible for for relays of horses on the post road, having previously for a time assisted his father at that office. About sixteen oh two his neighbors began to assemble for worship at his home, the manor house, and in sixteen oh six he joined them in an organizing the separatist church of Scrooge. The worst they worshipped in homes and were separatists. It's a Christian church, one very much with a Presbyterian form of government. They believed as we do, a new present day from a government taken from an old God, given church form of government, largely Presbyterian. It's very simple. The word Presbyterian has been so taken apart Today it means you're some kind of a firing brimstone fun funny mentalist that basically is a terrorist and hates everybody. All Presbyterian ever meant was in a church that there's a system of checks and balances where there's nobody that can be a dictator. Everyone has a say in the matter. You have voting rights as a congregation, member congregational members If you're a pastor, you are subservient to the elders in the congregation. If you're an elder, you're subservient to the pastors in the congregation. If you're a congregation, everybody has a say. And there's nobody that can just run away with the church and be a dictator, which we see in a lot of churches today. That's not right. We have what I love about this church is we have transparency. If you've got a problem, we'll talk about it And definitely. And I think that's wonderful. That's Presbyterian. First Timothy four fourteen says, Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on the hands of the Presbytery The word presbytery is there. Brewster knew this, and this is the kind of church that they were they wanted to form. Brewster then accompanied the first group of villa of pilgrims. On the Mayflower in 1620, the only university trained member of the Plymouth community, he was the real leader of the church As its senior elder, he dominated the formulations of its doctrines, worships, and practices. He was not a magistrate, but by virtue Of his close association with the governor William Bradford, he played a major role in civil as well as religious affair affairs One of the original members of the separate congregation at Scrooby, which became the nucleus of the pilgrim church, he emigrated within to Holland in sixteen oh eight and became elder and teacher of their churches at Leyden With no minister at the Plymouth Church for most of the years before Brewster's death, he was the lay-eater and preached to the congregation regularly and continued in this manner after his move to Ducksbury. in the course of relating the controversies surrounding John Lyford Bradford recounts how our Reverend Elder hath labored diligently in dispensing the Word of God to us because he came And since I've taken equal pains with himself in preaching his name. They were called pilgrims. He came over on the Mayflower It's incredible. I just talked to a gentleman last week. His name's Jim Brewster. Jim Brewster lives up in Port Washington, New York. I've known him for many years. He was one of my mentors in the bit in the business that I'm in. And I mentioned to him about how there was a William Brewster on the picture in our church and he said, I'm a I'm a direct descendant, sixteen sixteen generations. He said, I'm a direct descendant of William Brewster. I thought that was pretty awesome How about William Bradford? I'm not going to take too much time, but what about William Bradford? William and Dorothy Bradford left their three-year-old son, as Lisa had said a few minutes ago, with their parents in Amsterdam and boarded the Speedwell in sixty. fifteen twenty before transferring across to the Mayflower when the speed well was deemed unseaworthy. Do you have any idea what the speed well was like? These men boarded this boat. Have you ever been on a boat? Have you ever been on a little boat and you were only out and you could see the shore and storms started coming? I remember while I was four years old my grandfather loved to to do boating. And I remember four years old, my first time I ever got on a boat with him, he took me out on a rowboat and it had a little outboard engine on it. And we flew out in the middle of the river and it started to rain and it started to thunder and I started screaming. I mean he he didn't know how to handle it. My mother was on the shore. I remember her just she was waving her hands and I was Terrified that boat was going like this and he goes, it's no big deal. I've been a worse thing. Yeah, he knew he knew what to do. I was scared to death. These people get on the speed well And the speedwell was actually, it was a warship that actually, that boat was in the Spanish Armada, in the war with the Spanish Armada. You know, and uh it had probably been hit with cannonballs. The thing was probably part of it was like Swiss cheese and they had just they slapped it back together and they get it out in the middle of the ocean and it starts leaking like a sieve and they had to turn right around and they had it everybody had to board the Mayflower. I mean this was incredible what happened. That's what the speedwell was like and these people, these men were willing to be pilgrims to get on these little tiny pieces of lumber And to sail all the way over into the New World. So to get on the Mayflower. Bradford's there. William Brewster's there. Miles Standish William Bradford and Dorothy Bradford, they left their little three-year-old son. I do believe that they thought they were going into a new world and they would come back and they would fetch him. Three years old. After surviving this was in 1620, before transferring across to the Mayflower when the speedbell was deemed unseaworthy, after surviving the treacherous transatlantic crossing Bradford was one of the forty-one true pilgrims who signed the Mayflower Compact. Shortly afterwards, though, he suffered a terrible tragedy. While the Mayor Mayflower was anchored off Providence Harbor, the pilgrims sent out several men to explore the region to seek out the best place to build their colony. What they did was they left the boat anchored in the harbor way out and they had to bring a little like fishing boat, a little boat to come in, because of course if the boat the the the Mayflower came in too close, i it would capsize or we would get caught on a sandbar or something So he comes in and he had left his wife back on the ship. He comes in and they're scouting out and they're looking all over the place and he's trusting the Lord and they're like trying to find food. And you know what they wound up coming across They come they come across this Indian area. I mean it might have been a little bit later than that, but somewhere in that time frame, there was this area that Indians had been there. I think w what was their name? Was it the W Waha Wahonas or Wapahonas or something? It was like starts with a W. They were all dead. They come back to a whole area full of dead skeletons. I mean that would have been real encouraging, wouldn't it? To see everybody dead, nobody to greet them So what happens to poor William Bradford? This wasn't horrible enough that they had to leave the little three-year-old back Shortly afterwards, though he suffered a personal tragedy with the with the Mayflower Anchored. It was less than a month later. While her husband was ashore exploring, Dorothy accidentally drowned in the freezing waters of the harbor after falling from the Mayflower She was only twenty-three years old. They hadn't been married that long. He comes back to find his wife swept away and gone. They say that there was ice on the on it was getting cold and there was ice on the deck and she may have just slipped and tripped and fell over. They don't know what happened. But they never found her again. After overcoming illness himself and the death of his first governor, John Carver, Bradford was elected to lead Plymouth Colony and was subsequently re-elected thirty-one times before his death He loved the Lord. I wonder I'd like to read a little more of this if we could. In 1623, he remarried to Alice Southworth, Nee Carpenter. and the couple had three children, William Mercy and Joseph, all of whom survived to adulthood and married. Later in his life, Bradford acted as Plymouth Commissioner for the United Colonies and was president in 1652 and 1656. They believed that every church congregation should have the right to choose its own pastor and officers and discipline its own members. Only the congregation could decide matters for the local church, and thus they became known as congregationalists. This was in distinction to Catholics who vested authority in one Pope, and this is why they left. The people were getting punished unmercifully over in London, over in Oxford and England and those areas, and they had actually fled over to Holland into Leiden and they were hiding there and they were finding that it was not the place for them to build a church and they needed to get out and they wanted to get back to the mainland. They wanted to get over I mean to the new world. Hundred and two passengers were made up of fifty saints, the pilgrims, strangers, they were non-separatists and the crew. There was a vested interest in this tr in this in in this uh traveling over from Holland over to America. There was a man named Weston who did invest money. and who required these pilgrims and these separatists to be indentured slaves to bring them and give them some kind of a profit off of their trip. And so what will the criteria was is that the 50 saints, the pilgrims, had to come over with some non-separatists, some strangers, and the crew, and they all worked together. In view of the independent spirit of some, it became evident to both saints and strangers that they needed to cooperate and sign an agreement to rule themselves as they were going to settle in an area that was not within the purview of their patent The elder William Brewster, William Bradford, Edward Winslow, and the Pilgrims, along with the soldier Miles Standis, whose wife also died. And the strangers agreed to sign a covenant before they landed to ensure representative self-governed by which all of them would be bound. Signed by the 41 adult males aboard on November 11, 1620, just nine years after the publication of the King James Bible. The Mayflower Contact was the first charter of freedom in America and reflects the Christian inheritance of our nation. Was the charter woke? Was it liberal? Was it God-hating? Did it start with absolutely no foundational principles from principles from Scripture? Well, here's what it said. I think we need to read this. The Mayflower Compact In the name of God, amen. That's how it starts. I think that's pretty incredible. Since we have a society now that wants to tear down the statues and everybody that was finding founding followers. In the name of God, Amen We whose names are underwritten, the loyal subjects of our dread sovereign, Lord, King James, by the grace of God of England, France, and Ireland, King, defender of the faith, have undertaken for the glory of God and advancement of the Christian faith. And the honor of our king and country, a voyage to plant the first colony in the northern parts of Virginia. Due by these presents solemnly and mutually in the presence of God and one of another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body politic for our better ordering and preservation and furtherance of the ends aforesaid, and by virtue hereof to enact, constitute, and frame such just and equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, and offices from time to time as shall be thought most meet and convenient for the general good of the colony, unto which we promise all due submission and obedience In witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names at Cape Cod, the eleventh of November, in the reign of the sovereign Lord King James of England, France and Ireland the eighteenth, and in Scotland the fifty-fourth, Anno Domini sixteen twenty And we see that the painting out in the foyer, the embarkation of the Pilgrims, 1843, is from the U. S. Capitol, Rotunda, and the name of that ship on there is the Speedwell. There was a book that William Bradford had written and all. It was incredible. I had no idea about this until last night. We were just kind of like flipping through channels of resting. And on PBS they had an incredible two-hour special. We watched the whole thing on Pilgrims. The book that William Bradford had written had an account of what had happened during that time and it disappeared and vanished. It had vanished for many, many years and years and years, and then all of a sudden in Vern England it popped up and they actually found the book with the original writings and they kept the book And through that book there are so many Bible verses, so many talks about Christ and why they came over here. And it's still, his book is still there. In closing, we are strangers in a strange land because this world is not our home. Remember the old the old hymn, this world is not my home, I'm just passing through. Remember that Psalm 119, 54 says, Thy statues have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage. I have remembered thy name, O Lord, in the night, and have kept thy law. This I had because I kept thy precepts. Thou art my portion, O Lord. I have said that I would keep thy words. We can only enter into the kingdom of heaven as pilgrims in this land by the blood of Jesus Christ. I had a gentleman call me this week. We were working and he called and he was just He was just dumbfounded. He was very upset. His business now is going downhill because of all of the pandemic regulations. People don't wanna work, tax things and all kinda things are happening. He went from having fifty, sixty people down to like his twenty and now and still He's still losing people. I mean he was just distraught. And he and he said, Well, what are we ever gonna do? So I told him I said trust in the Lord. Now he said, I don't need to do that. My faith is good. I'm getting into heaven because I've done a lot of good things So what do you say? I hear that. I've heard that a lot. I told him, I told him, I said, Tom, I said, you will never get to heaven on your own good works. You can only get into heaven by the blood of Jesus Christ And he said something. It was weird, I can't remember how he words, said something like something to the effect of me, like he said, Tim, you're getting close. That's what he said. I don't know what that meant. I have to ask him one day, but he said, You're getting close But anyway, uh you know that's you know, people think that they can get to heaven by their own works. Well the whole reason these pilgrims came over to the new world is so that they could worship Jesus Christ. They were not allowed to do that You were not allowed to go outside of the Catholic Church and have private Bible studies. They were throwing people into horrifying prisons. And then what they were doing to the kids and everything, it was terrible. And so they just all had to sneak out and get away from there and get over to Holland and then pray and pray and pray that they could get into the new world. They were willing to give up everything You know, Hebrews, I I I'm on I want to finish reading this. The book of Hebrews closes this incredible hall of faith saying that these talking about these pilgrims recorded in Hebrews 11 were those that even this very world from the beginning of time until the end of this world are not worthy of They all died in faith, having only their faith in Jesus Christ. And here are the verses. Hebrews 11, 32. I'd like to finish by reading this. If you all want to follow with me, you're welcome to. Hebrews chapter 11, verses 32 to the end. And what shall I more say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jepti, of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets. Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness, were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned. to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead raised to life again, and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance that they might attain a better resurrection. And others had trials of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, and tormented. of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and in caves of the earth. And these all having obtained a good report through through faith received not the promise God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made, that they should that that uh without us should not be made perfect. And we see that this is all under the heading of divine preparation. What it meant, they didn't know. They had no idea exactly what was going to happen when they saw God, but they trusted him no matter what. And that is important for us to have that faith. By grace are ye saved through faith, and not of yourselves that is a gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast. And so I just uh petition you this morning. If you can get in and read these verses in the book of Hebrews 11, get a chance to read that again this week. It's a real blessing. And uh I just um pray that everyone has a wonderful Thanksgiving and that we'll be thankful for our heritage because we have a real heritage, a wonderful heritage based on our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we just thank Thee for this time of testimonials. We thank Thee, Lord, for what thou hast laid on everyone's hearts here. Thank thee so much for the gospel of Jesus Christ that sets us free. It's the good news. And what could be better? The gospel of Jesus Christ, the good news of thy ministry here on this earth, thy death, thy burrow, thy resurrection, thy ascension. And Lord, we know that thou said that thou wert coming a first time Thou also said there are going thou thou wilt come a second and final time. And Lord, we look forward to that day, and we thank thee, Lord, for the pilgrims. We thank thee for the for the house of hold of faith and the clouds of witnesses that have gone before us to give us a wonderful history. Bless us and keep us from falling. We just pray a special prayer today also once again for Lisi. And we thank thee, Lord, so much for what she's meant to this church and the work that she does. And we pray, Lord, that as she's down and out right now and she's in pain healing up, that thou wouldst just bring her to a real quick recovery. And we pray for Pastor Olson once again, Lord. We pray for his family and so many others. Bless us and give us a good week, and I pray that we will enjoy time with our families. And now let's watch over us. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.