Finally, Pastor Keith Coleman has been preaching from Psalm 23. Pastor Olson has been in the book of Revelation. And you could take both of them and tie them into what we've been doing since I've been preaching in Isaiah chapter 53. Isaiah 53 is basically referred to as the first gospel by many theologians. We're going to be reading Isaiah chapter 53 and finishing up this message. In Isaiah chapter 53, we're going to be picking up at verse 10, which we barely got out of verse 9 last time, and we're going to read verses 10 to 12, and then we'll go forward and see where the Lord leads us. Isaiah chapter 53 we read, yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin He shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death. And he was numbered with the transgressors. And he bare the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. This is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And when I I I put emphasis on those words, because they are absolute words. They are to tell you that without a shadow of a doubt This is happening. It's a fulfillment. It's a prophecy, and you can count on it 100% without any question whatsoever. These are not perhaps statements, or we wonder if, or maybe this will happen. It shall come to pass. And yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. We've seen the prophecy of Isaiah guaranteeing the first advent of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. If there was a first advent, Christ said there would be a first advent. He said there would be a second one. That's coming. It shall happen. It will happen. It's amazing to see the detail here. If you read Isaiah chapter 53, you go all through the book. It's amazing the detail in the prophecy of Jesus Christ It's almost as if it's is as if Isaiah is there with Christ himself and Christ is there telling him in full detail exactly how this is going to completely play out. You'd think that Isaiah while writing this passage is there already And this is what we learn from this passage, that Jesus' own people will not be ready for him then and even now. And you go to John chapter 1, verses 9 through 11, we read, This was the true light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. Then we read how he was despised and rejected of men. And then we read in the infancy narratives how he's born in a borrowed manger or a cradle. In Luke chapter 2, verse 7. We see how he's a very a very weak, seemingly individual, as Isaiah 53 describes, he is a tender plant, a root out of a dry ground, no beauty that we should desire him. And we see that he had nowhere to lay his head. You read in Matthew 8, verse 20. He was buried in a borrowed tomb, crucified on a tree, and cursed. Sadly, that's where most movies and most writings about Jesus Christ end. If you watch movies, if you see documentaries, that's where the emphasis on Jesus really ends, is right there at the end of the tree. The end of the cross. We're going to go a little further than that this morning. The end of Isaiah 53 is the fulfillment of where Christ is now. Where is he? Oh, if he's dead, and if he was actually taken out of the tomb, where he was mistakenly put in the tomb because he was not properly prepared and his body is hidden in some unmarked grave, we're in big trouble. But we know that's not true. That's what's being taught. That's what's being taught by scholars from the University of North Carolina and Duke right now in their theological religious classes Our Lord enters into this world and leaves it with a most humble but glorious example. So the question I'd like to pose today in Isaiah 53 is why? Why would he do that for us? Well the answer comes at the end of this message. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him, as we go back a little bit. He hath put him to grief. It pleased the Lord. That is a mercy that we don't quite understand. And I think that's why most people really don't respect it and really understand the full weight of this message. It pleased the Lord. It pleased God to sacrifice his son to crucify him And to see through his soul. He could see that the Lord Jesus Christ, his son's soul, was in travail. How horrible that must have been This is called propitiation. God's judgment on us must be remedied. The only way any of us could ever even begin to enter into heaven is our sins must be cleansed, and a new righteousness must be given to us. That is only by Christ. We can't buy it, we can't work it, we can't think it, and we can't even imagine it. It has to be done through faith. Faith is that substance of things hoped for the evidence of things not seen We understand that. So there had to be a substitute for us, a a sacrificial lamb. We've heard that term many times. Well, you know, the poor guy that's playing on the football field, he's the guy that he put out and This guy is they put a special running back in because there's these massive linebackers on the other side and they put him in to do the special plays because he's the one that gets knocked around a lot. He's the sacrificial lamb. Let's put him out there. You know? You've heard that many different t different areas. There needed to be a propitiation, a substitute, an unblemished lamb, a sacrificial lamb. Galatians 3. 13 says, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree. We're all cursed from the curse of the law. And he bore that curse. And then as we go into the next verse and we see the travail of the soul, this is the travail. He bore that curse. And it was by the will of the Lord And this amazing statement is true because Christ was delivered up according to the definite plan of God by his eternal decrees. Let me read you what a God's eternal decrees are. I think it's very important to look at. Considering that this was the most important event that ever happened in the history of this world. And it was by God's eternal decree. It would be very sad if this was just something arbitrary that happened haphazardly. This was not. This was planned. It was prophesied. And we see that here in Isaiah 53. Here is what the Westminster Confession of Faith says about God's eternal decrees. God from all eternity did By the most wise and holy counsel of his own will, freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass, as yet so as thereby neither is God the author of sin. Nor is violence offered to the will of the creatures, nor is the liberty or contingency of second causes taken away, but rather established. Simply stated, if one does not believe, and this is not the confession, this is a comment, if one does not believe, in fact, that God's eternal decrees are perfect. And will be effectually carried out. That unbelieving soul is nothing less than atheist in their beliefs. Once you say that God does not have control of everything, you've now called him a liar. Do you see that out in the public anywhere? Have you heard that somewhere out in religious any any religious ministries that are more on social media or maybe in different other types of religions? That God knows a lot. He's there to basically be our cosmic bellhop. He's there to be our friend Everything is beautiful. He's there to give you the desires of your heart, name it and claim it. But when it comes to his wrath, no, he would never do that. He would never take anybody and hurt them. He wouldn't do that Well, God's eternal decrees are very specific and laid out, and if you go into the minor prophets, you will see the conundrum that all the minor prophets all agree with. that God's wrath was so great upon the land, they beg forgiveness for their people and begged the Lord to have mercy They begged I says the Lord is going to bring a famine. He is going to destroy this land. And he prayed that the Lord would spare. How many times did Moses pray, Lord, spare these people? The Lord was going to kill everyone that was walking around that calf naked. He was going to take them all out. And the Lord said, spare them, Lord, please. Abraham pray 50, Lord. If there were 50 righteous people Well, sure. What if there are 40? Okay. What if there are 30? Fine. 20, 10? Yep. There wasn't one. Because there's none that do with good, no, not one. The Lord is very merciful. But we know that God's eternal decrees are perfect. Acts 2. 23, we read: Him being delivered by the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God. Ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. Ephesians 11. In him we have obtained an inheritance. Having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. Once again, there are no Maverick molecules. There are no renegade atoms out in the universe. There is nothing outside of God's control. So why do we have to bring science up and why do we have to bring education up and try to outthink God? Because once we do that, we're trying to educate God. Why can't we just have faith and be glad that He knows everything? Do you want a God that doesn't know everything? Then he'd be just like us. We don't know hardly anything. I can't even find my wallet every morning. And I'm gonna worry about me being able to get myself into heaven. I can't find my wallet, I can't find my keys. Sometimes one day after I lost my truck. It was up at the rest stop up here and I it was one of those circular rest areas and I parked it on the other side. I forgot which side I went in. It took me an hour to find it. This is the problem we have. Well, there's it's so scientifically, legally, spiritually, is this basic tenet of Christian belief that it completely obliterates The governor of New York, Andrew Cuomo's latest statement about COVID-19. Hold on to your chairs. This is what Andrew Cuomo said regarding this China Chinese flu, or they call the coronavirus. Now remember, we're talking about how God knows everything. His eternal decrees are perfect. Not according to him, Andrew Cuomo. Our behavior has stopped the spread of the virus. God did not stop the spread of the virus. The number is down because we brought the number down. God did not do that. Fa did not do that He even well give him credit, at least he poked a little fun at karma. Fate did not do that. Destiny did not do that. A lot of pain and suffering did that Well, what Andrew's missing is that a lot of pain and suffering is his only way to heaven. He says God had nothing to do with it. God didn't know. I guess God was sleeping that day, he believes, I guess. Or he doesn't believe his exists at all. I think that's more like it. This beginning portion, 53-10, chapter Isaiah 53, verse 10, also points to the fact that Christ is our Passover. And his blood painted on the doorpost of our heart allows the death angel to fly past our souls so that we may live again in eternity with our immortal Savior. He is our offering for sin And remember how Isaac was spared and God's own son was not. Isaac was laid out on the altar and there was a ram in a thicket. There was no ram in a thicket for Christ when he went to the cross on the very same mountain, by the way. That was happening on the very same mountain. First Corinthians 5 7 says, Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye meet that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us. Christ's atonement provides all down through the annals of time the eternal reward for repentance unto life. It's a saving grace, and it's administered by our Savior through the Holy Spirit by the Word of God. Repentance unto life is the key to eternal life. Those are the first two messages that John the Baptist and Christ himself preached. Repent. For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent for the axe is laid at the root of the tree. They didn't start the ministry saying, give to the church and then Give penance and then make sure your works and your justification, your process of justification is being very perfect, because it's not possible. No, repentance unto life is What the Lord enables us to have by his intercession and by his atonement for us. Repentance unto life is for our sins. That is unto eternal life. Repentance to Jesus Christ takes our sins to the Father and wipes them away by expiation or or by reparation, by recompense. What that what does that mean? There's a puts comes some pretty tough words. That means somebody had to take the punishment for us And that means that perfect being whose blood was perfect and shed on the cross of Calvary Here's the question. How far did it cleanse our sins? Was it temporary? And was it only so far as when we pick up with our good works we can complete the works on the cross and then we can say with Christ that is finished? Is that what it did? Christ's blood is so perfect it cleanses all of our sins as far as the east is from the west. That's how you can remember the word expiation. It's a reparation. It's a recompense as far as the East is from the West. And the verse goes on to say When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand or in his ministry Or another way of saying this last phrase from Scripture is the will of Jehovah shall flourish in Christ's ministry. We see how in the Old Testament We see Christ's ministry. David spoke about it many times. He shall see his seed. He shall see his offspring Remember through the consolatory discourse of Jesus Christ, and that's in John chapters 13 through 17. You want to talk about the true, the real prayer of Christ? Now, the prayer of Christ that was given to the disciples, our Father who art in heaven, of course that's a real prayer. But that prayer was not for Christ, because that was a prayer for sinners. The consolidatory discourse that Jesus gave in John chapters 13 to 17, Christ spoke many times, not just those that are here, but those that thou hast given into my hand. Protect them, love them, prepare them. And he he was thinking about us. He could see every one of us All throughout scripture, if Christ loved somebody, you could tell that they were his chosen because he spoke to them by their earthly name. He called them by their name. He knows you by your name. If he has started a work in you, he knows you by your name. He knows Greg. He knows Irene. He knows Dave. He knows Mike. He knows Lisa, Lisey, Matthew. He knows you by name. Why? Because that book, nobody can touch that book other than Christ, where your name is in that book, the Lamb's Book of Life. He protects that book with his arms his life, his eternal life, his eternal being, he loves that book. And if you're named in it, nobody can touch that book. That book is sacred Because your name is in that book. You love him. If he has started a work in your life, your name is in that book and he knows you by name. I love that. How could you not? John twelve twenty-four says, Verily, verily I say unto you, Except the corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone, but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. And that's what happened to Christ. He's in the tomb for three days, and look at the fruit. Look at the offspring. The seed. He shall see the seed of his soul as He shall be satisfied. He's satisfied with his church. That's why he loves us churches being open. He wants the doors open, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. Oh, I love I love Psalm 1. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like what? He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit and his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth right here shall prosper Everything will prosper. There's nothing that Christ does in your life when he starts a work that doesn't prosper. And you know every last miracle. Every last problem Christ ever got in the middle of, all throughout the New Testament, he always made things better. For the woman at the well. He made it better for her. The woman that was about to be stoned by the Jewish council. They were about to make her life a lot worse. They were going to kill her. He made her life better and he protected her. He loved women. He protected the women. He honored the women. He honored his mother. He honored those around him He allowed women to be the first teachers of the new church. They're the ones that ran to the disciples and say he's risen. They didn't believe it. And he sent the women to teach them and to say he has risen. We saw it He loves them. Everything he ever did prospered and it was better. Everything was upward with Christ. Everything he resolved it. He was the greatest problem solver on this earth that ever existed. His kindness is unbelievable. His unkindness is wonderful. John Calvin says, two views of God's kindness are held up for our admiration in this passage. This very passage, verses 10 to 12, John Calvin comments on it. He says, first, that he spared not his only begotten Son, but delivered him for us, that he might deliver us from death And secondly, that he does not suffer his death to be useless and unprofitable, but causes it to yield very abundant fruit, for the death of Christ would be of no avail to us if we did not experience his fruit and efficacy. Isn't it beautiful how even Calvin could see wonderfully how the efficacy or the effects of Christ's ministry and his death would come through us? We talked this morning how Saul of Tarsus is converted. Paul the Apostle could not keep quiet about the beauty of the cross of Jesus Christ and how wonderful that is. Matthew 5. 20 says, For I say unto you, that except your righteousness that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Your works can't exceed anything. But if you have Jesus Christ, you've got the Pharisees beaten. You have all of the all the false religions of the world completely beaten because we don't live Even though our educational system and people believe we live in a relativistic society where everybody's right, there's only one truth. And that's Christ. I am the way, the truth, and the life. Verse 11, he shall see of the travail or the labor of his soul. This is the agony of his son's soul. How awful this must have been for the Godhead on the separation between the second person and the father, the travail It's important to note that Christ sees the fruits of his labor and its efficacy, but he also pronounces the travail of his soul, and it shall be satisfied. That means Christ is going to go through the most hardest death. The travail of this world, what could be more travail than to leave heaven and come down to this cesspool of sin, death? separation of families. We read this morning about the division, how the cross divides families, it divides friends and in-laws and family. And then Christ comes down and takes on the travail of the responsibilities of this world. But the Lord says, even though that happens, that he will be satisfied. He will be avenged. And he will come up into heaven and take his rightful place on the right hand of the throne. This is pivotal because the death of Christ would mean nothing to us if we didn't recognize the fruits of his labor. If we didn't recognize that he delivered us from death. and experience his efficacy. Well, what was the travail of his labor? What are some of the travails we saw through Christ's ministry? And many of these are in each one of the gospels. He defeated the tempter. Remember, the very first mission that Christ had before he had that first miracle in the wedding feast of Cana. Because he was taken out into the wilderness with Satan. He had a 40-day educational lesson that God gave him, and the Holy Spirit drug him into the temptations of Satan. Satan did everything he could to win that war. Here, look at Adam and Eve. They were tempted. They sinned. All their surroundings were plush. They were wonderful settings. They had companionship. They had a garden. They had a beautiful setting. They had everything that God could give them. And they completely fell to Satan when Satan said has God said. When Satan, when the Holy Spirit brings Jesus out into this wilderness, this Judean wilderness, which was nothing but scorpions and cactus. Christ had no companionship. He had no food. He had fasted for forty days, no water, and let me tell you, you get to that point, believe me, you're in a torture state. You're going to do anything By that point, Christ could have easily given in and he could have said, That's it, all right, I'm I'll bow down to Satan right now. I need something to eat. No He that was his travail. He went in and he defeated Satan right at his own gate, and he sent him away like a scalded dog by quoting scripture and by going right back into the Old Testament You want to ward off Satan, you want to get him out of your life, do exactly what Jesus did. Pray and read the word. That is how you do it. That was the travail. This unbridled assault of Satan was totally centered on Christ in the wilderness. Christ bears the cup of wrath. There's travail there. He sees You think everything about the figurative way of looking at this cup of wrath you read about many times? Lord, could let this cup pass before me, but not my will, but thy will be done. What was in that cup? If you were looking in that cup, what was in it that he saw that was so horrifying? Anything could horrify us, but what could horrify God incarnate? Seeing the effects of sin on our lives? Seeing how many would be burning in hell because they didn't believe? I don't even think he was thinking about the physical pain before he was thinking about that. But he said, Not my will, Lord, but thy will be done. How about the separation from the Father? How about the sending of a soul into the center of the earth for three days, carrying the sins of the world I'm talking about all the sins of everybody. What do you do when you commit one sin and you know you're guilty of it and you're about to get pounded on? That's enough to make you lose the years off of your life, isn't it? One little sin One little sin can be a real big sin. He's carrying all of the sins. That would be a great travail, wouldn't it? It's no wonder he sweats blood in the garden. How can we not worship him? How can the doors of the churches close their doors by the edict of a governor? How can we not worship our Lord who bore the travail and the wrath of God for us? How can we not fight to keep our church doors open and going? People are afraid of going to church and opening their doors after Christ did this for them. After the travail that he bore? Why? Let me ask a question about the edict given by the governors to shut the church doors. Is that of heaven or is it of men? I think that's a big question. It's the same question that Christ asked when he was talking about John's Baptist. Is it of heaven or is it of men? Luke chapter 20, verse 4. Are the pastors he'd asked? He'd asked the Pharisees. The question is, are the pastors afraid of opening their doors because of the powers to be, or because of the fear of death from being affected or infected? Truly, there is no truly there is no guarantee of death if you go to church. There is absolutely no guarantee you're going to die or even catch anything. Let me read you this from Pastor Tony's spell down, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Now this man made it very plain to the governor and to the powers to be that in no way is he shutting his church down. He was the first one I read that did it. And this was about a month ago. The first time he opened the church up, they arrested him, put him in jail. He told him in jail that I'm going to reopen my church when you let me go, so whatever you do, I'm going to open it up. He went back and he opened his church up again. So then they grabbed him and they put a tracking device on his ankle. Now he's under house arrest. This is what he's read. This is what he wrote. We feel that we are an essential part of our community as the retail stores. It is in persecution of the faith for us to be asked to close our doors whenever more people are being contacted in those targets and Walmarts that are in my service. We reach out, we minister to people, we feed people. We're the last stable institution in this compu community today. I guarantee that, he says We want to have the ability to exercise our First Amendment rights, our freedoms that we hold dear, that Congress can pass no laws prohibiting or forbidding us to gather and assemble. That is a conviction of errors. We don't force anybody to come to our services. It's a conviction, he says. Acts 5. 29 says we must obey God rather than man. Pastor Spell cited ways that his church has practically helped to hurt him. By the way, while he had the tracking device on his ankle and while they put him under house arrest, he walked out of the house and this is what he did With the instability in my community today, I've ministered to two teenage girls. African-American girls who have attempted suicide this week because their parents have lost their jobs. He prayed with them while he was under house arrest. I don't know what's going to happen to him because this just happened. This isn't something that happened 100 years ago. This happened this last week. In America, their schools are closed. They don't get their meals during the day. These little girls aren't being fed. These are troublesome times for them. We're ministering to them. We're not a part of the problem. That's great. I'm not going to put that away. I'm going to leave that. I'm going to keep that. Is there really a threat of death? Are we willing to honor the travail of his soul and shed and that and Christ would be satisfied by the Father? What about a guaranteed, we have a pandemic, they're saying. In the Bible we had an edict. Let's look at this. I think this is interesting. And where this what my point is, is that are we willing to honor the travail that the Lord went for went through for us? What about a guaranteed edict that all would die unless they stopped honoring the Lord? Now, right now, we'll have to I'll bring this up in a second. There was an edict that was given to the midwives in Egypt. In Exodus chapter 1, verse 17 said But the midwives feared God and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the men, children, alive. Now, that pandemic, which I know it wasn't a medical thing, but the Egypt guaranteed a 100% death rate 100%. Now the Lord spared them, but they were told they were going to die. Here's another one. Daniel chapter 6, verse 7. This is a big one. All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors and the princes, the counselors and the captains have consulted together to establish a royal statute And to make a firm decree that whosoever shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days save of thee, O king, he shall be cast into the lion's den. That was an edict given, guaranteeing that anybody that did not obey the president, the king, or the governor would die. That was a hundred percent death rate. And to prove it, Only one, it's always a small remnant. Only one person defied Darius. One person defied him. One person went into the lion's den. That's a hundred percent death rate. Real quick, right now, what what is the death rate now? Bob, you had the last numbers. What's the last death rate? Right. So in the last week it's actually point oh two five. That's what the that's what the death rate is now over this. Not saying it doesn't have its problems But I am saying that there's nothing better that could have happened than for the governors to say, church doors open and pray for your parish, pray for your people, pray for your country. That's what Tony Spell did. What about the three Hebrew boys? That was a hundred percent death rate. If you don't bow down to that furnace, that God, we're gonna throw you in. The question is, did they get thrown in? Three people stood up, three people went in. That's when you got some real pressure. So my point is here is that worshiping the Lord honors the travail that the Lord Jesus Christ went through. These people, Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and these precious midwives, they worship God. We must worship our Savior corporately because of the travail that he took for us. And he shall be satisfied Does not this bring ultimate relief to us as Christians? Romans chapter 5, verse 18, we read: Therefore, as by the offense of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation Even so, by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners That was the Adamic curse. One man's disobedience, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteousness. That's our satisfaction. Isn't it that's how we're satisfied? Christ is satisfied. And so when he is, we are. Christ obtains the fruit of his death in the salvation of men. The efficacy of the atonement of Christ is manifested through our salvation. Our salvation, the Lord finds that wonderful. He loves that. Our Lord Jesus takes the highest delight in our salvation. I don't remember where it is in the Bible, but every time a soul is saved, the angels sing. Isn't that wonderful? Has all of our tears in a bottle. He rests in our salvation as the fruit of his labor. This is his true passion. His passion is the gift of salvation to us by his blood alone. Here's another statement by John Calvin. He who has obtained his wish, his ultimate desire for the fruits of his labor, rests in that which he most ardently desired For no person can be said to be satisfied but he who has obtained what he wished so earnestly as to disregard everything else and be satisfied with this alone. He disregarded everything Christ disregarded all of his comforts, his glory, his kingship, and everything, and laid it all down for us, and took the humiliation naked on the cross and be to nothing. And placed in a tomb. For us, he laid it all down. This is our sweetest consolation. His blood paid for our sins. As we move forward, by his knowledge shall my righteous service servant justify many. Many would be justified. We see in Scripture that The scripture calls the Christian church a remnant. I believe there's going to be a lot more people than we can even imagine in heaven. We're often wondering, we're all and and and by rightfully so, it it really It bleeds our hearts to think that anyone that we love could wind up in hell. And that's why we need to walk over glass and take this gospel message and bring them and do it. Pray. Pray hard. Yeah, it's it's so much better to be able to have the opportunity to witness when you're praying for it. And the Lord opens up these opportunities. But there's going to be so many people that when we get there that it's what a rejoicing, a sweet consolation By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many. Here we see the word justify, pointing out the effect of this teaching by his knowledge, by the Lord's knowledge, and by through the Word of God His justification is of Christ. We are not able to justify ourselves. It's of him. We are made righteousness through our faith in Jesus Christ. Our faith cometh from his teaching Galatians chapter 2, verse 16 says, Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ. that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. Galatians chapter 3, verses 10 to 12 we read, For as many as are of the works of the law are under the cursed, for it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not on all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God. It is evident, for the just shall live by faith, and the law is not of faith, but the man that doeth them shall live in them Very simply, you cannot get up and check mark off all the Ten Commandments in any given day and say, I've kept them all, I'm ready to go home. See, the non-Messianic Jews believe the first day you do that, the Messiah will come back. The Messiah did come back. And they still believe to this day that he's never come back. There's no way we can keep any of the law. You break one law, you've broken them all. You've broken every one of them. My righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. I mean look at the endless amount of self- self just deprivation and things that happened through the Pharisees, how they did everything to to keep the law perfectly. In fact they had this Six hundred and eleven different tenants they wrote to the law and how to keep them and how to they mean gotta give them credit. They had some incredible things they did. If they were to die, they tied unscrupulously. If they had a bumper crop, they gave 10% or more of that. They went over land and sea for any soul that they could bring into their call. And they were very proficient in the way they did it. They were so proficient that they had the complete complete uh protection of the Roman government to give them areas where they could actually crucify people if they didn't keep their their their interpretation of the law. You're not justified by keeping the law. You can't keep it It's our job to try to keep it, to pray, to honor the Lord. If you love me, you'll keep my commandments, but you can only do that through Christ My righteous servant shall justify many. We see the term righteous servant inspired by God to Isaiah to show how in Christ's human nature we as Christians are acquitted from eternal damnation through his sacrifice John 17, 19, and for their sakes I sanctify myself that they also might be sanctified through the truth. Well what would it have been like if Christ would have just come down, went on the cross, died, and went and didn't do anything else He had to fulfill the law. And he had to show, and he had to prove that he could keep that law, that he could show that he is perfect, that he would fulfill that law. That's so important. Verse 12. Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out a soul unto death, and he was numbered among the transgressors, and he bare the sins of many. And this is where it all comes together. And he made intercession. He makes intercession for us, for the transgressors. Intercession. He intercedes. He speaks to God for us. Is there anybody here on earth that we can go to that can intercede for us? Is there any priest? Is there any pastor? Bishop, deacon, elder? Do you come to any of the officers in this church and lay down your sins to us and have us offer them up to heaven? Well, one of the few churches that don't. Many churches do. They believe that man can do that Here Isaiah praises the victory which follows the death of Christ. His portion is from the Father, and it's his victory over his enemies. Here our Savior is triumphant over death. He is risen by the power of the Holy Spirit. The Lord God Almighty makes his enemies his footstool Psalm 110. 1. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. Our Lord and our Savior Jesus Christ reigns forever. What does he do? He divides the spoil with the strong. He shares the spoil. He shares with us. He rewards us. Now, I heard a statement from John Gersner, uh Dr. John Gersner years ago, and he said, Is any sin that you're prepared to do, is it worth going to hell for? Is it worth it? Is it worth an entire an entirety and eternity in hell? And really when he comes back and he talks about it, he says, I know some of you are you you people that are listening are saved. But we'll look at it this way. Is it losing some eternal rewards? Is it is it worth losing some eternal rewards over? Is it worth doing that? He divides the spoil with the strong. John 16, 33, these things I have spoken unto you that in me you might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation. Be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. The Lord gave the Lord God Almighty gave Christ the world. He has the whole world in his hands. Remember that song we used to sing in Sunday school? He has the whole world. He gives them the whole world, and he defeats his enemies. And because he has poured out his soul unto death, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. He commits his spirit to the Father. Into thy hand I commend my spirit. Luke 23, 46. And he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bare the sins of many. This part of the verse shows Christ's humiliation, being crucified between two thieves. We see in Mark chapter 15, verses 27 and 28, and with him they crucified, and with him they crucify two thieves, the one on his right hand and the other on his left. And the scripture was fulfilled with saith, and he was numbered with the transgressors. And he made intercession. And finally, in verse 12, he makes intercession with the transgressors. What does that mean? How important is that? Well, now you can see the importance of prayer. Because if you the Lord said, John 16, 24, hitherto you have not asked anything in my name. Ask and you shall receive. Why? That your joy may be full. You pray. We are to pray. Pray. I don't believe that you I don't believe it's possible to be a Christian and never want to pray There's got to be prayer. And Christ here, the travail of his soul is satisfied by the Lord God Almighty. He gives the whole world into his hands. Christ has already said, I've overcome the world. Be of good cheer. And in the meantime, I want to talk to you. I want to hear your voice. And it doesn't mean that we have to be out on a park bench and Christ appears like some kind of a hologram or something and sits down and we physically see him. No, that's faith. We need to sit down and talk to them. We need to it's anytime you want. You can come into this church, you can come and buy here. We do this a lot. I love doing this. You come in, you having a rough day? Open the doors, come in, you want to pray for somebody, kneel down at their chair and pray for them. Kneel down behind this pulpit and pray for a pastor, pray for this church. I mean, right now we're in a really tough time. The Lord's kept our doors open. I think it's wonderful. But pray. Go into your prayer closet and pray. He is interceding for you, he is that mediator. Christ makes intercession while on this earth. Remember with Peter, Luke chapter 22, verses 32, 31, and 32. And the Lord said, Simon. Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that ye may sift you like wheat. He may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee. That thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Right there. He prays for Peter right in front of him. We have so many examples of this in Scripture. Why not pray? We need to pray. Pastor Evans always says, pray, pray, pray. Sits down on the right hand, as we just read from Psalm 110. 1. He's on the right hand. Don't ever forget, when you read Acts chapter 7, when the stones were being hurled at Stephen, Some of these guys are probably pretty big guys and pretty strong. They're hurling stones at him. What'd he see? Other than the stones coming at him and ripping his body to shreds. What did he see? He saw Christ rising on the right hand off the throne. Oh, how I would not have wanted to be a Sadducee that day. They couldn't see it. They saw a light, but he saw the throne. He saw the intercession. Sit thou at my right hand. Well, this goes back to our original question. Why does Christ do this? He enters into a world, into a borrowed cradle, nowhere to lay his head, blasphemed, humiliated in his crucifixion, even hung between two thieves. Buried in a borrowed tomb, he was not of this world. He was teaching us to lay up our treasures in heaven. His kingdom is in heaven, and that is where his mind, heart, and soul were all the time And he's never wavered from this, he's our sweetest consolation. That's why I love that little cameo appearance of Simeon in Luke chapter 2 And he says to Simeon, Lil Simeon was told by the angels, You will not see death until you see Jesus. And as soon as he sees him, he says, Let thou thy servant depart in feast, for I have seen thy salvation. And in the verses right before that he calls Christ. It's my favorite name for Christ. The consolation of Israel. He's the consolation, the comfort. He's the consolation of all of us, the comfort for all of us I mean so why worry? Why worry? If if someone is in need right now, you need to help them We need to help them and bring this to them. We have ministries in this church that are outside of this church where one is making masks right now with tracts. We have thousands of tracts that have been given to us. Let's hand them out Let's sow seeds. Let's prepare our fields for rain. Christ is interceding. He hears our prayers. And so my question is that when it comes to opening and closing the doors of the church, Is it of Christ or is it of men? Who do we obey first? The Lord says, Come to my sanctuary. He says, we are, he says, open, he says, come. Many verses, come, come to me, physically come to me, worship. And he'll be there. You know a lot of churches are missing physical, very important physical applications that governors who don't care about what they do inside of their churches other than to keep them closed will not let them do They're missing communion. They're missing baptisms. They're missing exhorting one another. They're missing just physical fellowship together. Sunday school classes. Kids are not going to their Sunday school classes. Wednesday night prayer meetings have been basically put off. And these are really important times. And we need to be trusting the Lord for this. He's interceding for us. Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee for Isaiah 53, this gospel. We thank Thee for this message. We thank thee, Lord, that it's thy word. And we thank thee, Lord, that thou speaks to us and trains us through the Holy Spirit by the Word of God. And Lord, that is how we understand and we can obtain repentance unto life. And we just pray, Lord, that we that we will see of the travail of thy soul and we'll be satisfied in our hearts to know what thou didst for us and to remember it. And Lord, we all understand that the mortality rate of mankind is 100%. And we're all going to face that day, and we need to see thee, we need to speak to thee, and I pray that everyone here will be prepared To not put it off. To not put off prayer and Bible reading. Bless us, keep us from falling, and we thank thee for all that thou hast given us today. I pray that everyone would go from here and And look for an opportunity to give a comforting word from the consolation of Israel. And we just thank thee and praise thee in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.