January the nineteenth, we were in Isaiah chapter fifty-three, verses one through six. We got on verse seven a little bit, so we're going to pick up in verse seven where we left off. And the title of the message this morning is The Suffering Servant of Israel. Also could be the title Suffering Servant of Jehovah. Isaiah 53 is used in communion services. There are a lot of very important applications we see here, and it's a central focus of Scripture. So as we read, let's pay attention and see where the Lord leads us all this morning. Isaiah chapter 53, we pick up in verse 7. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth He was taken from prison and from judgment. And who shall declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living, and for the transgression of my people was he stricken. And he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death, because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall See his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. I've read it like this with those words, because I want you to get an impression of what's going on here This is not up for grabs. This is not up to man's interpretation. This is something that's written that is absolute. that it happened. It was prophesied. It was going to happen. And when it was written, it was as if it already had happened. There was no doubt about it. Shall, was, will, this was going to happen. And when Isaiah wrote it He knew it was coming, as if it had already been here. What significance does Isaiah 53 have in redemptive history? I guess I should ask the question, what doesn't it have? What significance doesn't it have in redemptive history? It is undeniable proof It is on number one that Christ is the Messiah. It's undeniable proof that he came into world to the world to suffer and save sinners. He is undeniably the Son of God. He is the only mediator to the throne of God, contrary to many popular beliefs today. Isaiah 53 is the central theme, the cement, the steel girders, and the complete framework of the Old and New Testament canons. We learn that redemption shall be open to the Gentiles as well as the Jews, and we can all here be very thankful for that this morning. Those who had not seen Christ should believe in him. We learn it from this passage. Those before the first advent of Christ, those after the first advent of Christ should believe in him, although they didn't see him. We don't see him. And people that were there that did see him, many didn't believe in him. This is an opportunity to be personally acquainted with the true and only heavenly Messiah, and this chapter proves it. Let's go back a little bit when we were in verses 1 through 6, real quick. You take the first 52 chapters and they're written wonderfully by Isaiah. And then all of a sudden. He stops. Verse 53 opens up with a question. Who hath believed thy report after all the fifty-two chapters of prophecy and speaking of the problems with the Jews? Talking about the holiness of God in chapter 6 and going through the history of Isaiah. Out of nowhere, Isaiah says, is anybody listening? Who hath believed our report? Who's our? Well, whose our report? I love it because Isaiah is now finding a common thread with Abraham and Moses and Jacob The prophets, and he's saying, Who hath believed our report? We've been given this summons and this commission by Christ to give the truth? Who is going to listen? Who will hear us? Is this question any different today? Who will hear? Who will listen? And then we're going to ask another question a little bit later that I believe is just threaded right in with this question. Who will hear us? The prophet whose job is to deliver and interpret the oracles of God Almighty asks, who will hear the guarantee of the coming Messiah? And this is what we talked about. And he's asking a very pivotal question, who will hear? Who will hear the guarantee? And this this prophet was given a very difficult job, much like Jeremiah, much like Ezekiel. The Lord said, speak, talk, speak about me, give them the truth, give them the miracles, show them the power of God. There's one problem with all of this. They're not going to listen. Because their ears have been shut. Do it anyway. He said, do it anyway, keep going, and don't give up. He will die, Christ will die, and be utterly rejected by his people. Just as we read in John chapter 1, verses 10 and 11. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. Israel wasn't ready Well, the question this morning that we can all ask amongst ourselves as we learn together, are we ready? Are we ready for the second coming? He's coming back. Well, I could ask this question. Do we really believe there's going to be a second coming? Didn't It say in Old Testament, the New Old Testament, all the way through. Moses said in Deuteronomy 18, verses 15, he says, There is a prophet coming, and those be woe be unto them that won't hearken unto him. And then you see the prophecies all the way through the book of Joshua. We see the prophecies that David gives, and we could be here all day talking about that. And then Solomon gives, and then we get to Isaiah Isaiah said that he was coming. Now the question is this morning. Let's make this very easy. Did he come? Yes, he came the first time. That's why celebrate Christmas. We have Easter So if we believe that, are we preparing for the second coming? Christ said he would come back twice. He's coming back again. And are we ready for it? That's a very important question. Or are we too busy preparing for other things that have no eternal value? He was received by a remnant of people that he called. For every faithful elect follower who loved Christ, there were hundreds of Jews that wanted him dead. Isn't it amazing the miracle that he lived to be almost right in the right in the year friend at thirty-three years old? He was pursued when he was a baby, if we remember that. So as we go forward, let's go to verse 7 and pick up where we left off. That was an overview of verses 1 through 6. And in verse 6, I like to read that real quick. All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. And then it opens up into the second portion of Isaiah 53. What happened What's going to happen? What is the prophecy? Not only are we getting a prophecy, we're getting details. We're getting intricate details of Christ's personality. What exactly that he did? How he really viewed himself and how what he was carrying out here for us And if you love Jesus Christ, this is for you. If you don't, you need it to be for you. And you need to beg the Lord and ask him to come into your heart now. Because it's so worth it. That's a pretty good insurance policy, being alive for eternity. You know, you can't buy that from Geico or or All State or anybody. Um, you know, to who am I? Life insurance problem with some weird company, but you can't buy that from them. Isaiah 53, 7 says he was express uh uh he was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Think about that a minute. We go kicking and screaming and complaining if somebody cuts us off in traffic Here, Jesus was for he was knew he was going to fulfill redemptive history, and he never even replied back. He opened not his mouth. This means that his death was voluntary. Why Why was this death voluntary? Remember when Pilate said he had the power to what? He said to Jesus, and that took a lot of real gall to look at Christ. And he had already said that his wife said, Be careful of this guy. He's a problem. He's a real problem. And Pilate had said, I find no fault in him. And then he comes back and he says to him, Do you know, Jesus, I have the power to crucify and release you? And you have to love the demeanor of Christ. He could have just started laughing at him and said, Well, what are you talking about? What power do you have? You don't even take the next breath unless I allow it to happen, right? Here's what Jesus says. Very reverently. He had no absolute obligation to be reverent. He could have struck him down right where he stand and made him nothing but a couple of coals. smoking off of the ground. He says, in John nineteen, ten, then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me He's demanding reverence from Christ. You don't you you're not speaking to me with reverence, he's saying? Knowest thou not that I have the power to crucify thee and have power to release thee? One of the few words Jesus said in his kangaroo court arraignment, where he was unjustly tried, Jesus answered, Thou couldst have no power at all against me except it were given to thee from above. Therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin. Another brilliant reply from Jesus. And there's so many of them Only Christ could have satisfied our disobedience. And he did it voluntarily. He did it quietly. Romans 5. 19 we read. That's Romans 5. 19. For as by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners So by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous by one This is a real problem today with pluralism. Do you all know what pluralism is? Pluralism means there are a lot of ways to heaven, and there is a plurality of religions that we can hold on to. Just write it down. Which one fits your personality the best? If Christ isn't the center of your life, which religion can you get on the wheel of fortune, run the roll the dice or roll the wheel, and sit there and say, ah, that's the one that fits my schedule? That's what we have today in religion. It's pluralism. And there's so many isms. Steve Lawson, I remember listening to him, he gives us humanism, relativism. He's a really good pastor. I love to listen to him. Reverend or Pastor Steve Lawson. You have humanism, you have Gnosticism, pluralism, relativism, atheism, and there's so many isms he says there's got to be somewhere a wasm. That makes sense, doesn't it? Here you have so many ways people say to heaven. There's only one, not by the works of many. Not by the purse of the Roman Catholic Church, not by the laws perceived by the Pharisees, not by karma, dogma, the Kabbalah, Buddha, Muhammad, entertainment or prosperity service, by one The one, the only true Emmanuel, God with us, Jesus Christ. We read in Philippians 2 verse 8, He became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. That doesn't mean he became obedient unto death because of the Pharisees and the Romans. He wasn't obeying them. He said, I obeyed the will of the Father. And how many times in his ministry? Remember reading all the miracles? How many times he was pursued to be killed. Even when he first spoke in his hometown in Nazareth, they grabbed him to throw him over a cliff. And he goes walks right through him and they couldn't touch him and he said, Okay, mine hour hasn't come yet. What it is, I'll let you know, because you'll know right away. But right now you can't touch a hair on my head until mine hour has come. That's unlimited power. He did this for us on his own, by himself, voluntarily, willingly, lovingly, and in perfect submission to the cup of wrath. that he had the dep to take to partake in to cleanse his people of their sins. When it came for our redemption, Christ did not go down kicking and screaming, but obeyed the will of the Father perfectly to save us from our sins. It says, yet he opened not his mouth. You go to Matthew chapter 27, verse 11 to 14. He was silent before the kangaroo court of Pilate. Here's what it says. When he was accused of the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. Then said Pilate unto him, Hearst thou not how many things they witness against thee? And he answered him and he answered to him to never a word, insomuch that the governor marveled greatly I mean, uh the gu the governor marveled greatly? This man was con this man, according to him he was a man, was accused of insurrection. He was accused of all these falsehoods. Witnesses said that he said he would destroy the temple, build it up in three days. So evidently they said that he had basically blasphemed the temple And the governor was he was befuddled. He was befuddled with this man. He had no idea what he was dealing with. Well, he was dealing with the Son of God. Christ was very quiet going to the cross, but until then he was never silent when proclaiming the only true way of salvation. And that's a lesson for us. We must not be quiet when it comes to the opportunity of giving a witness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Outside of these doors, at the end of the driveway, you've just entered your mission field. And when you get out there, there are going to be people that are hurting. You've got to be ready. We all need to be ready We need to be able to proclaim the gospel. Remember, Christ was never silent during his ministry. He was not silent when he laid out our duties as Christians on the Sermon on the Mount. Oh, that he proclaimed beautiful tenants and tenor to tenor of what he said was beautiful. The applications still funnel into our hearts as Christians today, and they are just as live and have a heartbeat as they did when he stood up and he gave them on the mount How many times did he stand on the Sea of Galilee and he cried out and he gave the gospel of the kingdom of heaven Talked about the commandments, spoke of Moses, spoke of Abraham, and it was like an amphitheater. You could hear his voice standing on the Sea of Galilee in a boat, and it went all through the mountains. I've heard accounts from people that have been there and they say you can hear somebody's voice way up into the mountains. He didn't need a microphone. You know, he didn't need some kind of recording apparatus. His voice carried out all over the place And he wasn't silent then. He wasn't silent at the Caesarea Philippi confession. Remember that? Remember when a lot of the disciples had left? And then he came to the disciples and he looked at him and he said, Whom do you say that I, the Son of Man, am? Peter said, Well, that's an easy one. Thou art the Christ of the living God. And Jesus said as as if to say, Good one, Peter. That was good. And I'm going to bless you for saying that. He wasn't silent then when he was declaring who he really was John Calvin said, though he had a just defense to offer for having become answerable for our guilt, he wished to submit silently to the sentence that we might loudly glory in the righteousness of faith. Obtained through free grace. That's incredible, free grace. Well, I compare this to myself. Christ never complained Well, let me read you this real quick, or just talk about it just for a second. I listened to a message years ago from John MacArthur about thankfulness. Christ never complained. And I think of my own thankfulness and my complaining. This is for me. When we complain we have bitterness, tear each other apart, grumble. We are ultimately showing we are not thankful for the grace of God gives us through through his wonderful gospel. Everything that comes out of our mouths should show thankfulness to our Savior, John MacArthur said. And I love that sermon. Because it taught me a lot about myself. This proves we see in the book of James, what does James say about our mouths? It's a rudder. Behold also the ships, which though they be so great and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm whithersoever the governor listeth. Even so the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. Christ opened not his mouth Many times we should not open our mouths. George Washington said, think twice before we speak once. I always ask the Lord to help me to think five times before I speak once, at least. I can be a chronic complainer. You know what it's like you get up in the morning and you read your Bible and you pray. I hope you all know what that's like And all of a sudden you go out the door and you think you're Iron Man. You're out there and you're going to conquer the world. You just have the grace of God on you, and you're going to go out and save people, heal people, and all these things. You know, you're thinking these things in your head And all of a sudden you get out in the Allen 695 here, on this parking lot they call 695. You go out there and you're all feeling Christian, you're feeling wonderful, and all of a sudden you get cut off You get in the truck, spill your tea on your lap, on my pants and I'm soaking wet, freezing cold. Then someone cuts me off. Lisa calls and said there's a bill I haven't paid that I forgot about. And then all of a sudden by the time noon comes around I'm complaining like I'm on the Shanghai Trans Rapid of complaining. So fast and I've totally forgot about praying and reading my Bible. All of a sudden I'm now I'm now furious. I'm thinking, is life ever going to end? Is this ever going to stop? And then all of a sudden a hundred other things happen between then and about six o'clock. And then all that great work that you did that morning, it just kind of fails. And the Lord says, do all things without murmurings and disputings, and that one kind of gets me right in the heart. And if you don't know what the Shanghai Trans Rapid is, it's the fastest commercial levitation train in the world. And that's how fast we can go to our complaining. I'm right there. Complaining is a problem, and I think of that And then I think of how Christ could have walked right up to not one, but two evil trials that he faced. Number one, it was in the evening. That was totally against the Jewish law. He had to go in the basement of Annas' house with Caiaphas. That was against the law. And then he was turned over to the Romans. That was against the law. And he could have went in and he could have complained and murmured and said, I'm done with this. This is crazy. He could have. Instead of standing there silent, what could he have done? Matthew 26, 53. There's already been an alternative given in Scripture that shows what he could have done. Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? A Roman legion consists of 6,000 soldiers. That'd be over 72,000. Once one w look what one angel did in 2 Kings 1935 to 185 screaming Assyrians that hated the Lord. One angel had them dead the next morning where the Israelites were picking their pockets the next morning because they were laying dead. Hundred and eighty-five thousand Assyrians, filled with gold, filled with swords, filled with all kinds of weaponry. One angel slaughtered every one of them, and they were laying there dead. When the Israelites were scared to death that they were going to be annihilated the next day. That's what one angel was capable of. And the Lord said, I'll bring 72,000 of them. I'll bring a million of them. I'll bring one of them. I don't have to bring any of them. I could annihilate you right here, right now. But he kept his mouth silent. And we can't even keep our mouth silent over the slightest tiny little infractions, you know A little bit of anger here, a little bad news there, and we're ready to go. You know what I'm saying? We read, he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb. This is an ordinance of the Passover, and then required an unblemished lamb. The blood was to be put over to the sides of the doorposts and over on the lintel of the door. Christ is the unblemished land and will pay the ultimate sacrifice. Now we've just taken it to another step. Voluntarily Christ goes on the cross by his own power, by the power of God. Why What man could have gotten up on that cross to save any of our sins? So why is it that we live in a world where people depend on other man for their for the re for the re redeeming of their sins? Why do people line up at the confessional booth of the Catholic Church? That man in there is no doubt just as wicked as they are, and he doesn't have the power to cleanse anything. And he's certainly not a mediator But the thousands and millions of people line up and they go in there and confess their sins to a guy who's probably more wicked than they are. And why do we do that? Why are there religions that have works-oriented theology? If I hear a message one more time on the radio where the pastor asks, how is your process of justification going I don't think I'm getting to the point where I don't even want to turn my radio on. There's no process of justification. The process of justification was finished at the cross of Calvary with Jesus Christ. We are living in a process of sanctification. Because of our sins and hell, it's a process. We don't have a process of justification. We are exhorted to patience and meekness to follow the examples of Christ here in this verse. We are to be ready to suffer and to think it not strange when persecution approaches our lives, just as Christ did, and said nothing. Romans 5. 3 we read, and not only so, but we glory in tribulations also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience. Verse 8, he was taken from prison and from judgment. This could be a little confusing, but actually it's really simple when you study it. First, yeah, I struggled with this one. He was taken from prison and from judgment. How was he taken from prison and from judgment? He wasn't taken from prison and from judgment. He was put on a cross and crucified and put in a tomb. So what does this mean? Well, there's got to be something supernatural going on here. There has to be something beyond our comprehension that he was taken out of. Look at it like this Here Christ was convicted of insurrection, blasphemy, and convicted of all these horrible things. And then, well, he must be guilty if he was convicted, wasn't he? Most people thought so. Even the disciples were scared to death to be identified with him. They ran and they hid. The only ones that were left faithful at the foot of the cross were the ladies. By the way, they were the first teachers, by the way, when they went from the tomb and they went and taught the disciples that it was Jesus that resurrected. They're the first ones that taught the resurrection were women. I love that. And so they were the ones at the foot of the cross. He was taken from prison and from judgment. All right, well now you have to get your supernatural glasses on to figure out what this means because this is very important. How can a man who's been convicted and who has been given a death sentence, who is supposed to be a horrible insurrectionist, get rewarded? How can Christ be rewarded? Taken away, he was rescued. You would imagine that one who's convicted of this capital crime would be condemned to hell. Christ was executed then, he was seated on the right hand of God Why? He was innocent in and of himself completely and never broke a law. Any of God's commandments? Never. He fulfilled the law. He never sinned. If you never sinned one time in your life, you now have the power to resurrect yourself from the dead. Because what is death a byproduct of? It's a byproduct of sin. So the fact that Christ could rise from the dead shows he had power. He could do that because he never sinned. So the reward was he was taken out of prison. out of judgment, pulled off of this wicked earth, and put on the right hand of God, which is his natural, rightful place in eternity. That's where he belongs. And that's exactly where we read in Psalm 110. 1. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. And there's his enemies right here, the ones that put him in that tomb Or, you know, Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus, they were not his enemies. They put him physically into him. I'm talking about the people that killed him Jesus was quickly taken. He was tried. He was executed unjustly and was separated from the Father. He was humiliated and crucified. But the opening of this verse carries a lot of weight. He was not swallowed up. He was not taken away. He was given the highest seat in the universe, is exactly what happened Where no man nor angels would be given on the right hand of the Father. He was given the alternate throne. Christ is our liege. He is our king, but he calls us a friend that sticketh closer than the brother. What a wonderful king, a wonderful comforter to have. He's victorious in death. He triumphed over his enemies, and he appointed, he is appointed to be judge of all Jehovah Elohim is his name. That means he is the creator and judge of all the earth. How do you think about that? How do you feel that Christ is your judge? I'm so thankful. Because I'm going to die. It's coming. The mortality rate of human beings is 100%. It's coming. You're going to die, I'm going to die. We can fight it. We can lament over it. We can cry over it. We can do whatever we want. But it's coming whether we like it or not. It's coming. So if you can pull away the emotion and ask the question, who's going to be standing with me in the day of judgment? Who's going to be there to say, I shed my blood? Well done, thou good and faithful servant, come into my kingdom. That's our Lord Jesus Christ. And so why Don't ever worship unless you can find somebody that'll be standing there next to you on the judgment throne and they can arbitrate for you. Don't worship them. Because they have no power. Christ is a judge. He's our lawyer. He is our attorney. And when he's there, he will never let you down. I love that. What could be one more wonderful Can prove it by his resurrection. Well if we can prove if we can prove his resurrection, and that's a big that's that's not a big if. That's that's de facto If we can prove his resurrection, then we can prove his perfection. 1 Corinthians 15, 5. What do we read in the Old Testament? I can't remember the verses, but there's several of them. Let a matter be established by two witnesses. Even if there were two witnesses that saw the resurrection, we'd have everything we need. Well, let's go to 1 Corinthians 15, 5 and 6. And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren all at once. That's a lot of witnesses. We see Christ is judge of all through his resurrection. Philippians 2 verse 9. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That says it all, doesn't it? Let me make a distinction here in this verse. You got one of two choices. And I'm not saying you can decide on your own to follow Jesus and you can choose him without him. I'm not saying that. But you have one of two options here. You can either worship him now and be thankful for what he's done, or you can be like everybody else and say, I don't believe in him. He's a fairy tale. Oh, he was Jesus parmixum, which means he was a prophet amongst equals. He was one of these historical facts like George Washington, like Socrates or Plato, or one of these. Greek mythology god, he was a legend in his own time, but that doesn't mean anything for me now. He can be like one of them. And then at that point, I remember Hal Ricker. Pastor Hal Ricker, he was given a communion message years ago. He was explaining this verse and he said, What'll happen is that an angel will grab you by the back of your neck and slam you on your knees till they're almost broken and you will be down your head in front of Jesus Christ declaring him to be king. It's not going to be, they're not going to ask you to come off of your chair and say, can you come over here and kneel down to the Lord? No. They will put you there And that will happen after the fact. Seek the Lord while he may be found, Isaiah 55, 1. We can either do it now, which I think is the most wonderful, wonderful existence here on this earth. Well you're going to do it later. See what see what the wicked kings of the world they are experiencing, the ones that have died, they're experiencing right now that this is now a reality Barack Obama is going to be kneeling down to Christ. Okay? Nancy Pelosi is going to be kneeling down to Christ. That's going to happen. And you can name all the list of people that hate the Lord, they're going to be kneeling down and declaring him as king, and they're going to be begging for mercy. But not you. You're going to be judging them. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, Paul says, Why do we go to the unjust? Because therefore we are going to be judging the angels. We're not going to be just judging them. We're going to be judging the angels. I think this is a very, very good way to remind us where we're going. This is the best GPS map we'll ever have, is Isaiah 53. Who shall declare his generation? There's question number two. What was the first question? Who hath believed our report? Then Isaiah takes it to another level. Who will be faithful to declare his generation? Who will be faithful to remind us of the begats in Luke chapter 1? Who will be faithful to go all the way back to the beginning of time and to announce that Christ is the creator, that he was their creation, that he is our Savior? Who will declare his generation? We can certainly see the declaration in the Bible of Jesus bar Joseph or Jesus the son of Joseph's early earthly generations. He was of the tribe of Judah, he was the seed of Jesse, he was of David, and he was born of a virgin. These are all components of the gospel of Jesus Christ. This morning in the adult Sunday School class, we learned about what happened when you declare the generations of Jesus Christ. What happened to Stephen the deacon in Acts chapter 7 He pours his heart out. He declares the generation. He goes all the way back to the Old Testament, talks about Moses, and goes all the way through, and he pours his heart out to the Jewish council. And then they turned around, got on their knees, and they begged forgiveness. No. They gnashed their teeth and they picked up stones and they started hurling them at him. And he was dead within minutes. And then the next time you go into Acts chapter 8. This is about the beginning of the early Christian church. These are the ones who were declaring the generations of Jesus Christ. Then there's Saul of Tarsus, and if you need you to love Paul, but then you read the beginning of where Saul was before he got saved. Breathing out hissings, creating havoc on the Christian church. He was pulling people away. And then you see the love of Christ shine through that very verse, even with havoc and hissing, you go to Acts chapter 9. You cannot outsin God's grace. And here Saul of Tarsus is killing Christians, and in the next chapter, Jesus basically says, okay, you're on the way to Damascus. You're going to kill the church. I am the church. You're going to come through me. You're not going to touch a hair on their head. And wait till you hear this. You're now going to follow me. And so what does Paul say? Saul of Tarsus? Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? What else could he say? Very powerful man And then we were learning this morning about Philip the Deacon, and the first encounter he had is with Simon the Sorcerer, that that was the religion and the sentiment of the day, believing in magicians and sorcerers, believing in all this weird stuff, Gnosticism. And all of a sudden, there's the war between Philip and Christ. Simon and Christ. Philip is defending the gospel of Christ. And who wins? Well, Simon gets saved. I think that Christ always wins. We are taught here in this question in verse 8 that the line of the generations of our Lord Jesus Christ Is the only way. And this is what most religions have a problem with. Who shall declare as generations is directly pointing to the perpetuity of the church? Christ and his church can never be separated. Christ and his church can never be put out. Down through the ages, look what a bruised reed and a little tender plant the Christian churches look like. Look at the Bible-believing churches that you've all seen. When do you go into a Bible-believing church where you have thousands of people flocking in? Where do you see them flowing out of the parking lot? Where do you see them having all these great big outreaches and all where they're worth millions of dollars? I know in our own presbytery and outside of the presbytery, I've been to more churches outside of our presbytery than in the presbytery. I've never seen many more. I mean at the most. This is a mega church to me, especially when we only have eighty people That was a lot of people. We met for years with six people in a living room. Then we had 20, then we had 15, then we had 30, then we had 10, then we go back and forth, back and forth. And then I come here and consistently I've seen more people come through this church than I ever seen in every other church. So when people say that it's a church of 300 people, I almost start thinking that's too many people. You know? And so we see down through the ages, Christ's church has never died. Now go back into the the ancient religions, the pagan religions of old. Where do you see a Philistine today? Where do you see an Ammonite? Where you see a Hittite. You know? Where do you see a the Parasites? Then you have the uh Ammonites, the Amorites. And I forget who David was fighting with Job. I think that was the Ammonites, the tribe, the Moabites. There's a lot. Where do you see them today? They've all fizzled out. Not the Christian church. Christ's word endures forever. He was cut off out of the land of the living. He did indeed die. He finished and paid it all. He was cut off in the world as we should be spiritually. Christ was cut away from the world. He was done. When it was finished, it was time for him to go back up to where he belonged. And that's on the right hand of God. And he was cut out of this world. In our hearts, that's where we need to be as Christians. We need to be separate and cut away from this world. Does that mean we have to go downstairs in our basement and hide ourselves in a bubble and stay away from everybody and go around pointing our fingers at everybody? No. It means we're in the world. We're not of the world. Let me tell you something. You're going to come across a lot of people. Be there for them. Love them. They're your mission field. Don't sit there and stick your finger in their face. Ah, you're not saved. You're not worth the time of day. I can see the way you're living. This is a no hope here. It might be years before somebody comes to the knowledge of Jesus Christ. Witness to them for 30 years if you have to. But be there for them. Pray for them. Don't enable them. There's a fine line there, but you're not supposed to shut your phones off and stay away from them like there's some kind of a virus. We're not supposed to do that. Christ was cut off out of the land of living. He came here and he was amongst us. We need to be amongst the world and we need to shine All of us do. I need to learn that more than anyone else here put together. I know. Our Christian walk cuts us off from the world. We should not be of this world as Christ was not, but we are in the world. Thomas Watson says in the Puritan pulpit, as closely to the cross as Christ was nailed, that is how close our Christianity should be to us. For the transgressions of my people was he afflicted. I can see we're going to have to have another message about this. We're running out of time. For the transgressions of my people was he afflicted. The wounds were inflicted on him for the sins of the people. We have to consider it was for our sake and not his that he went to the cross. It wasn't for his sake. Okay, now get out Isaiah 53, give you some homework, and you'll all get A-pluses on this because you're going to do one little thing that's very easy. I want you to find one verse in any type of messianic prophecy. Where the Lord Jesus Christ has to ask forgiveness for his sins. Okay? Now the Pharisees asked Jesus a really important question: Why do you call yourself David's son and David's Lord? Well, to them they thought David was what could be a Messiah. They had all kind of messiahs. Moses was a messiah, Abraham was a messiah, even though he wasn't a Jew And they thought David was a Messiah, Solomon could be a Messiah, somebody could be a Messiah. Why do you call him, why do you call yourself David's son and his Lord? Well, there's a little difference between David, and I can tell you there's seven penitential psalms that prove it. Isaiah, I mean Psalm 51. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude of my tender mercies, blot out what? My transgressions Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sins, for I acknowledge my transgressions and my sin is ever before thee. Who? That's before Christ. He's asking Christ for cleansing. Christ isn't asking David for cleansing, right? For the transgressions of my people was he afflicted. not for his own sin. Where do we see this again in the Bible? Look at look here in Acts chapter 8, 28 to 38. I'm going to read it all. It's a good story. Here's Philip. And it says he was returning and sitting in his chariot. He reads Isaiah the prophet. Then the spirit said unto Philip, Go near and join thyself to this chariot. And Philip ran through there to him and heard him read the prophet Isaiah and said, Understand this that what thou readest? Oh I love this. Do you know what you're reading? He says, and he said How can I accept some man should guide me? Here the Ethiopian eunuch is reading. He's got a scroll and he's reading Isaiah 53. And he goes to Philip. He goes, do you get this? And that's why we need to read commentaries. This was Philip's commentary, and he was explaining it with verses. I love it. He goes, he says here, how can I accept some man should guide me? Can you help me with this? He says And he desired Philip that he should come up and sit with him. The place of the scripture which he reads was this. He was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and like a lamb dumb before his shear, so he opened not his mouth In his humiliation his judgment was taken away, and who shall declare his generation? For his life is taken from the earth? And the eunuch answered Philip and said, I pray thee, of whom speakest the prophetess of himself or of some other man, then Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water. What doth hinder me to be baptized? And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. What could be a wonderful, more wonderful story? He didn't say here, if thou believest with all thine heart and go down and pay a bunch of money to the priest Or, you know, if you chant this a million times, or if you do this or do that, he said, believe. And he says, I believe Jesus Christ is the Son of God. John Calvin writes this. We thought him to be smitten, wounded by God, and afflicted. In the second clause he shows how great was the ingratitude and wickedness of the people. who did not know why Christ was so severely afflicted, but imagine that God smote him on account of his own sins, though they knew that he was perfectly innocent, and his innocence was attested even by his judge. What is he saying here? He's saying even those that attested and saw Jesus said he was innocent came back and said that he sinned. And John Calvin asked the question, I love it. He's forgotten more than I'll ever know about the Bible. And he says, this raised a real question. Why did they say that he sinned, but that he was innocent? Which is it? Well, we see here in verse nine, and he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death. Wow. That's that says it all. Because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. That means he never sinned. He had done no violence. Oh he could have. Neither was any deceit in his mouth This brings us to a question and answer. I'd like to read this real quick and then we'll finish. We'll pick up with this the next time. This refers to Christ's humiliation. This is what our church constitution says from the Westminster Confession of Faith. Wherein consisted Christ's humiliation after his death? That's the question. Number 50 in the larger catechism, the Westminster Confession of Faith, wherein consisted Christ's humiliation after his death? Christ's humiliation after his death consisted in his being buried and continuing in the state of the dead and under the power of death till the third day, which hath been otherwise expressed in these words, he descended into hell. He didn't stay there. He went on the right hand of God. There's a lot of conjecture and question at what point in time he was there, but it said he went into Sheol. Well, he was lifted up, he was taken out of prison and out of judgment, he was put on the right hand of God, he was there on his own accord, but it says he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death because he had done no violence. Going back from all of that to where he was buried, and I'm going to read a couple verses, and we'll finish in a minute here. Think about where he was buried. That says a lot about the situation. Has you have you all ever heard of a place called Gehana In Scripture. If you study it, Gehana was a disgusting place. It was a great big pauper's grave where bodies just smoldered and they were burned. They were constantly burning and they didn't put the fire out because they had to get rid of the smell and the bodies. That was Christ's rightful place if he was a criminal, if he had sinned, and if he was an insurrectionist When they took the thieves down off the cross, that's where they would have been buried. That's the kind of burial you got. And the burning was a very pagan ritual. And so they took the bodies, they threw them in Gehana, that's where you wound up. If you were a pauper, if you were a criminal, if you had been sentenced to death, that's what happened to your body. Now switch gears a minute. Now think in reality: where was he buried He got a rich funeral. He got a brand spankin' new tomb that was hewned out and it was very expensive in the middle of the town That tomb was absolutely one of the that would have been top of the line. You go into the funeral home and you order, you're trying to plan your funeral ahead of time if people do that and all Me and you can spend a lot of money on all on the plot and if you want to get a mausoleum and all that stuff and all. And Christ got the best of the best. He was buried, but he was given the best because why? He not was, he is a king. And God made that very evident that his humiliation was for us, not himself. He was buried. First Corinthians 15, 3 says, For I delivered unto you first of all the which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures And that he was buried, and that he rose again on the third day according to the Scriptures. Matthew twelve forty says, For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth Acts 2. 31, he seeing this before, spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, neither did his flesh ever see, it never saw corruption. His flesh never did see corruption corruption. And so with the wicked and the and the rich in his death takes on two meanings. With the wicked, with us, for us. It doesn't mean he was wicked. A lot of people say that. You look at you read about it, you'll see it on the internet, especially. A lot of people thinking that, well, he's not Christ. If he's wicked, that means he sinned. No, he was there for the wicked. That's what the translation means. He shared our curse to be entombed in a grave. Although he was sinless, he was buried for three days. And with the rich alludes to the fact that he was buried in honor, although accused of as being a common criminal He would not be taken to a criminal's grave, but he was taken to the grave of Joseph of Arimathea. And read that John chapter 19, verse 38. So we see that with the wicked and rich also speaks volumes of those that accused him, tried him, and are barbarically tortured him. And here we read Calvin John Calvin concludes that Christ was exposed to the reproaches and insolence and lawless passions of wicked men. For on the one hand the Pharisees and priests rush upon him with unbridled rage and foul slander, on the other hand, Pilate. though well aware of his innocence, condemns him in opposition to law and justice, and again, on the other hand, the Roman soldiers, ready for every kind of barbarity, cruelty, and wickedly execute the cruel and wicked sentence Who would not conclude that Christ was crushed and buried amidst those impious and bloody hands? That's an important statement because what it means is that they wanted to make him look this way. Remember how they paid the soldiers to watch over the tomb and to lie about him? This is where he was given a very bad account, and a lot of people fell for it and believed it. Well, if you don't, if you have a problem with it, then I'm begging you, go back to Isaiah 53. Because he had done no violence, neither was there any deceit in his mouth. And then we'll the next time we'll pick up, yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him, he has put him to grief. And we see how Christ did that for the propitiation of our sins. So let's finish this morning. Our Heavenly Father, Isaiah 53, is wonderful. It's a perfect, perfect prophecy of the coming of the Messiah. And Lord, we believe that if thou said that Christ was coming the first time, that thou would be here, and we know that thou were already here. Oh Lord, thou will be here a second time. And are we ready? For thou hast said it could come as a thief in the night when we least expect it. So I pray that there is no one here saying, Well, I'll wait. I'll wait one day, and we really can't say that because we have no power within ourselves to pick Any part of our salvation, Lord. It's all of thee. And we just thank thee, Lord, that we could read of these wonderful verses. Who hath believed our report and to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? Well, we know this morning it has been revealed to us. And I pray this morning our hearts would be open to love it, to receive it, to meditate upon it, to pray about it, and then to witness about it, and to help some poor soul this week that may be hurting really hard. Bless us and keep us from falling, we pray. And we thank thee for these words that Thou hast given us and what thou hast taught us together this morning. In Jesus Christ's name, our Messiah, we pray. Amen.