Daniel it kind of uh works together with the series we already did. It picks up where Second Kings left left off. And it also meshes in with revelation, with prophecy of the end times and of the future. And so let's turn to Daniel chapter 1. Daniel chapter 1. So we'll continue doing 1 Corinthians, but we'll also alternate that with Daniel now, Old Testament and New Testament. So we have Daniel chapter 1 and verse 1. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, came Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, unto Jerusalem and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand, with part of the vessels of the house of God, which he carried into the land of Shinar, to the house of his God, and he brought the vessels into the treasure house. of his God. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, just open up thy word to us this morning. Forgive us of our sin. Help us to be the Christians that thou would have us to be. Bless in our communion. And oh Lord, we thank thee for the help and strength that we have to come into thy house this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have picking up right where 2 Kings left off, which we studied the whole book of 2 Kings. And at 2 Kings, at the end of the book. Jerusalem fell. Fell to Nebuchadnezzar and to the Babylonians. But if you notice here, at the end of 2 Kings, it was King Zechariah, who was the king of uh Israel or Judah, and when it finally fell, but here we have Jehoiakim. And this is a previous captivity And so there were a couple different captivities, a couple different falls of Jerusalem. And this one was in 605 BC. The final fall was in 586. So in 605 we have Jehoiakim as the king, and so we have an encounter that back in Second Kings and back in those those Accounts, but here we have, picking up with that, Nebuchadnezzar comes and he comes against Jerusalem and defeats Jerusalem and destroys Jerusalem. Well here he doesn't destroy it completely right here. But he takes captives and he takes the king captive, Jehoiakim, and he also took some people out of Israel, out of Judah, and we're going to see that as we go on here. And he took the vessels of the house of God. And that was a big thing. And you know, Israel was God's chosen people. It was God's chosen people. And God chose Israel not because they were many or better than other countries, but God just shined upon Israel and chose them. And God has chosen Israel for all of eternity For all of eternity, God has chosen Israel. Israel is his chosen people. Now Israel today has fallen far from God. It doesn't accept Jesus Christ. But it's still God's chosen people physically. And you notice back here in Daniel's time, back here, it was God's chosen people, but it had fallen away from God, and God judged it God carried them into captivity. God destroyed them, but not completely, but he destroyed them, destroyed their city there. And so, you know, Israel had fallen away from God back in 2 Kings and back here in Daniel, and Israel has fallen away from God today. But it's still God's chosen people. And God will come back to Israel at the time of the end and bring all of Israel back to himself. And so here we have Israel, the chosen people, carried into captivity. Then you go on to verse 3. And the king spake unto Ashpenaz, the master of the eunuchs. That he should bring certain of the children of Israel and of the king's seed and of the princes. So they're going to bring some captives Children in whom was no bless no blemish, but well favored and skillful in all wisdom and cunning and knowledge and understanding science And such as had ability in them to stand in the king's palace, and whom they might teach the learning and the tongue of the Chaldeans. And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat and of the wine which he drank. So nourishing them three years that in the end thereof they might stand before the king So here the king Nebuchadnezzar put out a decree that some captives were going to be brought back from Israel. And he brought back captives from other countries And you know, you have the king, but the king can't do everything just by himself. He has to have assistance. He has to have people helping him. And he wanted to have quality people helping him. And so he wanted to recruit the right kind of people to help him in his kingdom. It's like today. You know what's the big difference between a really great football team and not quite so great? Well, a big thing is recruiting. Recruiting the talent. Recruiting the guys that have the talent to be good quarterbacks and good receivers and whatever And you gotta get the right guys in there. And so it's a big thing when it comes to recruiting time with uh universities and college football and And they have a big thing about who did the best job of recruiting. Well, here we have Nebuchadnezzar. He's recruiting These recruits weren't voluntary recruits, they were uh compulsory recruits. And so these people were taken. They were taken. And what kind of recruits did he get? He wanted those that were already skillful in wisdom, cunning in knowledge, and understanding science. and had ability in them. He wanted them with a good start to begin with, to show that they were good material for recruits. You know, why is it that a college degree is required for so many things You know, I've heard many people complain that, you know, a college degree really doesn't have much to do with what the person does later on. But it does in that it shows the person can apply himself, that he can understand complicated things, and that he can follow directions. That's what it shows, not necessarily the things that he learned in college. And so these people that were recruited here, they already had had some education They had already shown that they had ability, that they could do well. It's like in the Air Force You know, in the Air Force, uh, you know, in order to be a pilot, you have to have a college degree. Well, what does a college degree have to do with being a pilot? Well, it shows that you can apply yourself and that you can follow directions. And so, anyway, so they have that as a requirement And so here are these recruits, they had these skills. And then it said they could stand in the king's palace. That they were eloquent, that they could speak well. You all remember the old movie My Fair Lady. And the old movie was this girl in the gutter that couldn't speak well, and so she was taught how to speak well. And to be a and being able to speak well qualified her to be in a shop for different things for other things because she could speak well. And so that was a big thing And so here it says, those that could speak a little bit well, that they could stand in the king's palace, and that they might teach the learning and tongue of the Chaldeans, that they might be able to learn all the things of the Babylonians. Well, the king gave them a daily provision of the king's meat And of the wine, what kind of wine was that? Well, you can pretty well bet on this wine here was alcoholic wine that the king drank. And nourishing them three years, they'd have a three-year trial period to learn things and come back for an examination before the king Nebuchadnezzar. Then we go on to verse 6. Of course, Nebuchadnezzar was a very great king. Great king in history. You know, one of the seven wonders of the ancient world were the hanging gardens of Babylon, which Nebuchadnezzar had. We'll go to verse 6. Now among these were of the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. unto whom the prince of the eunuchs gave names. For he gave unto them Daniel, the name of Belteshazzar, and to Hananiah of Shadrach, to Mishel Meshach and to Azariah Abednego. Well, we have Daniel and his three friends. His three friends, if in the education with his three young men And we know them as Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. We don't know those Hebrew names because Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego are the names that are used when they're in the fiery furnace And we have that later on. And so we know Daniel's Hebrew name. That was Daniel, but we have Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego with him. Then we go on to verse 8. But Daniel surposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with a portion of the king's meat. Nor with the wine which he drank, therefore he requested of the Prince of the Eunuchs that he might not defile himself. Now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the Prince of the Eunuchs, and the Prince of the Eunuch said unto Daniel, I fear my Lord the King. Who has appointed your meat and your drink? For why should he see your faces worse, worse liking than the children which are of your sort? Then shall ye make me endanger my head to the king. And so Daniel, he decided on a very perilous course here. He decided not to eat what the king had given him to eat. And you know, that was a big thing. He could have got killed for that. He could have had a great calamity because of that decision that he would not defile himself with a portion of the king's meat. To begin with, what's wrong with meat? You know, we have some people that really love meat in this congregation, but anyway, what's wrong with meat? The thing is, is the problem was, was the problem was kosher. Was it kosher or not? You know, the Jews had dietary laws, and they couldn't eat a lot of things, and they had to eat certain things. And one of the biggies is they couldn't eat pork. No pork. No pigs. The things they ate had to have cloven hoofs and chew the cud And the pig didn't qualify. And then of things in the sea, they could only eat things that had fins and scales And they had all these dietary regulations. And then they had dietary regulations for how the food was killed, the animals were killed. They couldn't be strangled, and they had to be bled. They couldn't eat it with the blood. Well, you know, those dietary regulations are still around with us today. I brought another object lesson this today, another prop. Last week I had the mask of Guy Fox. This week we have a box that we just finished up empty in the trash, but it has an example on it And what the example is, is right down here on the bottom, it has a little circle with a K in it. A little circle with a K in it. You know what that little circle with a K in it is? That tells that it's kosher The Jews can eat it without problem. The things in it were all fulfilling the Jewish dietary regulations. And so Daniel, he thought that these dietary regulations were very important. You know, he could have rationalized and he could have said, you know, that really is not that important And you know, I'm here in Babylon and people have been killed for less than that. I can't be just saying that I'm not going to eat what the king gives me to eat. And he could have rationalized it, but he didn't rationalize it. And he took a stand. That's the title of the message this morning: taking a stand. He took a stand on his diet It was a big thing. The Jews were separated from other nations. And the big thing with the dietary regulations was to separate them, to make them different. It y I mean some of it has to do it's more healthy or less healthy or something like that. But you know the thing is it was especially because of separation. So to them to be different than other nations. And so here he would not defile himself with things that were not kosher. He would not defile himself with things that were strangled, or things with the blood. He would not defile himself with pork. Or all of those things. And then, second of all, he wouldn't defile himself with the wine. And I believe the Bible teaches that we should not be drinking alcohol That's in Proverbs, not to look upon the wine when it moves itself aright in the cup, which is fermentation And so here, Daniel, he didn't defile himself with the wine, he didn't defile himself with the non-kosher food. And he took a big risk there. They had murdered m many, many of the Jews and other nations when they took over the countries. He was by the grace of God alive at all And yet he took a stand here. Took a stand. Then we go on down to verse 9. Now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the Prince of the Eunuchs. Does that mean they were homosexuals? No, it doesn't. It doesn't mean that at all. Although somebody might point to that, but the one problem with them being homosexuals is that this is a eunuch we're talking about here Who was the prince of the eunuchs? And back in those days everybody that worked in the palace was a eunuch, so the king wouldn't have any problem with people getting in with his wives And so that was a thing that they had. And the eunuchs are talked about a couple different times in the Bible. We have one eunuch that takes care of Jeremiah when he's down in the pit. And we have the Ethiopian eunuch in the book of Acts that Paul preaches to. And, you know, we have them in the Bible various places. And so Daniel was good friends with the Prince of the Eunuchs, the Prince there in the palace And you know, the Prince of the Eunuch says, you know, you're gonna make me risk my life if you don't eat the food. It's not only gonna be your life, it's gonna be my life. But Daniel had a had a solution for that. We read about in the responsive reading. Daniel said to Melzar, verse 11. The prince that the eunuchs had set over Daniel and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Verse 12, prove thy servants ten days, and give us pulse to eat and water to drink. So he said, prove us for ten days. Ten days wasn't a long time. I mean, the whole proving period here was three years. But it was just ten days. He says, prove us for ten days and give us pulse. What's pulse? What's that? Vegetable? I think it's basic basically I think it's it's oatmeal. Oatmeal type thing. And so they gave they have oatmeal. And in your margins or your Bibles, they said probably say this or that or the other thing. But the thing is, I think it's oatmeal. And something like that, pulse. And you know, you gave them that to eat. And he wanted that to eat. Of course, oatmeal is good for you. You know, most people don't like oatmeal, but it's it's good for you. And here we have, let them give them pulse to eat and water to drink instead of the wine. And then verse 13, then let our countenances be looked upon after the ten days. So they continued for ten days, eating pulse, eating the moatmeal in the water. And verse 15 And at the end of ten days, their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat. And so God shined upon Daniel here and Shabrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and made them look better after the ten days. Does that mean that we all ought to just eat oatmeal? I don't think so. But you know the thing is, for that time, that purpose, that it was good And of course, oatmeal is good for you, supposed to be good for your blood pressure, too. But anyway, or cholesterol is what it is. And anyway, so they appeared fairer and fatter in flesh. And so then, when Melzar saw that, verse 16, then Melzar took away the portion of their meat and the wine that they should drink and gave them pulse. Gave them pulls kosher kosher things to eat. And then we go on to verse 17. As for these four children, notice it just says children, I don't think they were little children, they were young people As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill and all the learning and wisdom. And Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams. You know, Daniel interprets dreams coming up right here in chapter 2. And you know, back in these days, God communicated in other ways than he does today. He commit communicated directly, or he gave dreams, or he gave other things. But today we have God's word. We have God's Word right here, and the best one is the King James Bible, as we saw last week. But anyway, we have God's Word. And we don't need visions and dreams today. We have the complete revelation of God. And then you go on here, verse 18. Now at the end of the days that the king had said that he should bring them in, then the prince of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar. And the king communed with them And among them all was found none like Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Therefore stood they before the king, and in all matters of wisdom and understanding that the king inquired of them He found them ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm. And Daniel continued even unto the first year of the King Cyrus And so they had an oral exam. You know, for doctorates, people have to have oral exams. Well, here they had an oral exam with the king. And he found Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and Daniel to be better than all the other people that he examined, none like them. They were better than the magicians. They were better than the astrologers. And you know, today people follow stars and horoscopes. Well back in those days they did too. Astrology. Astrologers and magicians. Magicians Using the black arts, using the power of Satan is what the magicians and sorcerers have always done. And they do some miracles through the power of Satan. We see that in the Bible. Well, uh Daniel was there, the his fellows were there and they took a stand. Took a stand. I mean it wasn't just Daniel who took the stand. It looks like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were with him in that. So they took a stand And they were willing to pay the cost for taking a stand. You know, all through history, people have taken A stand and have been willing to pay the cost. And yeah, you know, why have all the martyrs been martyred? Most of them have been martyred because they took a stand. Back in the Roman Empire, all they were told to do was have faith in Caesar, in the emperor, offer sacrifice to the emperor. That's all they had to do. But they took a stand and they wouldn't do it. And uh going on down through history in the Roman Catholic Church, all people had to do was just Acknowledge the Pope and the Roman Catholic Church, but they wouldn't do it. They took a stand. And it cost them and it cost them their lives and other things. And with communism, it's communism. The Christians have been told in China and other places to have faith in the state. And they can't have Christianity, but they took a stand and they kept their Christianity and they would not have faith in the state. And today we have the Muslims. And the Muslims kill Christians today. And they kill them because they are Christians and will not acknowledge Muhammad and Allah and all those things. And I think I've mentioned here before that we had a guy in the ICCC s said to me one day that, you know, our Christians In the Philippines, uh they go into the the mosque to worship God. And, you know, they don't want to pay any price to be different, to take a stand. Well, you can't go in the mosque and worship the true God. You can't. And so anyway, people have taken stands all through history. You know, right now With our sign out on the road there, Pilgrim Presbyterian Bible Church, we're taking a stand. Did you know that? We don't call our church the town like they do in Delaware. We don't call it the bridge like they do in Marcus Hook. No, we call it what it is: a Presbyterian. Bible church. We're taking a stand. And you know why people call their churches the town and the bridge? Because they don't want to take a stand. They won't don't want to have any uh something that might reproach them You know my journal that I put out in Brazil, I have the title of my journal is The Fundamentalist. That's taking a stand right there, the fundamentalist. There are people there that say fundamentalism is dead. And so we've been trying to prove that wrong for 17 years now And we put out the fundamentalist, that those fundamental doctrines were true. And then we're taking a stand here today with the King James Bible. You know, people have gotten rid of the King James Bible. Most people have, except for the Baptist brethren. But you know, they've gotten rid of it. But we're taking a stand that it is the best Bible, and we saw some of that in the movie last week. Well, what about in our daily lives? Do we take stands? We need to take stands in our daily lives. As we come to communion, are we willing to take stands in our daily lives? Are we willing to be identified as a Christian? You know, there are some groups that wear badges that they are Christians. They have a certain hat that they wear, they have certain clothes that they wear, or whatever like that, that are distinctive of that Christian group. We don't do that. I have something today that's a little bit distinctive of a Christian. I have a the bot uh it says Jesus is Lord here on my tithe Well, that's a little bit of a badge, but you know you don't have to do that. But you know the thing is we need to be willing to be identified as a Christian, to take a stand And what about witnessing? Why is it the Christians don't give out tracts? Why Christians don't witness in other ways? Why don't they do it? Well, they don't want to take a stand. They don't want to pay a price of being regarded as a religious fanatic. They don't want people to regard them like that. But we need to take a stand. Let people know that we're Christian. Not not, you know, oh hey, I'm a Christian, I'm a Christian. No. But by what we do, by being being willing to witness to them. We take a stand. Take a stand. And you know, some jobs, they might require someone to lie on the job. Or they might have some stealing going on in the job. You know, a Christian needs to take a stand against things like that. And he needs to take a stand for his faith. Just like Daniel did. And of course Daniel's thing he took a stand for. I mean we look at that and we think that's not really very important, is it? The dietary laws. But it was important, and it is important, that to obey God, to obey God is better than sacrifice. And what about alcohol? You know, today they talk about social drinking. You have to drink to be drink alcohol to be social. Well, sometimes we need to take a d take a stand on that. Well, I mean we do need to take a stand on not drinking alcohol, but sometimes it it involves taking a stand. And so, you know, we have to take a stand on our Christianity and the things that we have, just like Daniel did. We take a stand in our church. By the name, by the other things, we t we should take stands in our look daily lives. And you know what's the price that we pay today for not taking a stand? Well, it's not like the prices that people paid in the l past. Remember I read a thing for you uh uh a couple months ago. about uh the price paid for witnessing and you know uh you know in Iran they're executed or put in prison but they still witness And in China they have their organs taken out and donated. But they still witness. And why did Christians in Brazil and the United States not witness? Well they don't have Any kind of that things like that, but they will be made to feel awkward. They'll feel awkward And that's a price to pay, to be awkward, to not be one of the crowd, one of the boys. But we need to be willing to take a stand like Daniel did. Let's bow in prayer O Lord, we thank Thee for thy goodness to us. We thank Thee for the example of Daniel. We thank Thee that He took a stand and help us to take a stand in our daily lives and in our church. And help us to be the Christians that thou would have us to be. Forgive us where we fall short. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, will the officers come forward?