Got my book. Was there anything in the bulletin? Was there a little essay in the bulletin? I usually bring that along, but I guess I didn't give them to you, so. Oh was it in there? Oh y it did get in there. Oh. I'm saying those I don't know how you got him after all. Okay, good. Well that's Basically that's my sermon written right there. So we can save some time. If you want to go home, we can give a benediction right now. Go home because you got the sermon. So no problem, right? So no, I'm just kidding. But um okay, I'm I feel much better now that I know you actually got those things. Alright, so I want to begin today by reading We're looking here and I have a reading to do, and that reading is Psalm, or Proverbs, Proverbs 29. So let's look at that for a minute here. Proverbs 29 Reading this and realizing the whole idea is to realize we're talking about, oh thank you very much. How'd you know we needed that? This guy can Read your mind and does does things. This is good. Good servant of the Lord, one people of God, that's nice Hmm. Very good. Thank you so much, Dave. So we're going to look in Proverbs 29. I'm reading this. Uh so for us to focus on it for a moment. So look at this. Now we always realize we're opening up the Bible, we're looking at what? The inspired, infallible, inerrant word of God. Which has 1,189 chapters, 31,102 verses, 788,280 words, 3,556,480 letters in your King James Bible. And we're just going to only read four verses, eight verses here, or uh six verses from Proverbs 29 to get started today. So let's look at this Proverbs chapter twenty twenty-nine and verse one tells us. He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. But when the wicked bears rule, the people mourn. Whoso loveth wisdom rejoices his father, but he that keepeth company with harlots spends his substance The king by judgment establisheth the land, but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it. A man that flatters his neighbor spreadeth a net for his feet. In the transgression of an evil man, there is a snare, but the righteous doth sing and rejoice. I pray that God will bless the reading of His Holy Word today. As we open our Bibles now, and I'd like you to turn to a particular verse of Scripture and it is found, you'll find the verse I want you to look into. It's found in in the book of Romans, chapter 20. chapter two and verse uh we're gonna look in verses twenty-one to twenty-four. Romans chapter two Verses 21 to 24, I want to comment on if we if I have time to go might not have time for all of it. We'll see what we can do here. So what we we uh Have the have the benediction around two o'clock, is that right? So I have maybe an hour and a half to preach. Is that what I have? Is that good? Don't throw anything at me. I'm just kidding, of course. Okay, so Okay, so what I'd like to share with you today, give you a little bit of background. We know that the verse we're going to look at and consider has Israel, now we know the history of Israel, right? His Israel traveled, they're in the promised land. We know that they were run off of promised land and all the things that they had to deal with. Well, as the verse I'm going to deal with, Israel is in the promised land. Just knowing a little bit of the background. And this is the land, of course, we know that the Lord gave to Israel, where the Lord could, where the people could be safe and have their land that God gave to them. But we know this too that in the process of time, Israel broke up into two major groups There's the one nation called itself Israel, that's the northern kingdom, and then there's a southern kingdom called Judah. And as a matter of fact, the first time you see the word Israel and Judah in the same verse it talks about how they sp they how they split apart And so their history is much like America. We had a civil war. We split from the north and the south and had a war. Israel went through the same thing And that we're picking this up that has to do with some of these things I'm going to share with you today. Just be aware of Israel and their two kingdoms, Northern Kingdom. Southern Kingdom. Northern Kingdom called Israel. Southern Kingdom referred to as Judah Judah, the person Judah, was the fourth son of Jacob, who was the founder of the southern kingdom, you might remember. But we see that in the processed process of time, Israel was known for This would be a question on a test. If I'm given out a test in my theology class, I would ask a question. Sort of vague, but I think you'd know this. What is Israel mostly known for? Three-letter word. That's hint number one. Hint number two, first letters L. And that is Israel's known for the law, this great law that God gave to Israel. Now we refer to the law as the Ten Commandments, but that's just the moral law. Contained in the this great law that God gave is a civil law and a ceremonial law, which amounts up to hundreds of laws. So Israel was this group of people who God presided over in a special and unique way, giving them many laws that they could prosper and prevail. And so that's again a little bit of context of what I want to share with you today. Now with that knowledge, I now want you to look in your Bible to Romans chapter 2. And we're going to look in verse 21. Romans 2, 21. And in the other churches that I've been preaching in here too. You know, I've just been marching through Romans verse by verse. Started back probably last year on Romans 1 1. I'm just gonna go through it and see how far I can get. Either before the Lord comes or before he takes me or whatever So marching here through the book of Romans. The Romans is a book I've always wanted to dive into without being rushed. You know, a lot of times we're studying God's word and looking for a certain project or whatever, but you always had a sense of being rushed And I thought, you know, I'd really love to be able to sit down, study God's word without without having that sense of being rushed through it. So that's what I'm doing right now, is taking my time going through Romans And so that's why I'm sharing that with you today. And if you look in your Bible in Romans chapter 2, verse 21, is what I like to look in, 21, 22, and 23, if we have time. I don't think we're going to have time to do all that, but let's see what we can do. Romans 2. 21, thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? Thou that preachest a man should not steal. Do you steal, or dost thou steal? So let's look at this for a moment. And I want to begin by giving you just a little little story about my father-in-law. This is my first father-in-law, you know, my dear my first you never met my first wife, dear godly woman. And but she died at the age of thirty-eight with breast cancer after a just a horrible battle You know, the Lord took her home. She was a wonderful godly woman. You know, so the Lord took her home. Of course, you know I recently lost my second precious wife, Vicky, and and again, she was a godly woman So you as you see me you're looking at a blessed man. I had two wonderful marriages and and and uh you know, but right now With the I'm married to the Lord. That's not a bad dealer either. So anyway, um my fa my first father-in-law was a fisherman. He loved to fish and he had a he had a place in Delaware Potnets. You know where anybody know where Pot Nets is? You ever hear Potnet's? That's like a little retirement village of mobile homes. Amazon Bay and so we would go down and visit my father and he was avid fisherman and hunter and all that I never did any of that stuff, but you know, my life is basically in sports and his was like again, hunting, fishing, he loved that. So we he had this place down on potnets So we would go visit him and uh he said, Don, come on we'll go on my boat and go out in the lake and fish. Now, just being honest, to me, nothing more boring than fishing. But you know, my father-in-law wanted to make it fun. Yeah, let's go fishing, come on. So we're out you know, we're out in a boat fishing and that's hot. Sun beating down on it. Can't catch any fish. Anyway. But we did catch something. We did c catch some little thing. You know, we caught that And we you came back and and then he f he showed me I'm gonna show you how to fillet it. You know how to fillet a fish? Not really. Well let me show you how. And he cuts the fish open and scrapes out all the insides and then you cook you you you know you cook what's left. And um and then boy it was really very good. Enjoying eating that fish was a good thing. Well what I I'm I'm telling you all that story to this. As we look in God's word, I hope you enjoy eating the word of God. As we enjoyed that fish, I hope you enjoy eating the the word of God that I'm gonna feed to you today. We're looking here in verse 21. Now let's take this apart by what I've learned to do over the years. You may find your study of God's word varies. Mine evolves. And the way I study God's Word now and preach, my preaching is a God somewhat. And what I enjoy doing is simply taking a a phrase, just a phrase, and analyzing that And then once that particular phrase is taken, then go to the next one. So you're sort of analyzing each word as you go along. You know, some people like to do chapters, but I like to scrutinize it and look at it like with a microscope or whatever. So that's what I'm going to share. I hope I can make this interesting, but more importantly, I hope it's accurate. That's what you want accuracy in God's Word. So Romans 2. 21. Now if we were to look at this at the original language, the Greek language, it sounds like this. O undidaskon eteron. Anybody any Greek Greek scholars here you can tell us what that means? What it means is, thou therefore which teaches another. Just that little phrase there. You see that in your that's the way it's written in the King James Bible. Thou therefore which teaches another So we're addressing someone who's teaching someone we're teach we're addressing here a teacher, someone who teaches others. And now I I I'm reminded of the verse and I think someone somebody mentioned this today. Maybe it was in Sunday school somebody read a verse. that I was going to read to uh James 3. 1. Be not many teachers, knowing you shall receive a greater condemnation. Think about that. Have you been thinking about teaching in the Sunday school class or whatever? Now we always people yeah come on teach this friendly school thing you should do yes and you want you want people to do this. However you do have to also be aware of warning like this Be not many teachers knowing you're going to receive a greater condemnation. You're going to be looked at more I assume that's what that means. You're going to account you know for what you say. Me being up here is a great responsibility If I'm giving you false doctrine or saying something incorrectly, or if I'm a hypocrite or whatever, then I'm going to be paid for this. But on the other hand I don't want to discourage you if you're looking into teaching, go ahead, Sapri, it's a great thing, I hope you do it. But also realize there isn't Responsibility comes with that. You are teaching here. Think about this: the inspired, inerrant, infallible Word of God. And think of the many people over the centuries who died for this to believe it and to teach it. Many people have been tortured, sacrificed, simply because they want God's word And here we have we're here, we're free, we can open it up, and we can scream from the top of our voice, Jesus saves! Nothing's going to happen to us. So we're greatly blessed in America, but you can't do that even today. You can't do that everywhere in the world So God has certainly blessed us in a great and mighty way. And so anyway, getting back to this thou therefore, which teacheth another, the the ability of teaching another Now that's my first question. How about you? Are you are you t are you teachers of other people? And you say, well, I can't teach. I'm not ready to teach. Maybe that's the case. You may not be ready to teach now But maybe next year you may be able to teach someone the Word of God. And that should be the normal development. When when you're first saved, you don't know anything, really, you know, just gen but like babies. You know, you have to help You hold the baby, and then when he gets a little bit older, you and help him to walk and so and you grow. But that's how we grow in the Lord. We're first born again, saved by the shed blood of Jesus Christ, plus nothing. We're babes in the Lord. We don't know much. But hopefully, if we're healthy, if we're drinking that bottle of milk and healthy and all, then we grow and become stronger and stronger. But that's the way we should be with God's Word. When you're first saved, you're not teaching anybody. You're trying to figure out what it's about yourself. But having been saved for three, five, ten years, now you should start to Be teaching others. So I'm just throwing that out there to you. I don't you know I don't know your personal lives. Maybe maybe you all are, and that that would be a wonderful thing. But if you don't think about this, you've been and I would ask you the question, how long have you been saved? I've been saved 25 years. Okay. Good. Who have you discipled? Well I'm not wrong. Who are you teaching? Well I'm not run. You know that the normal norm should be. I'm saved. Three years I should start teaching others or discipling others. And so this is what you and here this text is addressing this thing, you that teach others. And so I'm asking you, just using that thing with the scripture, letting the scripture make make my sermon really. And so I'm asking you, de are you teaching others? And maybe as I'm sharing here, maybe the Lord's putting it on your your heart. Maybe you should open up your home for a Bible study or get a friend and say, and you know I I I'm probably I I'm sure I've told you this before, so I don't want to, you know. In other words, but just making it generalized, many of my close friends are people I've just had Bible studies with. You know, I'll say you want to study the Bible? This this I got an idea. Why don't you and I get together on Saturday morning? I'll take you to the diner at ten o'clock. We'll have breakfast and then I want to share something with you. Now here's one of the things I did You may want to do this. This is good. I didn't want to share this to you until later, but I'm going to bring it up now. You see this packet of booklets I have here So these are these are discipleship booklets. You can get them if you go to a Christian's uh store. You can get these. And now these are fantastic to do discipleship work with. If you have a friend, someone you're concerned about, they're already a believer. You don't have to evangelize them. They believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Excuse me. But perhaps they're not growing as they should. And so you hey John, good to see you. Hey John, I got an idea. What's that? Why don't we have breakfast uh Saturday? I'm treating and then you'll meet you at the diner ten o'clock nine o'clock next Saturday. All right, so you go. So you meet him at the diner and then present this idea to him. John, I've got two of these books. I'm gonna give you one And what it is, it's called, this particular one is called the character of the Christian, designed for discipleship. So John, I'm going to give this to you free of charge. But what I'd like you to do is to fill out could you fill out chapter one? And it just asks you simple questions. And it gives you a reference where you can look it up and then write it in your own words. For example, let me just turn to one so you might have an idea. Excuse me, what I'm talking about. How can you maintain an attitude of joy? And it gives you the reference, Psalm 16, 11. So so he would write it out, you know. And then you meet with him to talk about it. But you'd be amazed. This is for me. Now I guess each of us have different approaches to doing things. For me, this has been the backbone of my discipleship work. This has been fantastic. This is a nice little book that's all the hard work's made out for you and it's good doctrinally and you can get in good discussions. You may start talking about scripture, but you know what inevitably happens I'll be talking with a man who said, you know what, Don, I'll tell you what, you know, my wife and I have been really having a problem because so you're getting into this. Now we're able to apply God's word to a marriage issue Or they may have a problem, you know, Donna, I have a financial issue. I've been praying for the Lord to send money or help it, you know, then you're talking about biblical finances. This is a profound if you're looking to disciple someone I just recommend you might want to look at this and use something like this for a source of discipleship work And it's all written out for you. And there's many of these booklets here. I got a bunch of them here. I've gone through them all. And it's a great way to get to know someone and to do the work of discipleship. So I know the church I had at Stony Bank. I had all my elders, like go through my elders, and it's a great way to work with your elders and leadership in the church. It's really fan anyway, why am I bringing that up? Because I saw something here reminded me of this Uh and that is we're talking about a reponse uh y we see a a statement about teachest another, thou that teachest another at the beginning of verse twenty-one. And that and again I say to you, you're you're a Christian. You know the Lord, you're good church members, because I see you here Sunday young here, and that's good. You're you're steady and consistent. So I would take it the next next step. Who are you discipl are you do are you discipling someone? If you've never done that, that my suggestion would be that would be another something to consider. And here's how this happens. Now be careful about this. I'm going to give you a make a recommendation, but you need to think about before you do it. If what I'm saying makes sense to you, then you might want to do this. In prayer, as you're praying. Lord, would you please show me someone who I could disciple? Pray that for a week or so. However, here's the thing. You gotta be very careful because if the Lord does reveal that to you, now you've got to follow through. But I have found in my own life, I mean that this is a this works so often. Lord, show me someone who I who I'm friendly with, who I know, but they need to be disciples. Maybe someone in the church or maybe my next door neighbor, whoever. Just pray, Lord, show me. Is there a person that you would have me do discipleship work with? And what will happen is the Lord will put somebody in your mind. Now you're responsible, right? But That's a great blessing. At least in my own life, doing that has been my best friend doing it. Many, many good, close friends, elders in my church doing this. You get to know them, you're going over through God's Word. And again, this is just a suggestion. There's many di ways to do discipleship work. But if you don't have a way, this is a great way. Just get a little booklet like this and it'll guide you right through it. You're going through God's Word. And um anyway, that's what I think about when I see this phrase, thou therefore which teaches another. And again, I will leave this phrase after asking you one more question. Are you teaching anyone? I'll just leave it there and go on. In 2 Timothy 2, verse 2. You all know this. How many have that memorized? This is a typical memory verse. 2 Timothy 2. 2 And the things that you have heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to here's the word teach. Others also. That word teach is the word deaskalos, and it means to instruct others, to teach them. 2 Timothy 2 2 2. The things you've heard of me among many, this is the command of the to the church, the believers, the things you've heard of me. Among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. Oh, let me stop right there. I have waste not wasted, but I've lost hours. Attempting to disciple someone who is not faithful. You know, they really don't want it, and I'm sort of forcing it on them. Okay, Don, what do you have to say? You know, that kind of thing. But really they never showed themselves faithful. I may have picked them out because they're a good friend or whatever, but the scripture says pick someone out who is faithful. So when you observe faithfulness in someone, that's the kind of person you want to go to disciple them, to have these kind of Bible studies, a faithful person. And I look back and I hate to say this, but I have I guess waste would be too strong a word. I'll use it, but it's too strong. I mean, I've wasted or lost a lot of time attempting to disciple someone who really doesn't want to be discipled, or discipling someone who's not of a faithful Nature, faithful character. So you're really, but here's here's what to do. Pray and ask the Lord to show you someone who is faithful who you can disciple. And this is discipleship doing this. This is the beginning of discipleship. By the way, this is just a beginning of it. Because what you do, you make a friend of that person, and then you discover things you have in common. So if I'm discipling Bobby, I'm getting to know Bobby, he's getting to know me. Hey Bobby, I got two ticks to the Phillies game. Why don't we go to the Phillies game together? Okay. So now you're doing that with Bobby. So you're developing a relationship And then you develop a relationship over discipleship work, you've got a friend who will be with you. I've got more friends than I can give attention to over having done this. But uh but I mean it's a good thing But it's a great way of making friends, a good way of getting the Word of God out, it's a good it's a good discipline for you to do. Because the truth is if we're not forced, if we're not pressured in this stuff, we sort of usually if you're like me, you just sort of sit back But this will force you to do something, force you to get out, and then you're you're really getting in the lives of people, getting in the lives of helping in marriages or helping in work or helping in understanding God's Word And I say all that with this phrase, you therefore that teaches another. And so I'm asking, are you teaching another? And if not, that should be a goal. I mean my complaining, but make that a goal. Lord help me to be able to teach another someday. Maybe not right now, but maybe you may be a Sunday school teacher in six months. Or you again maybe your next door neighbors comes to your mind and you can Do a little bit of discipleship work with him. Hey John, good to see you today. Hey John, I got something I'd like to share with you. What's that? I got one of these. And uh I was wondering if you'd be interested in going through this with me and explain and explain it to him And if you get in the miss, you're gonna you're well all on your way to really ministering to that person's life. At least that has been my experience, and I would share that with you, and that's why I'm sharing with you. Again, our memory verse for today, now if I were your regular teacher, I'd say, assignment. If you're in my class, I taught at Florida Bible College for four years, so if you're in my Bible class, here's an assignment for next class. Memorize, 2 Timothy 2. 2. And It's a common verse. The things you heard in me among many witnesses, the same commit thou the faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. And what do you have in there? A picture of multiplication. We tend to think in terms of addition, right? Hey, I mean I shared Christ with Johnny over here and he came to the Lord. Praise God. That's good. No that's wonderful, praise God. But that that's addition and that's wonderful. But if you look in the principle of the Bible, it's really putting forth a principle of multiplication. Not just for me to be satisfied that Johnny Came to the Lord, now okay, now go over here and witness to Sammy. But now we want Johnny for him now to go out and share Christ with others. And then once you and and you look in the Bible, that was the that was the pattern of the apostles. Multiplication was taking place. We like addition. I love addition. I'm not putting down addition. Addition is great. But we're seeing that the model that we see in Scripture is a model of multiplication And that's what that's why they turn that's why the Bible says, these are they who turn the world upside down. Because they're standing for the Word of God. They're getting the Word of God out. The Lord is giving salvation to souls. That's a beautiful thing So I say that from this little phrase here, thou therefore that teaches another. Let's move on. You're stuck on this. Move on. Okay, let's move on here. The next phrase, what? Teachest thou not yourself? Are you not teaching? You're teaching others. Okay, are you teaching yourself? And that's a good question. He's asking here the question, you're not doing this, but what are you doing? Are you teaching yourself? Are you growing in in the Lord? Who can recite to me 1 Peter chapter 2 verse 2. Anybody can know that? That's not fair me asking that. I mean in church, you don't want to stand up and say that, but so I'll say it to you. It says, as newborn babes, the desire, the sincere milk of the word. That what? Good. Very, very good. That's cool. Very good. Did you see that? I asked that question. Very good. She put frown in. That's very good. As a newborn babe desire, there's a serial milk of the word that you may grow. There's that word grow, that you may grow thereby So I would ask you the question, now as I say, when I you know I come here a couple times a year and I see see you and that's a good beautiful thing. Praise God. Now the question I want to ask you, are you personally growing in the Lord? Are you becoming more mature? In the Lord. It's very possible you could just come here and you're not growing. You're sort of here. I like Sunday, I like to sing the hymns, I like to pastor, you know. And that that's nothing wrong with that. But you really are aiming to grow, to mature in your faith and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. And only you can assess that in your life. Then I would encourage you to do that. In in prayer, sometime today, or as you pray, maybe tonight. Lord, am I growing? I love you, I serve you, am I growing? Am I am I becoming a more mature Christian. Because you know you don't want to be the same person next year as you are today. As you are today, I mean you're a lovely group, this is wonderful. But a year from now you want to be more mature in Christ than you are today. Maybe having memorized more scripture and maybe witnessed to more people, maybe turn from personal sins, changing something about your life that needs to be changed. So we need this constant progress As we're following the example here of God's Word. So, okay, so I share that with you there. And you know, great things happen with it. Um, you know, one of my best friends today was someone who, you know, I I follow this thing I'm teaching you. And here's my good friend Mitch. Uh from when I was at Stony Bank Church, here's Mitchell, nice and businessman and nice well dressed and smart guy and you know I thought, you know, I think that guy could be Really good for the Lord. So I I approached him af after church one day. Mitch, I got an idea. What's that? How about if you and I how about I take you out for breakfast? And I want to share an idea with you. Yeah, yeah, sure. My good friend Mitch after breakfast and I had these. Mitch had an idea. Why don't I give you this and why don't you go through chapter one? And I'll go through chapter one and next week this time we can meet here for breakfast again and go through it and see what we have. And so we did that, of course, to this day. Mitch is probably my best friend, one of my best friends, I should say Because this helps the m this this forges friends forever. You have a friend in the Lord Jesus Christ who you're sharing the things of God with That's a friend who's going to be with you through thick and thin and you're going to be with him. And by the way, he's gone through Mitch has gone through difficult times You know, he he lost his wife, like I did. And um but you know what? I understand what he was going through because I went through it So I was by his side. And this is how these things happen. Mitch is a you know, Mitch would give his life for me like that a second, and I'd give my life for him. But these are the kind of relationships you develop As you go through the process of discipling. That's that we're discipling one another. And that's what these booklets are all about, and that's what the scripture is all about. Again, 2 Timothy 2. 2 The things you heard of me, among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. What's that? Two three generations. The things you learn of me, among many witnesses, that's another guy. The things you learned to be share with other witnesses. That's three generations you have there. And this is how this thing multiplies. Now think just idealistically if every one of you were doing that. You know, we say, oh yeah, the pastor's gonna do it, we're covered. Pastor will take care of that. Well it's good for the pastor to do it, but it's meant for everybody So um anyway, I that's you know I found to be very helpful in my own life and I still do want to share that with you Let's look at the next verse here. I'm getting off on a tangent here, so I don't have a watch. So I'm going if I'm going long. Somebody raise your hand and I'll shut up and stop. Okay. Let me see. Do I have um oh well The next phrase is this. Sayutan Uthadaskis. All you um Greek scholars out there, you would know that, right? Sayut Sayutan U Dadaskis. And what does it say? Teachest thou not thyself? Are you not teaching is asking, are you you teach others, are you not teaching yourself? And a lot of times we do. We're out there have our eyes on everybody else, which is good, but also you've got to look at yourself. Am I am I teaching myself? Am I growing and developing in the Lord? You know, it's like a child. A child you have to feed the child, but after a while he gets older and he can feed himself. But what if I'm feeding my child at 12 years old? Johnny, here, here's your uh peanut butter sandwich I made for you. Yeah, Johnny can't Johnny has somebody waiting on him all the time. Well that would be dumb, wouldn't it? Twelve year old and you waiting on him handing full of no But giant you know you mature as you get older and you take care of yourself. But that's the way it is in the church, within Christianity. Yeah, you're a baby when you first come to Christ and you need to be coddled and cared for. But as we grow in our knowledge of the Lord, we become stronger. We're eating meat instead of tabloid. And Growing in God, and that's what he teaches not yourself. Are you not teaching yourself as a questionnaire? And it's a good question to be asked. How do you teach yourself? You can say, okay, Don, that's a good thing to say. How do you do it? Well, some obvious ones. I would ask this, do you have personal devotional reading of God's Word for yourself? And by that I mean a certain day. Some do it at night, because some of you are morning people and you wake up in the morning and you're and I'm one of those. You wake up, I'm ready to go I'm laughing here because I'm thinking back my first wife say you never met her, but what a wonderful human being she was. But she was she was a night person, I'm I'm a morning person. So I get up in the morning, hey hey Ray, you got this a beautiful day. I'm so loud for it so early. Oh Oh my gosh. But then I'd be going to bed ten, eleven o'clock, dead tired, and she's up and doing all kinds of stuff. So you have to, you know, adapt, I guess, to this. But teachest not thyself And that's a good question. Am I teaching myself? Am I learning? How do I learn? Through personal my personal devotions, making sure there's a time I read God's Word with regularity every day I'm lying. I'm a hypocrite. I don't do it every day. I don't do it on Mondays, because Monday's like my day off, so I try to stay away from reading and all that stuff. Uh weekends is is questionable, but Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday I'm into it with regularity. So the ideal is obviously it's best to do it every day, but at least with some regularity throughout the week Be in God's word. Grow in the Lord. Teachest not thyself. Are you not grown? Are you able to teach yourself through devotional reading? Maybe have a Bible class at the church. Anybody teaching a Bible study within the church? That would be a way, again, for you to study and to grow. Maybe you're having a home Bible study. Now you know a home Bible study can be a very powerful thing. People come to church and they they have a certain way of behaving and so forth, and you're lucky a bit more freer, more informal if you have like a home Bible study. Say Monday night we did one for years. Monday night, seven o'clock We would go over to uh person's I think it was Mitch's house, as a matter of fact, as I told you about Mitch, I think it was his house. He had a nice big house, so we'd go over there and host a Bible study And we bring in all kind of people. It reminds me, uh isn't there a par a parable in the Bible about the fisherman throws in a net, and then he pulls the net in and there's all kinds of stuff, not only fish, but there's crabs, there's seashells in this net. And that's pretty much what that Bible study home Bible study we had many years ago, for many years. You have all kind of people coming in, but it was great. People got saved, you paid you know you're teaching the words There'd be some former Catholics, former Jews, all different kind of people coming under the sound of God's word. And, you know, some some rejected and didn't like it, but some liked it. Some got saved It's a beautiful thing to do. Maybe you might want to consider doing that. Open up your home to home Bible study. Well, how am I going to do that? Start with your friends. We're having a home Bible study Monday at 7 o'clock. That was when we did for years. Monday night, 7 o'clock, home Bible study. Either you teach it or you get somebody to teach it, but you're you're the host. Maybe you have a nice house. And you in you know you you have the pastor or someone come in, prepare to teach, and you bring your friends in, make them comfortable prepare a little treats or something and have a Bible study. After the Bible study you know over the snack or whatever you talk with one another Get to know each other, and it's a great way of get getting God's word out. Many, many ways of doing this. So again, you therefore that teaches another. So he's addressing somebody who's teaching somebody else. And I'm hoping, that's what I'm doing here, I'm hoping I'm addressing you who are teaching someone else. And that's how this thing grows. That's how you grow. This is how the Word of God grows. And I'll just say this, the bet have this written down here, so I'll say this. I'm nowhere near done, but I'm going to have to stop soon. I know it's getting late. But the best way for you to grow in the Lord, you know how that is? You commit yourself to doing a Bible study. Make yourself responsible to teach someone else the word of God. And you know what that'll do? That'll wake you up quick if you get serious about your study of God's Word. You have a you know you have three friends coming over tonight And they're expecting me to expound on John chapter one. Well, you don't want to embarrass yourself unplus you want to Help them and reach out to them. So that's going to m motivate you to be in God's Word. So you're ready when the people come in. And you know not I would just simply say this, not nothing is as powerful as a home Bible study. Think about because you know you come into a church and that's wonderful. You know, we should be a bit formal. We're in God's house. But when you go into someone's home On a Monday evening, let's say, you know, you sort of informal. You just got home from work. Maybe you rushed your dinner down so you could get to the 7 o'clock Bible study. And it's more informal and your friends are there. And it's a great atmosphere with which to teach the Word of God. And then what'll happen if you do that with regularity, what's going to happen is in time one of your regulars will bring a guest. Some poor soul, he made it work, and he drags him into the Bible study. And in time, these people get saved And they get become part of your church. And it's a glorious thing to watch these things happen. And here you're watching a brother and sister mature in Christ before your very eyes. And that's a glorious thing to see. To mature. And hoping all of us here, we are in the process of maturing more and more in the Word of God. We don't want to be the same person next year. that we are now. And I certainly don't want to be the same person I was last year here behind the pulpit, the same old guy you saw a year ago. I want to grow and mature. And you know I'm hoping that that might be your experience as well. Alright, moving on here. I'm gonna stop soon. I know you're worried and look at your clock. Nothing's worse sitting in church and is this guy ever gonna be quiet? Oh I got it And then you got stuff I gotta do. Don't bring this guy back again. He doesn't stop. Okay. Just one more thing here. Look in the next verse here says, Thou that sayest You're following along in your Bible here, thou that sayest, O Lagon Nay, is that first there? So this is what a guy's thinking. A man should not commit adultery Oh my gosh. Okay, I'll commit with uh I wanted to finish I'll quit with this though. Here's scripture making it clear man obviously meaning mankind won ought not to commit adultery Now here we know I want you to notice the honest confrontation that the Bible is doing for us today. Laying this thing out. And then you know it's prevalent in our land. And we see this with breaking up of marriages all the time. And you've got to watch that. Don't you know the world and the flesh and the devil would like to get you involved in some kind of a Scandal, so you've got to keep yourself pure. Keep yourself away from anything like that Or it'll suck you in. I mean we're all men of flesh and blood. Anyway, I am, you are susceptible. You've got to guard yourself against this. A man should not commit adultery. And then he asks the question, do you commit adultery? Isn't that wonderful how the Word of God is honest? It doesn't sort of skip around it and ask you, are you doing it? Are you are you committing adultery? And you then you have to deal with it. But that's the way Scripture is. Not only on adultery, on anything. Lies, stealing. Perjury, all kind of things. Scripture will bring these out. And we need to examine ourselves, and now you know this This may not be your issue. Maybe it is. I don't know. But I do know this. What's the remedy for such a thing? There's a remedy for this. The Bible makes it very clear. Here it is. Found in 1 John 1, verse 9. You all know that. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Maybe adultery, I pray to God it's not. I don't know. I don't know you and your situation. I'm busy enough taking care of me. But whatever your issue may be, what's the solution? Confess it to God Maybe maybe it's not a dog. Maybe you lost after someone or you stole something. You know, putting the sermon together, I want to say this quickly and I'll I'll get on. You know, I'm looking back over my I stole something once And I have for days trying to remember what did I steal. I know I stole something. And I cannot remember what it is that I steal money and no and money. There's something like a baseball or a baseball bat for the baseball team, something like that, but I stole it. And then the amazing, I still remember that to this day I don't I don't remember what it was, but I know it was something like that. You know nothing major, but I stole something. The Bible tells you you shouldn't steal. I did that Haven't done it since I as far as I know, as far as I can remember. But you know, be you you look at your life, you have things, you have weaknesses in your life. What's the remedy? See the Bible gives you a remedy for this. Scripture has a remedy for your situation and for mine. A general Solution to the sin problem in your life, a repeated sin problem. And we all have weaknesses. I'm not condemning anybody, you're a human being. Right? If I Toke you with a needle, blood will come out, right? Because you're a human being. You've got issues. I got issues. But if we confess our sins, this is what the Bible tells you Confess your sin. And it means you tell God, yes God, I did this. Yes, I stole that baseball bat. Yes, I lusted after that woman. Yes, I had nasty things about this person. Admit it. Tell God that. You don't have to tell people, but you need to tell God. If you confess your sin, what's going to happen? He is faithful. We're unfaithful. You tell your sin to somebody else, you're in trouble. You go to like to the priest, the Catholic does, oh forgive me, priest, I wasn't. You're looking for a child. We go to God. Confess your sin to Him. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. Isn't that beautiful? And to cleanse us from one relation. Let me give you this one little example and then I'm going to close right here. So why let this hand represent me, Don Britton? Okay? This wallet represents my sins Now if we were doing this proportionally, I would say like I'd have to add on. If I had something representing my sins, I would say, well, this represents my sins, but if I'm going to be proper about it This represents my sins. This will represent my sins. In other words I'm a sinner by nature and by choice. I do my best to turn from sin and not to not to have it in my life, but at the same time I'm not a perfect person. So I mess Mess these things up. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You know what that means? That means the sins that you don't forget you don't confess. Maybe you forgot them or whatever He forgives him all that as well. So that to finish up this illustration Here I am, Don Britton. Here's my sins. God loves me, hates my sin. I confess my sin. Lord, forgive me of this. The Bible says Lord takes our sin the Lord Jesus takes my sin on himself. And that's what he's doing on Calvary, taking my sin. So that I have how many sins to answer for? None. Where are my sins? Where are my many sins? The Lord Jesus took it. Now I can go to heaven because of what Jesus has done for me. This transaction goes to an effect when I believe in Christ. When I repent, Metaneo, and what's that mean? Change your mind If you're an unbeliever, you've got to change your mind from not believing in Christ to believing in Christ. That's repentance. Repentance and faith. I repent. I now believe in Jesus. Have faith in him. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Isn't that beautiful? That's what the Lord does. I'm going to close in a prayer. I don't know everybody here personally, but maybe you haven't I don't know. Maybe you haven't believed in Christ. I don't know. You may just be religious. I don't know. Or maybe you are, maybe it's a beautiful thing. Why don't we put us in prayer and just talk about this? And then we'll have a benediction. Would you pray if you please? Our Father, we want to say thank you that you brought us here together in a New Testament church, a church for whom you shed your blood. We are here today because you shed your blood for us intentionally, on purpose. And having gone to the cross to shed your blood, you had every one of us in your mind It's not by accident we are saved and we believe in you and love you. This was the plan. And the plan was effectual, and we give you praise. And Lord, perhaps maybe there's someone here today who is yet to bow the knee to Christ. And if so, I would just extend an invitation to you. Receive Jesus now. The Bible says, John 1:12, As many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them which believe on his name. Have you received Christ? And if not, I would say, do it now. Lord, I want you as my Savior. I want you as my Lord. I want to follow you. Save me. I am the sinner. Please save me. I want to trust in Christ as my Savior. My friend, if you'll do that, you will be born again. The Lord will bring you into his family. And really, that's the local church. Maybe there's a believer here, finally as I close. Maybe there's a believer here, and the the term that's used, you're maybe out of fellowship with the Lord. I don't know if that's a good term or not, but I'll use it. You've trusted in Christ, you're saved, but you know what? Maybe you're the world's getting getting the world, the flesh and the devil is influencing you one way or another. And you know things aren't what they ought to be. Deal with it right now Confess it to God. I gave you a great opportunity. Confess that to God right now. What this Holy Spirit brings to your mind. Renounce it. Ask the Lord to give you the strength to renounce the sin or the compromise or whatever it may be. And flee unto the Lord. Father, we're so happy that for any miserable sinner who will come unto you in faith and repentance, you will receive them and make new creatures of them. And that's what we're praying about today, Lord. We're so happy that in a way we're sad. We had mixed feelings. You went to the cross for us. We grieved. We wench when we see Christ on the cross. Yet we rejoice when we focus on the mighty resurrection, and knowing that these things are true and effectual. And we want to say thank you, Lord, for dying for us, for being buried, resurrecting, and showing yourself to be who you claim to be, the inspired in the inspired Son of God. saving us from our sins. We look forward to being in heaven with you, but we're here now. So Lord, I pray that you will fill us mightily with your Holy Spirit, that we will be servants of effect, effectual servants of you. Thank you for this church, Lord. Oh Lord, I want to just call down your blessing on the church. For many years stood for the sound word of God And we know the world, the flesh, and the devil would like to bring all kinds of issues upon them. But Lord, we pray for your blessing on the leadership, from the oldest member to the youngest. Have your blessing on them and draw them irresistibly unto yourself and clear the church, bless the church, protect the church from the world, the flesh, and the devil, that it can go forth and do great things for the kingdom of God. Thank you for bringing us together, and we thank you through Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen