Let's try it again here. Good morning. There. Good. Second Timothy, please. And we're up to chapter two. As the great roar comes out, that we've moved on. 2 Timothy chapter 2. And I ask you to follow along. I'll be reading through the first seven verses Second Timothy chapter two. The apostle writes, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that wareth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully The husbandman that laboreth must first partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. Pray our Lord to bless the hearing of his word this morning in our hearts. Let us pray. The Father will pause as we approach your word, and we approach it as it is a great treasure. Our heart's desire is to grow in it, to learn by it, that would not only profit us here today. But that it would be instruction that would lead us as all of the word does throughout, that we might better understand our relationship to our fellow man But more so that we might understand you more fully and obey you more fully. Bless these words to our hearts as we go into this letter of the apostle, and we'll thank you for it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to read a portion of a letter that was supposed to be written by Abraham Lincoln to his son's teacher. Um it was kind of popular, uh at least different parts online and and they attribute it to Abraham Lincoln But then one man really said, did he really do it? And and through his research it seems like he's has some doubt. So take it as it is. It's not the entire letter, but uh it will profit. Lincoln writes, My son starts school today. It is all going to be strange and new to him. For a while I wish you would treat him gently. It is an adventure that might take him across the continents. All adventures that probably include wars and tragedy and sorrow. To live this life will require faith, love, and courage. So, dear teacher, will you please take him by the hand and teach him things? that he will have to know, teaching him, but gently, if you can. Teach him that for every enemy there is a friend. He will have to know that all men are not just, that all men are not true. But teach him also that for every scoundrel there is a hero. That for every crooked politician, there is a dedicated leader. Teach him, if you can, that ten cents earned is far more of value than a dollar found. In school, teacher, it is far more honorable to fail than to cheat. Teach him to learn how to gracefully lose and enjoy winning when he does win. The letter goes on, but in truth or fiction, uh we can see that there are uh opportunities in life uh that come along to us that are indeed interesting principles. I'd say if we could all agree that when sought after, life is filled with teachable moments. It could be found in a letter, as we just read, from a parent to a teacher. It could be found at an opportunity when the son or daughter is wed, and we see them taking off on their own as a new couple, and we give them those final words. It can also be found in the letter of a father, a spiritual father to his son, the spiritual father now sitting on death roll in prison. And so we come to 2 Timothy chapter 2, teachable moments. As your scriptures are open, I'd call you to look at verse 1 of chapter 2, and Paul writes again Thou, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. First of all, I don't want you to lose sight of the relationship that's here. My son. Again, he brings it up in chapter 1, chapter 2, 1 Timothy, he mentions it. This is special. This isn't just as we would write to somebody, but he's speaking to him from the heart. And Paul's ministry to Timothy is one of great concern, of great love. And he's using this teachable moment at his final days to be able to give something to Timothy that is of utmost importance. This powerful relationship between the aged apostle and this young son brings color to these black and white words So don't look at it as you read this. Chapter or 1 Timothy 1 or uh chapter 2, uh any of these in here, don't look at it as just plain words. Paul was a thousand miles away. He was in prison. About to die. There were deserters, as we talked about last time, from the province of Asia, those of that church congregation. So Timothy, in his position, had a tremendous responsibility. He had a tremendous opportunity. He had to be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And this, as Paul knew and understood, was essential for Timothy's survival. It was essential for Timothy's proclamation of the gospel It was essential for Timothy's sanity that he applies with the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yet, what does that mean? Thou, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. It's a practically difficult definition and application. What does it mean to be strong in grace? To be strong in the grace that is in Christ. I think we, if we've read our Bibles, are familiar with the statement: be strong in the Lord. Yet I think in open discussion, we probably struggle to come up with a definition. We'd probably be throw together some verses. some Bible-sounding terms to define what being strong in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ is. But practically speaking, how is it to be put into practice? How do we use it? If it's so crucial in the Christian life. then we ought to be able not only to find it, but to be able to say, this is how I can do it. This is how I can be involved in it. Paul writing to Keith, and he says, Keith, be strong in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'd reply, well, what do you mean, Paul? What do you mean by this truth? First of all, be strong. This isn't brute strength, being able to lift something heavy or to accomplish a task that we could say, man. Nobody else could do that, but you did it. You had great strength. John Stott writes, be strong! You might as well tell a snail to be quick, or a horse to fly, as to tell a weakling to be strong, or a shy man to be brave. It's just not natural. It's just not normal for us to be like that. I read this, and this isn't Paul giving a a rah-rah speech like a football coach to his team before the championship game. All right, men, you've got to be strong and fortitude and get out there to win, you know Or like we've seen on some movies, some general gets before his troops, before this giant battle, which most of them are probably going to be killed in. We're going to be strong and get out there and you know or in front of a speech given by some politician, which we've heard at times, be strong for the country, you know, or Or even some preachers who at times will rally the people and stir them up emotionally, you know, be strong, you know, but What does that translate to once they leave and they're out on their own? What does that end up meaning? I think if it was those cases, what Paul was not intending, it would have led to disaster in Timothy's life He didn't ask Timothy to be a physically strong character. He didn't ask Timothy to be emotionally charged to go out there and do what the Lord's work was. It had to be something more than that. Be strong literally in the Greek means to be strengthened or to increase in strength. But to this, Paul adds be strong in the grace. of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, we're still asking the question, what does it mean to be strengthened in grace, or more specifically, To be strengthened in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're born again, as you know, by the Spirit of God. It's the work of the grace of God to bring us that new birth. The Holy Spirit influences every part of us as we are born again, from the tops of our heads to the soles of our feet. From our thinking process to our physical being, for our emotions to our decision making. There is no part of the human being That is not accessible to the Holy Spirit when it comes to the matter of change that He is making within our lives. That's exactly the purpose of that which He does. In that area, the Holy Spirit regenerates us, making those necessary changes in each individual. And it is the grace of Jesus Christ, by his work upon the cross, giving us that which we don't deserve, that strengthens us, that makes those changes in body and mind, in thinking and emotions, will, even my personality It makes us different people, new creatures, new creations in Christ. I am not the man I used to be, went the little children's song. And when I ask God to strengthen me in His grace, He does so in every part of me by His grace. Here's a beautiful quote from John Newton. I am not what I ought to be. Ah, how imperfect and deficient. I am not what I wish to be. I abhor what is evil, and I would cleave to what is good. I am not what I hope to be Soon, soon shall I put off mortality, and with mortality all sin and imperfection. Yet Though I am not what I ought to be, nor what I wish to be, nor what I hope to be, I can truly say I am not what I once was A slave to sin and Satan, and I can heartily join with the apostle and acknowledge, by the grace of God, I am what I am. That is being strong in the Lord. You know John Newton's life. You know his experiences of all the we sing Amazing Grace, but you don't understand the character of the man behind the words. Neither does most of the world that sings that song at funerals and and and such. They don't know the changes of this man's life. We know that the Lord Jesus Christ died instead of us. But the Holy Spirit does not live instead of us. It is the Holy Spirit that works ceaselessly and effectually in me and in all the elect to move and to motivate and to strengthen me to will and to do of his good pleasure. That's the working and the changing, making me a different person. According to God's good pleasure, it is the Holy Spirit that works that. The Holy Spirit is responsible for growing Christ-likeness in us. And our comfort is that. The Apostle Paul's comfort was that. And he's issuing at this teachable moment to Timothy, Timothy, your comfort will be. And remember, Paul has seen all types of disasters in life, and he's facing this final moment really without friends and such. Your comfort is in that which the Holy Spirit is working to do and to will of his good pleasure. For example, we work because he is working in us Why do we wake up in the morning and decide that we're going to do this for the Lord? Because the Holy Spirit is in there working in us to accomplish that very end. We fight against sin because he also fights against it. He is assisting us to look to him each and every day. Obviously, we have a responsibility But he guides us along to look to the Lord each and every day to accomplish those tasks which may seem menial or challenging. He is helping us to put to death that remaining sin, the flesh, by the power of the Spirit. I'm not the man I used to be. Praise God for that. I'm not what I want to be, but I'm not the person that I used to be. Those changes, those Those growth patterns, you know. We we see the development. Lord, thank you for the victory here and the victory there. It's the inworking of the strength, of the power of the Spirit of God Christian life is a matter of what can be, and what Jerry Bridges has defined as dependent responsibility. Dependent responsibility. Two principles I think help us to understand what it is to be strong in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. One, I am dependent upon God for any strength that I have. I am dependent upon God for any strength that I have. Number two, responsibility. I am responsible before God for any weakness that I have. Hmm. There it sits, isn't it? Dr. Thomas Lamby, one of our best and greatest missionaries as far as the work of the Lord was concerned. Great author, and his last book, um it was entitled A Doctor's Great Commission. And he recognized he's nearing the end of his ministry in his life, and he writes this at the close of this book And so, dear reader, we have come to the end at last, but I would like my last words to be of praise to God and our Lord Jesus Christ. For anything of value that has been done in my poor life, may all the glory be his. All the mistakes and the failures are mine. Dependent responsibility And we look at Paul's life and we can read his words. We can see his statements. Oh, the things that I want to do, I don't do, and the things that I do, I don't want to do Yet he turns around and ultimately says, Praise God for what has happened, what I have, what I have become. So, Timothy, be strong. In other words, Timothy, be responsible in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Dependence. Be strong, be responsible. But Timothy, your responsibility is dependent upon the grace that God has given you through Christ Jesus. And I think whatever we as Christians are doing, whether we're worshiping or whether we're serving other people, whether we're witnessing or doing good works, then you must be using every possible resource at your disposal. Who it is that God has given you, what talents, what abilities the community resources that you have, or your education, uh the horizontal relationships, all those things. We're to be using those to the best of our ability. Not of selfishness, but this is what God has made me. This is where he's placed me. I'm to be using all of these things for him. But at the same time, humble utter dependence and reliance upon his grace. I can't do it on my own. And when I find I'm leaning on my own strength and I'm doing this pretty soon, I'm starting to praise myself for what's been accomplished, and I don't have a humble reliant dependence upon his grace, and it ends up in failure. See, that's what Paul is telling Timothy. Obviously, God had called him to the ministry. He mentions this in both books. And he's given them a position there in Ephesus and teaching and preaching. And obviously there were opportunities for Timothy to be swept away on his own, you know? You're the great student of Paul. You're the friend of Paul and da-da-da, and all that. And he says, you can't do that on your own, Timothy. There has to be a dependence upon God's grace to see you through because there will be trials, as we have seen before, in life. Dependent responsibility. Paul knew what it was to receive grace and strength from the Lord. He explains this to the church in Corinth, 2 Corinthians chapter 12. He says, and he said unto me, this is the Lord speaking to Paul, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, I would rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses, for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am Strong. It makes sense now. Dependent responsibility. Paul says all of those calamities in life tore me away from what I, Paul, am. and allowed me to be what God wants me to be. Paul still used his ability as as a as an orator, a man who had mastered the Old Testament. a a Pharisee from his Pharisaical uh education. He still used those abilities, but his dependence upon the success of his ministry was solely upon the grace that God had given him. He said, that's my strength. So I glory in my infirmities, the physical, and all the struggles that I have, because as I do that, I'm relying upon the Lord to see me through. God expects us to involve ourselves to our fullest individual responsibilities for his purposes. Timothy is to be strong in grace, but what God requires of Timothy, he also supplies. Don't ever forget that. He strengthens us with the might of his spirit in the inner man. So we pray, God, command me whatever you will do, but supply the need. Call, Lord. Whatever you command me to do, I'm trusting that you will supply the need in order that I can accomplish. Timothy, work by grace, lead by grace, resist the false teachers by grace. Be faithful in the pattern of sound teaching by grace. All the things that we studied in chapter 1 of 2 Timothy, all of the challenges that Paul pointed his finger to Timothy and says, this you need to do Now he summarizes and remember Paul's not writing in in chapters here. This first verse of what we call chapter 2 is really continuing on from chapter 1. All of the things that I told you you have to do, you can do by grace. The grace that is in Christ Jesus. Be responsible to do with that which God expects, but be totally dependent upon Him to complete it. Super thought. Now, as he comes to me, and Paul says, Keith, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. I can clearly see that the only way I can accomplish whatever it is to accomplish is not in my own intellect, in my own uh drive, and my own whatever it is But it's to rely upon the grace that He'll give me in order to do it at the time in the fashion that He will have me to do it. Teaching moments abound. Paul's using his imprisonment, his special relationship to Timothy, the desertion of so many from the province of Asia. There's a time when decisions will have to be made that affect the future. Occasions when words hold greater meaning Where words can be brought about to be clung to because they are special, special times. Well, speaking of teachable moments, look at verse 2. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. He's flowing now from Timothy's what he can be strengthened in to this next level of generation. Timothy, not only do I want you to be strengthened in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, But I want you to be a teacher of that which you've been strengthened in to those who will be able to teach, then they will be able to teach others, and the pattern continues. It passes on from Paul to Timothy to others in greater generations, doctrinal and practical truths that Timothy heard from Paul while Paul preached in the presence of other people. He sat amongst those great congregations, among the argumentations, among those who were eager to learn and about those who were there to dispute with Paul. Timothy sat and he heard it all And he says, those things that you learned, and you you know what they were, the basic doctrines of the c of the gospel, he says, I want you to find men that are now trustworthy Men who will be responsible to pass on these same truths by the grace of God, that another generation may profit by them. Some of the specifics of that training we're going to look at next Lord's Day as we enter into the rest of this chapter. But I think we can say how thankful we are to those we are recipients of those very same things. From the time of the Apostle Paul through Timothy and all the way down. The gospel that came to your heart and your mind was a result of faithful men who not only heard the word, but were able to train another generation and another generation and another generation. What this country has been made of. We speak of its Christian heritage, its Christian roots. We're a result of those who came out of persecution out of Europe. To find a place where the Word of God can be proclaimed clearly. And then another generation to be passing it on and passing it on. We can run the string from our time all the way back To the Apostle Paul. That's why we use the same word. We find the same books, the same letters, the same chapters, the same verses as they did. And they were near and dear to him and them and others. And that's the blessing and the benefit that we have. Many years ago, there was a learned professor at Princeton Seminary named Robert Dick Wilson. A very famous man as far as his languages were concerned. He could read more than thirty Semitic languages One time about twelve years after the graduation, or the time that Donald Gray Barnhouse had uh left Princeton, he came back to the seminary to uh preach. And Dr. Wilson was sitting apparently in the front row at the chapel at Princeton. And he heard Barnhouse preach. After the message, he went up and shook his hand and said to Dr. Barnhouse When my boys come back, I come to see if they are big goddess or little goddess, and then I know what their ministry will be. Well, Dr. Barnhouse pulls Dr. Wilson aside and he says, what are you talking about? Big God or little god? You know, it's a little kind of confusing. Barnhouse explains, well, Some men have a little God, and they are always in trouble with him. He can't do many miracles. He can't take care of the inspiration and transmission of the scriptures to us. He doesn't intervene on behalf of his people. They have a little god, and I call them little goddess. Then there are those who have a great God. He speaks and it is done. He commands and it stands fast. He knows how to show himself strong on behalf of them who fear him. He went on to tell Dr. Barnhouse that he could see that he had a great God and that God would bless his mission. And he did. Dr. Barnhouse spent many, many years in the 10th Presbyterian Church there in Philadelphia, the ministering until the Lord took him home. Let me ask you, do you have a little God or a great God? The size of the God that you have with you is your dependence upon Him for all things. The little God says, well, what can you do for me today? And it ends up that he can't really do anything for you because you're not willing to be humbly submissive to him. The great God, as we have seen in Paul's encouragement to Timothy, he says, You're a great God, because Timothy, you know of him, as I know him. And of all of the things that are not dependent upon on what occurs here in this horizontal level between others, because think of all of the people that persecuted Paul and the sufferings that he had and the trials and physical ailments and such. Paul still said, he is a great God and worthy to be praised, and I'm totally dependent and relied upon him. That's the difference between the two. That's the pictures that we have Do you know this great God as Paul did and as John and Luke and others have taught? Is He great enough that you can trust in Him? That you can be responsible to him because you know he is responsible to you as your Heavenly Father and as your supplier of all things. Can you be totally dependent upon him to supply each and every need? Obviously, there are challenges that we face. And sometimes we give him great praise when it's an obvious answer to prayer. There's a healing here, there's a victory here, I've been able to do this and conquer this. He's a great God. And yet there are times when we wait and wait and wait and wait and There's no answer. So in our own hearts and minds, he's been reduced to a little God. And we find discouragement and hopelessness in that which comes along. As Paul presents to Timothy, he is always what he always has been. And how he works and acts in our lives isn't dependent upon us, but it's dependent upon him to do that which is good and right in his sight. Whatever he has planned for us, the direction, the purpose, that's in his purview, not in mine. He hasn't been pleased to send me a letter outside of his word of what takes place. That's for him to say. Lord, whatever you have made me, however you've you've whatever you've given me, let me be responsible for that And I think for most all of us we say, boy, that's enough. You know, what I'm responsible for as a as a father, as a as a husband as as a pastor, as a uh whatever corner category in the world that you you are in, those responsibilities are great How will I accomplish that? How will I do that which is right and proper in his sight? I have to say, Lord, I have to trust in your grace. Strengthen the inner man. Strengthen me, Father, and and allow the Spirit of God to make those changes that are necessary, that I can accomplish it. And when it's done, I can say, boy, that was It was only by the grace of God. We pray for Evelyn, um at ninety-four, recovering from these strokes. I think it's a monumental task. And knowing her as I do, I'm sure she says, I'm ready to go home. You know, uh couple prayer letters ago she finished up the prayer letter, she did a lot of the writing and And she wrote, uh, we want to be here in Guatemala and die with our boots on. And and I left that part off. I says, you know, Mrs. Ricker, we can't put dying with your boots on. But that's what I want the people to know, you know. That's that's what I am. And and so it's not just we're gonna continue on and you know, if if I don't recover, you know, I I I sh the she sees, as Paul did, the struggles of life that were there. And so to go through this valley of the shadow of death, she says, I fear no evil. The Lord's with me, you know. And those those trials and those struggles are the things that we have. But we'll make it by the grace of God. That which we don't deserve, our salvation, our salvation takes us all the way through and one day we'll awaken and we'll be with him in glory. But until that day occurs, You know, we find that. So we, uh as Timothy, uh hear the words of the Apostle Paul. Uh be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And then uh beyond that, um Lord, it's in your hands. Let's pray. Father, we address these few words, yet words that are indeed colored with the hand of and the heart of a man who loved this Son and the Lord. and loved you especially. And so the apostle presents unto us one of the tremendous keys to life. being responsible for all that we've been given by the Lord, and then to be totally dependent upon His grace to see each of those tasks through We confess, even today, even at this moment, that we failed in many times. Sometimes it's been because we've been afraid of failure. Sometimes we felt because of our own inadequacies Sometimes because it just didn't feel like the right thing to do. Yet, Lord, these are all teachable moments. These are opportunities for us to learn of you and grow in you and to be able to find what strengths we have in the grace that is coming through the Lord Jesus Christ. May we be students of the Word. May we not only read these passages of the men and women of Old and New Testaments alike, and read of their lifestyles just as a matter of rote, but may we see them in the struggles that they went through. Victorious by grace and not by their own strengths. Help us to learn and not only learn in our heads, but to apply them throughout our life. Lord will give you the praise for that which you'll do in Christ's name. Amen.