How'd you do with temptations this week? Did you think about it? Sometimes we get to that place where uh the sin has already befallen us and you say, Oh man, I fell for that one, you know. Um and that's where we're trying to elicit an understanding of how those things work in order that it would keep me from, as we mentioned last week, to nip it in the bud stop it before it ever gets there. Now obviously it's most difficult, but um uh that's our approach. Matthew chapter four, please. Matthew four, I'll be reading the first eleven verses of this gospel account. Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And he has and when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward and hungered. And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Then the devil taketh him up. into the holy city and set of him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, Cast thyself down, for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands They shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. And he said unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt but fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said unto him, Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shall thou serve. Then the devil leaveth him, and behold, angels came and ministered unto him. We trust our Lord will bless to our hearts the reading of his word today. Let's pray. Father, we wish to pause now as we have read this portion of your holy word, that we might consider it a little more in depth. For that which is before us is indeed meat for hungry souls. It is clarity in a very confusing day. It is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that we might be better equipped. To serve you in the world in which we live. Again, we pray you would keep the inroads of the wicked one away as we study this and as we consider what it has to say for us today, and may your spirit be our teacher in all things. In Christ's name, amen. Well this story of Jesus being tempted in the wilderness is probably one of the more familiar ones to people at least have some church background. There are some stories that people say, oh, I've heard that before. It's found in three Gospels. It's found in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and not in John. And the account in Matt Mark is actually really short. Um some have said because Mark's audience were more Roman folks. And the Romans didn't care for a lot of details of Jewish religion. They just wanted to hear the high points and therefore it's boom, boom, and that was it So we have here the Matthew and Luke accounts as far as giving us the most information. And we're going to use Matthew Because it seems to be, by the use of the word then in between those sections, that he's speaking more chronologically, the order that is there. So First the temptation to make this the the stone into bread and then the second takes him up on the pinnacle of the temple and he says Go ahead, cast yourself down, and the angels will help you to not be heard, and and the third one to to worship me. Uh it gives us that order. But before we look at the temptations, I want us to take a look, a little bit of a glance at the characters, the main characters of this story. And that's rather easy, isn't it? Two only two that are here. We start out with the Lord Jesus Christ. At this particular time the babe in the manger has grown into manhood He's reached a place in his ministry, or at least coming along, where the ministry begins. This is the start of entering into these three years of where he will be serving and teaching mankind. Probably around thirty years of age. This new phase is about to begin. And with this earthly ministry, we don't forget that he is the eternal Son of God. He is the God man. He hasn't lost any of that, but he is about to do that which only he can do. More specifically, in these next three years, he will be seen and understood and and clarified as he goes around and teaches and heals, as he interacts with people, and eventually as he goes to the cross dies and is buried and then risen again from the dead. That clarifies that earthly ministry that he had that we so well know about He becomes the spotless Lamb of God, the perfect sacrifice for his father. The second character, though, in our story is just as easy to find. He says it's the devil. The devil in Greek is diablos, which means slanderer, accuser. He is the father of lies. He is Satan, which is adversary. He is called the Prince of the Power of the Air, the Son of Perdition, Lucifer, which means the morning star He is the great dragon, the old serpent, and many other names attached to him. But let me warn you To clear your mind of any preconceived notions of Satan as a figure that is represented by some Halloween costume. Or even those grotesque figures that Hollywood so easily puts into movies to stare to scare the snot out of you and you're sitting there in the theater. Or for those little characters that sit on your shoulder, one dressed in red with the pitchfork and the little tail and whispers in your ear, and on the other side we have the little angelic feet creature figure with the with the wings and the halo and and both of them are vying for your attention. Both of them are trying to get your your understanding and your obedience We need to clear our minds that if there is any understanding of Satan, it is far from that. If we carry those depictions of Satan with any legitimate study of the Word of God or an application in life of Scripture, of truth, of who Satan is, we're going to miss the point completely. Please be mindful that if you were in the midst of Satan, you'd never recognize him. You wouldn't understand anything that he has. Be mindful that this in truth is the one who was created as a holy angel, the cherub, apparently the highest created angel in all of creation. He became arrogant for his beauty and his status, and he wanted to have a throne that sat above God. And in that rebellion, he failed. But when that rebellion failed, he was filled with rage. And that rage was directed to God and to God's people, specifically to the God man, the Lord Jesus Christ. and it continues on even today. His purpose therefore is to deceive and to seduce Messiah. In order to bring an end to his kingdom, to bring an end to Messiah, but bring an end to his kingdom in particular These attempts were made, as you know the story of Jesus, starting from his very birth. Remember all of the two-year-old children who were killed in Bethlehem by Herod? all of the work of Satan, all the way to the very end when he is is betrayed and arrested and crucified on the cross. Who is behind all of that? But Satan. In an attempt to end Messiah, to end that which he was destined to do as being the Redeemer of God's elect. The Apostle Peter clarifies our enemy for us in these words. He says, be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. He is constantly walking about. He has access to us everywhere. There is no place. He knows our feelings. He knows our tendencies. And his intent is, according to Peter, is to devour us. to r lay snares and traps to us in our life. It's quite evident as you read the Gospel of Matthew that he believes, Matthew, that there is a Satan Every author of the New Testament, as he writes, believes that there is a Satan. Jesus himself, for sure, recognizes that there is a Satan. And for us to dismiss it because he's not visible or because it is something that is only created by Hollywood or our own imagination is exactly a trap that he would enjoy. Second item we want to look at is the occasion that these two met. Why were they together? Why was this brought together at a place where Jesus is uh tempted by Satan? At the end of the Gospel of Matthew chapter 3, immediately following the baptism of Jesus, we read these words. And lo, a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Think of that. The words of God the Father, reaching down and clarifying with the greatest of joy and love and pride. This is my beloved son. Wow. I don't know how how it was heard, you know, uh the the intensity of it. The clarity of it. But everybody who was there at that particular time at this baptism of Jesus understood it. What beauty it was there. As we said earlier, Jesus' baptism was the beginning of this public ministry on earth. John Calvin, the reformer, writes. The general reason why Christ received baptism was that he might render full obedience to the Father. Beginning of the ministry. We say, well, that's when he starts and he calls his disciples and he goes out and he teaches, he preaches, he heals, and so forth. But it was all sourced on obeying his father. Complete obedience to all those things that the Father from before the foundation of the world set out needed to be done in order that the elect would be redeemed at that perfect time. It was as the spotless, sinless Lamb of God, from this point on beginning his act of obedience to the will of his Father. So then right after this baptism, chapter 3 ends in right beginning with chapter 4, then, okay, baptism is finished. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. Jesus is taken from the Jordan Valley, low point in geography, finished with the baptism, and he's led up by the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of God leading him Out up into the wilderness area. The location isn't noted, but if you've ever seen pictures of the area, it is wilderness most everywhere that you go an unknown area, to be tempted by, and again, the slanderer, the accuser. Think of the presentation of that. Jesus went to the wilderness to spend forty days in preparation for ministry. He went there purposely to spend forty days of of relationship, of communion with his Heavenly Father. If you know the Gospels, you you'll say, well it's not uncommon for Jesus to go and pray at times. Early in the morning he got up before everybody else and he's out into the darkness praying. Or at the end of a very difficult time, a lot of people teaching and preaching and so forth, and all of a sudden it gets in the boat and he gets to the other side. He's got to get away to to have that retreat to spend his time building up But this is much more than that. This is purposefully setting aside, heading into a battle, uh a spiritual battle, and it ends up being physical also that he would be prepared for what has been called the most important event in world history. You ever think of that? These three years, focusing down even to specifically to the last very moments, these three years were the presentation of the most important Event in history of the world, in the history of the universe. Had Christ not done this, what would have happened? There had been no redemption. All that which has been ceded by God the Father never would have occurred. So it's the most important event. Well, fasting for forty days, that's impossible. Do you ever go on a diet? Yeah. And the doctor says, Well, you know, you better cut back on this and that. You can do it, but you know, it's you keep the liquids going, you may be able to make it, you know Forty days and forty nights, a real fast. Elijah did it, forty days and forty nights of fasting. Moses did it, forty days and forty nights of fasting. The liberals will come along and say, well, forty days just means a long period of time. It doesn't really mean forty days, but it is. But it is. You are preparing, solidifying his heart with that which his father had set aside. And when you think about this particular condition, finishing up 40 days Complete fast. How Jesus felt. I know how difficult it is after, you know, go for a procedure. Doctor said, Well, you can't eat or drink for eight hours. You know, ha! Eight hours, you know, come on Yeah, forty days and forty days and the the body is weak and all of a sudden you just kind of sapped with your strength. And he finishes it all and he gets to this very point and Satan comes and offers him at his weakest place It is most vulnerable time, this fantastic offer of a realistic temptation. If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. I want you to note the offer in this wording. He says, if thou be the Son of God. What words were echoing in Jesus' mind forty days before as he was down by the Jordan River? The last words he heard from his Heavenly Father audibly that everybody heard, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And Satan comes along, he says, if, or in other words, because you are, or because you were told, or so you think you are, the Son of God. And that's really the crux to this whole temptation that he presents. This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Since you are the Son of God, turn these stones into bread. Quit torturing yourself. The fast has been finished There's nobody else around here to help you. You're hungry. You have the power of God to change a stone into bread to meet those physical needs that you are obviously struggling under at this particular time. Turn the stones into bread and eat. So what was the temptation? You have a real need. You're hungry. Nobody here to help you. So take the matters into your own hands. In essence, that's what Satan was saying. He isn't denying that Jesus is the Son of God. He isn't doing any of those things, but he is challenging him to prove it. If you are the Son of God, prove it. Now what does Jesus do as far as his response? What does he say? Well known as the temptation itself? It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. It's written. Obviously Satan knew the scriptures. He always has, and he always will. He'll use scriptures or misquote scriptures or take a portion here of portion there in and try and encourage us to fall off the path of following the Lord by uh abusing the scriptures themselves. But Jesus comes back and he presents these remarkable truths. Think about it. This is the living word pointing to the written word, and he says, this is my answer. This is the source of that which I can speak to you about as far as authority is concerned. If you would, turn to your Old Testament, to Deuteronomy chapter 8. The fifth book, Matthew er Matthew, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. The words that are here are written by Moses, but these are the words that Jesus comes to present unto Satan. Deuteronomy eight and beginning at verse two. This is Moses speaking to the children of Israel. If thou, Israel Shall remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness. Whoa! Jesus is led by the Holy Spirit into the wilderness. For 40 days. Here, Moses says, God led you, Israel, into the wilderness for 40 years. He says, to do what? To humble thee. Who is humbled in the wilderness? But Jesus. Think of how he submitted himself completely unto the will of his father. It's no easy task. He's completely God and completely man. He didn't take any advantage of his deity in order to satisfy the physical side of himself. He understood all throughout his life what pain was, what tears were, what rejection was. He knew every temptation to man, yet without sin. So he comes along and he humbled himself. Israel, God's intent is to humble you to do that. To humble thee and to prove thee. That word prove is like to test. Who is tested for following those 40 days but Jesus? Same thing. See the parallel that goes here. To prove thee to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments or no. And he humbled thee And suffered thee to hunger, who was hungry, Jesus, and fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not Neither did thy fathers know that he might make thee known that man did not live by bread only. But by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live. Wow. How did Israel survive forty years in the wilderness? They knew how to grow crops. They knew how to hunt and fish and all of those things. But there wasn't one day in the wilderness Save the day that the quails were brought in to satisfy their grumblings, you know, if they came low and they could club them and eat them. There wasn't one day that Israel suffered anything that God had not supplied In forty years, there wasn't one day that they said, this product that we're going to sit here at this table in and enjoy is something that I grew or that I earn money to buy or whatever Every single day God provided manna for them. And when it came to the Sabbath, they had two days set aside so they didn't have to go and pick it up on the Sabbath day. You ever get tired of eating the same foods? But can you imagine how manna satisfied them every single day? Not to say, oh, meatloaf again? You know? And if somebody made meatloaf today downstairs, please forget that. I didn't you know. But y do you see the picture of what he's saying? Everything that you had in the wilderness, God supplied. We've talked before about their clothing. It never fell apart. Forty years wearing the same sandals. You know? I can hardly go for I don't know how long before you know shoes are falling apart. Day after day he supplied each and every person, satisfying each one. And the purpose was to show that God was the source of what they needed. They didn't live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. From the day they left Egypt into the Promised Land. For four years he provided for them continually, and they had to learn to trust in him alone. So for Satan to suggest that Jesus needed to take control of the situation meant don't trust your father Ultimately, theoretically, he's saying fast is over. You went for 40 days, you're at your weakest point, nobody's here, go ahead, eat. Take the stone and turn it to bread and enjoy. But in reality, what he's saying behind the trickery of the words was, you can't trust your father. Do it yourself. You are God. Go ahead Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. And to that Jesus was saying, My heavenly Father can keep me alive without bread How did Jesus live for forty days in the wilderness without food or drink? There are some, and I Google this one up, you know. And there are people today who go into these fasts but they gotta prepare their bodies and you know, no eating, drinking, you know, and they uh there's some prisoners who are going, I'm going to go fast, you know, I'm not gonna eat and drink anything, you know, and they're bodies are all shriveled up, you know. But in this particular case, I can't see Jesus starving, you know, shriveled up. I see that God the Father supplied him with whatever the body needed in order that he might have this confidence that the Father will meet his particular need. I trust only in him. And that was Jesus' testimony throughout all of his days, all the way to the cross. When you think of him going to the garden, Getting upon his knees, pouring, as it were, great drops of blood. Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, thy will be done that he could be supplied, sustained, strengthened, in order to go all the way to the total rejection of all mankind because of their sin, and his father turning his back upon him upon the cross. And Jesus said, nevertheless, I'll do it for your will. And he did completely I want to close with this portion of this wilderness temptation, and we're going to look at the other ones later on. But I want to make some applications and I trust it'll be profitable. First of all, recognize the enemy of your soul is waging a continual war. Like I said, he could be sitting here today and we wouldn't recognize them. We wouldn't know any difference from anybody else His weaponry, his his his arsenal is so varied and and and so uh uh multifaceted that he uses it in such a way. Now he's not omnipotent, he's not all-powerful, he's not all-knowing, he he's he's not God, but he has tremendous forces that go with him As we mentioned before, he plays upon our weakness. He played upon Jesus when he was tired and when he was hungry. Think how often our temptations as we come into life each day, you know, when am I tempted to lose my temper or say something that's really out of place when I'm hungry, or when I'm tired When I'm physically drained, when I'm emotionally, you know, just Ben An. Satan recognizes those weak points in our day, and he likes to do that. He also recognizes times when I'm on top of the world. that everything is going great, that I just can't be stopped. You know. Boy, Pastor, that was a great message. And I go, ah And yet it wasn't me. We recognize that. We recognize that anything that comes along in my weakest point or even in the highest point that I think I can be Is a way for me to turn away from God and say, God, I can do it. Just step aside and watch. You know, I can handle this one. Remember the disciples in the garden, tired. Can't you just stay awake a little bit longer and pray? You know? Judas. Man apparently who loved the purse, you know, had that that bent for him, and and that was something that Satan saw, well this is somebody who likes the purse and I know that I can get him to betray Christ just for a a little handful of coins, you know. The weakest, these areas of life. Often his temptations are quite logical. Fasting produces hunger, and therefore, need somebody to minister unto that thing. Maybe for us it's a matter of loneliness. Or physical pain, or the feeling of having no worth, or the place that nobody understands me. And because of those situations, those needs are real to me, and Satan comes to question me and the struggles that I'm currently in. Can God really help you through this? You know, you know, the you he doesn't know what I'm going through. Read the Psalms. See the Psalmist, oh Lord, this is again and again. And it's a questioning, is God there? Is he really helping me? The things that I'm dealing with, the fact that God does he even know and does he even care. And it brings fear unto myself. Therefore, I break my trust in God as my complete sufficiency and supply. I do something else. I find another avenue that it doesn't matter, I'll I'll just turn the stones into bread and that'll be it. But the rest of the time I'm great, you know. But for us it could be something else I have a need. God doesn't know when he hasn't supplied the need, and I'm not going to wait any longer. Therefore I just kind of cut my ties and kind of drift away for a minute. Do you remember God's promise to Abraham and Sarah? The the the the family that you'll have as as m multitudinous as is the stars in the sky, is the number of grains of sand and on the on the shores. And And Sarah hears this and it elicits a laugh. What do you mean? At our age we're going to have children? You know? And, you know, she regrets that part. But what did they do when they understood that that that they were old, they went ahead and they took the step themselves and and and Sarah had Hagar, her handmaid, go unto Abraham And she had a child, Ishmael. You know. They couldn't wait, they couldn't trust God. God, you don't recognize it. Great promise, God, but we're going to have to step in and do something on our own. To make sure that this promise is fulfilled. Hence we've got the Arab population of the world and Jewish population of the world in those two areas, you know? How often have we done that? God, you don't understand the things that I'm going through right now. I find it I can't wait another year or another month or another day. I've got to step in and do something on my own in order to get this accomplished. Some 300 years ago, English minister Matthew Henry wrote this. Let none of God's children distrust their father. nor take any sinful indirect course for the supply of their own necessities. Some way or another God will provide for them, and verily they shall be fed Henry says, he says, don't ever come to the place where you don't, I don't we don't, and we don't say it, God, I don't trust you. But by our very actions, when I'm not what was our first hymn? Trust and obey. Trust and obey. If I'm trusting in him, I'm obeying him. And when I'm not obeying him, therefore I am not Trusting him. So Matthew Henry says, don't ever let a child of God distrust the Father. And what happens then, he says, nor take sinful indirect course for the supply of their own necessities. It is a sinful course to say, I'll provide for myself. I'll do it. Frank Sinatra, my way, you know? It kills me, you know I've lived a life. He did it my way. Yeah, where did it probably get him? But we do that sometimes. God, you haven't answered this. I need some assistance Instead of being patient, instead of obeying, learning the lessons along the way that we have to learn, we head off on our own, and Matthew Henry says, that indirect, sinful course is to meet my necessities. In some other way, but he says he concludes it, but God will provide for them, and verily they shall be fed. And you know in your own life he's done that. How many times Wow, just in the nick of time. It wasn't the nick of time. God knew exactly when it needed to be done. When you needed to learn that lesson, when you needed to be fed, he's always been faithful He's always taken care of us. He's always done that. A couple verses from Psalm 37. Trust in the Lord and do good. Matter of obedience. So shall thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Israel, trust in the Lord and do the things that are right. And the result is God will meet that particular need. Next verse, delight thyself in the Lord. And he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. My heart's focus is on him. I delight in God. Jesus' delight was in his heavenly Father. And the end result is that desire of my heart will be met. The next verse. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust in him also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He'll accomplish it. But God, I need a time factor here. You don't know the things that I'm under pressure. I gotta do this in the next 30 minutes. I gotta do it by this week. God says, don't worry, I've got it under control. Trust me. You know. All of those things are all throughout the scriptures and they're all throughout our life. That's part of the process of walking with the Lord. And so for Jesus to come to Satan and and turn to him and says, you know If God wanted me to be fed by bread, you know, He'll give it to me at the right time. But otherwise, it doesn't matter. I live by the Word. He was the Word, and so it is for us Brethren, that's what it means to live by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. Now, when do we accomplish that? Well, it's a whole lifelong process. You know, we learn each day. For that baby, uh we start him in that uh you know, the milk and and then they get into those little ground up stuff and y yucky and feed them and he you know goes all over and then a little bit harder foods and so forth and then pretty soon they're onto the steaks and the breads and everything else, you know, and it is for us. How kind our God is to give us patiently the foods that we need day by day. And we can't compare that to each other because each one of us are on a different level of growth Well I understand this is real easy for me. And how come you can't understand it? Well God says, well I'm working with them in a different mm pattern, you know. Be patient with them as I'm patient with you, as I'm patient with these other ones, you know. That's the whole thing. Every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God is understood by God best as we learn to trust and obey. And the more we learn of him, the more we're able to trust in him. And the more we're trusting in him, the easier it is to obey. So that's the danger. The whole point of this is the danger of temptation to keep me from trusting in God. Not to say that what he's told me to do, what his word opens up and is there before me, that's not sufficient. It is sufficient It is sufficient. It provides unto me that which is nourishing in my soul, and it gives me great buildup in life And it prepares me for ministry of life as a as a parent, as a as a spouse, as a worker, as as whatever it is, and as a citizen. It causes me to that end. Be mindful of that. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this um uh little piece of the New Testament, a little portion of Matthew that speaks to something that occurred uh long ago, yet it continues to occur today, even in our own lives. Thank you that Jesus was tempted and that he was strengthen and is resolved to be obedient to you, that the temptation failed. And yet the same temptation is offered to us on a daily basis. that Satan whispers into our hearts and to our ears not to trust you. Don't believe that God will supply. Don't believe that he can meet your needs. Don't believe that he can fulfill your heart, fulfill your soul, that he can do any of those things. Go ahead and do it yourself. Well Father, help us to have clarity in our minds to recognize we can do nothing. And everything that we have is a result of your grace that everything in the future is still by your grace. And you continue to love us and show us such that we are satisfied and able to be satisfied by every word that proceeds out of your mouth. Lord, if you want it to be done, it can be done, and you will do it. And we thank you. Thank you for saving us, bringing us into your family. Thank you for offering unto us eternal life and the pattern of life upon which we are able to live in this world. In Jesus' name. Amen.