Uh shall we pray? The Father will continue in this worship and recognizing ourselves as unworthy in ourselves to approach you to speak of things such as worshiping you when we are merely sinners saved by grace We have no stand, uh no claim, uh no personal access to approach you And yet through Jesus, the one who bought us uh through his blood, purchased price, paid perfectly, and has allowed us to be brought into your family and allowed us to present unto you feebly and in and as weakened as we are, worship, heart's desire to please you in all things. So accept, Father, our opportunity to do so today. As we open your word, we treasure it. Not as much as we ought. Nevertheless, it brings truth It brings light, it brings understanding, it brings correction, it brings encouragement and discipline, so much So, Father, may we feed at this banquet table. May what uh your servant says be truthful and honest, and may your spirit work in our hearts. uh the work that's necessary uh that you have already prepared. In Jesus' name. Amen. James chapter one, please And a few verses I want to read today, James one verses twelve through eighteen. James 1, verse 12. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried He shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, It bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Every good And every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness. Neither shadow of turning of his own will beget he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures May God bless our hearts with His Word. I want to start a series today of undetermined length on the topic of temptation. And I say undetermined length because the more I read within the scriptures, the more I find uh what it says. And I don't want to be tempted I don't want to be tempted to make it too long or too short, but we want to give it an approach because it is something that I think is very part of our day As you know, temptation was seeded in the beginning of the Bible, found in the book of Genesis, found within those words of the serpent. Yea, hath God said, ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And then a little bit later he says, Ye shall not surely die. To Eve's ears, it was a tantalizing bait. I've done enough fishing to know that I can fish in the same spot and Well as soon as I switch baits, all of a sudden the fish go after it, you know. This was tantalizing to her. She saw it. And it was something that Satan understood that he could offer her cleverly suggested that there was something far better than what she already had. Think of that. That was the tantalization, not a satisfaction of where she already was What she already had, but I can give you something better. What he offered was followed by an action. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and that a tree to be desired to make one wise. She took the fruit thereof, and did eat and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. Well, we've all begun then. It all started there. the seed of this whole picture of temptation. And you can go through the Old Testament and the New Testament. reading of men and women alike, some being tempted and disastrous results, and others understanding it and resisting the temptation and having victory There are some great lessons, I think, that we can learn as temptation is something that we all face from our first parents. We're not exempt from it. It's part of who we are as human beings. As you know, it can come in the form of a whisper. Go ahead and continue and look in that inappropriate website, for it indeed is pleasant to the eyes. It's easy. Just a little whisper. Or simply as you're driving by that lit sign, it says, Hot Krispy Kreme Now And you almost start to salivate, you know, the Pavlov's dog, you know. And the doctor says, you're not supposed to be eating these things, you know. It can come in all forms. Bait offered, suggested, sometimes very strongly. that if you take it of course, the action, you'll be better off. You'll be happier. You'll be more fulfilled. That's always what's presented. That's always the bait that hangs in front of us. Irish playwright Oscar Wilde once said, I can risk resist anything except temptation. I can resist anything except Temptation, and in this sense, it's very true. Temptations seem to be everywhere and all the time. Temptation to see or not to see, to be silent or to speak up, temptations to touch, to taste to to listen, to participate, or not. You know, either way, they they they go all over the world. Sometimes they are very surprise-like. Other times they are very easily recognizable Sometimes they're just a pattern of life and we we accept the temptation because we've done it before. If you've ever gone to the hospital and got that really sticky white tape on you, and then they go to rip it off And you're sometimes you're already you pull your fingers out of the ceiling after they've ripped it off, you know. But if you take that same tape and you put it back on, you pull it off and the tape isn't quite so sticky And every time you put the tape on, every time you pull it off, it's less sticky. And sometimes temptations are like that. They present unto us something that is, whoa, Well it wasn't so bad, it wasn't quite so bad, and it becomes easier and easier and easier to fall to it because it's really not that bad Pastor teacher Chuck Swindall gives it a definition as temptation is the motivation to be bad by being promised something good. I think the key word there is motivation. The motivation is to be bad by being promised something good, small or great. Dictionary defines this, defines temptation as the desire, like motivation, to do something, especially something wrong or otherwise. Yeah, I say that because I want us to understand written from the beginning that temptations are not wrong. Temptations are not simple. in and of themselves. And I think this is really important distinction to make because so many Christians become confused. They're tempted and then all of a sudden they've presumed that they've already sinned. And that's not the case The truth is obvious from Scripture. Let me read a portion of the Lord's Prayer. And forgive us our debts. Well as you probably know, those aren't, you know. The things that I owe people, you know, those debts. But it's it's sin, you know. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Here we're taught that deaths or sins need to be what? What does this say? Forgive us. Forgive it. Forgiven! Our debts need to be forgiven, but our matters of temptations need to be what? Need to be kept away from. He says, lead us not into temptation. Keep us away from, delivered from them. Because that phrase, lead us not to temptation, but deliver us from evil, is really it's the evil one. Temptations are offered by the evil one, so deliver me from that. I haven't sinned. Forgive the sin, but keep me from, deliver me from the temptation or the allurements of the wicked one. Yes, they are both part of life, temptations and sin, and they have to be handled accordingly. But temptation is not a sin of a source of confidence in saying that simply because we think of the Lord Jesus Christ. Hebrews 4. 15 Tells us that he was tempted in all points like as we are, yet without sin. So if a temptation was a sin, Jesus would have been in trouble. You know, he knew no sin. He didn't sin. It becomes a part of him. So let me jump back again and take Chuck Swindah's definition. Temptation is the motivation to be bad by being promised something good. When Eve heard those words from Satan when the bait was hung out there, the allurement was uh assessed before her eyes, she analyzed the fruit as good for food Pleasant for the eyes, and something that was going to make her wise. At that point, she had not sinned At that point, she hears the temptation, she sees whatever was there, however the tree looked, whatever the presentation was, she had not sinned at this stage. She was motivated to do that which was clearly wrong, but it wasn't until she took it and took the bite that she had actually committed the sin. It was a dangerous thing to do. She should just go, Dan, Dan, I I don't want to listen to you, you know, or just turn away. But she didn't. She listened to the whole spiel, you know. And she then fell when uh she took it. She was hooked, and not only her, but her foolish husband took too. Achan, I think, is another prime example out of Joshua 7. He finds the gold and the silver. He finds that entire wardrobe of Ralph Lorenz suits uh there in the in the condemned city of of uh uh of uh of I forgot to see his name, Jericho, my mistake. In Jericho. And his motivation had been, no doubt, living in forty years in the wilderness. Wow, same old sandals, same cloak, no coins in his pocket, nothing of prestige or whatsoever for him, and all of a sudden In Jericho he sees these things that he hasn't had, touched, been a part of for forty years. And all of a sudden, here's a chance for him to say that I can be advanced in life. I can have something more than I've been accustomed to for forty years. And he goes in the head and he takes it. And he basically is saying that what God has given me is really not worth that much more. Achan at this point could have stopped. He could have turned away and said, you know, it's only stuff. It's only going to be eaten up by maws or stolen by robbers, or you know, what what I've got, what God has given me for forty years I should be satisfied with that and just turned away from it. He could have done that, but he didn't. And so when he presumed that this would be the advancement in life You know, uh providing something that he has missed out on. God wasn't enough. He took it and he buried it in the tent and he says, Boy, this is this is great stuff. I am now the man He sinned. He swallowed debate. He felt that these things would give him the promise of a better life. Well, in the end though, he paid with his life, didn't he? Not only his life, but the life of his entire family, the presumption being that they understood what was buried, that they were the ones involved also in the grand cover up before God's eyes. Let me just throw in a couple of examples of those names that really didn't swallow the bait when temptation was offered. How about good old Joseph? Think of the better life that was provided for him or offered, debate that was hung out by Potiphar's wife. You know, I'm sure this wasn't a one-time done type of thing. I'm sure she was accustomed to doing this within the household But, you know, she could tell him, you know, he says, hey listen, you know, we we we link up here, man's up at the office all the time, you know. I I'm I'm uh the the the chief uh of the household, you know I can provide you with whatever you need. You know, life is going to be easy, Joseph. You know, stay with me. It could have been that. But he understood that those things were not, and he stopped before it went any further. Then there was Moses. We read in Hebrews 11. 25 that he chose rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. He had for so many years lived in the palace with the education and the riches and the fine dining and all of the best of what Egypt had to offer, sitting himself on a position of grand authority as the years would go on. But he said no to those things, which were probably good for the food and you know pleasant to the eyes and makes one wise. You know, he he took it all in that and he says, no. I would prefer to be with the people of God, which means I prefer to be with the Lord than rather be with these things which were sinful for the season. Let's look at our scripture reading now. And again, see how James describes the temptation to sin. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil Neither tempteth he with any man, but every man is tempted when he is drawn away with his own lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. In this particular paragraph, I want us to see four unchangeable truths about temptation. you know, principles that are part and parcel of of what James is trying to tell us and what we've experienced in our own life. The first one is obvious here, is that temptation is inevitable. We can't escape it. First of all, because we are children of Adam. Yet James says, let no one say when he is tempted. He doesn't say if we are tempted. It doesn't say if. You know, this comes along to say, well, I guess I wasn't tempted today. You know. When you think of all that goes on, how fast and how easy the mind and all of our senses work to pull us one way or another, to offer us something, which is a glorious thought when we think of heaven. If temptation is removed, if sin is all removed, all those things out of it, think of what life will be like Another story for another day for that one. We just can't run into the battlefield to avoid temptation. The battlefield finds us regardless. We can do our best to avoid temptations. We can do our best to avoid situations that we know will lead us into a place of weakness where temptation becomes strongly offered. But sooner or later we can find out it is there. Beginning the third, probably fourth century, religious men, and we first say Christian men felt that their best move would be to keep away from society. Uh they became known as hermits. They would go live out in the desert, live in caves. The idea is if I can avoid people, because all of you people are sinful If I can avoid being with you people, then I can live a more holy life before God. I understand the aspect of setting aside time and getting away, and we all enjoy doing that, you know I like some quiet time. Let me go to a place where I can, you know, just me and the Lord to be like that, uh the you know, the spiritual vacations of life. And yet this is far more than that. The problem is, as they headed out into the into the desert, into the wilderness, they found the same issue. Because it was within themselves. The temptation was within the sid sinful thoughts within their own minds. Satan's coming along. I think of Jesus in in the uh the wilderness, and that's a chapter or passage that we're going to get at and spend some considerable time later on. But Jesus faced the great tempter himself. So James reminds us to be aware and to understand the craftiness and the guile of Satan's minions. Temptation is there and it will be with us until glory. We just have to be aware of each situation and how it is profited in our life. Secondly, temptation is never God directed. This is because God is holy. James makes that very clear. He cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. Nevertheless, it's part of our human nature, I think, to blame God when temptation becomes sin. We shake our fists at him and say, it is your fault. Remember when God talks with Adam after his forbidden fruit was eaten. This is poor Adam. This is a this is a black mark on man right here. He says It was the woman you gave me. You know. He said, wait a minute. You know, it was her. She did it. And she was the one who took it to me as the temptation. Not only did Adam throw his wife under the bus, but he blames God. You gave her to me, not willing to take up the responsibility himself. And that's easy. What we often do is express our ignorance of weakness. We don't necessarily point to God and say, God, you did this. You allowed this temptation to happen, but in ignorance and in our own spiritual weakness, we may come to a point in our life where we implied by our attitudes or actions There's an illness where somebody suffered loss, something that affects not only me, but it affects my family. a feeling of great discouragement and disappointment that comes over me, what I'm experiencing. And I can say, surely God, you could have prevented this. God, you could have kept this from happening. You could have rescued this. You could have stopped this. You could have I'm not blaming him for the temptation, but I'm looking at him and saying that didn't necessarily have to happen And in essence, I'm really being like Adam, and I'm really saying, Lord, you cause this situation. Romans 8. 28 means very little to what I'm experiencing. How often has somebody brought that verse to you at a time of suffering? All things work together for good. To them who love God, to them are called according to his purpose. Well you don't know how I feel. But the underlying truth is that God does work in all situations From the hardest to the easiest, that He provides all of those for His glory and for our good Remember, God allows us to be tempted, but he is never the one who directs the temptation. Why he allows the temptation? It is for our good. unbeknownst to us, the pattern of life and all of the situations that uh the interactions not only of me but every person that I touch, every interaction of others that go on and on and on and on, all intertwine. Far beyond what we can understand or see, he is the one who has done this. Yet he never directs the temptation. Thirdly, James says that the temptation is an individual matter. Temptation is an individual matter. He says, when every person, when he speaking of every person, when he is drawn away of his own lust. and enticed. When he, the individual, when you, when I am drawn away and enticed. Each of us has a different area of weakness that temptation is trying to exploit One person it's a it's a craving for wealth. Another person is for attention. Another person is the oversight of this other. The other person is is just I want to share these good tidbits with you. Can you spend some time so I can t share with you, you know? And it just goes on and on and on. Truth of the matter is the tempter doesn't waste time tempting us in areas of strength. He's not going to waste the time for doing that, but he sees the weakness in each of us and he says, those are the areas that I will exploit He realizes that he longs for us an individual desire, a unique lust, and he zooms in on those Because he sees those. Now he's not omnipotent. He's not omniscient. I don't want to give Satan any extra uh qualities here, but the idea is that he understands who we are and he sees those weaknesses In Acts 5, we find a couple by the name of Ananias and Sapphira. The passage talks about the church in the stage of growth. And they come along and they see what that the church is doing in general, and there's great profit and encouragement by the body, and and they seem to have some possessions, some land and that that they want to sell And so they go ahead and they sell it and they bring the the offering of what is sold to the the the church, to the body, and say, here's our contribution. Well the truth of the matter is they only gave a part of it They held back a portion for their own selves. And in essence, the passage talks about them lying to God. It was uh holding up this as something special. And I looked behind here though, and I can't help but feel that they had a love for money. They had a love for finances. They love to control like Judas the Pirates, you know. They they weren't willing to go by faith and say we're going to trust God on this. In the other part, I think they What they enjoyed was their the personal recognition from the church. You know, here's somebody, boy, they gave a lot of money. And boy, that good job, Anonis, good job, Safari, you know, oh uh and they were very proud of that. So they wanted to walk the fence. They wanted to walk by showing that they had money and they could give and get the recognition from the church, but they also wanted that personal security because deep down they couldn't trust in God for the rest. And so here, this is a personal, individual matter. When they fell on their own, their own choice, their own decisions that were made, their own lust and enticed. It's a part of our human nature. It is a weakness that Satan looks upon and exploits. And sad to say the tragic consequences for Ananias and Sapphira were down in history. You know, it tells me that there are certain areas of my life that need attention. During the spring melt, it didn't happen this year, but during the spring snow melt The uh Mississippi River oftentimes overflows its banks and those dikes and and levees that are built up there sometimes they end up bursting, uh flooding all farmlands and houses and everything that's nearby. Uh they'll come along and say, we need to shore up these dikes. We need to build these uh stronger and bigger and and for the next time that comes along. And I've got to look at my own life and I say there are have to be areas that I have to shore up Me personally that I have to address. This is a weakness in my area that I have to build up and strengthen in order that I might be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. We recognize the weaknesses that we have, as Satan does, and we have to build ourselves up in the most holy faith to strengthen ourselves against it. Fourthly, James tells us that temptation always follows the same life cycle Temptation always follows the same life cycle. Verse 14, but every man is tempted. Remember? Everyone. When he is drawn away with his own lust and enticed, then When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. It begins with conception. The moment there is something that is seen there and the bait is offered, it's hooked onto the hook and it's cast out in there. And we see it coming, we hear it, we smell it, we taste it, or whatever that particular thing is. And that next follows by the conception is the sinful desire and temptation they meet. And that's what James refers to as when lust hath conceived. You know, when the apple is picked, and the apple is just right about there to be bitten into. But after this conception, James says the next step that it brings forth sin, it gives birth to sin And we've said that temptation in and of itself is not sinful. It's only when the act of temptation leads me to the actual sin. that brings me along to this point. I read the number of characters in scripture and I wondered how often in the life of Joseph, from the moment of the time of his his uh time with the family as a young man till all of the betrayals and the sales and and and and uh near death experiences and the imprisonments and everything that went along the way, how often was he presented with an option to rid himself of the struggles that he was going through. And yet I think that Joseph, and again here's a here's a man who didn't have the scriptures. He was leaning upon what his father had taught him What God Himself led him to understand and to live by. He buried those things and he strengthened those things within his heart for each of those cases. Those imprisonments must have been horrible. The situations of the bleakness of it, yet he faithfully trusted God and did not fall to that. Gives birth to sin, it wasn't seen in Joseph's life. And then it says when it is finished, it produces the final act of this cycle of temptation. It yields to death. Now, who's James writing to? He's writing to believers. So we're not talking about uh uh the the fall from temptation to sin to death. He's not talking about a separation from God Uh that's clear. What do we here we bring f brings forth the idea, ultimately, that it's possible, he's talking in a figurative sense of referring to the quality of life. I think we all know Christians in our life who've who've fall into sin and the quality of life becomes terrible because of drug addictions or because of alcohol or because of a a desire to be this or to spend this or whatever it is. And it just leads to a horrible quality of life, and which can end up being death. It can end up taking their life. More than likely though, I think this death refers to, in the figurative sense, of the spiritual aspect of life. When the enticement to evil follows by the deadly uh aspects of sin, it can be the spiritual destruction to an unproductive Christian life You know, in the day that we live, how many evangelical pastors have fallen uh to the offerings of sin? Uh one of the ladies in our office said that or her sister's church, uh, another state He says they have a big church, uh two, three services uh every Lord's Day. And the pastor got up one Sunday unbeknownst to everybody and announced that he's resigning because he had an affair with a member of the church staff You know, how often does that take place? It never should. But here he's saying the temptation provided, the bait was there, he followed the bait. uh there was conception, there was a falling into the temptation of s to sin and then eventually death. His ministry for all practical purposes ended not only for himself but for the people of that particular church, all because of a matter of personal indiscretion. Sounds pretty bleak, doesn't it? You know, we talk about being saved and what salvation does. And it kind of reading through this principle of temptation kind of makes us sound like, wow, we really don't have much uh hope as far as dealing with it The Apostle Paul provides us, though, I think, with great hope. Not a hopeless situation, but he reminds us that we are not compelled to fall into temptation, which results in sin. We are not compelled to do that. We're not bound to do it. We're not tied to do that. Temptation approaches. There are the opportunities to turn away He gives us one uh passage in First Corinthians, which you should all have memorized. 1 Corinthians 10. 13. There hath no temptation taken you, but such is common to man. But God is faithful. who will not suffer you or not allow you to be tempted above that which ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it. What a great reminder of what God thinks of his children. Above anything else, that his personal interest in us as weakened vessels And he could look about us and he says, you know, I saved you from a life of sin and misery, of death and hell, and I brought you into my family, and this is how you betray me? By by falling into another sin, another temptation? I've warned you, I've given you my word, I've talked to you through the prophets, through the apostles, you know that's all that and you do this No, Paul says, God has provided for his children away. There's no temptation as Going to overpower you that is stronger than what God has given and offered with his own children. There is never a circumstance in which we have to sin. You know, with those avenues of escape, whatever they are, when they are applied, that's a topic for another day. But I think it's sufficient for us to know that dangers are there in playing with sin. Temptation is the motivation to be bad by being promised something good. What has God promised you? Lots of stuff, isn't it? You know? It's kind of interesting. You could just go around and say, what does God promise? Literal promises in the Old and New Testament would be valid But personal things that he's given. The psalmist says, the young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. Well So if temptation is the offering of something better, the psalmist says those that seek the Lord will not want anything better. That God provides everything better, best. His provisions are more than we can number, more than we can handle. More than we could ever have asked. It's the only difference is where am I asking? Where am I looking? Where am I listening? What am I involved in? And I think that again that was one of the keys of Joseph. I think when temptations were there, he sought the Lord He he didn't have a a church to go to, you know. He didn't have a uh uh you know a little you know get on his phone and type out, you know, pray for me today. You know, there was nobody But they that seek the Lord shall not want, shall not lack any good thing. Well, what's a good thing? Boy, this illness isn't a good thing, you know. What's going on today isn't a good thing. Well, it's good if that's what God has permitted and allowed in order for us to draw him to himself. You know? Our understanding of good isn't always what God says, this is good for you. As parents, we often give our children something, this is good for you. You know? It doesn't quite go that way But we understand better than they do. And so God says, I understand better than what you do, what's good for you. And so when you ask of me, I will give you. You know, I'll provide for you. And those promises are in abundance in the scriptures. I shall not lack any good thing. I shall not be tempted to wander, to seek anything, substitute when my eyes are on the Lord. Difference is where my eyes go. And it's not your physical eyes. You know, if that was the case we could just gouge our eyes out and go around and not see. But every sense that I have every alumment of those things that are being offered, watch a television show, you know. Watch watch uh you know we're I'll digress. We're watching the Olympics. Why do these women have to be had their bottoms, these little tiny things, to be performing athletically better. For what? Does it make any sense? You know? But if they're looking at it and these are the people to whom the world is honoring us being the the you know the epitome then well we've got to do that. We've got to dress like that. We've got to have this or we've got to have that. It's everywhere But I need to fill my eyes on the Lord. I've got to fill my heart to those empty voids, those things that are necessary. There's a hymn and there's I tell you there's a beautiful little um a movie um I can't quite remember. It's online and it's free, but uh the hymn entitled Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus Um, look it up and the author of that hymn, uh they've done a really neat movie on that. It's on well I'll remember it later. But turn your eyes upon Jesus, look full in his wonderful face And the things of earth will go strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. And isn't that true? When when when the world offers me all of those things, Moses, he had all of the offerings of the gold and the power of of everything, authority. in Egypt, and he says, I turn to reject all of that in favor of being with the children of God. In other words, in being in favor with God himself. You know. When I do that, I'm not going to have the temptation to to be swallowed up in this or in that or whatever. You know. It's my walk with the Lord. So I think our first lesson of this matter of temptation is it's there. We have to recognize temptation Now you know that. You'll you'll you'll say, oh I know that, Pastor, you know, but maybe this week, you know, you come along and say, boy, uh maybe I shouldn't do that because that's tempting me to think or tempting me to act or tempting me to Get something more than I already have in the Lord. Lord be my sufficiency. Lord be my satisfaction. Be my delight. Be my fulfillment. Uh that that should be our prayer daily if he will promise to do that. Let's pray. Okay. Father, we'll pause to uh give thanks for those things that are are evident in our uh our brain of what you've told us what you are and what you've done. And those things that are evident most of the time within our hearts that you are our total satisfaction, that you are our supply, that we shall not lack any good thing. Um because you're our Father. You discipline us in accordance with what we need. Uh you walk with us when we're lonely. You uh heal us when we're sick. You raise up our hearts when it's down. You're the one who supplies these things and you are able to do it Um may Father uh the weeks ahead, our entire life may be aware of the bait that Satan puts before us that we'll be able to discern the things that are not for our good, offering us something that um that you, Lord, have already provided. That is more than sufficient that we would find more satisfaction and joy and happiness in you May our eyes be turned to you, Father, and to you in your sufficiency and turned away from the world each and every day. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.