Scripture reading two places. It's the same passage, a little bit different. I've taken from Luke and Matthew. If you're quick on the trigger, we're going to be reading Luke 4, 5 through 8 first, and then Matthew 4, 8 through 11. Luke four, beginning at verse five. And the devil, taking him up into a high mountain, showed unto him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. And the devil said unto him, All this power will I give thee, and the glory of them, for that it is delivered unto me, and to whomsoever I will give it If thou therefore will worship me, all shall be thine. Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. And then Matthew chapter 4, beginning at verse 8. Again, the devil taketh them up into an exceeding high mountain and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then said Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Then the devil leaveth him, and behold, angels came and ministered unto him. Our prayers that our Lord would bless these his words. holy and infallible unto us today. Let's pray. Lord, our thanks as we open this passage once and again. to find it as a place of guidance and direction, of nourishment, of truth. May Father you quiet our hearts and allow your spirit to find uh a place of of uh of resolve to learn and to grow what you would have us to learn with. Areas that are difficult to understand, may you speak clearly to our hearts' needs Those truths that you would have us remember, may they be emblazoned upon our hearts that we might bring forth more fruit for the Master's service. We'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. March seventh of nineteen ninety-four, then governor of California, Pete Wilson, signed Law AB 971, which was referred to at that time as three strikes, and you're out. criminal sentencing measure. It was taken up in a referendum that November and passed unanimously, basically, by the state of California. Uh you're probably familiar with the three strikes law, uh often talked about, as guys are getting arrested, you know, oh don't, don't, this is my third strike, you know. Uh it's been passed, from what I can understand, in twenty-eight states. and by the federal government. And it's a mandate of a prison sentence of 25 years to life for violent crimes for those who have been convicted of three or more offenses. We come to this passage in our reading today, and the three strikes law, and you're out, was not in force at this time. Did you get it? Yeah. Although uh Satan's sentencing is still to come. He is still very active. He is still seeking and destroying as best as he can. You remember the first time he struck out? It was the stone to bread temptation And then the second time around it was, well, jump off and you'll get rescued temptation. And then today we come to the third strike, which will be seen as a strike. All these things will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me. With this third temptation, We see that Satan takes Jesus from the pinnacle of the temple, very high place, notable place, and takes him, accompanies him to a very high mountain. How this was done it's it's uh not easy to understand, as with even the movement uh to the pinnacle of the temple. Uh some have suggested that they were simply visions. Uh the standing up on the pinnacle of the temple or on the high mountain. They were just visions that Satan given him. Where they actually were, uh they they don't necessarily know. Uh maybe it was something like if you recall the Christmas story, uh Ebenezer Scrooge getting taken around uh by the Christmas past and present and future, you know, going from place to place and seeing things as they had occurred during that time, something similar to that. Others have suggested that Satan actually escorted Jesus around in some manner. Uh you recall in Acts 8 where uh Philip uh was there with the Ethiopian eunuch and after he had finished the baptism of the eunuch and that, all of a sudden Philip was gone uh moved in in a way that the Lord had only done itself. However it was accomplished. One other passage that came to my mind, uh 2 Corinthians 12 Paul tells of his own testimony. He says, I knew of a man in Christ, but fourteen years, whether in the body I cannot tell, whether out of the body, I cannot tell, God knoweth Uh such a one was caught up into the third heaven, and I knew such a man, whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot tell God knoweth. uh an experience in places, in situations that were not given clarity, and no doubt it'll one day we'll we'll understand the the whole thing But in any case, the situation was real enough that the temptation that was presented to Jesus was a valid one It wasn't like, show me some pictures. Oh, I'm tempted by some pictures. Take me here in the vision. Whatever it was. He was actually tempted as best as Satan could do that in this way Uh as for the mountains, uh it could be any number of uh mountains in the area, uh number of them then you could be where you could see the whole of Judea, uh the Samaria area, even out to the uh out to the Mediterranean Sea. It's not impossible to uh have those things all in one place. Uh but all in the fact that uh even the even in the fact that Jesus was always required to just take a knee However it was seen or understood or presented, all you needed to do is just take a knee and acknowledge my authority, says Satan. Acknowledge who I am and and and all of these things will be different for you. And in essence, bowing down really means the recognition of authority I guess we could say if Jesus had taken this route, an easy route, an easy route to that which was before him, he could have avoided the rejection and the hatred from all those who would come eventually. If it be possible, O Father, let this cup pass from me. Wouldn't have had to say those words. Wouldn't have experienced all of the physical pain and suffering that he had gone through. Ela, ilai, lama k sabatanai. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That too never would have been necessary. Never would have hadn't gotten to that point of such. The debate was that Jesus could have it all without the cross. No beatings, no having his beard ripped out of his face, no scourgings, no nails forced into his hands and his feet, no spear puddue into his side. Instead, there would have only been the cheering crowds. Remember as they came into Palm Sunday and to Jerusalem, and they came out from the city and they followed him, and yet it would have even been more More. The Romans could have been dismissed, as the Jews had looked for him to do at that time. There would have been the riches and the pomp and the power and the grandeur of the kingdoms of the world. They all would have been Jesus's if If if it only fall down and bend the knee and worship Satan Prince of Preachers, Charles Hedden Spurgeon, writes this of Satan in this occasion. He says, Wretched traitor! None of these kingdoms were really his own. They were, in truth, the rightful heritage of the Lord, whom he has pretended that he could give them. How he opened his mouth and said, All these things I will give thee. And it would only have been a stolen gift had he bestowed it. What if somebody breaks into your house, steals that which is special and valuable to you, and the next day comes around and tries to sell it back to you for a discount price? This is what he was trying to do. This is what he was offering to our Lord. I mean, what do you say? Jesus did not say, Get out of here, Satan. What you're offering me is really mine. From the Creator to me, the Son. I was given these things. You should be worshiping me and not I. You be gone. He could have said that, and that would have been true. It would have been point on accurate, but he didn't. Instead, it says, Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shall thou serve. That's it. Third strike. You're out. Gone. You know. No more discussion. No more argument. No more reasoning. And the angels come and minister unto the Lord. There have been a number of good lessons I think we could have learned, I trust have learned from these three temptations. One, though, is clear in each of the temptations that I think we've tried to bring out is that the most powerful principle of each one were the words of Christ Himself. The fact that he saw what the temptation really was and found source of truth in the words of Scripture themselves. He couldn't uh do anything else but present the absolute uh closing of the door to Satan's offer. It is written was enough to silence the adversary. No other argument, no other discussion It's no wonder that the Apostle Paul strongly recommends us to put on the whole armor of God. And specifically, he says, the sword is the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Not to be sheathed, but to have it out. Paul understands the truth of the Word of God, as is our Lord, as of all the apostles Brethren, there is no clearer definition and defender of truth, no more powerful agent to bring about the clarity in confusion, or comfort in hurting, or peace in strife, than the Word of God. I hear the statements, My body, my choice But God is the one who has made the choice, and His word speaks to that with clarity. Yeah, well, I was born a man, but really inside I'm a woman. Yeah, and yet my Lord speaks in his word of the truth of those situations. And it has nothing like those words that are being spoken. You don't have a right to tell me what I should believe. Well, maybe I don't, but God's Word does See of all of the confusion, of everything that goes on, the world is not looking for my thoughts or my opinions. They're looking for foundational truth As Christ presented to Satan to silence his words, truth comes from the establishment of truth, which is the word itself. So it's not surprising as we look at this third temptation that we find the focus of Jesus' rebuke on Satan. Once again, the occasion comes from Deuteronomy, as all three of those did Deuteronomy 6. 13, and the words echo in our hearts this morning, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve. That, friends, is the lesson. That phrase, that statement for us today. Let me ask you, what do you see in those words? Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shall thou serve. Two principles that Jesus lays out or that the Spirit of God lays out before us. And it was much more than When Moses spoke to Israel, or when Jesus spoke to Satan, but as the Spirit of God speaking to all of us with the very truths that are here. The first is the command to worship only the Lord, and then secondly the command only to serve Him. That's the whole premise of the lesson that Jesus has for us. Worship only Him and serve only Him. You think about it. It may seem strange that God must command us to worship Him. Because you know what is? It's possible. Actually, it's most probable that we will worship something else. Because the fact that we are children of Adam, and that we find that Satan finds this to be one of his most choice tools in pulling us away from that which is expected of us by God. Worship something else. Do it in some other way. It's our tendency not to. The devil's not concerned with those who bow the knee to idols of wood and stone. He's already got them. Why put any effort on them? But he is concerned with those who have bowed the knee to Christ as Savior Because he says, I can't have them in that aspect, but I can have them to fall away from what the Father expects them to do, and that's the matter of worship. When you think about it, God not only commands us to worship Him only, but in the same breath He forbids us to worship any other way, or to worship any other thing, or to worship any other person. Worship me only, and don't worship anything else, it becomes clear. Familiar with the what do they call them? The Ten Suggestions? You know? Right behind me, beautiful pictures of descriptions of the worship. Number one, thou shalt have no other gods before me. When you think of gods, we think of principles of authority, that which you would bow a knee to, as Satan was trying to get Jesus to do, a recognition of responsible power over me And he says, in those clear terms, thou shalt have no other gods. The second, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything. That is in the heaven above, or the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth, thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them. Same things that Satan wanted Jesus to do. Bow down to me In other words, recognize to me authority or a principle of authority, that means you are worshiping me. By definition, we worship what we choose to give supreme devotion of our feelings, of our time, and of our energies We worship what we choose, supreme devotion, through our time, our energies, and our uh and our devotion. God commands us to worship Him only, because the truth is we can choose, and often do choose, our feelings, our time and our energies, to go to something else. Probably this time of the year, more than anything else, there's a simple illustration often used to observe the rabid football fan, whether it's college or professional. He travels to his favorite stadium, sits in the parking lot hours before, painted in his team's colors Got his cooked stover, his grill out, and he's cooking away, exchanging all of the power talk of his team because it is a great day to be able to support his team He's going to choose to do that for many hours in the stadium and after the hours of the stadium, expressing in clearest terms his devotion. to his team. And he'll continue to talk about it, not only through the game, not only with various tones of interest, but he'll continue to talk about it in the days ahead to anyone who would listen You know, if that's not worship, I don't know what is. So, right worship of God involves consciously choosing to worship and to serve him only in the face of temptation. In the face of temptation through the principles of how my feelings go and my energies go and all that is there. of anyone or of anything else. In open discussion here this morning, when we talk about worship, we would probably think of the things that are on our bulletin. I mean this is a worship service, right? We look down and we have uh music that's involved here, times of prayer, reading of the word. Giving of tithes and offerings, reading of Scripture, something called a sermon uh and and and it goes through. And we and we define this as as an order of service and historically we can go back to the times of the synagogue and say this is what they had done, this is what Jesus had done, this is what the Protestant church has done. That's the the whole premise of the things that we are doing. It's the standard and that's how we discuss it or believe it. And if I approach my Sunday service, having prepared myself physically and spiritually. Sometimes even going into the day before and saying, Do you know tomorrow's Sunday I gotta get to bed earlier. Can't be out late. I've got to do this right because I've got to be ready in order to uh worship properly with my mind and my body and my spirit. And if I do that with a delight in my heart, feeling that it's something that I must do because I love to do it. Then there's some things it seems to be that I'm on the right track. However, if I approach my corporate worship, meaning gathering together as a group of believers. And if that's seated in something other than a delight, but as a matter of burden because I have to do it because somebody's expecting me to do it, or I have to do it because, well, I just gotta go, then that is not necessarily true within my heart. Jesus opened up the religious leaders of his time and spoke very clearly and powerfully with these words. This people draweth nigh to me with their mouth, and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me, but in vain do they worship me. Worship is a matter of what? That thing that's within, you know, not the beating muscle, but what the scripture talks about is my heart. The soul of man. Worship is that which is bound within me. It becomes a delight or it becomes a burden. Or it becomes something that I enjoy doing, or it becomes something I I necessarily don't care about doing. But it's all encompassed within the matter of the heart. And Jesus said that there are those and rather easy for us to do. that we do it audibly from our mouth, but he says, their heart is far from me. Therefore that worship is vain. It's empty. It means nothing. Jesus spoke to leadership, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, but it was far more than that. Worship is a matter of the heart. It's everybody who's redeemed, who's born again. Our worship is a response to what God reveals to us of Himself. Now and in the future, reminding us of that which was of the past, what he has done for us, what he is doing now, and what he will be doing in the future. And so that provides me with a groundwork of my worship. Our Sunday worship includes all our responses to God. Responses of my mind, responses that I believe that God is worthy That's the key premise, worship. There is something of worth. So my mind tells me he is worthy. He is worthy. Listening to a program on the on the way in this morning and and the pastor was saying My relationship with my God tells me that I have nothing in me that is worthy except for Christ who is worthy. And he is the only worth. So my approach to worship clearly puts me in a place of nothing Yet he has chosen me to be his, and I am unworthy, but because I am in Christ, I am now worth. I now have worth. Our Sunday worship includes our responsibilities to God, including a response with our emotions, such as love and trust. It's just not of the mind, but that mind turns to love and trust because I love him and I trust him, and that should be vertically, but it also transforms to horizontally. With the body itself. And it also includes our actions and our words. Our hearts express in words and song. Our minds are active in what we want to learn about God, what he wants to do for us, and what our bodies are involved in, in obedience to him in ways that we can serve him. It's from the top to bottom, inside and out. My worship is complete. Now obviously we can sit here and say, boy Can't check off a I got a passing grade, but it's not very much, you know. The involvement though is a continuing growing in him, and the lower more I grow in him, the more I come to find how I more love to worship him. And that's that part preparation. Thou shalt love, thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shall thou serve. You know, so far we've limited our thinking of this topic to particular place, location, Sunday morning worship. Lord's Day. However, is that the only time and place where right worship is found? What about Monday or Tuesdays? Wednesdays? Thursdays? Fridays? Saturdays? You know, sometimes we think we can categorize those as to where worship should be found. Did God limit his command to one day a week or certain times or certain days? But Pastor, the commandment says: six days shall thou labor and do all thy work on the seventh, unto the Lord to God. That's the day that we set aside to him. So doesn't that mean that I've got six days to do as I need, and I can give him one? If it's a matter of the heart, that's hardly the case. Sometimes we come to find a dichotomy in this, setting aside a secularistic thought of saying that I have my secular days and I have my sacred days. And for a Christian, that's hypocritical. Because all days are his. He's given us life for all things. And all things are his to do as he pleases. If it's a matter of the heart, and true worship isn't just for Sundays or special days or days that I have my devotions or certain times of the day or certain times of the week But true worship, expressing and living the truth that God is worthy of our thanks and praise is to be my daily thought. Period. Period. Every single breath that I take sitting here talking to Teresa, she says, I knew that ankle or that that foot or whatever it is, that wasn't going good. And and she was grumbling because when that tendon went But that was God's plan. That was his situation. So in thanks and praise, thank you God for putting me through some pain because it was a correction that was particularly needed in my life at that time. All things for 24 hours a day, they are his to display to us who he is, loving God. And in turn, what does he expect from us? I want you to gather together for an hour, an hour and a half, two hours on Sundays, and maybe sometimes on Wednesdays, and that's it, the rest of it's yours. That's not the case. For true Christians, the worship of God is to take place in everything that you do in life. It is to govern your work, it is to be the kind of neighbor that you are, your community involvement, how to raise your kids, how to wisely spend the money that He's entrusted to you, everything The apostle Paul says unto the church at Corinth, whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the Glory of God. Eating and drinking the most menial tasks. You know, well, we say a little prayer at the beginning, you know, thank you God for this food. Amen. And then we just delve into it, you know, never think anything more about it. But yet even those menial tasks to be done to his glory. Even menial tasks of things around the house, the interchange of conversations, the uh getting in the car and heading out to work and coming home again. I find that on heading to work people are really slow. But boy, when it comes time that four o'clock to five o'clock, yeah and they just, boom, the roads are just flying, you know? Dwell for the glory of God. I think of every single menial task that's involved there. That's worship. But it also includes in service. I found a paragraph, a couple paragraphs from a book I was reading on worship, and I think might help us understand this a little better. Worship involves our entire relationship with God, our words, our attitudes, our actions. Our words may be normal conversation, or maybe songs or prayers. In any style of speaking, we can declare God's praise and express our faith and reliance on Him. In any conversation, we could tell somebody, boy, good job, Earth. Thanks for doing that. Well, I say, well, thank the Lord for what He's done, you know God wants worship not only on our lips, but also in our hearts. He wants our worship to be sincere. He wants to be the most important thing in our lives, that we are truly submissive to him. He wants our worship to affect our behavior. That we make sacrifices, that we put to death the words, the deeds of the flesh, that we seek justice, be merciful and humble, and help others He wants us not to just obey him, but to serve him in ways that go beyond specific commands. Well, the Bible doesn't tell me to do this, doesn't command me to do this But the principle behind it of loving him and serving him demands that just because he doesn't outline it in Ten Commands or any other thoughtful suggestions we find in it? Show me in the Bible where it says that. But there's a principle of Christian spirit that demands it. We are to worship wherever we go, doing all things to God's glory, praying always, giving thanks always. Our worship involves how we work. how we drive or even how we choose what television to watch, what to watch on what to on television, you know. It involves that. Why do I make a choice to do that? You know, because God's word tells me that. Because the Spirit indicates to me that that's a bad thing to do. And when I don't do it, all of a sudden what have I been doing? I'm worshiping him. If I don't say it If I don't listen to it, if I don't watch it, if my hands aren't involved to it, because the Spirit of God is working in me, I can come around and say, boy, thank you, Lord, for getting me out of that one or not doing that one. You know, what am I doing? I'm worshiping him. I don't have to go around the house singing or at the office, stop and praying every time, you know. But it's all part of that The Apostle Paul in Romans 12, 1 and 2 says, I beseech you, I beg you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies. A living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conform to this world. But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. In these two verses, Paul says, presenting your body as a living sacrifice. What are sacrifices? A sacrifice costs you something. And in the ultimate it costs the life of the animal, you know, the the the the the the sheep or the goat or the the the heifer or whatever it was, you know, they slay the animal, the blood's poured out. It's sacrificed for that. When we were in in Kidney our very first time on some team, uh it came time for offering and the reference was at the worship service, it's time for the sacrifices. I thought, whoo, what did I miss here, you know? But when they came, they came with a a bag of grain. or uh uh some with coins or chickens or or whatever. It costs them something It wasn't just doing it as whatever, but there was a cost of a price to be paid. And so Paul says This isn't a death that's required here. But he says, our body is a living sacrifice, living that way, which is holy, meaning separate, acceptable to God, and that's your reasonable service. He says, I expect that of believers. Not special. Don't get any special stars for doing that. It's reasonably to be understood that we are to worship him in all things. in such a way. In other words, worship is in something we simply feel Worship isn't the name that we give some experience when we look and we're singing or when we're closing our eyes in prayer or as we're listening to a message or reading our Bibles It is how some however something that we do with our bodies all of our life. We can worship our God through eating And through drinking, and through speaking, and through cooking, and through driving, and through countless ways. We worship God wherever we can perform an act of a desire to draw our hearts' attention to Him. The whole focus is on him. He's selfish that way. To his greatness And especially revealed in sending his son as a substitutionary sacrifice for us. Folks, Satan doesn't want that. That's the lesson. That's the whole package. Satan comes to Jesus and he says, just bow a knee to me. And all of these things, they're all going to be yours. It's a lie. But how many things does he come along to us and he says, I just want you to bow a knee to doing it your way or to having this or to do this and forget about him. Forget about acknowledging him. Forget about crediting him. Forget about honoring him. Just Just bow a knee for me in a second. And it's not again, it's not some guy with little horns or whatever, and a pitchfork and the tail or whatever. It's the most mundane things in life that we become accustomed to that we live and do Just not about him. He doesn't want that. That's the truth. Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shall thou serve. May God give us the grace to do that, to understand it up here and in the heart, and then to put it to practice Not to be ashamed, but to say, Lord, let me worship you this day. That way. Let's pray. Father, we consciously recognize the demands of the Word as it's laid out for us, and the simplicity of the command that Moses gave the children of Israel. And the rebuke that our Lord Jesus Christ gave to Satan, which stopped his accusations and his temptations. But especially as your word, by your spirit, speaks to our hearts this day. to worship you in you only. Father, we're surrounded by so many temptations, things of great promise. Things of great potential. Things that seem to be right, that everybody else seems to be doing, that we're all involved in, and we shove you aside. We stop our ears from listening to you. We hold back from that which our lips should be saying. And we walk in silence, never acknowledging your goodness to us. Forgive us. And Father not only forgive us, but walk before us that the things that ought to be done will be done more and more each day. We thank you for your patience with us and your long suffering. We're slow learners. We're people who are in spiritual battles and find it hard to worship you. In the Lord's day, in the Lord's house, and and throughout every single day of the week, as we ought Thank you for working with us and continuing to develop us and mold us and shape us to be the people we ought to be. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.