1 John chapter 2, please. If you would open your Bibles, we're on the topic of temptation. How have we done, by the way, in the past couple weeks on temptation? That's what I figured. There's a work by a British writer with the name of Henry Chatel. It dates back to the time of William Shakespeare, so I know it's long before any of you were around Um one sentence in this work, and remember this is Old English, it says, Extinguish these fond lures of mind's labor and nip thy affections in the bloom, that they may never be of power to bud. Or, in the terms of that, a great American philosopher Barney Fife Nip it in the bud. You gotta nip it in the bud. Nip it. You go read any book you want on the subject of child discipline. And you'll find that every one of them says in favor of bud nipping. Only one thing to take care of it. Nip it in the bud. You know, as this good piece of Americana, Barney's advice though, is most appropriate when we talk about sin. Nip it in the bud. How often would we have been profited had we stopped before it ever began? I think of my own life how things might have been different had I not gone there or touched that Or tasted that, or drank that, or listened to that. Or the opposite. Had I done it, uh, you know, read it or picked it up or whatever, you know. We all exhibit across our bodies physical scars for the opportunities we had taken and found out that wasn't the right thing to do, or mental scars They're inside and out of us for things that we clearly could have avoided had we listened to the advice. Had we followed a path that was a right path? Had we nipped it in the bud, had it not gone that far? And sometimes we still have those opportunities today. Boy, if I had only to do this over again, I would have done mmm instead of mmm. It's all before us. Yet we can't do it all over again, can we? So what can we do? I think we have, as Christians, learned from our life that the prophet of God's forgiveness and his tender mercies are there. And as we come across those opportunities of sin, we don't have to follow that same path if we learn that lesson. I don't have to do that. I learned the lesson because I've got a scar for that, or a couple of scars for that, and I don't have to do it again. And God encourages us and directs us by His Spirit to avoid such As a matter of fact, we've come to know that every sin that comes our way doesn't have to be followed By his grace we read and we can learn. Hebrews 12, 1 tells us to lay aside every weight. And the sin that does so easily beset us. And the result, when I do that, the author says, that we are able to run with patience the race that is set before us. He says to a Christian, he said, we can lay aside to remove anything that hampers my progress. in the in in the picture of an Olympic runner. Uh he would not have a a long cloak on that been removed. uh the warrior going into battle would have had his uh girdle on, his belt taking his cloak to anything that would keep him from moving around and and and he says, get it out of the way that I'm able to And so for the Christian, those things that so uh entangle our progress, worldliness. Uncontrollable temper, immoral imaginations, laziness. Nip it in the bud. Then he says, lay aside every sin that so easily besets us. Sins that are particular to me, and maybe not to you. Sins that affected me because of my life before and maybe never even entered into your mind. Those easily besetting sins that are part of other, he says, things that have easy access to me. He says, nip it in the bud. Don't go there. We don't have to. Lay it aside so that we can stay the course with our eyes fixed on heaven. It's the race that we're in. And where where can we begin with this? We begin by taking temptation as it really is. To recognize temptation as a slippery slope, an entrance into that slippery slope that leads to sin that is so powerful, so destructive, so heinous And it may not present itself as that in the beginning, but it has horrible consequences I may have shared this illustration with you in times past, but I think it fits with what we want to understand. There was a story told to me of a headmaster in a school on the West Coast had received a upper grades young man in his school from another school. And all according to his paperwork, his his uh transcripts and so forth, he was a good student. well liked and and and good grades and so forth. But as time went on, he noticed that his grades were falling and there was troubles that he was having within school. And it just was It wasn't him. We just called him into his office and talked with them and after a long time of counseling come to find out it was a matter of alcohol. At his place from home, he walked to school and walked back home again. And when he walked back home, he went by some establishments that were easy access to this particular sin. And it provided him with that which was his downfall. The headmaster went ahead and he says, well, let's work with this. You want to clean this up, but how about we he takes out a map and he says from here from school, how about we just avoid that street and go over here and over here and over here and walk to home in a different place And he did. He nipped it in the bud by just simply adjusting the pattern of life and the things that were have access to him that were so easily destroying him The greatest present presentation of temptation was avoided. The headmaster knew the boy's situation, and they nipped it in the butt. Look at our scripture, please, if you would, 1 John chapter 2. And follow along. I'll be reading from verse 12 through 17. The Apostle John says, I write unto you, little children. Because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake. I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him, it is from the beginning. I read unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the wicked one. I read unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father. I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning. I have written unto you, young men. Because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not of the Father. But is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. You know, I look at this and I find it interesting how John writes some very important things in this letter, but how he explains them to each class of the recipient. He's talking to little children, he's talking to fathers, and he's talking to young men. And he explains things very seriously, and he tells them why he's written it to them. He provides them with a clear picture here. He says, each of these classes, seriously he commands not to love the world, the things that are in the world. And yes, he's generally, by command, speaking to every believer, speaking to us, even here this morning Verse 15, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Love not the world. What's the world that John's talking about? This globe, you know, as uh millionaires got up in their little rockets and they went up and they're jumping over, look I can see the world, you know. We can get on Google Earth, you know, and we do is is it that? Obviously not. The world as a population. People, we inhabit the world. At times, talks about the world we think of that. All of the populations of the world. It's not that either, obviously because it's part of what this world is. Matthew 6. 24, Jesus said, No man can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. He cannot serve God and mammon. Here Jesus points out that there's only one position of leadership in our hearts, in our minds. You can't you can't be divided. You can't ride the fence. The world has to be made up of one or the other, and you will follow one. And he says, the one that you follow, you end up hating or loving the other, naturally these opposing masters have very differing views, the world and Christ. It's by its very nature the patterns that they are going to The Lord is headed in one direction, and our flesh and the world is heading in another. And the choice has to be made. Jesus points it out as a part of the reality of the world in which we live. John says, don't love the world. Don't let the world be your master. The world John speaks about is everything that is opposed to Christ. He says the world in all of the writings of John, and he uses the world many times, you know, for God so loved the Not the globe, not all of the people in it, but God so loved that which is opposed to him, those people, so much. And that was everybody, that he gave his only begotten son in order that they could be redeemed. And so here he speaks of this the world as everything that stands in opposition to God. But that verse continues: love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Why? What's wrong with the things in the world? Think about that. What's wrong with my boat? You know? I don't have a boat. I'm just using this as an illustration, you know. I love to go fishing. I love to launch that boat out there and get out there and just spend uh hours and hours just away from everything. What's wrong with my motorcycle? I love to get in my motorcycle and just I don't have a motorcycle, just to let you know, okay? But I just love to get out there, you know What's wrong with my home? What's wrong with my this or my that or any of those things? John's not saying that any of those things had anything wrong with them. Nothing wrong with them. As a matter of fact, there's no problem with the world and the desiring of those things in the world because God's provided them for us and for his glory. And we have such an ability to desire them and delight in them, provided we do not make those things our chief joy, our end in life. Because remember, he says there's only two masters. And he says one's going to be Christ and one is going to be the world. And you've got to choose between one and the other. And if all of a sudden those things become The center of my affection and my heart, what's going to happen to Christ? He takes second place. Well, he takes no place at all. That's the picture that he's presenting to us. Remember the story of the rich young ruler? He comes to Jesus and he's got something in mind, asks some very innocent questions. But he comes and he meets him and is asking him about what it takes to be a disciple. And we read, Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, then he means a man who is complete, because this rich young ruler showed him his credentials and saying what type of guy he was, everything spiritual And he says, Go and sell all that thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me. But When the young man heard the saying, he went avail sorrowful, for he had great riches And Jesus said unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, that a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven. Love not the world, neither the things of the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. The love of the Father could not be found in him. Remember, there's only one throne of the heart, only one position of seating for authority, of rulership And it's going to be Christ or it's going to be the world. That's how Jesus puts it. He said there is nothing wrong with the world as long as I know what the world's place is in my heart. Charles Heddons Burgeon writes, he may use it, meaning the Christian and the world. He may use it. But love it he must not unless he will renounce the love of God. And we're in a place and a position we always have been of thinking that we can ride the fence That we can have one foot in the world and enjoy all of these things, and one foot as a Christian and enjoy all of these things, and in the end God's going to bring it all out, and it'll just come out in the wash. And we wonder why we're not Satisfied in Christ in all of its completion. One day a lawyer met with Jesus and asked him, What's the greatest commandment? And when he asks that, he's thinking of what's the position of the heart? Where ought my intention, my directions be? Where ought to be the seat of such? Jesus said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first, greatest commandment. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Did you ever think about that qualitative word in there, all? All your heart, all your soul, all your mind. Kind of means that there's really no place for anything else. And yet that's the type that we are made of. What if it'd be possible if we go to the Lord and say, Lord, how about I give you seventy-five percent and I just keep twenty-five? You know, a quarter of that for the world. You know, there's an awful lot in this world and and it's just I have to have it there. That's not right. Let's go bigger. 90% Lord, 10% for the world. That doesn't work out either. How about 99. 9%, Lord, and just a smidgen, just a fraction for the world. What Jesus presents unto here is a clear picture of where the heart is to be. It's not a matter of me choosing, but it's a matter of who rules my decisions and choices It's a matter of the place that my heart and attitude and the angle of the way my heart goes and who's sitting on it. It was this love that this rich young ruler had for his possessions. What was wrong with what the rich young ruler said? Remember what he told Jesus? I've kept all the commandments. Well, you know, that was a debatable thing. But in his mind, in his mind, he says, I've kept them all I've loved the Lord. I've honored my parents. I haven't killed anybody. I haven't stolen. I haven't done any of those things, and I've done all of these things. And yet Jesus comes along to him, and out of all of this, he tells him Just sell all you've got. And the guy was just collapsed because he had no place for God in his heart. It told him right then, if you're to lose this, and although he says, I've done all the religious part. And you know, we can put categories into that. Even for our own self, obviously we we can go through these and say, you know, I I don't do real well with the Ten Commandments, you know, but God's grace is sufficient. But you know, I do do this, and I do do this, and I have this, and this, and this, and this. We can have a whole list of spiritual things that we say we've done. God, isn't that good? But I still have all of these other little pieces over here. And it's just like the rich young ruler. If he were to take away that, I'm watching uh again another year of fires in California, you know. Wipe out whole towns, you know. The news truck goes down there and there's a guy's house or just a foundation, a chimney, and three or four vehicles sitting there just burned to a crisp. You know? The folks after the the hurricane, well tropical storm, you know, weeds its way through North Jersey and and and uh up into New York City. You know, how is it just gutted? People taking all their stuff out and just n there's nothing left, you know. So if you didn't have the flood insurance, you know, might give you a thousand dollars or something. What do you do? Are we crushed when those things happen? Or do we find that I have that place in my heart and my life that God feels And he is my sufficiency. And we're tested with this all the time. But this is the picture that Jesus comes and presents these things to him. A rich young ruler was very religious, but the love of God was not in him because there was no room for that in him. Back in 1 John 2, verse 15, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. In other words, there is no place for it. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. The man who loves the world has his affections set on the world. And although he can be very religious Spiritual seemingly, there is in truth no room for God. Why? Verse 16 tells us that the makeup of the world and those who love it John says those three things, the flesh, the eyes, the pride of life, represent the DNA makeup of the world. stick that uh you know injecting s knife in there and cut a slice out and take it and and examine the world under the the microscope of whatever it takes to pull out the DNA and you'll find that the world It basically has those three as its as its cornerstone. Watch every temptation. No, don't watch them. How can I put this? Observe at a distance the temptations that the world presents, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life I got two out of the three, okay? I got one out of the three. But it's the DNA of the world. It's the makeup of the world, the offering of the world. It's what it presents unto us and it is that which is the greatest tease. Although they were not pres obviously represented in every class of sin, those big three were evident when Eve swallowed that uh bite of the forbidden fruit in the garden. It was presented to her. It was presented and taken when Cain slew his brother Abel One of those three was characterized in that. You can go to the uh to the tent of of uh Achan. And and it was present when Achan saw those those tantalizing things in the city that were forbidden for anybody to take, but he did, and he bears them in his tent, and and they were present in that They were present when David saw Bathsheba. They were present when when Ananias and Sapphira came and deceived their own hearts or were deceived to the point where they sold what they had and came to the people and presented it as an offering to God All the way through the scriptures, the DNA of the world was present in every single sin. Every single one. One form or another. And when he says, don't love the world, he's saying, though the makeup of the world is that which pulls us away from Christ, pulls us away from the reality of who God is and what he would have for all his children. The problem is we take all too often sin lightly, rather than stop it at its earliest stages. We like to t be teased by it a little longer, let it linger around for a while, and eventually be given to it. And it all had been prevented if we had just gone ahead and what? Say it Dip it in the bud. You see? We if we like to play with it a little bit longer, if I can go just a little bit longer is it just as a tantalizing, a little bit longer look, a little bit longer taste Go out one more time, participate in one more thing, one more page, one more hour, one more minute, whatever it is. And then pretty soon we find ourselves on that slippery slope and it's all wrapped up And the DNA of the world all of a sudden starts to take over within our own hearts. Lord willing, next time we meet, I want to look at Jesus' temptation in the wilderness and and see the approach that that Satan had to Christ and how Jesus responded to him, because it affects us and how those three, lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, were presented to Christ. And what Jesus did for that. But I want to conclude with a few thoughts on today's message. Knowing Satan and his wiles We will admit that we stand no chance at thwarting his attempts by ourselves. When I ask you as we began, how'd you do with temptation? You know I think all too often we are in that rut of life. We handle those things as we've always done. Just the old way of doing it. You know, there are some that we come along and say, boy, that one I'm not going to go there because it was painful. I've got a scour for that one and I don't want to do that again. But there are other things, and again they're at various levels, there are other things that I just just don't even think about, and I'll just deal with it in the same way that I've done before Satan approaches, he leads us into sin very craftily and subtly, and it can be very effective. Yet his redeemed children, the redeemed children of the living God, are not alone. I want to share a few truths with us that will assist us in this matter of nipping it in the bud. Number one First is found in the words of Jesus to his disciples as he's in the garden. He's got the cross coming up, the anguish of all that is there. And he comes to Peter, James, and John. And he says, Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. Spirit is truly ready, but the flesh is weak. Watch, in other words, be observant. Be mindful of that which is going on around Peter, James, and John, Jesus said Eventually troops came, didn't they? Struggles and and even watching Jesus, what was going on, the the grief of the weight of that which was upon his own heart. Watch! Isn't this critical? And so for us in life to be able to nip it in the mud, to avoid those things, be aware of what's going on worldwide. Community-wide, in your own household, in your own heart. Watch what's going on and what Pray. Jesus, you know, the eternal Son of God, no spot, wrinkle, sin. And his power found within his relationship to his father was groomed every single day in prayer. So I begin my day. I begin, you know, obviously some necessities personally, but it ought to begin with prayer. God, you know, keep me from this. Strengthen my soul. Lord, provide this and me does sometimes it's not the shopping list, but God within my own heart. Pray that I will avoid temptation. Jesus says here, he says, the spirit is truly ready. You know, we want to do this, but the flesh sometimes is weak. Being ready for the Lord's Day. How'd Saturday night go? You know? We we had a a a couple, million I knew for quite a few years. They're both in heaven now. And uh uh we used uh help in a church over in New Jersey and and uh they always always would come and visit us uh in at that church and help out and so forth. And some Sundays They just didn't show up or showed up really late. And the husband had come in. He says, if it's gonna happen on any day of the week, it's gonna happen on Sunday morning. You know, the flat tire, the dog runs away, the child throws up in his clothes or whatever. You know, he says, the spirit's willing, but there are times when the flesh is weak. The preparations for those things of life, it requires more prayer. Those critical decisions, those critical choices, you know, we re pray here. Charlie's got some joint action, you know, didn't know about that. Pray for that. But beyond that, you know, other things that take place in life. Pray for those things, even though physically we may not have it. Be prepared for such I think Jesus warned Peter, James, and John to do these things. That first line of defense being prayer. Prayer strengthens us against the power of temptation. Never start your day Or ignore such throughout the day, but pray that ye fall not into the trap of temptation. Number two Ground yourself in the truth of God's word. Listen to what Paul says to the Philippians. Finally, brethren. Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are a good report If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think. Meditate on these things. Where do we find that? But in God's Word. We can search far and wide for good, wholesome stuff to read. Like I said earlier, I tried to get online and look up CRT from the Christian perspective. And it's all full of garbage stuff, you know? And and you go to the news and and uh the the the guy starts out the national news and he tells you what's coming up Then they go to a break and then he says, and we're going to go to our reporters, and then those reporters say the same thing that he did, and then after that they each go to each individual case and they say the same things and again. So out of a 20-minute world news, you get about 15 minutes of the same thing again and again and again. And after that time you say, what a mess. You know, we just bowed down. And Paul says, those things that are true and wholesome and good and lovely and that fill our hearts with them. What greater beauty do we find than the life of Christ? The relationship that he had with his disciples. His love for them, the things that he did and that and that. Fill that. Let that be the dominant aspect of my heart and soul. We'll understand more fully that relationship to the word and dealing with temptation when we examine Jesus' temptation in the wilderness. Just the way Satan approaches him. But if you know Satan's place and contact with our hearts and minds, you know that it will not fill the empty void that the word has. He can't touch us there. He can't touch us in that spot. Thy word have I hidden mine heart that I might not Sin against thee. The word have I filled, I I've I've made it present And I'll made it so that when it comes to nipping it in the bud, I don't even get to get that close. I'm not gonna even go there You know, it keeps me from taking that path. It provides me with an escape. The word gives me the wholesomeness and the beauty of that which says, I don't need that. I am satisfied with Jesus. The final point I want to need to remind us of is that this is a spiritual battle. 2 Corinthians 10, 4 and 5, for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, meaning fleshly. But mighty, through God, to the pulling down of strongholds, casting down imaginations And every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God and bringeth into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ The weapons, the warfare that we do isn't going out and start, you know, let's lopping heads off of all the unbelievers, you know. Uh the weapons of our warfare are found in knocking down these imaginations and filling my heart with the love of Christ and the truth of God's word and every thought to be put in obedience to Christ. It makes my relationship him with him stronger. And when I do that, all of a sudden I find that I know what's going on and where I'm heading and what's taking place. Handling temptation may indeed include dealing with the visible, the tangible. Not picking up the magazine and not going to that website and not entering into a verbal battle and not going along and doing this or doing this, those those things that are there. But it begins Before it ever makes to that point, it begins in my heart. It begins in my mind. That's the spiritual place that it is. No physical uh fix for a bad temper, or for pride, or for selfishness, or for greed. It's an inner battle. And if you beat it there, I mean, if God beats it there. Then we're not going to even go there, you know. Think of all the things that that Christ went through. Think how they dealt with him, how they treated him. And not a word was opened against them. How would we have reacted? How would we have handled that, you know? You spit in his face and pull the hair out in his beard, you know, the pain, you know? The attitude they had Well I'll fix them, you know. But all of a sudden we find it's not that battle in Christ knew that. And when there's no place for me to go and I'm facing temptation, I can go to my Lord, knowing full well that his grace is sufficient for me, that his strength is made perfect in my weakness, and when I am weak he is strong. God, I can't do this. This is I'm I'm entering into this valley, this time. the responsibilities, the the the the strength and my weaknesses, I'm here for that. You know, we gotta get used to that. The American way of life of we can do it as Americans can't uphold to the place that when I come to the Lord, Lord, as as as my heart says, I can't do it. You must do it. And when it's done He he gets all of the praise. They can't come along and say, Lord, you did twenty-five percent, but I did to seventy-five. No, it's got to be a hundred percent or nothing. And ultimately when every victory that we've seen in temptations, in stopping that sin before it ever gets there, nipping it in the bud, we look back and say, the Lord did that. He provided such. So as we think about that, as we go into this coming week, I think it's best not to look for temptations and say, where do I need to nip it in the bud? But God make me aware of where temptations will enter. Start your day with him in prayer. Allow the word to be a part of your banquet table throughout, in order that it may be a nutritional aspect of your life. And then when you see it coming, Say, Lord, help me with this, you know. I don't want to do that again, and I don't want to touch that one again, and I don't want to go even there and even to see, you know. And he'll be There'll be a positive aspect. Um next Sunday we'll go and we'll ask you how well you you what sins you do no no we're gonna do that. But we want to make it practical because that's what life is about. That's how Christ wants to to to form us and shape us. Let's pray. Well Father, we'll pause now and and ask that you would be the uh the glue to bring together the truths. of these few thoughts, uh that which is uh right and and sensible in your eyes. Um Lord, we've as as children of Adam have found out that uh sin does so easily beset us. And uh the weights of this world oftentimes have kept us from running a race that is uh in your sight good and and proper. Yet as we surrender to you daily, we find that we can find victory in Christ through each of the battles that we go through. Even from this moment on, Lord, cause us to be aware of our weaknesses and of Satan's traps that we fall not into temptation, uh into sin, even this day, uh even as we would leave this place. and and go to wherever we're you're going to take us uh through this coming week. Cause us to be sensitive to the uh the wiles of the devil and to be uh strengthened in you and in your word. And uh we'll we'll give you the praise. That's all we can do. And we thank you in Christ's name. Amen.