It's good to be with you again here at Kingsville. And we had a nice quiz this morning on revelation. And you passed. And even though you didn't pass by too much, but you passed. And so praise the Lord for that. That we remembered some of the things that we've studied. And so we're continuing with Revelation this morning, even though we have communion today. And let's turn to Revelation chapter 21. And praise the Lord in our country that things are not as bad as they could be. Is that praise the Lord that the Liberals have some division among them, but we haven't had as many uh bad things pass and go through our government. So praise the Lord for that. So here we come to the eternal state, Revelation chapter 21, the new heaven and the new earth. And the first heaven and the first earth are passed away. And we have we've been studying the tribulation period, seven years. We saw that in our slides, our our trumpets and our vials and our Sealed judgments, all those things falling down upon the earth, God setting things right side up, because things are upside down in this world. And so then we have the millennium in chapter 20. We have Christ coming back in chapter 19. And finally, we have the new heaven and the new earth here in chapter 21. So we go to verse 1 of chapter 21. And I saw a new heaven and new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. So we have a new heaven and a new earth. Things are going to be different. The millennium takes place on the old earth. But now we have a new earth that may be very much different than what we have today. One thing is going to be very different is there's going to be no more C. You know, today we have, I don't know, what is it, two-thirds of the of the planet is covered by water. And there's going to be no more sea. And you know, in the Bible and in history, the sea was often looked at as a very dark place and an unknown place, a place of danger. And we'll have no more of that during the uh uh new heaven and new earth, although um it talks about a river flowing out of the throne and there'll be water. And there'll be bodies of water probably, but not the big salt sea that we have today. A new heaven and a new earth. And before you have the heaven with the temple of God in it, and finally here in the eternal state, we have the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven And we see that in verse 2, when I saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven. And prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And so here we have the new Jerusalem coming down, and we're told later on. In furlongs, how big it is. It's 12,000 furlongs wide, 12,000 furlongs broad, and 12,000 furlongs high. That's fifteen hundred miles If you go 1,500 miles from here, where do you end up in America if you go west? That's it. You end up in the exact center of the United States. My mom grew up right near the exact geographical center of the United States. She grew over grew up just over the line in Nebraska from Kansas where that center is. They have a monument there right there that tells you the center. But anyway, that's about 1,500 miles from here, from the coast. To the middle of the country, to Kansas, Nebraska. And so the New Jerusalem is going to be that big. That city is going to be 1,500 miles. It's going to be half of the continental United States, type one city of the New Jerusalem. But the most interesting thing about the New Jerusalem is it's going to be 1,500 miles high Now that is really high. When you consider that Mount Ebrus, the highest mountain in the world, is like six miles high. And so you're talking 1500, you're talking about up where the uh satellites are, way up there is going to be how high the new Jerusalem is. And so the new heaven and the new earth are going to be quite a bit different than what we have today. You know, today you have the flat earthers out there. I know one. Hmm. And they say that The world is flat and all this stuff about a round globe is all uh stuff that's a fraud And it's it's ridiculous really. And they say, you know, you have a Mercator projection of the world where it's flat, and they say that's how the world really is And of course then you have Antarctica, which is really long, 25,000 miles long. But if you go down to Antarctica, you can go all the way around it, and it's nowhere near that much round. And so, anyway, but you know in the New Jerusalem and the new heaven and new earth, it could be a flat earth at that time. Who knows what it's going to be? We don't know. We don't we aren't given details. You know, for I mean when you're talking about a a city with 1,500 miles high, things are going to be a little different. And uh then you think about what about if you wanted to um go from the bottom of the city up to the top of the city? That would be uh in today's world that would be quite a chore. I mean, you climb Mount Everest and it's only six miles. You're talking about 1,500 miles. Well, of course, then we'll have our glorified bodies, and maybe we'll just be able to sort of fly right up. Or maybe there'll be some really good escalators or elevators or whatever But anyway, there'll be something to go up and down. And it seems like to me that with the New Jerusalem it's going to be a pyramid. I'm getting a little bit ahead of myself toward the end, but it talks about it right here It's going to be a pyramid with 1500 miles high. And why a pyramid? Some people talk about it being a big box. But I don't think so. I think it's gonna be a pyramid because it's got a wall around the bottom, around the edge. A two hundred feet high wall. And if you had a big box, what kind of sense would a wall make around the edge of the box? But if you have a pyramid where it's down a level down at the bottom of the pyramid, a wall would make some some sense down there of 200 feet. Anyway, it's a pyramid, I think, I I believe, and then there I think we'll have the Lord up at the top. Christ will be up at the top, God will be at the top, his throne will be all the way up to the 1500 miles high And his light will shine all over. And it probably will be, you know, you know, it says that in my father's house are many mansions. And it's probably going to be the mansions are going to be up uh along that uh that fifteen hundred mile pyramid. And maybe the bigger ones will be more up to the top, and the smaller ones down more toward the bottom, depending upon the rewards, whatever. But here we have the holy city, the new Jerusalem comes down out of heaven. And you know it uh is a question, you know, when God destroys the heavens and the earth and he makes the new ones, where are we going to be? Uh well I think it's a good answer that we're all going to be in the New Jerusalem. We will have already been transferred over to the New Jerusalem to that Pyramid, we've all been transferred over there. The old heaven and earth are destroyed, and then the new is put in, and the new Jerusalem comes down out of heaven down to the earth. The new heaven and the new earth. And then we have verse three. And I forgot my magnifying glass this morning. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. The tabernacle of God is with men. What's a tabernacle? A tabernacle is a tent. And God had his tent, the tabernacle in the wilderness with Moses. And you know, our body is referred to as a tabernacle, as a tent. Do you know what Robert E. Lee's last words were? His last words before he died. He was a good Christian. He was uh the last thing he ever did was go to a church meeting at his church He was basically an elder there. And his last words were, strike the tent. Strike the very fitting last words. Strike the tent. This earthly tabernacle is going to be stricken, taken down. And we'll have a new tabernacle, the glorified body. Well, anyway, here we have the tabernacle of God is with men here with the new Jerusalem. And he will be their God. And then verse 4: And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. When will that happen? Does that happen immediately upon death? There's no more tears? You know, it's a really good question. You know, there's so many questions that aren't answered in the Bible that we don't have all the details for We have what we need, but we don't know all the details. There's I don't know if I mentioned it here before, there's a very interesting movie and book, uh, Five People You Meet in Heaven. And uh it's not all good, but it has an interesting idea though, there is the guy dies, and then he's shown all these things to make him learn lessons when he gets to heaven And all through his life he had been bitter about different things, about three things in particular. He had been very bitter all through his life for a long time, and then he's shown about these things And he comes face to face with his bitterness and he gets rid of his bitterness. And you know, maybe we'll have something like that when we get to heaven and along the way. Where we come face to face and learn something. I mean, otherwise it's just like ding, everything's done, you know, and uh I wonder if that's the way it's gonna be. It's a problem we might be learning some lessons at least to the beginning, but God eventually shall wipe away all tears From our eyes. And there'll be no more bad things, no more death, especially, no more sorrow Is sorrow real? Yes, sorrow is real. Even though we know our loved ones, when they die, go to heaven, and even though we know that we're going to go be with them, We still have sorrow that they're not here anymore. And that we're not going to see them probably for a long time. And so that's sorrow. And that's going to be wiped away. There's going to be no more death, no more leaving forever like that. And no more tears, no more crying, and no more pain, it says here. And uh, you know, pain is a good thing. You know, when when you touch a uh uh uh a boiling hot pot, uh pain tells you that you shouldn't be doing that And you feel some pain and you draw away. And it helps you avoid bodily harm. Pain does. And when you have pain in your body, that's the body telling you that something is wrong. And it's an alarm bell. And when you have really bad pain, it's like an alarm bell bang, bang, bang, bang. You better get rid of whatever's causing this pain. And God has put that in our bodies as a good thing to keep us along the way, but it's not pleasant, and we don't like having pain. And we'll have no more pain when we come to the eternal state. Praise the Lord for that. But there is a purpose to pain, but we won't have any problem with our body getting messed up. We'll have glorified bodies at that time. And then you go on here. Verse 5. Write, these words are faithful and true. We can trust these words. We can trust that these things are going to happen. We can trust that there really will be a new heaven and a new earth. These are faithful and true. Then verse 6. And he said unto me, It is done. Remember, Jesus said, It is finished on the cross. Well, here it says it is done. And you know, here everything's done. The world has been done away with. The the old world, the old heaven, the old sin, the old death. It's done. The pace the the price has been paid for our sin, that we're in heaven with the Lord Everything is done here at the end. And then verse 7: He that overcomes shall inherit all things. And I will be his God, and he shall be my son. And so that's a great thing that we're going to be sons of God. You know, we we were missionaries in Africa and Cameroon. And uh, you know Sometimes people would would want to try to kind of uh latch on to us to because they're very poor over there. And we tried to help people over there when we could. But you know, what would be the ultimate helping of somebody over there? The ultimate helping would be to adopt them as a son, as a child. And that's the ultimate thing with God. He is adopting us as children. We are his sons. and daughters, uh inheriting all things with him. And then we go on to verse 8. Verse 8. It talks about, we're going to go back to verse 7 in a minute, but verse 8 We have the positive and the negative. Always. Why did God let there be a devil? Why did God let there be pain and death and all those things? There's always a negative and a positive. To show us how good the positive is. And here we have the negative. We're in heaven here in the New Jerusalem, but, but, verse 8. But what about the rest of the people? What about the unsaved? But then it gives a l a listing of all the different sins, some grievous sins before God, and people will stay out of heaven if they have these sins. And you know, you might have these sins a little bit here and there But if the whole attitude of your life is one of these things, then you will never get into heaven. And it gives us the first thing here, the fearful. The fearful will not get into heaven. I mean, we all are fearful sometimes. But if our whole attitude of life, our whole manner of life is being afraid. We'll never get to heaven. Well, if you're really afraid of everything, what will you do? Well, let's see, if you're really super afraid, you'll be locked down in your house and not go out the door. And what did we just have here in the United States? Everybody was so fearful they didn't want to go out of their houses. Because if they went out of their house, they would die. And you know, it was everybody had that attitude, they still do. Yesterday we had a person from the Christian school there in Delaware. I had uh participated in an auction and she was delivering something. And anyway, she comes to deliver the thing, and she's still so fearful, she will not knock on the door, she will not ring the doorbell She has to put the thing in the mailbox and run away and call me on the phone to tell me that the thing is there. I mean, that's how things are today. People are fearful. And then when she called me to tell me the thing was there, I hung up on her because it came up on my thing as wireless caller and wireless caller is usually a dunk call so I usually uh hang up on it but evidently she doesn't want her name to come up when she calls somebody and so it just comes up wireless caller. And you know the fearful, I'm not saying she's that way in everything, but anyway, the thing is we have that fearful attitude. And uh that's what we have in this country and still have in this country, with all the masks, with all the muzzles people are w wearing around. And it's fearful. And that's not the attitude of a Christian. Shouldn't be a fearful attitude. God has not given us the spirit of fear. But the fearful, I mean we have to be prudent, but there's a line between prudent and fearful. And then so about the fearful and the unbelieving. You know, today it's like you can believe whatever you want to believe And it's okay. I believe this, you believe that, nobody's right, nobody's wrong. But that's not how it is in the Bible. That's not how it is with God And we're told to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. If you choose not to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, you're not going to be saved. We have to be believing. The unbelieving, what is the one unpardonable sin? Not believing, not accepting Jesus Christ, not believing on him and being saved, not rejecting the Holy Spirit. Rejecting Christ. But the fearful, the unbelieving, and the abominable. Well, who's an abominable person? Well, they're ones that do abominations. And what abominations do we have in the Bible? Well, one big one is homosexuality. It is an abomination. And Hollywood loves to put homosexuals in everything. And they put it in there like it's just totally acceptable But it's not totally acceptable. It's an abomination, abominable. And murderers, of course, that pretty well goes without saying, murderers. And then we have whoremongers. Another, of course, I want to talk about Hollywood. Hollywood is promoting these things all over the world. Babylon the Great, promoting it all over the world. And they promote whoremongers. They're like it's no big deal to go to sleep with everybody all the time. And then it says sorcerers. And sorcerers are going to be outside. What's a sorcerer? Well, a sorcerer is somebody that uses the power of Satan. And people can use the power of Satan to do miracles. And sorcerers have always been, witches have always been and always will be, using the power of Satan. And they will be without. They will not be in the New Jerusalem. And then it says, and idolaters, idolaters, someone that worships something other than God Idolatry, as maybe I've told you before, my dad's last words were, idolatry is worshiping the creature more than the creator. He just happened to be talking about that at the dining room table and keeled over dead. And you know, but that's great last words. I remember Pastor Byrd told me it'd be good if you had a ten-second warning before you died so you could have some good last words. But anyway, he had some good last words. General Robert E. Lee had good last words too And a lot of others have. But anyway, idolaters worship worshiping the creature more than the creator. And we can't do that worshiping the things around us, worshiping our car or house or job or or whatever it is. And then we say, and then it says here, and all liars All liars. For some people, lying is a way of life. They're always lying. You can't tell when they're telling the truth hardly And you know, they think it's a big joke. And all these things they think are big jokes. But if somebody's manner of life, if they're always lying, what can you say? They're never going to get to heaven All wires shall have their place which in the lake of fire shall have their place in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. It's been said many times, we're either born twice or we die twice And if we're a Christian, we're born twice, born again. But if we're not saved, if we're one of these things here, we're going to die twice. Die physically and die spiritually. Die in this earth and die in hell in the lake of fire. So here we have the fearful, the unbelieving, all of those people without the New Jerusalem. They're in hell, they're in the lake of fire. And we have the Christians in heaven. And the Christians in heaven are described all through the book of Revelation as overcomers. We're supposed to be overcomers. In some sense, we're supposed to be an overcomer. That doesn't mean that we always at all times overcome. But we have to overcome something in our life. We have to overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil to a great extent. We have to overcome things. And if our whole manner of life, if all through our life were depressed, are we an overcomer? I don't think so. You know, depression is something that's that comes upon just about all of us, that we have trouble with, many of us, and a lot of the time. And that's normal, but we don't want, I mean it's it's usual, but we don't want to look at that as something that is the way that it should be for a Christian. A Christian should not be living in a state of depression. It's not the way the Christian should live He should be an overcomer. And an overcomer should overcome difficulty. He should overcome all kinds of things in his life And he should overcome temptation. Temptation to sin. God always provides a way to escape temptation. And, you know, even sickness, we can overcome the uh terrible uh depression we might get from sickness God can help us to overcome that. And then you come to suicide. I've been noticing a lot of movies lately that they they love to put suicide in there And mercy killing and that uh it's okay to commit suicide. And if things are really bad you commit suicide or whatever. But in what sense is somebody overcoming when they commit suicide I really can't see the two being going together. And you know where the thing is, the Christian is an overcomer. Remember the messages to the seven churches at the end of every one of the seven churches He that overcometh. He that overcometh, I'll give a white stone. He that overcometh will inherit all things. He that overcometh, overcometh. And that's what we have here, he that overcometh. And you know it's not easy to overcome. We have to depend on the Lord. We can't overcome in our own strength. We have to depend on the Lord to help us overcome things in our lives. We have to depend on Him by prayer, giving our life to Him, depending on Him. And he will give us the strength to overcome. So as we come here to communion this morning, let's look at our lives. Let's look at see if we are overcomers. And let's try to be overcomers in our life. Try to depend on the Lord. Pray to Him. Ask Him to give us the strength to overcome the many different things that we have in our lives. Everybody's got troubles. The Bible tells us man is born unto trouble as the sparks that fly upwards, as we have back in the oldest book of the Bible, Job. And we always have troubles. But God can give us the strength to overcome those troubles. And so praise the Lord for that.