Yeah, let's turn our Bibles to Revelation chapter three. Revelation chapter 3. And we're continuing and ending up our messages to the seven churches. This is the last one in this series on the seven churches. And we're up to the message to the church in Laodicea. And there are people that uh think that these seven messages to the seven churches are different eras in church history. And so they equate equate Laodicea with the apostate time of the end that we're in right now. I don't really go along with that era of church history, but Laodicea does fit the time in which we live right now. And let's go to Revelation chapter 3, verse 14, and unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write. These things set the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would thou wert cold or hot. So then, because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods that have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be That thou mayest be rich. And white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the naked shame of thy nakedness do not appear. And anoint thine eyes with eye sab that thou mayest see. As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten, be zealous therefore, and repent Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in unto him and will s uh and will sup with him and he with me. To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame and And now am sat down with my father in his throne. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Having a little bit of trouble reading that this morning. I think we're getting to the place where we're gonna have to do something about that. My eyes are getting worse and worse. But here I have the worst trouble anywhere is right here with the light. Even though I got a light here. But I do have a little magnifying glass if I get hard up But anyway, we have the message to the church in Laodicea. Let's bow in prayer, O Lord. We pray that thou forgive us Of our sins, turn us from them. Open up thy word to us, we pray. Give the words to speak. Give us receptive hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, anyway, here we have the message to the church in Laodicea, the last one of the seven messages. And we'll call this the halfway church. The halfway church. They're halfway there, but they're not all the way there. They're not all the way back. They're not all the way there. They're neither cold nor hot. They're halfway. And God is not pleased with them being halfway. We'll say that to begin with. But going back to Laodicea, Laodicea was a church in Asia Minor. It was a church in modern-day Turkey Uh Turkey is in the news today having invaded Syria and Turkey is where all of the seven churches were. And we have the church church in Laodicea. Laodicea was a large trading city. It was known for its trade. It was also known for the production of an eye salve that was used on people's eyes that we refer to later in this letter and it was also a city that was known for uh uh wool uh black shiny wool actually that they produced there and uh so for the clothing industry And Laodicea was a city that sat smack dab on the trade route that went from the ocean into inland into Turkey. And it was right on the trade route, and the trade route went right smack dab through the town. You know that's how the roads always used to go in the United States. You know, uh I remember when I was a kid having to travel from Ohio to uh Minnesota, we had to go right through downtown Chicago, we had to go right through downtown Gary, Indiana, and Indianapolis, and we had to go through downtowns everywhere. And of course, that was because the roads ran between the towns and right through the towns, but now we have interstates, we have outer belts and all that But the town was right on the middle of the trade route, went in the front gate and went out the back gate of the town. It's just like we have a real good illustration of that right here. We got Route 1 right out in front of the church here. And Route 1 used to be the main north and south highway of the United States up and down the coast. And can you imagine that? And that was back when it was two-lane road out here And uh anyway, they went through the towns, the roads did in the past, and they did in the Laodicea. And Laodicea was a town that didn't have much of a character of its own It took its character from everybody else, like a trading city. It was the church of the customer, of the consumer. It uh took its form from what it thought people wanted it to be. And that's how we have in America today. We have the churches today. They're big on doing surveys and seeing what people want. And they want to give people what they want. And that's how Laodicea was, that halfway church. And then we always have who is giving the message at the beginning of the message, and it's Jesus giving the message. And Jesus gives his characteristics here. He says, these things saith the Amen. Jesus is the Amen. He's the one that says amen to the will of God the Father. He is the one to whom we say amen. When he speaks. These things saf the Amen. The faithful witness. Faithful. Jesus is faithful when men are not faithful. Jesus is faithful when the government is not faithful. You know, right now I just turned 65. And you know there's a question of when should you take Social Security? And one guy said, well, you should take it later if you have a lot of faith in the U. S. government. But if you don't have a lot of faith in the US government, you should take it right now and run. And there's some truth to that. But Jesus is faithful, not like the U. S. government with the with its deficit that keeps going through the stratosphere. But Jesus is faithful, faithful to his promises, faithful to take care of us and work all things together for good in our lives. He's the faithful witness, and he's the true witness. There is such a thing as truth. And Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And in our world around us today, truth is relative. It's whatever people say it is, whatever people think it is But Jesus is true, the truth, and that truth remains forever. So Jesus is the speaker in this message. He is the Amen, the faithful and true witness. The beginning of the creation of God, the only begotten. of the Father full of grace and truth. Well then he goes on to talk about the church in Laodicea and Laodicea is the only message out of the seven messages that has no commendation. Nothing good said about the church in Laodicea. Many of the other ones that talks about that about the church, but it says, well, you have a good remnant, you have some good works that you've done, this and that and the other thing. But Laodicea had nothing good about it. It says, I know thy works, verse 15, I know thy works that thou, and the works that God knows, Christ knows, are the works that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would thou wert cold or hot. So then, because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. And so here we have the halfway church, neither cold nor hot. Well, how do we, you know, of course, cold is an extreme, is it not? Cold is the extreme. Hot is the opposite extreme. And lukewarm is in the middle. And relating this to Christianity, cold is the world. Cold is the devil and the world being without God And hot is being fervent for God, wholehearted, all the way there with God. And here the church in Laodicea was halfway, right in the middle. You know, many times today it's glorified being in the middle Of course, we had an interesting Sunday school lesson this morning talking about Gamaliel, and he was sort of in the middle. He was sort of trying to compromise and work things out, and many times that's good. It definitely was good for the apostles. That he did that and tried to work things out and compromise. And the Bible tells us we're supposed to be peacemakers and we want to try to make peace one with another and be in the middle a little bit with that But when it comes to God and our relationship with God and our service for God, we cannot be in the middle. We have to be hot. Hot for him. And of course, we don't want to be cold, but it says here that even cold is better than being in the middle. Lukewarm. And so, how is somebody in the middle today? Well, there are people that say they are Christians. They go to church some. They say they're Christians, but they really aren't Christians. They're in the middle there. They don't say they're atheists. They don't say they're agnostics. They don't say they're unbelievers. They say they're Believers, but they're in the middle And they're neither cold nor hot. That's how the church in Laodicea was. It was in the middle. And that's where our churches in America and the world want to be today. They want to be in the middle. And of course in Christianity we have cold, we have the World Council of Churches, we have the world in general, the media, we have on cold. And on hot, we've got the fundamentalists. The fundamentalists, the Bible Presbyterians The ones that they call extremists. And you know, they call the the fundamentalists extremists They call us Bible Presbyterians, extremists, or too narrow, or whatever. We're extremists. But that's what God said He wants us to be. He wants us to be an extremist all the way. over to him. And that's what we need to be. We need to be those extremists for the Lord. And if we are serving the Lord with our whole heart, we will look like a fanatic to the world The world will definitely see us as a fanatic. Of course, I have my fanatic tie on today. I have this tie that says Jesus is Lord. And that's pretty fanatical, kind of wearing it right there. But you know, the thing is we have to be So wholehearted for the Lord that we have to be kind of a fanatic for him as the world sees it. And we need to be all the way over to hot. Of course, in the middle you got the neo-evangelicals. The neo-evangelicals and the church of today, they want to please everybody. And they want to try to please everybody. They don't want to stand for anything. They just want to be there in the middle and please everybody. And don't you know they can re reach everybody when they please everybody? Well, that's not how the Lord wants us to be when we're uh in his church. He doesn't want us to be pleasing everybody. Of course you see that, as I've said before, with the names of the churches today And there in Delaware near us we have the church called The Town. And it's a PCA church there. The Town. Why do they call it the town? They don't want to offend anybody. They want to be able to attract everybody. The World Council of Churches says we want to be a big tent. We want to attract everybody. Right there in the middle. And the insignia of the World Council of Churches is of a ship, and they want everybody in on the ship, but as Dr. McIntyre used to point out, the ship has no rudder on it. There's no rudder on it, it just goes with the wind. Just floats here, floats there. And we don't want to be that in our Christianity. We want to have an anchor, and we want to be anchored to the truth. But the church in Laodicea, they weren't anchored. They floated all around in the middle. And what does God say about them? He said he was going to spew them out of his mouth. That's pretty colorful language there. And it's definitely very true here that they were not Christians. No Christian would God talk about spewing out of his mouth. But they had the name of Christians. They had a church there, the church of the Laodiceans. But it was a false church, and there's lots of false churches out there. So they were a lukewarm church, wanted to attract the world. Let's keep on going here. Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art. wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. Now, the church in Laolicea was a rich church, and that rich city, trading city, And they were a rich city, trading city, just like the United States is today. I've said before That I believe that the United States is the Babylon the Great in the Book of Revelation, if we are near the time of the end, which it very much looks like we are, with Israel going into the land. And the Babylon the Great is a great trading nation in the book of Revelation. And just like Laodicea, a great trading nation, a land increased with goods. increased with goods. You know, we're drowning in goods here in the United States today. It's it's a big thing in the day uh today uh with people specializing on how to get rid of your junk. Because there's so much stuff that we have. When you go to church, go to people's houses in Cameroon, you go in the house, there's nothing there. There's just uh a couple simple pieces of furniture and that's it. It's a whole lot different than here in the United States And it's just like the Church of Laodicea. You're rich, you're increased with goods, and they thought that they had need of nothing. Just like the United States thinks it has need of nothing. I remember I was in the airport one day and I was talking to a guy from I don't know where he was But he was from some some foreign country and he said to me, You know your United States is great because it can exist self-contained. It doesn't have to really depend on anybody Well, there's some good to that, but uh, you know, we get the idea that we have need of nothing. Have need of nothing, and we have need of much And uh the church the the town of Laodicea uh mentioned last week about the great earthquake, or last time I was here about the great earthquake that they had in Philadelphia uh back before these letters were written. And that earthquake had affected Laodicea, but Laodicea didn't get any help from the Roman government. They said, we have enough and they took care of it and rebuilt themselves after the earthquake. And that's how they said, I have need of nothing. And spiritually they said they had need of nothing. And they didn't know that they were wretched and blind and poor and naked And they didn't know that they were in bad shape. They were in bad shape spiritually. And the world out there is in bad shape spiritually. We need to give them the gospel. to turn them to the Lord. And uh the the church in Laodicea said, I have need of nothing. And you know we have need of other people. We have need of other people in the church. The church should be a family that's interdependent on each other and together. One time we were debating about insurance in the past when I was in seminary, and uh I was maintaining that we need to have less insurance Uh not be depending on our insurance or the government to supply our needs. And uh Then somebody objected to that and they said, Well, if you don't have a lot of insurance, the other people in the church have to pitch in and try to take care of you if you have a problem Well, you know, that's really how the church is supposed to be. That's supposed to be, we're supposed to be interdependent on each other. And we're not supposed to say, I don't take anything from anybody else and I don't give anything to anybody else. That's how there are a lot of people out there. But we don't say that. That's what the church in Laodicea said, I have need of nothing. They knew not that they were poor and miserable and blind and naked. And you know, that's the first step to becoming a Christian, is to recognize that we are poor, blind, and naked. We've got to realize that we're lost and we need a Savior. And that's the problem with so much of the evangelism today. They have their evangelistic program and it says, uh four wonderful things that God wants you to know, or something like that. And they leave out, most of the time, repentance. And they leave out our sin that we're poor and miserable and blind and naked. And we need to know that first before we can become a Christian. Well, verse 18, I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, white raiment, and get some eye salve And those were the things that that city in Laodicea was famous for. That city was famous for its financial center, for being rich, having gold. It was famous for be for their wool, it was famous for their ISAT, it was famous for a medical center that they had there. And uh uh but they didn't know that they were wretched. and blind and naked. And so Jesus says to buy of me This gold, the spiritual gold, buy me the spiritual white raiment, buy of me this spiritual high-saf. How do we buy that of the Lord? Do we give him money? No, of course not. How do we buy those things of the Lord? We buy those things by giving ourselves to the Lord. Giving our whole selves to Him and serving Him. That's how we buy these things for the Lord. And we need to do that. Give the Lord our whole heart in service for Him. And then we can have that gold tried in the fire. We can have that white raiment, which is the righteousness that covers our sins. And we have that ISAD that we might be able to see and see clearly spiritually. Then verse 19: As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Be zealous therefore and repent. Have you ever had the chastisement of the Lord? You know, we need to recognize that God does chastise us and we deserve it all the time. We deserve the chastisement of the Lord. And why does he chasten us? He chastens us because of our sin, from our turning away from the Lord, from our going astray, like sheep, all we like sheep have gone astray. And so he chastens us. And uh you know if we are have no problems in our life, if nothing ever goes wrong in our life And especially if we're not serving the Lord and nothing's going wrong, well we know we're not a Christian. Because things would be going wrong if we were a Christian and we're not doing the things that the Lord would have us to do As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. So how does God chasten us? How does he rebuke us and chasten us? One of the big ways is with sickness. God can chasten us with sickness. And uh, you know, we need to realize that. And uh uh I heard a homosexual say one time that God doesn't send you to the basement when you're bad, just like giving the homosexuals AIDS Well, you know, he does send us to the basement when we're bad. He does chasten us. And especially he chastens Christians. When we're turning away from the Lord. And so when we get sick, it's always a good thing to examine our hearts. And every time we get sick, it's not because of our sin. That's clear in Scripture. But sometimes it is. And we need to examine our hearts to see if God is trying to chasten us and rebuke us for something Then it says, be zealous therefore and repent. And of course they needed to repent of their halfwayness, of being in the middle, for being lukewarm. And be zealous instead of being lukewarm. And you know, it's really fanatic to try to give somebody a tract. That's a thing that fanatics do. But you know, we want to be zealous. We want to be zealous for the Lord. Just like it says here, be zealous, therefore, and repent. And then verse 20: Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in to him and will sup with him and he with me. Christ is there standing at the door and knocking. There was a famous picture years ago of Christ standing next to the United Nations. And knocking on the United Nations. Well, the United Nations is really far gone apostate, away from God, controlled by the communists. Uh Christ is knocking, but they're not answering. And Christ is knocking, that's the free offer of the gospel. We have the free offer of the gospel. We're Calvinists, we're Presbyterians. But that doesn't mean we don't believe in the free offer of the Gospel, that whosoever will may come. And it's just that the only whosoevers that will come are the ones that God works in their heart and brings them unto himself. But we need to preach to everybody And here we have Christ is standing at the door and knocking. He's knocking at the heart of people's lives. And we need to open the door and have him come in. Give our whole life and heart and soul to him. He stands at the door and knocks. And then verse 21, to him that overcometh, will I grant to sit with me in my throne Even as I also overcame and am sat down with my father in his throne. And here it talks about us sitting on thrones. And that's in the millennium, especially. We're going to be sitting on thrones with the Lord and judging the nations. And there will be unsaved people, unsaved nations in the millennium. But the Christians will be ruling there in the millennium. And uh that millennium is is a real thousand year reign of Christ upon the earth. And it's not something figurative, uh it's not some indefinite thing, but when We're told in the book of Revelation that it's a thousand years, it's a thousand years. Even though a thousand years to the Lord is a day and a day is a thousand years, but it's st Four thousand years And so we will be on those thrones if we overcome. And we overcome our sinful nature. We overcome the world and the devil. We will be able to be with the Lord. Now let's turn back to Malachi chapter 1 that we read in our uh responsive reading earlier, Malachi chapter 1 on the same subject of being halfway, half-hearted. And that was the problem back in Malachi's time. It has been a problem all through history, being half-hearted with the Lord. Halfway there. You know, they've often said that in the founding of our country, our founding fathers weren't all Christians. And that's true. Some of them were lukewarm. They said they were Christians. They were influenced by Christian principles, but they weren't Christians. Well, it was good they were influenced by Christian principles And did the put that in our founding of our nation. Many of them were true true Bible believing Christians too. But the some the ones that weren't They had Christian principles, but before the Lord, they were in bad shape. They helped our society by having those Christian principles, but before the Lord, they're in bad shape. if they're not a Christian, if they're only halfway there, half-hearted. And then we go here to Malachi chapter 1 and verse 6. A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I be a father, where is mine honor? And so they didn't honor God as their father like they should have They weren't serving him wholeheartedly with their whole hearts. And they argued with God and they said, Wherein have we not honored you? Wherein have we trespassed? And God enumerates how they had trespassed. I've preached on this sermon, I'm sure, in this church in the past But it's probably been thirty years ago now. I don't know however long ago it was. And I don't know how many of you were that here then. But I'm just referring to it a little bit right now But you know, Malachi tells them through the Lord how they were half-hearted. Verse 7. Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar, and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? And so they were offering up moldy bread to the Lord. Moldy bread. Why would someone want to give the Lord moldy bread? Well, because they don't want to give God the good bread. They want the good bread for themselves. And so they give God the leftovers, the moldy bread, and their half-hearted service of the Lord. And you know, we have some instances of half-heartedness, wholeheartedness in the world around us, especially whole-heartedness, in the world of sports. In the world of sports, you have whole-hearted people that are whole-hearted fans of a sports team. And here in Baltimore, I don't even know exactly what the names of the s teams are here. I think you have the Baltimore Orioles and the Baltimore Colts, I think. And is that true? Are they still the Colts? Ravens. Yeah, I was thinking they had changed their name. But anyway, they got the Ravens. And this is football season, so we'll use them. So if if somebody's a wholehearted fan of the Ravens, how does he act? Well, if he's a wholehearted fan of the Ravens, he goes to as many games as he can. And if he can't go to the game, he sees it on TV. And you know, does there ever come a time with that guy that he's too busy to watch the game? That he's too busy to go to the game? No. That never ever happens. And why is that? That is because he arranges his whole schedule to make sure that he's got time for that game. And he doesn't watch the game only if he's on his deathbed. That's it. And because he's wholehearted in it, he loves it with all his heart. And that's how we ought to be with our Christianity. That nothing should get in the way of our Christianity and our service for the Lord. And so often people say they're too busy for the things of the Lord. Well, if we're too busy for the things of the Lord, we're just plain too busy. And we need to be wholehearted for the Lord, not halfway like the church in Laodicea. Not like the people here in Malachi's time that gave the Lord moldy bread. And then they gave the Lord sick and lame sheep. And blind sheep. And why would they give the Lord lame, sick, and blind sheep? For the same reason they gave moldy bread. To give God something that they really didn't want anyway. Give them not their best. And you know the thing is, is that uh when you talk to people about doing things for the Lord, Sometimes I get the idea that it's if they can't think of anything else they could possibly be doing, they'll do something for the Lord. And you know, the things of the Lord come last. Whereas the things of the Lord should come first. We need to be hot. Not lukewarm for the Lord. And then you go down to verse 13. They said also, Behold, what a weariness is it. What a weariness was it to bring sacrifices to the temple. And people today say what a weariness it is to go to church. What a weariness it is to serve the Lord. Well, we don't want to be lukewarm. We want to be hot for the Lord. We want to be regarded as extremists by the world. If we're hot for the Lord. Not that we necessarily want to be uh known as somebody that's often left field. But the problem is the world will regard us that way if we're serving the Lord. And we don't want to be ashamed of the Lord. Well, a son honors his father. We need to honor our father. We need to be hot for him. We need to be wholehearted in our service for the Lord. And not half-hearted, not lukewarm. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, we pray that we would not be lukewarm We pray that we would not be half-hearted. We pray that we would not be halfway there. And, O Lord, we pray that we might serve thee with our whole heart and mind and soul and body And just forgive us for what we fall short of that in Jesus' name. Amen.