The churches of our Presbytery in this area had uh big ministries yesterday in connection with Memorial Day and Mayfair. In Collingswood they had May Fair and they had a big fair that they have every year and they set up a table there and give out tracks and literature and things for the kids And then in Marcus Hook they had their Memorial Day parade and the church always participates in that. They have a car that well they drive their car in it and we go down through the parade and give out tracks and things. Gave out little flags yesterday. I went on that one. And it was very good. It's always a very good ministry. People are very receptive to take the things. at that. Well, our opportunity at this church is this Saturday for going door to door. And Lord willing, we'll have some decent weather this Saturday and be able to go out door to door So anyway, it's Memorial Day, and remember all the people that gave their lives in the history of our country for our freedom. And the saying is true that freedom isn't free. And anyway, but going to that, you know, we start out with Memorial Day with the American Revolution. And what was the American Revolution over? Well, one of the big things that it was over was taxation. And taxation is a big thing. They've said that the power to tax is the power to destroy. And it is. And so anyway, that brings me to my going on the Smyrna Council. I won the election since I was here with you last. And I felt led to go on the council because of taxation, that they doubled our taxes last year. And so my slogan for the campaign was roll back the tax. And that was on my signs. And so anyway, I won just by six votes. But anyway, the thing is it's an uphill battle there. And I'm not popular. And you know, they uh assigned committees and the mayor did And they assign usually a couple committees to each person. Well, for me, they gave me one committee, and it's the Shade Tree Committee. So anyway, uh that's where we're at there. And they seated me all the way down on the end, and they make sure that I can't hardly even see the mayor there. But anyway, so we're gonna work on that. But one good thing, possibly, is that is the the guy that I beat by six votes, he was also campaigning on an anti-tax Flat platform, at least somewhat, not as strong as B, but he had on his signs N tax burdens And so between him and me, we had 330 votes to the guy who voted in the taxes, got 140. So it was uh you know quite a big difference there. And then the interesting thing is is that just before the election the uh one of the councilmen resigned because he didn't like the way they disqualified the other guy that was running for mayor so that the mayor didn't even have to run. She just got in there. But anyway The uh thing is, but then when it came time to fill that vacancy of the guy who resigned, uh for some reason, praise the Lord, the mayor decided to appoint The um the guy who lost by six votes who was also campaigning against taxes somewhat Now I don't know if they have an arrangement together or I don't know what that they did that, but anyway, um uh hopefully he will Stay true to his talking about the taxes and hopefully I've got an ally in there now, we hope. So anyway, uh so you can pray for that Well, as we say, today is Memorial Day, but I'm not going to preach on Memorial Day today. We're going to save that for uh the end of June in another month because Of course, every year we have a couple of family holidays and we have a couple of patriotic holidays. We have Mother's Day and Father's Day, and we have Memorial Day and Fourth of July. And one thing is, is that I never hit the family holidays because I go at the end of the month and the family holidays are in the middle of the month And so I would like to remember Mother's Day. And of course May is the month for Mother's Day. It's also the month for Memorial Day. But we want to look at Mother's Day today, which we have looked at very little. Over the years, I keep track of what I preach on, and I've only preached on Mothers and Father's Day once in the time that I've been preaching since 2019 And that was two years ago. I had more of a Father's Day message two years ago. But anyway, I preached more than that on patriotic subjects. So we want to look at mothers and the blessing of mothers today. That's something that's very unpopular subject today in America. But it needs to be talked about. And let's look at Titus chapter two. Titus chapter two. Titus chapter two and verse three. Well, you know, it's been said to me, you know, why do you preach on Mother's Day when all you have is an old congregation and there's hardly any mothers there? Well, it tells us right here in verse 3 of Titus chapter 2. It says, the aged women likewise, that they be in behavior as becometh Holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things, that they may teach the young women to be sober to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed Well, here it has words for the aged women, the ones that are no longer active mothers, but the aged women, what are they supposed to do? They're supposed to teach the young women, teach the children, teach the grandchildren. And the older people are supposed to be teaching the younger ones, teaching them what they're supposed to be doing And here we have in Titus, we have one of the pastoral epistles. And here Paul is telling pastors, Titus, and also in the books of Timothy, telling them how to be good pastors. And to be a good pastor, they're supposed to teach the aged women that they should teach the young women And what are they supposed to teach them so far as being mothers? They're supposed to tell them to concentrate on being mothers. Now we'll we'll qualify things to begin with here. Not everybody can be a mother. Some people cannot get pregnant, some people cannot have children, some people have the gift of being single, but We're going to see today, and I submit to you that the normal model given in Scripture for women is to be a mother. That's the normal model, and it's something important, and it's something to be desired. And that's what we have here. They teach the young women what? To be serious, sober, to love their husbands, concentrate on their family, to love their children To be discreet, chaste keepers at home. There is a really unpopular subject today. You know what we talked about this morning? We talked about in Sunday school. What do the false prophets tell people? They tell them what they want to hear. And what do prophets tell people? They tell people what they don't want to hear. And who's popular? Well, the false prophets are are popular, but the true prophets are not popular. Because they tell people what they don't want to hear, and that's one thing that people really don't want to hear today is to be keepers at home. Keepers at home. But it's it's what's right in here. That's pretty that says it pretty well. Keepers at home, stay at home. Stay at home moms is a good thing. Obedient to their own husbands You know, people talk about uh the the scriptures that talk about wives being subject to their husbands. Well, they explained some of those away, different ways, you know, everybody's supposed to be subject one to another and all this, but here it's stated another way, obedient to their own husbands. But anyway, our subject today is mothers. And so somebody sent out a one of our BPs, sent out an article years ago, and I want to read this here about mothers It says a woman renewing her driver's license at the county clerk's office was asked by the woman recorder to state her occupation. She hesitated, uncertain how to classify herself. What I mean is, explained the recorder, do you have a job or are you just uh And then the woman said, Of course I have a job. I'm a mom. Well, we don't list mom as an occupation. Housewife covers it, said the recorder emphatically. I forgot all about her story unt until one day I found myself in the same situation, this time at our own town hall. The clerk was obviously a career woman, poised, deficient, and possessed of a high sounding title like Official Interrogator or Town Registrar. What is your occupation? she probed What made me say it, I do not know. The word simply popped out. I'm a research associate in the field of child development and human relations. Might I ask, said the clerk, with new interest, just what do you do in your field? Coolly, without any trace of fluster in my voice, I heard myself reply I have a continuing program of research in the laboratory and in the field. I would have said indoors and out. I'm working for my master's First the Lord, and then my whole family, and already have four credits, all daughters. Of course, the job is one of the most demanding in the humanities And I often work 14 hours a day, 24 is more like it, but the job is more challenging than most run-of-the-mill careers, and the rewards are more of a satisfaction than just money. And so anyway, here we have mom or is not really considered very highly or a housewife is not considered very highly in our world around us. In fact, I've heard them called dinosaurs today. But anyway, that's the what's what the scripture concentrates on Keepers at home. Keepers at home. It doesn't say doing this or doing that or doing the other thing. No. Keepers at home concentrating on the household. And you know, women have that built into them. That domestic inclination. People don't like to hear that. But did you ever notice how girls like to play with dolls? That's just natural. It's not something you have to teach them They just naturally do that and play with kitchen stuff and have tea parties and things like that. They just naturally do that. My grandkill granddaughters naturally like that And because that's built into men and women are different. They are different. People want it today to erase all the differences and then even to the point of having transsexuals today, by the way. One week after I took office there in Smyrna, they had Delaware Local Government Day. And I got invited to that, and so I went to it at the State House, and we met with the legislature, with the Senate, with the House, with the Governor, with the Lieutenant Governor, all the local elected officials Of course, some of them asked me, how long have you been a councilman? And I said, one week. But anyway, I was there, but that was brought to mind by the fact that we went to the governor's office and who was the aide to the governor and the governor's office there but a transsexual right there And it was obvious that he was a guy who was trying to be a a woman. And uh you know that's where we're at And people want to erase all the differences between men and women. But there are differences. God has made it that way. Let's go back to John chapter 13. John chapter 13. John Chapter Thirteen. John Chapter thirteen And verse 4. John chapter 4, John chapter 13, and verse 4. He riseth from supper, and And laid aside his garments, and took a towel and girded himself. This is talking about Jesus. After that he poureth water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet And to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. Then cometh he to Simon Peter, and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? And so here Jesus was doing the lowliest job here, washing feet. They used to have slaves. You know, in scriptures When it talks about servants in Scripture, it's almost always talking about slaves. And slaves, one of their job was, was to Washed the master's feet. Of course, they wore sandals and they went out on the highways and the sandals, and they were dirt roads. And you know, there weren't very clean conditions back in those days And you know they had outhouses, they had open sewers or things like that, and people were walking around out, and then they'd come back and get their feet washed And you get them w get washed up. That was a dirty job, washing feet. Then we go on, skip down to verse 12. So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? You call me Master and Lord, and ye say, Well, for so I am If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to you. Verily, verily I say unto you, the servant is not greater than the than his Lord Neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him. If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. So here we have Jesus washing the feet of the disciples. And that was an object lesson to tell us to serve each other. We should be willing to do the dirty low jobs. The things that nobody else wants to do. Uh there used to be, I don't know if there still is, a TV program. I never actually watched it hardly, but it was dirty jobs. And you know, there are dirty jobs that need to be done And you know the sad thing is today, everybody wants to do everything on the computer and on the internet. And don't talk to me, go do it on the computer. And they want to live their lives on the computer, on their phone. But the problem is we are still human beings. And we can't eat with the computer. The computer can't feed us. We can't go to the bathroom with the computer. We can't do any of those things. We can't raise children with computers. We're still human beings and there still are dirty jobs that need to be done And it's really a dirty job being a mother. Being a mother, cleaning up messes. You know, kids are just messes waiting to happen They're always waiting to happen. And they and mother has to always be cleaning up after them. And not just cleaning up one day, two day, a week, a month, a year, but for twenty years or whatever it is It's a long time. It's tedious. And it's dirty. And people don't want to do it. But it's something that's to be desired in the sight of the Lord. It's something given in God's Word. It's something good. and something important. And it's something that must be done. Must be done. And so the scripture is very clear on that. Now let's go over to 1 Timothy chapter 5. First Timothy chapter five. Of course, I don't preach too many topical sermons, but uh here for Mother's Day, uh the blessings of mothers, we're having a topical sermon sermon here today where we Turn to a couple different scriptures. And if we turn preach a patriotic sermon, a lot of times it's topical too. But then we go on to 1 Timothy 5 and verse 10. 1 Timothy 5 and verse 10. And here we have the passage of Scripture that talks about the church taking care of widows. And so then it talks about what kind of widows should you take care of? Well, here it gives you verse 10. well reported of for good works, if she have brought up children, if she have lodged strangers If she have washed the saints' feet, if she have relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every good work. Of course, when you talk about differences between men and women, women have a nurturing part of them. And so here it talks about those things here with a good widow that needs to be taken care of. Of course, back in these days, the church took care of widows. Today we have the government and insurance and whatever uh nursing homes, whatever, taking care of the widows. But the church was involved with it, and that's a good thing to be involved with. But here let's talk about good widows. And what has a good widow done Well, she's done dirty jobs. She has washed the saints' feet. She's relieved the afflicted. And she has brought up children. That's something to be desired, something good. To bring up children, part of good works. Then we go on, well, just a second there. We have a uh I have a quote here from a book I read a few years back called The Fragile Species. And it's talking about mankind, human beings, the fragile species. And here I want to read this. It says One of these days we're going to be wondering how it was that, and this is a secular person who wrote this book, we're going to be wondering how it was that so many of our fellow citizens turned out so badly. So anti-social. Why are they like that out there? Well, I think it's because they're not getting what they should get when they're being brought up And uh anti-so-social. Well, um uh we passed out flyers there in Smyrna. Uh Greg and uh Dave came over and helped one day And they said, uh, which neighbors are those around you here that you used to talk about that weren't very good or whatever? And I said, well, it's pretty well all of them Pretty well all of them. And they're anti-social. They don't even want to say hello. They want to look at you so you so they can say hello. And you know that that's how people are all over, especially this part of the country. And how do people get that way? Well, we seem to have forgotten what young children really are. Most of us tend to think of early childhood as a primitive stage of life. What we keep Overlooking is the sheer tremendous power unique in the brain of a young child for learning. A child three or four years old can become proficient in four or five different languages at the same time. Young children possess minds that are fabulously skilled at all sorts of feats. They are biologically specialized for learning. The experience that is above all in importance for the modeling of a young child's mind. is a combination of affection and respect. Young children need affection, they need to have affection from their parents, from their family, and they need to learn respect. Respect. The magical formula is provided by parents, especially mothers. Somehow I have come to believe that unless we can discover how to bring that combination of affection and respect into the daily and nighttime uh lives of our children, everything else we hope to do for the improvement of education later on in their lives will be one dead end after another. Affection and respect. If we hope for a generation of young people who will not be casting around nervously for ways to escape the world, including cocaine, heroin, and the rest. I have my next door neighbor The next door neighbor's son, he sits right on top of my property there in the backyard, smoking his marijuana. And stinking up the yard. But anyway, they're all looking for those things for fulfillment, casting around for ways to escape the world. We need to place the highest priority on the education of young children. And that's what mothers do at home. Is the education of the young children. They need that. They need that affection. They need that respect. Well, you know, uh this past week, we were watching a movie about Margaret Thatcher, a biography of hers, Margaret Thatcher. Who can tell me who Margaret Thatcher was? Prime Minister of England, very famous one, she was called the Iron Lady, and she had one famous quote I remember is that the problem with socialism is that you always run out of other people's money. And uh so anyway, but anyway it has her biography there and it has how she got into politics. And she had a hard time breaking into politics. It took her ten years trying over and over and failing and finally to break into politics. Finally she got a break. But What was interesting there is one question kept coming up when she fielded questions. And the one question was. She had two young children and the question was, how can you have these two young children and be in the government, in the Congress, and what will happen to your children and how will you do with that? And you know what? There was never a good answer given to that. That was an unanswerable question. Finally, they just ignored it and elected her. But it's unanswerable. And you know, you really can't do two full-time jobs well, especially a mother's job, which is more than a full-time job And something has to give. Something has to give. And the scripture says we should concentrate on the mother's things. And then we go on down to verse 14 here. I will therefore that the younger women, of course, people accuse Paul of being chauvinistic. And they say, oh, he just didn't like women. Well, he's speaking by inspiration of God. I will therefore that the younger women marry Bear children, guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully, for some are already turned aside after Satan. And anyway, what does Paul say that they sh these older women should teach the younger women? And what does he say that the younger women should do? Well, first of all, the normal model given in Scripture, the normal model that's important and to be desired is that they marry, bear children, guide the house. And bear children. You know that's an important thing to bear children. That's a problem today. There's countries in the world that are going down and going to pot because they don't have children. The United States The only reason the United States is not going down is they got so many immigrants coming in. But but the birth rate is not enough to to supply the the the deaths in the dis in the population. And our famous guy today, Elon Musk, Elon Musk, he is concerned about this problem of declining population. And he's smart on some things. And so he, of course, he has ten children with three different women, but he says if people don't have more children, civilization is going to crumble Mark my words, he said. He has described population collapse as the biggest danger to humanity. Exceed at even exceeding climate change that they like to talk about, which really doesn't exist as a human problem And warned that Japan, which has one of the lowest birth rates in the world, will eventually cease to exist. Is that that's the logical conclusion? If you don't replace the population, it's just going to go down and down and down and down. And why don't people want to have children? Why don't they? Well, because it's inconvenient. You know, you talk about something that'll ruin your whole day, well, you know, that'll ruin your whole twenty years or something if you have children and if you have to take care of them for all that time. And so people don't want to have children. They won't want to be inconvenienced. But it's something to be desired, and something is to be desired and important. To be a mother and to concentrate upon that. And then finally, let's go back to Proverbs chapter 31. Proverbs chapter 31. Of course, this is the famous chapter on the virtuous woman. And as we go through this passage, we're not going to look through the whole thing anymore, but You know, it's always concentrating on the household. On the household. And, you know, she has a little bit of business there. But it's within the household, the framework of the household. She has a part-time job, uh selling a few clothes or things. Under her husband's authority, she buys a field there, but it's concentrated in the household here. And you go down to verse 13. Verse 13. She seeks wool and flax and works willingly with her hands. She is like the merchant's ships. She brings her food from afar. She rises also while it is yet night, and gives meat to her household and a portion to her maidens. Well, you know, I was just reading a book uh last week, in fact, and it pointed out the fact that in Bible times, basically, the mother made clothes for all the family. They didn't go out to the store and buy buy clothes. They were made there in the household. And of course that was m a lot more to do in the household. But anyway, uh here she concentrates upon that, but she also concentrates upon her cooking. She brings her food from afar. You know, people don't like to cook today. You see, oh, the huge amounts of restaurants And all their food that's delivered to the door and all, people don't like to cook. Why? Because it's messy. You gotta make dirty pots and pans and it takes time and it uh you know. But you know the health food people What do they say? They say that if you want to eat healthy, you have to cook. You have to cook. You just can't go out and get healthy stuff all the time and at the restaurant or whatever. You have to cook And anyway, here the woman concentrates on her cooking here. She brings her food from afar. She rises while it is yet night and gives meat to her household. Then we go on down to verse 18. She perceives that her merchandise is good, her candle goeth not out by night, she lays her hand to the spindle, and her hands hold the disappear So she has this part-time job in the household making extra clothes and selling them. And uh from home. And then we go on down to verse 21. She is not afraid of the snow for her household, for all her household are clothed with scarlet. And so she has nice clothes that she makes. Then you go down to verse 24. She makes fine linen and sells it and delivers girdles unto the merchant. And she perceives that her merchandise is good. And then verse 27: she looks well to the ways of her household. She concentrates on her household. She looks well to her household. and eats not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her. So, what is to be desired for a Christian woman here? It's to be like the virtuous woman here, to concentrate upon the household. That's the normal thing. Once again Some women can't have children, but they still can concentrate on the household, but they can't have children, or some have the gift of being single. But the normal model given is for the woman to be in the household, to have children, to guide the household, be a keeper at home. And she looks well to the ways of her household and eats not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up and call her blessed. Of course people say today, oh, hey, don't you know that you can't have a household today with just one income? In today's world you just have to have two incomes. Well, it depends on what you want. And you know, in the past th they they they made do. They made do with the one income. And we can do that now, or at least it'd be good to have a part-time job and not a full-time job in addition to the household. But anyway, Mubber, that is a great thing given by God that people don't want to hear about today. But it's something that we do need to hear about, and it's important and something to be desired before the Lord. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we just thank thee for thy goodness to us. And O Lord, just bless these things to our hearts if they're from Thy Word. And O Lord, help us to be the Christians that Thou would have us to be. In Jesus' name. Amen.