And in fact, my intention is, even though Pastor Britton is speaking next week, I plan to be back here again, as long as the restrictions are still in in in force because I love to assemble with God's people and we should love that. And of course they say that uh it's social distancing, it's actually anti-social distancing People being anti-social. And just a couple things for the news. They should be opening up the churches here. They should never have shut them. But anyway, Italy and Germany are opening up all their churches And Georgia, it was the first state to reopen things and they forecast doom down there, and it's the flu deaths have gone down down there since they've reopened it. And uh, but you know, going back to the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the First Amendment And people uh at least a few people have been talking in the news about how the first commandment is not out of force now. It's not done away with. There's still the first first not the first commandment, first amendment And uh there's always the First Amendment. Even in emergencies, there's the First Amendment, the Constitution of the United States. And you know, our founding fathers who wrote up the Constitution They were very familiar with epidemics. They had worse epidemics back then than we have now. They had smallpox and typhoid and all that thing. And they knew those things were transmitted from person to person. They had typhoid Mary, who they said, you know, somebody who was uh carrying the disease was called a typhoid Mary. And they used to quarantine a town that had, you know, smallpox or whatever it was, but they wouldn't quarantine everybody And they quarantined the sick people. And praise the Lord, we had a protest in uh in Delaware uh a week ago Friday at the State House and we were protesting against this lockdown. It was well attended. And uh praise the Lord for that. At least there's a few people around that have some discernment about these things. And you know, I mean it If people want to stay at home, and if they're afraid, they can stay at home. But it's not the governor's business to make edicts. The legislature makes the laws, not the governor. Not the president, not the executive, the legislature does. But uh we're paving the way today for the Antichrist. The Antichrist making edicts And everybody expected to obey them. Let's go to Revelation chapter 8. Revelation chapter 8. Revelation chapter 8 and verse 1. Here we come up to the seven trumpets, the seven trumpet judgments. We have the seven seals we saw before. And in the seventh seal, it seems that the seventh seal opens up, and you have the seven trumpets contained within the seventh seal. And not only that, the seventh trumpet will open up, and you have the seven vials come out from that, all contained with the seven seals. The seventh seal. So here we have the trumpet judgment, and so the Great Tribulation is now at its halfway point, it would seem. And the great judgments of God, the concentrated judgments of God, the trumpets and the vials are about ready to fall. And so, as we open up with chapter 8 and verse 1, there's a great silence. For half an hour. Notice that it gives us the time frame. God, He has, He works in time. He's not outside of time. For a half an hour. There's silence. That's because these great judgments are going to fall. And so we have the seven trumpets, verse 2, given to the seven angels. To sound. And then verse 3, we have an angel having a golden censor. And there is given unto him much incense. And he offers up this incense with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne. You know, the tabernacle and the temple back in the Old Testament, they had pretty much the same design. And they had the Holy of Holies, the Holy Place, and in the holy place they had the altar of incense. And we see that here before God's throne up in heaven. I think the design of the tabernacle in the temple are like the design in heaven. And so here we have this altar of incense And this altar of incense offers up the prayers of all the saints. And what are these saints praying for? What are these prayers for? Well, if we go back to remember the fifth seal, the saints were praying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not Avenge our blood upon the earth. And that is uh the special prayers that are referred to right here, prayers for justice. And God is going to answer those prayers for justice. And we see that our prayers are very important. And that God records our prayers. Our prayers don't just fall to the earth And God is interested in them. And when God wants to do something, he puts it in our hearts to pray for it. If God wants us to heal so-and-so, he puts it into our hearts to pray for so-and-so to be healed. And God does what he wants to, but he uses the prayers and he puts it into our hearts. It's always so amazing. Why do we think to pray for this and we don't think to pray for that? Well, it's because that's what God wants to do, and He puts it into our minds, into our hearts to pray. And then verse 4. Well, the smoke of the incense with the prayers of the saints ascended before God out of the angel's hand. And then the angel, verse 5, took a censor and filled it with fire of the altar, cast it into the earth. There were voices and thunderings and lightnings and earthquake as setting the stage for the great judgments of God with the seven trumpets and the seven vials And here we come to that great time when God is going to set things right. Now I might interject here at this point. I mentioned it before, but we'll mention it again, that there are three main views of prophecy among Christians. There's the premillennial, the post-millennial, and the all-millennial views And that all has to do with the millennium and when Christ comes back. And premillennial is us, or at least me in the historic Bible Presbyterian position. Premillennial Christ comes back before the millennium, pre. And then other people hold that Christ comes back after the millennium, post-millennial. And then those people that don't believe that there's any millennium at all of a thousand years per se, and they're all millennialists. And today the premillennial view is probably the most popular in all of Christianity, including the Baptists and everybody else. But through history, the amillennial and post-millennial views were more popular at times, especially like in the 1800s, the post-millennial and omillennial views were very popular. And you know, you can see from our society, from the world, you can see the premillennial view confirmed today Of course, the post-millennialists will say, oh, well, you can't look at society and see what prophecy is. But you can see it confirmed in society. And you can see the great wickedness. You can see everything being set up. For the literal fulfillment of things. And we just sang that psalm about Jerusalem, about Israel. And back in the 1800s, who would have thought that there would be an Israel full of the Jews today? Who would have thought that? It was completely controlled by the Muslims. And uh you know there was a handful of Jews there maybe, but uh who would have thought that the Jews would control Israel and Jerusalem And now we have the Jews moving back into Jerusalem as their capital. And President Trump moved the embassy over there of the United States, which was a big move. And so we can see these things confirmed. But anyway, the postmillennialist, he says that Christ is going to come back at the end of the millennium and we're going to make the world better and better and the world is going to get better and better until we have the millennium and everything's going to be good and we're going to welcome Christ here. Well, uh you certainly don't see that confirmed in what's going on in the world and has been going on. Now back in the eighteen hundreds when it was uh popular Things seemed like they were getting better in a lot of ways. And they were becoming more influenced. Emissions were going out all over the world and things like that. And uh uh but not today. And we can see things definitely set up for the premillennial view. But anyway, the post-millennialist, he'll say Well, isn't Christ on the throne? Aren't all things under his feet? How come we're not setting up Christ's kingdom here on this earth? Well, we go back to our call to worship, which I think is a key verse on that from Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 8. It says, Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet, not yet, all things put under him. Not yet. And, you know, Christ is on the throne. God is on the throne. But yet, it says right here: not yet is everything under his feet. Not yet. And so we can't put everything under his feet and welcome him here with the millennium because things are not that way. And then the all-millennialist, which most Presbyterians are all millennial. And most of them say that there is not going to be any thousand years reign of Christ on the earth. They say that that's all spiritual. And thousand years just means a long period of time. And they say that we are in the millennium right now. And you know what it says in Revelation 20 happens during the millennium? It says that Satan is bound. Satan is bound during the millennium. Well, do we see Satan bound today? Not in the very least extent. But they come back and they say, oh, well, you see, Satan is bound in that the gospel is going forth around the world. Well, that's a very restricted idea of how Satan is bound. Just because the gospel goes forth. And the the thing is, when Satan's bound, it's going to be a whole lot different than what it is today with this chain for a thousand years. So anyway, here we have these things. I think it's only right that premillennialism is becoming more pop popular today with the world situation. And I think that, you know, as we go through history, we learn more and more, and things become more and more clear as history goes on. And you know, all through history, Christians have believed in the imminent return of Christ. They believed that Christ can come back at any moment. And we believe that today. But you know, looking back now, we can see that Christ couldn't have come back before because Israel wasn't in the land. And because of other things. But but at that time it wasn't that clear. But now we can see that. And we may see things in the future. So we go on here. To Revelation chapter 8 and verse 6, the seven angels they prepared themselves to sound. And verse 7, we have the first trumpet, the first is a concentrated judgment of God. The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood. They were cast upon the earth. The third part of the trees and the grass and all the grass was burnt up Now, uh I remember, I think I've mentioned it before, and I'll mention it at least one more time, when I was in seminary. We had to read on our millennial book on the Book of Revelation by Hendrickson, Commentary on Revelation. And so I read that book. And he just made everything in Revelation to be just a real general battle between good and evil. And nothing really meant anything in particular. And and so when he came to the fact of the hail and the fire coming down on the earth Well, it wasn't really real hail, it wasn't real fire, it's some sort of uh you know God's presence, or who knows what he he could make it into anything he wanted to make it into And so I've said before that that commentary cured me forever about millennialism. Because it's so indefinite. You make it into anything you want to make it into. Well, you know, these plagues, these trumpets, they parallel to a great extent the plagues of Moses in Egypt. And you know in Egypt, Moses called down the hail, and there was fire mingled with the hail with Moses. The hail and fire down upon Egypt. Was that just some general battle between good and evil? No, that was real hail and real fire, a real event. And that's what we're talking about right here. Right now we're seeing the real events that will happen in the future of the world. And so here we have hail and fire. And the third part of the trees are burned up. Do you ever think of how amazing trees are, how amazing God's creation is? And we see God destroying his creation here in these trumpet judgments. And uh a tree, you know, a tree is really huge and tall, and that thing is sucking up water all the time, huge amounts of water by capillary action there. It's just an amazing thing And God's creation is amazing, but God is going to judge his creation, he's going to destroy his creation here at the time of the end. And then we have verse 8. And the second angel sounded. And as it were, a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea, and the third part of the sea became blood. And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died, and the third part of the ships were destroyed. So all we have these third parts, one-third is destroyed. And so we have this great mountain, this big meteorite or whatever it is, is cast into the sea, destroys the ships, destroys one-third of the creatures in the sea. Do you ever think about how amazing the creatures are in the sea? And people don't even know all the creatures that are in the sea yet. They go down there and they find way down the depths some new creatures all the time. And about one third of them are killed here with the second trumpet. And so, you know, our world is set apart from all the other planets and worlds that are out there in space. It's an amazing planet we have we live on. And you know, just think, if they found on the moon one leaf of grass, how amazing that would be. That would be super amazing. And we take it for granted here. And all of this creation we take for granted. But God is destroying it here. But we have this the water on the earth. You you look at all the other planets, they don't have they don't have running water. Some of them might have a little bit of ice But they don't have running water. But we've got running water. We've got life that God has given unto us. And God gave it to us, and God is taking it back somewhat here. And then verse 10, and the third angel sounded. And there fell a great star from heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, the fountains of waters. Called wormwood, and the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many men died of the waters because they were made bitter. And so here we have the fresh water has judgment upon it. And that's what's really something that we have fresh water here in our world. It's so amazing. Water. It's the staff of life. It's the thing that gives us life. And here it's God's judgment falls upon. It falls upon the fresh water. It becomes bitter, it becomes poisonous And people are killed as they drink of the water. What happened in Egypt back with the plagues of Moses? Well, there was the water became blood. And they couldn't drink of the water of the Nile or the water of the rivers. They had to dig down and get water other places. And that's what happens here, just like with Moses. And as they were literal plagues with Moses There are literal plagues here in the book of Revelation, I submit to you. And then verse 12 And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, the third part of the moon, of the stars Third part of them was darkened, and the day shone not, for the third part of it, and the night likewise. So here we have the fourth angel, sounds his trumpet. And darkness comes. Just like with Moses, darkness. And you know, we take so much for granted, the sun. And the light that we have. But it's darkened here. One-third of it's darkened. Now, exactly how that works out, it's hard to say, so far as I can see. God miraculously darkens one-third of it But he darkens one third of the sun, moon, and stars. And the day doesn't shine for the third part of it. Of course, that happens all the time up at the North Pole and the South Pole At certain times of the year, they have uh you know months and months of darkness darkness. But anyway, here we have they are darkened. And things that we just take for granted. God sends the rain, we're told in the scriptures, on the just and the unjust. He sends the sunshine on the just and the unjust. They don't appreciate it They take it for granted. Dear God sends his judgments upon those things. And you know it's so amazing. You know, there's all the different solar systems out there, and you can't even count the stars. But no place is set up like the earth that anybody has found, and we're just exactly the right distance from the sun, from our our son, to have just the right amount of uh heat and cold to support life. And so praise the Lord for that, but here he's putting his judgment upon those things. Then we go on, verse 13. And I beheld and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, UI, ooh I. That's in Greek. That's the Greek for woe ooh I ooh I ooh I to the inhabitors of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three a three angels which are yet to sound. And so we're told here that the last three trumpets are going to be even worse. And be even worse than the first four trumpets. And so God's judgment is falling upon the earth in concentrated form. We got one-third of the trees, all the green grass gone. One-third of the ocean is blood. One-third of the creatures in the ocean, one-third of the ships are gone We have one-third of the water is become poisonous, and one-third of the day is darkness Now our people that love to spiritualize everything, they'd say, oh, well can't you see by all those one-thirds how it's just spiritual and it's not really literal? Well, just because God uses the same number all the time doesn't mean it's not literal. And God uses seven a lot of times. God uses a lot of numbers all the time. And they they like to talk about that with the evolution. They say, oh, well, don't you see that man and the higher animals are similar to the animals down below, and so they must have come from each other. No, it's because God made them similar. He made them to be the same. Well anyway, we come here. Let's go back to Matthew chapter 24 now. Matthew chapter 24. Matthew chapter 24. Matthew chapter 24 and verse 14. And you know, the book of Revelation isn't the only place in the Bible that talks about prophecy. There's a lot of other passages in the Bible about prophecy, but the book of Revelation is the most concentrated and long passage about it But there are passages in Thessalonians, there are passages in Ezekiel, in Daniel, in Zechariah, and there are passages in the Gospels The Olivet Discourse here. And that's what we're going to look at here for a few minutes. And this is the Olivet Discourse, and this has some prophecy, the things that we're talking about somewhat. And verse 14, and this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. Well, there's another thing that had to be fulfilled before Christ comes back. And it's always been rather indefinite. When that's actually fulfilled, that the gospel has been preached to all nations, but we can say pretty confidently today that that has been fulfilled. That the gospel has been preached to every nation under the heaven. Now that doesn't mean it's been preached to every single person that's on the earth right now. And of course, in order to have that happen, you'd have to have it go out to everybody at exactly the same moment because people are coming and going all the time. But it says, for a witness to all nations, to all the different nations, and that has happened. Missionaries have gone out to the ends of the earth. And so that's fulfilled. And that's fulfilled for the time of the end. Then verse 15. When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet, Stand in the holy place, whoso readeth, let him understand. Then let them which be in Judea flee into the mountains, let him that is on the housetop come not down to take anything out of his house Neither let him which is in the field return back to take his clothes. And woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days. But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day. So, there's another thing with the prophecy of the end of the world. Now, there are foreshadowings of prophecy through history. Foreshadowings. You have the foreshadowing before. Some people call them types, but anyway, type probably has too much baggage with it. I like to call it foreshadowing. There's a foreshadowing of something, and then there's the actual thing happening. And uh there's foreshadowings of many things. And with this Jerusalem being compassed about and people fleeing to the hills. Well, a foreshadowing of that happened in 70 AD when Jerusalem was conquered by the Romans. And some people look at scripture and they say, oh, well, all of that was fulfilled back then And that's not for later. But if you look at the here, it's it's for things later as you look at the context. But anyway, there was a foreshadowing. And there was also a foreshadowing of this abomination of desolation in verse 15. You know, this abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, that's when the Antichrist puts his statue in the temple in Jerusalem. Now to begin with, there has to be a temple in Jerusalem for him to put it in. So that has to be done before this event can happen, but that event could happen during the tribulation period. during the beginning of the tribulation. So we still could have the rapture now without the temple being built yet, because the Jews are always talking about rebuilding the temple. And they will. And that's what we see right here. Whether before the tribulation or after the tribulation, we don't know. But anyway, we have the statue of the Antichrist stands in the temple. And there was a foreshadowing of that. Back in the Old Testament times with Antiochus Epiphanes, the ruler of Syria, he put his statue in the temple. And then there was another somewhat foreshadowing of that when Titus took Jerusalem in 70 A. D. , he sacrificed a pig in the temple. Although that wasn't something standing in the temple like with Antiochus. And but anyway, we're going to have that at the end Standing in the temple. And when people see the Antichrist statue standing in the temple, and we're all being prefer prepared for those edicts of the Antichrist, total government, total control. And we see that today. But anyway, when they see that statue, they're supposed to do what? They're supposed to flee for the hills and not look back, not take anything with them. And here we bring come to a little bit of Mother's Day here in prophecy. And we have verse 19. Woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days. And So, why would it be woe to somebody that's having babies having very young children? Well, because it's hard to have babies and very young children. It's hard and it's inconvenient. And it's especially hard and inconvenient when you're fleeing. And when you're going out into the wilderness, and that's the point today that people don't want to have children, people don't want to be mothers. Because it's hard and it's inconvenient. And back in the Bible times in the Old Testament, they used to offer the babies to Molech, to the God. And burn up the babies. Well, what do we do today? 4,000 a day in the United States. We offer up the babies to the God of convenience. And babies are inconvenient. They're hard. And nobody wants to have them today. Not very many. The birth rate is going down and down and down. We're not even to replacement level anymore. And it's giving us problems in our society. Social Security is going to run out of money in 2035, they tell us. Well, why is that? Because there's less and less children around. Less and less and less. And so, woe unto them that are with child. But it's always been a blessing to have those children. It's always been a blessing. to go through the trouble and expense, the difficulty, the inconvenience of having children. The Bible tells us, Blessed is the man that has his quiver full of them. Blessed. Blessed is the man that has his children like olive plants around his table. And it's a blessing, even though people don't want it today. Well, here's one time where it's not going to be too much of a blessing. When Jerusalem has the Antichrist there, and they people have to flee. Flee for the woods. And then verse 21, we see that it's not just talking about 70 AD. Verse 21, for then shall be great tribulation. Such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no nor ever shall be, and except those days shall be shortened There shall no flesh be saved, but for the elect's sake, those days shall be shortened And uh is definitely, seems to be clear, it's talking about the Great Tribulation, the seven years in the book of Revelation. For then shall be great tribulation. You could say, well, you know, the great tribulation they had in 70 AD when the J Romans came in was worse than ever, or ever was, or ever will be. I don't know that you could say that Is it uh I don't think so. Is but the Great Tribulation where one third of everything is destroyed, one third of everything is is burnt up That has never been. And it's the great tribulation. So then shall be great tribulation. And then we're told that except those days should be shortened. No flesh would be saved, but for the elect's sake, they are shortened. And we have the great comfort that God is going to take care of his own. With all these things coming down upon the earth, God is going to take care of his own, the elect. He's going to shorten those days for the elect's sake. And of course We know that all the Christians from before the tribulation, we believe that they're all going to be taken up in the pre-trib rapture before the tribulation. But There's going to be the Jewish nation will be saved. And that's what it's talking about here during the tribulation. And they flee off into the wilderness where they have a place prepared of God. We see later on in the book of Revelation. And there will be people saved during the revelation, during the book of Revelation, during the Grand Tribulation, during the tribulation period, I believe. They're going to see the hand of God and they're going to come to God. And those of the elect will not be destroyed, and the days will be shortened for them. And so God, He takes great care of His elect. You know, in the Bible it tells us Jesus said that I call you friends. Jesus said that he calls us friends. And that's a great thing that he calls us friends. But he told us why he calls us friends. And he said he calls us friends because he's telling us what he's doing and going to do. And in that sense, we are friends of His. And of course, He's a great friend of our, great sticks closer than a brother. But Jesus is not on our same level And people get that mistake and just because Jesus is our friend, just because he calls us friends, doesn't make him on our same level as the guy next door. He's not on our level, he's above our level. But he's also a great friend. He's our father. He's all these things. But he's told us what will happen. At the end of the world, and as a friend, he has told us all those things. And he's going to take care of us. We're not appointed unto wrath. He's going to take care of us all the way through. So praise the Lord for his care. Praise the Lord that he's listening to our prayers. That's a big thing you can see in that chapter 8 of Revelation. That they're offering up the prayers of the saints as God answers those prayers and puts all things Under his feet. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless these things to our hearts. And O Lord, we pray that we might have the comfort that comes from thy word, that we might uh rest and uh revealing of the end times and oh lord help us to see the importance of prayer in jesus name amen