Well, the hysteria over the Chinese flu is continuing and keeps on continuing. The uh thing is this COVID, coronavirus is just the latest version of the flu, as we said before. And uh, you know, we have Lysol package in our house, and you look on the Lysol that was bought before this ever came down and has right on the Lysol is good against coronavirus. And that's been around for a long time. And but uh they're hyping it up and they have ulterior motives in it And it just keeps on going and it's just the end of the world that people are getting the flu. Can you imagine people are getting the flu? And we have to just do great things to get rid of the flu But uh that was not before. And of course there's been worse flu's out there in the past. There was a Spanish flu that's been talked of back in 1918, was quite a bit worse than this it has been at all uh completely Well, I got a couple of praises this morning. Um my sister, uh she suffered a heart attack uh a couple weeks ago. And but praise the Lord, she came out of it uh with no real damage and so she's doing well and praise the Lord for that blessing. And then another praise is this coming Thursday, Lord willing, IRA will become a U. S. citizen They uh we have we went for the interview up in Philadelphia for her citizenship uh a week ago and And we got the scheduled oath taking this coming Thursday. Of course, according to this hysteria, she can't have anybody witness it though Not even me. And but but she has to go up and take the oath anyway. Okay, let's turn back in our Bibles to Revelation chapter 13. Revelation chapter 13. And we'll start reading with verse 10. Revelation chapter 13, starting reading with verse 10. We're continuing in our study of Revelation. We're a little over halfway through Revelation now. He that goeth into captivity shall go into captivity. He that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints. And I beheld another beast coming out of the earth. And he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon. And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him, and causeth the earth and them that dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast, saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast which had the wound by the sword and did live. And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed. And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand or in their foreheads. And that no man might buy or sell save he that had the mark or the name of the beast or the number of his name. Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man, and his number is 6306. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would bless as we study thy word this morning. Open it up to us. Help us to learn much from it. And O Lord, teach us of these things that will happen in the future. In Jesus' name. Amen. Once again, these are things that will happen in the future. And we have it all mapped out for us here in the book of Revelation. And these things are probably not too far off And we will see a little bit more of that later. So here we have in this chapter, we have the satanic trinity. Satan here is counterfeiting everything about God. And he's counterfeiting the Trinity. Three persons, and we got three persons here with Satan. And let's look at these. Starting with verse 1. Here we have John, he's giving us his visions. And he stood upon the sea, he saw a beast come out of the sea. Come out of the sea. Other places, the sea, the waters are peoples and nations and tongues, so the beast comes up out of the people of the world. And he has seven heads and ten horns. We've seen about that already in chapters before. That's the seven world kingdoms that have come through this earth and will come. We have Babylon and Greece and Persia, Rome, and as we said before, very possibly the British Empire and the United States uh is going on and then we have the beast as the seventh and we have the eighth the revived Roman Empire with the ten. The ten horns. And so there we have seven heads, the ten horns, the world kingdoms, the beast rides, and those world kingdoms come as a successor of all of those world kingdoms. And then we have verse 2. The beast is the scribed who comes up out of the sea. Of course, this beast is the Antichrist. We have Satan as the dragon, the first person of the Trinity, as satanic trinity. We have the second person, the beast, the Antichrist. And there's been a lot of discussion given as to who is the Antichrist, who will be the Antichrist, down through the church. Especially since the Reformation, a lot of people have said that the Antichrist is the Pope. But I don't go along with that. It seems like he's more of a political leader And he's a world leader, political leader that will come on the face of the earth. And so and then people have mentioned other people as possible antichrists. I remember people saying that maybe Obama was the Antichrist. to in the past. But anyway, uh the Antichrist might be out there right now. He might be one of the world leaders right now. I don't know. But he's described, he's like a leopard. Well, what is a leopard known for? Well, a leopard is known for being wily and sly and for trick being tricky. And so we have the leopard, and he's also known for being swift Swift and uh sly. That's how the Antichrist is. And then he's like a bear. His feet are like the feet of a bear. He's very powerful. And then he has the mouth as the mouth of a lion. The lion is ferocious and roars, and that's how the Antichrist will be. And I saw one of his heads, verse three, as it was wounded to death, and the deadly wound was healed. Well, it seems that the Antichrist here is wounded, that he dies, and he's raised from the dead. His deadly wound is healed. And so here we have the Antichrist counterfeiting Christ being raised from the dead as well. He counterfeits many things of Christ and of God, the Antichrist and Satan. And so his deadly wound is healed, and all the world wonders after the beast. And then verse 4. They see this guy that's raised from the dead. He has all this power, and he's so powerful. And they worship the beast and the dragon. They worship them. And who is like unto the beast? Who is able to make war with him? Then we go on to verse 5. And there was given unto him a mouth. He had a big mouth. He's going to have a big mouth. And he's going to speak great things. Great things and blasphemies. And he has power over the earth for how long? How long does he have power? Anybody tell me? Forty-two months, three and a half years. He's going to have power. And that's the last half of the seven-year tribulation period. So he has power during that period. And verse 5, the Antichrist, the beast, he opens his mouth in blasphemy against God Against his name, against his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven. And so here we have the beast, he's Satan incarnate here on this earth. Just like Christ was God incarnate on this earth, here we have the beast is Satan incarnate. And he's lifted up with great pride. He speaks great things. And he blasphemes God. And notice he blasphemes his name. So often in Scripture I've repeated this many times. The names are important. And God's name is important. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. All these things are important. And we can't be taking God's name in vain. We can't be going around saying, oh my God. No, that's not good. We have to be serious when we're using God's name. And then so he blasphemes God's name, and he blasphemes his tabernacle. His tabernacle, his temple. And during the last half of the tribulation period, there's the temple. There in Jerusalem, the temple is rebuilt during the tribulation period. That's the only thing that I see that has not happened yet. of the concrete events here before the Antichrist. The temple is rebuilt, and the temple could be rebuilt after the rapture during the tribulation period. But anyway, the Antichrist blasphemes the temple, and he blasphemes also those that dwell in heaven I find that sort of interesting there. He blasphemes those that are already in heaven. Now, those people that are already in heaven aren't threats to him on this earth. They're not, he's not dealing with them, but it seems like here he admits that there are people in heaven when he blasphemes those that are in heaven, the Christians. Then we go on. And it was given unto him. Notice there. It was given unto him. The Antichrist, Satan, and the false prophet coming up here, they have no power except the power that is given unto them from God. And God is in control of everything. And of course, that's the great mystery. Why would God give him power? Why would God allow these things? And that's, as I've said before, the mystery of iniquity. And God is going to finish this mystery of iniquity at the time of the end, here at the time of the revelation. And so it was given unto him, given unto him by God, to make war with the saints. Why would God let him make war with the saints and to overcome them? Well, according to God's plans, according to God's uh sovereignty According to God's sovereignty, he lets the Antichrist do this, make war with the saints, and he overcomes them. People are saved during the tribulation period. It seems like quite a few people are saved during the tribulation period. You have the 144,000 of Israel that are sealed, and then you also have other people that are saved during the tribulation period, and the Antichrist makes war against them. And remember the fifth seal back a few chapters back, the fifth seal judgment were martyrs under the altar, and the martyrs were crying, How long, O Lord, holy and true. Wilt thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? And it would seem that those were people that were killed recently As at least some of them, and they're looking to have their blood avenged on the people that are doing things right then. The Antichrist and the others So here we have he makes war with the saints and overcomes them. And the saints have been overcome many times during history. According to God's plan, according to God's providence, the saints have been overcome. But God is in control, and He's going to take care of us even if we are overcome. We will go to heaven to be with Him. And we will be fulfilling his plan. And then we have verse 8, and all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him whose names are not written in the book of life. And so you have the the, as always through history, you have the Christians and you have the people that are not Christians. The people that are not Christians are worshiping the beast. And the Christians are written in the Lamb's Book of Life from the foundation of the world. And then we left off in our responsive reading earlier. If any man have an ear, let him hear. That seems kind of redundant, but we saw that back with the messages to the seven churches, and that says it's important. These things are important. If any man have an ear, let him hear. Then verse 10. Verse 10 has just about the only positive thing in this whole chapter of the Satanic Trinity. He that leads into captivity shall go into captivity. He that kills with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints. And so the saints have the assurance that God is going to avenge their blood. Remember, so many times God has said, Vengeance is mine. says the Lord. And so the Antichrist can overcome the saints. He can kill the saints. He can put them into captivity. But he's going to go into captivity. He's going to go into captivity in hell. And the uh the people that persecute, they will be persecuted. It's the old story in a modern proverb. The modern proverb is what goes around comes around. Well, that's said in the Bible, uh we reap what we sow. And that's what's happening here. He that leads into captivity shall go into captivity. He that puts people into prison will be put into prison. And he that is killed with the sword was killing people with the sword, he will be killed with the sword. And so God is going to write everything, and that's what the whole book of Revelation is about: how God is setting things right. He's judging wickedness, judging evil. Well then we go on here to verse 11. And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth. Notice this beast comes out of the earth. This is the false prophet. So the Trinity here, here we have Satan the dragon, Antichrist the beast, and the other beast. The false prophet, the three of them. And so this false prophet comes up out of the earth. He doesn't come from heaven, he doesn't come from spiritual things, he comes from earthly things He comes from the earth. And he comes up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon. He's a wolf in sheep's clothing here, the false prophet. And he looks like a lamb in many ways. He has two horns like a lamb. He has some authority as a lamb. Back in Revelation a little earlier, we have Jesus the Lamb has seven horns, complete authority But here the false prophet, he has a little bit of authority. He has two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon. And then he goes on, verse 12, he exercises all the power of the first beast before him and causes the earth and them that dwell therein to worship the first beast. whose deadly wound was healed. And so here we have the the false prophet He is directing worship on the earth. And just like a prophet, a religious leader He's directing worship. He causes the earth and them that dwell therein to worship the beast. And he does great wonders. So that he makes fire to come down from heaven on earth in the sight of men, and he deceives them that dwell on earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast. Where do miracles come from? Well, miracles can come from two different places. Miracles can come from above, from God, and miracles can come from below, from Satan. And here we have the false prophet here doing great miracles. He even commands fire to come down from heaven, the false prophet does. I've heard in some churches, you know, uh they talk about, oh, in our church we have we're really powerful and we make fire to come down from heaven in our services. They like to use that phrase But you know that's a phrase of judgment in the Bible. That's a phrase of God's judgment falling like on Sodom and Gomorrah And here we have the false prophet having fire come down from heaven. And he does great wonders, and he deceives those that are on the earth. So miracles. Can come also from Satan. And I remember in the past, I remember hearing Oral Roberts say, I guess he was on TV, he was saying, believe me, because of the miracles. Well, should we believe the false prophet because of his miracles? No. Is that miracles don't necessarily come from God? You know, people can use God's name And do miracles and still have the miracles come from Satan. Satan appears as an angel of light, we're told in the Bible And so here it's very obvious that miracles can come from Satan, and he does great wonders, deceives those that dwell on the earth, the false prophets. We'll come back to this a little bit more later. Now we go down to verse 15. It talks about that he had power to give life unto the image of the beast. They made a big image to the beast. And life is given unto that image in some way. And they kill everybody that doesn't fall down and worship the image of the beast. In our call to worship this morning, we read that scripture from the Olivet Discourse And in the all of that discourse it talks about that when you see the abomination of desolation standing in the place that it shouldn't stand Well, then you should flee to the hills, flee to the wilderness. And that's talking to the Jews there. And it's talking about their temple. And it's talking about this image of the beast. It seems that that image of the beast will be put in the Jewish temple there in Jerusalem. And people will bow down to it, and that's when the Jews should flee into the wilderness, and they have a place prepared of God there in the wilderness where they're preserved through the rest of the tribulation period And so we have this image, this abomination of desolation. This abomination of desolation happened in the past, way in the past, back with Antiochus Epiphanes. Back in the Inter Testament period, between 400 BC and 0 A. D. , the Syrian ruler Antiochus, he put his image in the temple And that was a foreshadowing of the image of the Antichrist being put in the temple And so here we have, he deceives them that dwell on the earth. The false prophet does. We have his this big image, and it has life in some way. Uh I it seems like it's real life here. It's miraculous life. It's not just like a Disney World. You know, at Disney World you go there and you have all these You go to the hall of the presidents and all their statues are fidgeting around and it looks like they're alive. Well, it's not like that. This is some real life, it seems. And so then we go on to verse sixteen. And he causes all, both small and great. rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand or in their forehead. And it says that everybody's supposed to receive the mark of the beast. The mark of the beast. And then it gives all the different types of people. And you notice when the Bible gives the different types of people, it almost always talks about free and bond. Free and bond. Free people and slave people. You know, there were a lot of slaves in the time of the Bible in the New Testament. And in the Old Testament, there were a lot of slaves. Slavery was everywhere. And so he talks about that the people that are going to get the market of the beef are going to be not only the free people, but the slave people and everybody And today, with all these riots and all this cancel culture and all this BLM, well The thing is, they they want to tear down the statues of George Washington. They want to tear down the statues of all the people way back when who had slaves. Well, you know, back then it was everywhere. And you can't really judge them by our modern culture. I don't believe that slavery is really according to God's word, but there was a lot of it. And Christianity was not preaching uh a uh gospel of liberation theology, of of freeing all the slaves. But the slaves would be freed as the light of Christianity would shine around the world. But anyway Free and bond to receive a mark in their right hand or in their forehead. And today it's not so amazing to think about that. Today they have chips that they can implant in people. And today they they've talked about implanting chips in the people. to uh prevent crime. The excuse is to prevent crime, you know, prevent credit card fraud. And so we'll all have our chips and then we'll get rid of all the credit card fraud and all those things. Well, you know, these type of things are not very far away, the mark of the beast. When we were missionaries down in Brazil, they had a number that you had down there called the CPF number. And the thing is they had this number and it was like a social security number that you have here, except it was much more to it. And when you went to buy any kind of big thing or make any kind of big transaction at all, they wanted your CPF number. Even if you went out to buy a cell phone, you had to give them your CPF number And uh it was and we used to call it the mark of the beast down there that they had. Uh but of course the mark of the beast coming up will be a lot worse than that. I know there have been a lot of different uh ideas given for the mark of the beast. It says here in verse seventeen, that no man might buy or sell, but he that had the mark or the name of the beast or the number of his name And then it gives the the name, the the number of the beast is six sixty-six. Six sixty six. And there's been a lot of things given as possibilities for this. I remember when they first started putting barcodes on products at the grocery stores, people used to say, well You know, if you look at those barcodes, it actually stalls out six six six and that's what the that's the mark of the beast. Well, I don't believe that. But things are getting more and more and more computerized. The government can keep track of everything now. And we're coming quick on the mark of the beast. And of course there's always an excuse for putting in all kinds of government controls. And there's been excuses of crime, excuses of other things. Today it's the excuse of coronavirus for all kinds of controls. And today they want to uh I've heard talking about putting chips in people or having some sort of passport to to say that you're cleared from the virus, that you don't have any, that you've you've been cleared and uh have all this control. 666. Why the number 666? Well, it's short of seven Seven is the number of completeness. That's the number that God uses so often in the Bible. And six is just short. And so you got six, six, six. I remember when I was in college down in Florida, we had a guy working at the Gateway of the Stars there, and he had a big camper, and he had painted big letters across the side of his camper 777. Because he wanted to make sure that people knew that he was a Christian and he wasn't 666. But anyway, we come here to the mark of the beast, right here in Revelation chapter 13. And we're coming down to the mark of the beast. This week, just this past Wednesday, I received an email from Ron Paul. And I'm sure most of you have heard of Ron Paul. I get emails from him all the time. But anyway, just this past week, he was talking about basically the mark of the beasts was coming. And how we need to fight against it. And he here, just given a few excerpts from his letter just from this past week, is talking about a digital dollar. They want to put in a digital dollar today And they want to have total control. And of course, the excuse is we can get rid of crime that way. Yeah, we can have a digital dollar. And the Federal Reserve Bank is serious about creating digital dollars They're pulling together all the pieces to ultimately force you and me onto the digital dollar. That means that everything's online, digital. And the they have the digital dollar project, and they had hearings before both houses of Congress earlier this summer. on the digital dollar. Get rid of all the paper money. Get rid of anything that they can't track. And that's coming. They want to get it. And Biden has come out in favor of that. Of course he's come out in favor of a total lockdown, and he's come out in favor also of this digital dollar, getting rid of the paper money, getting rid of everything except for stuff online And uh, you know it's interesting with the liberals, they have their cake and they eat it too. They right now we have Trump in power. And he has left it up to the states to have lockdowns or not have locked downs. And so the Liberals they have their cake Because they can have lockdowns in the states that they control and the areas they control, and they can control it nice and well. They don't have the federal government interfering with them. But that Biden gets in, he'll just make lockdowns everywhere And they won't be up to the states anymore. And then the liberals have have their cake and eat it too as well So anyway, here we have talking about this. It says, this nightmare is coming at us full steam. The writing is everywhere of the digital dollar, and that'll be the mark of the beast. It'll be just like that. We're talking about the end of private financial transactions altogether, government goons knowing where every dollar you make and spend ends up. even determining what you can and cannot spend them on. And the tr and then they talk about this all this uh tracking that they want to do for the COVID. and they want to you know call you up and ask you about tracking the virus and they want to have total control. Well the truth is the statists have no intention of limiting this Orwellian technology to your finances So don't think of the this isn't the other side of the coin to Bill Gates' and Dr. Fosse's calls for digital immunity passports. And uh, you know, this is Orwellian technology coming in. Orwell, what are we talking about, Orwellian? Well, we're talking about the book 1984. And 1984 was a scary book. When I was in high school, I read that book, and I think I told you that before, but anyway I read it back um in the 70s and it was 1984 and I thought, oh boy, that's a long way away, 1984. And uh but anyway it was scary with the government totally controlling everything in 1984. Well, we have that total control can very well come very soon. The truth is the authoritarians and their elite pals want nothing less than a complete digital ledger of every citizen's entire life. You don't have to connect many dots to see it Of course, the sustained worldwide chaos over the last six months is all very convenient for these global elites. Very convenient. You know, it's very convenient for rioters to have masks on. Very convenient. And uh, you know, it's It used to be that they had signs on stores that you can't come in with your motorcycle helmets on and you can't come in so you can't see your face. And now everybody does that. Well, Democrat presidential nominee Joe Biden said, it's our chance to remake this COVID-19 stuff. It's our chance to remake the world as it should be. To see COVID-19 as the force that compels us to rewrite the social contract And so he sees this upheaval and all this hysteria about the flu as their great opportunity to redo everything. And that's how it's been all through history. When there's some hysteria, some big crisis, the big government comes in. We saw that especially back with Roosevelt Back Franklin Delano Roosevelt back with the Depression and World War II. He had the great opportunity back then through the Depression and World War II to remake things. And and bring the US well along on the road to socialism. And uh that's what they see. They see their great opportunity today with the hysteria of the flu. And in their eyes, as it should be, means a world where money and credit creation and job and business growth are all under total government central bank control. And that's what it is. And then he gives some examples here. He says, suppose you didn't say or post something they believe you should have. What do you think will happen to your digital dollars? You won't be able to use them. You won't be able to buy or sell without the mark of the beast. And then they put it, they personalize it here. It says, Kenneth, ultimately all of this is headed to a world where you and I and everyone else is enslaved to a few powerful elites or maybe the beast With the means to monitor what we do, say, think, have, or don't have in our bodies. And so You know, things are winding down. We're studying these things in Revelation. We're studying all these things that have seemed so far off. But it's so easy today to have total government control with all the computers. They can keep track of everything. Of course they were talking a while back that they were talking about putting chips in each each piece of paper money. to keep track of where they were going, but that was a little bit too complicated. So they're going to go to digital dollars, digital cons uh currency, and everything's going to be on the screen, everything we do, everything everywhere we go And it's quite a bit that way right now with our cell phones. They know where we go, they know what we do, and uh so it's not a far stretch to think about the things of the Antichrist Well, let's go back a little bit though for a second. We have back with the miracles. The uh the false prophet does miracles. Do you know we have false prophets out there today that are doing miracles? I talked about Oral Roberts a little bit ago, and a lot of people like him. When we were in Brazil, there were the prosperity preachers down there, and there still are. There's a lot of them here in the United States. And they preach that God, if you just use the name Christian and you believe in God, God has promised to make you prosperous. Give you all the money you want. God has promised to make you well and you will be healed. And they have their miraculous healings Well, did you notice here in uh Revelation chapter 13, we have a miraculous healing here by the devil? We have the beast. He seems to be dead, he has a deadly wound, and he's healed. Did you know that Satan can heal? Just about every false religion talks about how they have the power to heal. And down in Brazil, what's very prevalent down there is Spiritism. And they it's like voodoo. And they definitely claim that they have the power to heal. And you know, uh some Christians will say, well, you know, all those healings of the Charismatics have and all those healings that the voodoo have and all those are all false and they're just psychological and there's nothing to them. Well I won't say that. I will say that a lot of the healings are true. I would bet they are true. And they are done through the power of Satan. And the people don't have to be talking about Satan. They don't have to even know it's through the help power of Satan, but Satan is entering in there. And you know Satan can enter in when we empty our minds. And in these charismatic churches, I went to one one time And with an old Air Force friend of mine, and the people were all in the circle, and they were going, Alelu, Alelu, Alelu, Alelu. And they just kept on doing that until they would burst out into tongues. Into this ecstatic speech. And so what they're doing, they're emptying themselves out and letting spirits come in spirits not from God. And uh and so these spirits not from God, from Satan. Satan does do miracles. He has done miracles. Remember me The magicians in Egypt. The magicians in Egypt with Moses, they did miracles. They made the rod turn into a serpent. They were able to do miracles. And Satan can do miracles, and he can deceive people. And so we have false prophets out there in the world today. And what are these false prophets that are doing the miracles teaching? Well, they're teaching that God wants you healthy and wealthy. But also, they are teaching a false gospel without repentance. And they they just talk about how God has a wonderful plan for your life and God wants to give you all these things and make God live up to his promises, put God up against the wall and make him give his promises. And they forget about repentance. They forget about sin. They don't talk about sin. They don't talk about turning away from sin. It's just talking about all the good things that God can do for you. And of course, people trust in that. And when they trust in that, they're inoculated against the true gospel. They think they've already got the gospel. But they don't have the gospel. They have a gospel without the power thereof, the power of repentance to turn away from sin And so we need to cab discernment in the world around us today. We need to discern that Satan can do miracles We need to discern that Satan is working in this world right now to set up things for the Antichrist, set up the mark of the beast. And we need to do what we can to stop those things. There's a nice bumper sticker out here in the parking lot. I noticed as I was coming into church this morning, freedom isn't free. That's very true. And what does that mean? Well, we have to fight for freedom. Well, we have to go out and fight the Japanese and uh Germans in World War II or fight uh communists or whatever, but we also have to fight for freedom here in our country. Fight the encroachment upon freedom, the encroachments upon the Constitution And freedom isn't free. And so we need to try to fight the good fight. And of course we have the patience and faith of the saints. And what is that? That God's going to set things right He that goes that leads people into captivity will go into captivity. He that kills with the sword will be killed with the sword. And God will set things right at the time of the end. Let's bow in prayer, O Lord, we pray that thou bless these thoughts to our hearts. In Jesus' name, Amen.