Coming together in the world around us today. And we have all the attention is concentrated on Israel today. And we have enemies coming against Israel. And that's just what we have prophesied in the Bible. And we went through the book of Revelation here and the church. A few years ago, and that's exactly what you see in the book of Revelation. The enemy is coming against Israel the center being upon there in the world and the things of prophecy are coming together and we're coming to the time of the end. We have Israel as controlling the land today, which never happened for 2,000 years. And now it controls the land again. Well, let's turn back to 2 Kings and learn a little more about Israel. Of course, we have in Daniel chapter 9 and verse 27, we have the 70 weeks of Daniel. 70 weeks. And seventy weeks are determined upon God's people Israel. And we have God's history with Israel in the past. And there's one more week of Daniel 9. 27 to come, and that's the tribulation period. But anyway, here we have history of Israel here, of Judah. Getting to the time of the end, we've been looking at Josiah quite a bit. It's been a couple months since we looked at 2 Kings. We're still working our way through it. And we're getting to the end though. And here we have the last great revival of Israel The last great revival under Josiah. And it was like a death rally here just before the end. And so we have verse 24. We read these in the responsive reading, but let's look at them again. Daniel, I mean 2 Kings chapter 23 and verse 24. Moreover, the works workers with familiar spirits and the wizards and the images, the idols, and all the abominations that were that were spied in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem did Josiah put away that he might perform all the words of the law which were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of the Lord. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou bless in our study of thy word this morning. Open it up to us. And O Lord, forgive us of our sin, and O Lord, help us to be the Christians that thou would have us to be. We pray for Israel We pray that thou would preserve Israel, preserve the peace of Israel, and we thank thee that we can see prophecy coming together today. In Jesus' name. Amen. And so here we have Josiah. And remember about Josiah, there was a great revival, and that began with the finding of God's word. God's word was found. And we have that in verse 24, there at the end of the verse. That he might perform the words of the law which were written in the book which Helkiah the priest found in the house of the Lord. Remember They had gotten away from the Bible in Israel, and finally they were repairing in the temple, and they found the book of the law. Nobody knew the book of the law. Nobody used it back then. They did some things out of it, but they didn't really have the Bible. And so they found the Bible, and it brought about a great revival. Just like in the Reformation, Martin Luther found the Bible, the just shall live by faith, and there was a huge revival. And God used his word to bring a great revival here with Hilkida finding that book. You know, in that movie this morning the guy was talking about um uh he he praises the Lord for the revival of expository preaching today. I don't really see that. But maybe in some circles they have that. Of course, expository preaching is going back to God's Word and taking things out of it and going through it verse by verse. And so that's what we try to do here. And so they found the book of the law. And so after they found the book of the law, Josiah saw that many things were really wrong there in Israel. In Judah. And so he went like a whirlwind through the land. Remember, we saw it out before the search and destroyed, like in Vietnam. He went searching and destroying the sin all over the land. You know, Josiah's ministry there, Josiah's thing that he did was not very positive. He was negative to a great extent. He was rooting out and destroying sin. Negative. And that brought about a revival, and that was part of the revival. And so here we have right in this verse here, he got rid of those with familiar spirits and the wizards and the images and the idols. He got rid of all of that. And remember, we saw how he went around. If you go back in chapter 23, go back to verse 7, and he break down the houses of the sodomites. He wasn't giving sodomites equal rights. He was breaking down their houses. That's kind of negative, but he was doing what needed to be done. And then you go down to verse ten of chapter twenty-three, and he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnam, that no man might make his son or his daughter to pass through the fire to Molech. Well, back here they used to sacrifice children to the idols. And today people sacrifice their children to convenience. And we have abortion. But anyway, Josiah went through all the land trying to get rid of all the sin that he could see. And he was like a whirlwind. And we go down to verse 25. And like unto him was there no king before him that turned to the Lord with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his might. That's quite a statement. Then no king before Josiah served the Lord with all his heart like Josiah. And no king after him, because that doesn't say too much after him. There was nothing good after Josiah. But before him you have David, you have Hezekiah, you have other good kings, and none of them turn to the Lord with all their heart and with all their soul and all their might like Josiah did. And so, you know, here we have Josiah. He was keeping the first commandment of all. The first commandment of all is what To love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our might. And that's what Josiah did. And he did it better than anyone else did, any of the other kings did But then you go down to verse 26, notwithstanding. Nevertheless, notwithstanding. The Lord turned not from the fierceness of his great wrath, wherewith his anger was kindled against Judah. And so even after this huge revival with Josiah, a great revival, even after that, God still was going to destroy Judah. Because they had passed the point of no return. And we've looked at that before. And then it goes on here in the end of verse 26. Because of all the provocations that Manasseh had provoked him withal. And remember Manasseh, he did terrible sins in the sight of the Lord And it says here in the Bible that God would not forgive those sins of Judah. Even though Manasseh later on turned to the Lord, and he turned to the Lord at the end of his life Still, the point of no return had been passed. And so Josiah was there at a great revival. He turned to the Lord with all his heart. But still, God was going to destroy Judah for all the sins that they had committed. They had passed the point of getting rid of that judgment. Let me go on to verse 27. And the Lord said, I will remove Judah also out of my sight as I have removed Israel and will cast off this city Jerusalem, which I have chosen. And so here, God says that he was going to forsake Jerusalem. He was going to forsake Israel. But it wasn't forever. Because the Jews would come back to the promised land in the restoration with Ezra and Nehemiah. They would come back. But here it says some kind of blanket statement. I will cast them out of my sight. I will remove them. And God did remove them. God did cast them out of his sight for quite a while. But then they came back to the land after 400 years. I mean after 70 years. They came back. And the thing is, is it's the same today. Same today. The Jews have forsaken God. Netanyahu is not a Christian. He is a Jew, and he serves the Jewish religion. The people over there do that. They reject Christ. And they really don't like Christianity that much. They like their Jewish things. And they have rejected God's Messiah that He sent. And so God is not going to save them in that state, but God still is interested in Israel And God still has them as his chosen people, and he will bring them back later on. And that still holds true that God has given them the land of Israel. And God has said that he would bless those that bless Israel. Why is the United States blessed today? There's many good reasons. for our heritage and everything. But one big reason we're blessed today is we side with Israel, God's chosen people, even though they've forsaken him in that and that they have forsaken Christ But God is not done with the Jews forever. And he'll bring them back to himself. We're told at the time of the end there'll be the 144,000. And those will be all the Jews that are left, and all of them will be saved. All Israel will be saved at the end. So anyway, then we go on to verse 28. Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? Well, you know, we have Kings and Chronicles, two parallel accounts of the history of Israel and Judah. And the why do we have two accounts? Well, to show that this account is important and gives different details. Why are there four Gospels and not just one Gospel? to show different details and to show that the life of Christ is important. And so we have Kings and Chronicles. And so let's go back to Chronicles right now and see that we're just talking about right here. Are they not written in the book of the Chronicles? Let's go to 2 Chronicles chapter 35 Second Chronicles chapter thirty-five. Second Chronicles chapter thirty-five and verse fifteen Second Chronicles thirty five fifteen And they roasted the Passover with fire according to the ordinance. No, wait a second. Thirty-five oh that's thirteen. Fifteen. And the singers, the sons of Asaph, were in their place according to the commandment of David and Asaph and Hemon and Jeduthan, the king's seer, and the porters waited at every gate They might not depart from their service that their brethren, the Levites, prepared for them. So all the service of the Lord was prepared the same day to keep the Passover. and to offer burnt offerings upon the altar of the Lord according to the commandment of King Josiah. And the children of Israel that were present kept the Passover at that time and the feast of unleavened bread seven days. And there was no Passover like to that kept in Israel from the days of Samuel the prophet, neither did all the kings of Israel keep such a Passover as Josiah kept And the priests and the Levites and all Judah and Israel that were present and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah was this Passover kept. And so here we have this great Passover was kept. And it has superlative language here. It says it's the greatest Passover that was ever held in Israel. And that's going back all the way to Samuel, all the way through David, all the way through Solomon, through all the kings. They came along to hear the time of the end, and this was the greatest Passover. Why was it the greatest Passover? Because they turned their hearts to the Lord and they got rid of the sin in the land. And they had their worship service there. You notice these familiar word names here We have Jedhan and Hemon and Asaph. Where do you see those names? You see those names in the Psalms. And they're the ones that made up some of the psalms. And they were keeping the worship of God with their psalms, which was the hymn book of the Jews, the Psalm book. And of course we sing out of the Psalm book here every Sunday. But anyway, that was the hymn book of the Jews. And they were there keeping the worship of the Lord, and they prepared their hearts for the Passover, and they kept it. better than anybody else for hundreds and hundreds of years. Well, you see here the Passover. They kept the Passover at that time, verse 17, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days. Well, at the Passover they had a Passover Sabbath. The first day of Passover, of the Feast of Unleavened Bread with the Passover was a Sabbath day, and that's the Sabbath day where they needed to take Jesus down off the cross before that Sabbath day. That wasn't the weekly Sabbath, that was the Passover Sabbath And Jesus was crucified on Wednesday, I believe, to have three days and three nights that he was in the grave. So then we go on here. Verse 20. Verse 20. After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Neko, king of Egypt, came up to fight against Carchemish. By Euphrates and Josiah went out against him. But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, What have I to do with thee, thou king of Judah? I come not against thee this day, but against the house wherewith I have war. For God commanded me to make haste Forbear thee from meddling with God, who is with me, that he destroy thee not. Nevertheless, Josiah would not turn his face from him, but disguised himself that he might fight with him, and hearkened not unto the words of Neko from the mouth of God, and came to fight in the valley of Megiddo. So here we have this account of the death of Josiah. And it's really kind of a puzzling account here. Is we have God speaking here through the mouth of Pharaoh. And we can see that it really was God speaking because it says in the inspired account here That's what was so great about scripture history. Scripture history, we don't have to wonder about if something's true or something's false. We got the inspired account of exactly what the situation was And it says there in verse 22, it says, the words of Mecco, Pharaoh, from the mouth of God. And so God had given a message to Josiah from Pharaoh to let Pharaoh pass through on his way to make war with Assyria. Now at this time, those were the two big empires in the known world of that time. We had Assyria and then we had Egypt. And so Egypt decided that they needed to take action against Assyria. Assyria was too powerful and threatening to Egypt. And Egypt decided that they were going to take their army all the way up to Assyria and fight the Assyrians. And so they were on their way up there, going through the land of Israel. And of course that's one reason that Israel is so crucial in history, is Israel's right at the crossroads. Between the great civilizations. You had the Fertile Crescent over there with Assyria and Babylon, and you had Egypt And of course you can go today to Egypt and see the great monuments and the pyramids and all that. But anyway, they had those two great civilizations, and between them, because of the deserts and everything The pass between the two went through Israel. And it went through Israel through the pass of Megiddo. Going through a pass. Now why would a pass and why would that valley be important in warfare? Well in warfare if you have a smaller army, Josiah had a smaller army, you want to fight the bigger army in a restricted space where your smaller army can have more uh effect and the bigger army can't really bring all their troops to bear. And you remember the famous story of Thermopylae. in Greek history, where the Greeks were fighting the per Persians, the 300 Spartans of Thermopylae. And there's movies about that, and it's a thing in history. And you know the big Persian army was coming into Greece, and Greece was trying to stop them, and they ended up getting these 300 Spartans in the pass there, in the narrow space there. And they were able to fight off the huge Persian army for quite a while until they were finally overcome. But they bought time, just like the Alamo bought time for Texas But anyway, here we have this past, this valley of Megiddo. And so Josiah decides that he's going to go out and oppose Pharaoh's army at Megiddo. And of course, that's another thing with prophecy. What's the great battle at the time of the end, where Christ comes back and destroys the Antichrist? We see that at Megiddo. It's right there. Armageddon. Armageddon is the valley of Megiddo Armageddon is right in this spot. And this is the spot where Josiah gets killed. And so, but the thing is. Why did Josiah go out against Pharaoh? That's a big question. Why in the world did he do that? You know, Josiah was such a great king, and he was such a godly king, but it seems he made one mistake, one fatal mistake And why in the world he wanted to do that, it's really hard to figure out. I guess he figured that Egypt was a greater threat than Assyria, even though Assyria had just carried away the northern kingdom. of Samaria. But anyway, he must have thought Egypt was a great threat, and so he was going to go out there and try to oppose them. And, you know, that was a really a long shot to believe that he could stop the big Egyptian army. But he decided he'd try there in the Valley of Megiddo. I don't know, maybe Josiah had an alliance there with the Assyrians, or I don't know what. But anyway, he decided that he'd go out and fight, and it was a fatal decision. And God warned him Through Pharaoh. It says from the mouth of God, God warned him not to do it, but still Josiah wanted to do it, go out to battle with his army. And so they were defeated. They were defeated. We have verse 23. Verse 23. And the archers shot at King Josiah, and the king said to his servants, Have me away, for I am sore wounded His servants therefore took him out of that chariot and put him in the second chariot that he had, and they brought him to Jerusalem. And he died. And was buried in one of the sepulchres of his fathers, and all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah. So Josiah, he got hit by the archers. That was a big weapon back in those days. That was their weapon of choice for distance And so the bows and arrows, the archers, they shot, and they managed to hit King Josiah. And he was mortally wounded. They took him back to Jerusalem. He died when he got back to Jerusalem. And he was buried in one of the sepulchres of his fathers. And always I point out here back in Kings. That it's always a very important thing to be buried. And to be buried with your fathers. It's an important thing. Joseph wanted his bones sent back to Israel. Jacob wanted his bones sent back to Israel. And they were sent back hundreds of years later. And that's something that's important in Scripture. And I think it's important for us today as well. And then so here we have Josiah is killed. And you know, this is a great turning point in Israel. is after this point, it's nothing but down, down, down to the captivity. Here was the high point, the death rally. And Josiah is killed, and things turn for the worse for the death of Josiah. You know, we see that at different times in history. When somebody dies, things go down from there. I think of in the history of France. In the history of France, there was Henry IV. Henry IV, he was a great king of France, and he had been a Protestant. And he decided to become a nominal Catholic to get the throne of France And so in God's providence, he did that, but he was always very favorable to the Protestants. And he was the one that gave the Edict of Nantes Which was religious toleration in France, religious freedom. So he gave the decree for religious freedom, Henry IV did. And he did great things there. He was a great king of France. But he was assassinated. One day he was in his carriage, and a guy climbed up in there and stabbed him to death. Well, anyway, the history went down and down from there in France. And finally, religious freedom was gotten rid of, the Huguenots were cast out of France. And things went to pot after Henry IV died and they went down from there. Remember back to the Civil War. To the Civil War. What about Jackson? When Jackson was killed, things went down from there. You can tell the progress there. Well, what happened here in Israel? When Josiah was killed, things went down. Then verse 25, and Jeremiah lamented for Josiah, and all the singing men and singing women. spake of Josiah in their lamentations to this day, and made them an ordinance in Israel, and behold they are written in the lamentations. Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and his goodness, according to that which was written in the law of the Lord, and his deeds first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. Well, here we have none other than Jeremiah. Jeremiah is lamenting for Josiah. He is on the scene here. And Jeremiah mourns the passing of Josiah. We have back there in verse 24, Jerusalem and all Judah mourned for Josiah. Didn't they know he was going to heaven? How come they didn't have a celebration of his life? Well, that's what we have today. We have celebration of life instead of mourning. Well, that's not what they have here. And why do they mourn? I mean, we can remember the things of his life, and that's part of the mourning, but they mourn because he's gone, because they're going to miss him. They're going to miss him terribly. And their mourning is passing. And it's okay to mourn. Mourning is something that's good in the Bible. And we're mourning the fact that that person is missing from us, that they're gone. And so here, Jeremiah mourns for Josiah. Judah and Israel mourn for him. They have it written in the lamentations for Josiah. Well, don't they know he's going to heaven? I'm sure he's going to heaven. But the thing is, they're mourning the missing of him here on this earth. And so they mourned. And it's interesting here in verse 26. It says the rest of the acts of Josiah and his goodness. It points out his goodness Josiah was a very good king. And of course Josiah was a human being just like us. He was not perfect. He made that one fatal mistake, I believe, there at the end, it seems But he was good, very good, his goodness, according to that which was written in the law. How do you measure that he was good? Because he kept the law of the Lord. There and written in the law of the Lord Well, then it goes back here, verse 27, that his deeds are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. And that's going back to the books of 1 and 2 Kings, here from 2 Chronicles. Well now let's turn our Bibles to Isaiah chapter 57, and we have a couple verses that really apply to Josiah here. Isaiah chapter 57 and verse 1. Isaiah chapter 57 and verse 1 Of course, this was written before the time of Josiah, but I believe it was pretty much just for Josiah and for others like him. It says, Isaiah 57, 1. The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart. And merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil to come. He shall enter into peace. They shall rest in their beds, each one walking in his uprightness. So this is interesting here. It says that there's a good reason why the good die young. You know, that's the old saying, isn't it? The good die young. And that happens sometimes. The good die young, and that why is it that the righteous perish? Why is it that Josiah perished? Why Well, it tells you right here, he was taken away from the evil to come. Josiah would not see the fall of Judah and Jerusalem. He would not see it. He would not see things going down. And so God spared him from that and took him away He would not we should consider that the righteous has taken away from the evil to come. What about with Jackson back in the Civil War? Well, he was taken away so he wouldn't see the evil's coming upon the Confederacy and the going down from that point. And so it's all together in God's providence, with Josiah going out to fight, with Jackson going out to scout the lines in the front of his troops in the middle of the night. Well, it's all in the providence of God. And here we have the righteous perish, and no man layeth it to heart. Layeth it to heart You know, that's the big thing with funerals, is I believe that that's what we want to see done at a funeral. A funeral needs to make people stop and think and lay it to heart that they're going to die one of these days. And, you know, people just want to ignore death. They go about their business. And they want to make the funerals out today to be very sterile. And we have memorial services and celebrations of life and we don't have any bodies anymore, quite often. Well, they don't want people to lay it to heart. They want to smooth it all over so people don't really lay it to heart. That death has come. That our our friend right there is his body is still is there. And I knew him walking around. And we need to lay it to heart that that's going to happen to us one of these days. Well, the righteous perishes, and no man lays it to heart I remember thinking about this verse, of course, there's another verse in the Bible. It said, nothing to you that pass by. I remember there in Philadelphia, they have the Highway 611 up in Philadelphia. I still remember the number, but anyway, it goes by a church up there in Abington. And it has a graveyard right by the church. And right, this is a four-lane highway, but there's a stoplight right there. You stop at the stoplight. And you look over, and there is the grave of William Tennant from the uh Great Awakening. One of the great preachers of the Great Awakening is grave is right there at the stoplight up there in Pennsylvania. And said nothing to those that pass by that here this great man is buried there Well, no man layeth it to heart that the righteous perishes, and he's taken away from the evil to come. Well, then it's interesting here. What kind of people does it say are righteous here that are taken away early from the evil to come? What does it give us the one adjective about them? The one adjective is they are merciful. Merciful. And merciful men are taken away. What does it mean to be merciful? Merciful is not giving some someone something that they deserve. Giving them better than what they deserve. They deserve worse, but giving better. God doesn't give us what we deserve. We get better, better than we deserve. And the righteous man here on this earth does that in his dealings with people from day to day. He gives people better than what they deserve. Merciful men are taken away. Well, then we go on here down to verse 2. He shall enter into peace. We have the things with heaven here. When we go to heaven, we're in peace. No more wars, no more crying, no more things like that. They enter into peace. The world doesn't have peace But we get peace with the Lord here on this earth. We can have that, and we can have it in heaven for sure. He shall enter into peace. They shall rest in their beds. What do you get at the end of a work week? Well, at the end of a work week, you get rest and you get pay. And what do we get when we go to heaven at the end of our lives? Well, here they shall rest in their beds. We'll get rest And each one will be walking in his uprightness. He'll have the rewards from his uprightness, his rewards in heaven. And so here we have Josiah. Josiah was a great example, a great example, and he was worthy of being mourned. He was a great example, an example of somebody who served the Lord with his whole heart and his whole soul and his whole body. And that's what we're supposed to be doing. As we come to communion next week, let's examine ourselves whether we're serving the Lord with our whole heart. And one test of if we're serving the Lord with our whole heart is if the things of the Lord are the most important things in our life, with our whole heart and mind and soul and body. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just thank Thee for thy goodness to us. We thank Thee for the example of Josiah. We thank Thee of His example serving the Lord with his whole heart. And O Lord, help us to do that in Jesus' name. Amen.