Luke ah but he had no bulletins Romans that's my fault. Don't blame Bob when he comes. Luke chapter two Chapter two I've taken the liberty of moving out of the Psalms for these two Sundays as we've entered into December, into this time of the Advent season Luke 2, follow along. I'm going to be reading the first twenty verses here. And it came to pass in those days that there went forth that that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Carinius was governor of Syria And all went to be taxed, everyone to his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea. unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was that while they were there the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger. because there was no room for them in the inn. And there were in that same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord showed round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. He shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger, and suddenly There were with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us let us now go even into Bethlehem, and see this thing which was come to pass. which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste, and found Mary and Joseph And the babe lying in the manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told him by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them. Praise to our God for his word, infallible, holy, and inerrant. Let's pray. Father, you've brought us here this day. You've prepared uh your word in order that it might feed our souls. We pray that that which is the word of man be set aside, but that the word of God will have preeminence, that we might receive it as it is the word of God. That your servant be hidden and Christ be honored in all that is said and done. For it's in his name we pray. Amen. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow was born in 1807, died in 1882. He was an American educator, but probably, at least for most of us, well known at least as a poet. Some of his familiar works, uh Paul Revere's Ride, uh, The Song of Hiawatha, The Courtship of Miles Standish And I only know those because those are the ones I had to read in school. I mean those were part of the regular reading. But the Christmas bells was one that became a little more well known as it was put to music in time past. and became known as I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day. His popularity in life was frequented by a number of struggles that befell him and his family In 1835, it was the death of his first wife, Mary Potter, following a miscarriage. As time went on, he married again, and in 1861 his second wife, Frances, died. She was sealing envelopes with hot wax, and it caught her clothing on fire. And by the time he came in to put the fire out, it was too late and she had been burned too bad. She died the next day He was so badly burned himself that he couldn't even attend the funeral the next day. It was kind of at this point, it was uh uh turn of events in uh Longfellow's life, uh struggles continued, his face had been apparently burned, if you see Photographs of uh Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, you see him with a a big full beard, and that was to cover up and out of the scars and the things that were on his face, but it couldn't cover up the problems within his heart Mentally he shrank into depression. But one of his deepest struggles occurred when his oldest son, Charlie, joined the army. This was the time of the Civil War. He ran off without his father's permission, nor with his father's knowledge, enlisted in the first Massachusetts Artillery Apparently they made him an officer, a lieutenant, because they knew his father had money. And their assumption was that if we make him an officer, money will be coming our way. Interesting how people thought in those days Eight months later, Charlie was severely wounded in battle with a bullet and sent home. His father nursed him back to health, but Charlie never returned to the battlefield. It was that December, Christmas of 1863, with the terrible Civil War in hand, and the surroundings of his struggles of his family, that Henry Wadsworth Longefellow writes this poem. And thought how on this day had come, the belfries of old Christendom had rolled along the unbroken song of peace on earth, goodwill to men. Till ringing, singing, on its way, the world revolved From night to day, A voice, a chime, A chant sublime, Of peace on earth, good will to men Then from each black accursed mouth the cannon thundered in the south, and with the sound the carols drowned Of peace on earth good will to men It was as if an earthquake rent the hearthstones of the continent and made for long the households born of peace on earth good will to men. And in despair I bowed my head. There is no peace on earth, I said, for hate is strong and mocks the song of peace on earth, good will to men Could have been written for today, couldn't it? You know? Situation isn't much changed. When they changed this to a hymn, they left out the two verses that were in there. uh speaking more specifically about the struggles of the war, the cannons and the divisions that occurred within the country. But I think we think of the day in which we live uh the Christmas bells ringing, the joyous singing, and the words could surely fit in, you know, there is no peace on earth. You know, the hate has become so strong, no peace to be found. There is no peace. You know, over the past hundred years, on average, thirty-three wars existed in each year Not always major wars, but uh wars that were significant, that lives were lost and uh families were destroyed There is no peace right here in our own country. Riots in the streets, there's not a day that we don't go up and turn on the radio or turn on the TV and there's Now to talk about another shooting, some other child being killed, or another fire here, or some other tragedy that has wrapped our communities of varying degrees And it's not a matter of having enough police or even guns in our own homes. It's a matter of of the heart as torn apart. And all too often there's no peace in our homes. Fightings between husbands and wives, and between children and parents. US divorce rate is one of the highest in the world. Seven hundred and fifty thousand divorces in the United States each year. On average, nearly twenty people per minute are physically abused by what today they call the intimate partner. You could have in days gone by say dick by spouse, but today we refer to it as an intimate partner in the United States. During one year that equates to 10 million men and women physically assaulted. Presence of a gun in a domestic violence situation increases the risk of a homicide by 500%. 500%. 2. 7 million children are beaten, injured, murdered, or seriously neglected each year in the US. National Runaway Safeline reports that between one point six million and two point eight million youth run away each year. There is no peace on earth. The hate is strong. It mocks the song. It mocks the principles of what we think of as peace. Were the angels wrong that Christmas night? They announced to the shepherds, peace on earth. Was it a trick? Were they kind of, you know, delusional? Was it just a scam? Or was it all a made-up story? But what the words of the prophet Isaiah, chapter 9, and verse 6. For unto us a child is born, to us a son is given, government shall be upon his shoulders, and he will be called wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father The Prince of Peace. The Sar Shalom. The Saur Shalom. It's the only place in the English Bible where you find this word translated, the Prince of Peace. Uh in Hebrew, the Sarah was a reference to somebody in charge. Could be in any context of what you'd find. uh somebody who would be a director, a commander, a prince, or a king. And shalom, as you know, is a word for peace. And more so as it more specifically talks about, it becomes the end of fighting. In other words, at the conclusion of the Civil War, there was a peace, and it was the end of fighting But could also mean together, living together without conflict, living in peace with each other. So whether we call Jesus the Prince of Peace or the King of Peace or the Commander of Peace or the Ruler, he is a matter in charge of peace. But we still haven't answered the question, why is there no peace? Why is there a constant conflict? I I saw somebody uh A uh daughter of a cousin of mine put something on Facebook and this she was really applauding this and This fellow says, we're at the stage in evolution where where everything should be equated, that nobody should be be starving, and that war is obsolete and so forth. And I'm I'm scratching ahead, although I know the person and I know her husband and I know the thinking that's behind them. You know. That's that's how it's it it's thought about She thinks if we can just be educated and brought to a place where where all will be just peaceful and kind and everybody will be taking care of themselves. And I said, ah, you know, where's the heart thinking on that? If Jesus is the King of peace, why is there no peace? I've got up here three indiv invisible boxes. You can see them all? Just pretend. There are three gifts, and we want to open them up today. Gifts that I think will, I trust will be important to us as we understand Jesus as our King of Peace The first is He is the matter of peace with God. Think about this. This is the first and most important gift: that God is our peace as long as he is our God. The relationship that we have vertically, that he is my peace, as long as he is my God. As hard as it is for a vast majority of our world's population to accept, we're born into this world as enemies of God. People don't think that. They can just dismiss it because they have their own ideas and understanding of who God is, but it's the truth because we are all children of Adam. The sin of our first father Adam passed on to all humanity, inherited, as it were, from one generation to another, to another, to another, to another, and it continues Looking at photographs of earlier generations of my family, I see that my heights, they come from my father's side, all the way back from England and Scotland, and that bore down through us. Whether I wanted it or not, that's the way it is. The color and texture of my hair and my eye color from my mother's side going all the way back to the the the b the Bavarian section of Germany Brought down from generation to generation, I can see the likenesses and the features that are there. Whether I want it or not, it is part of my inheritance. You go to a new doctor today and they hand you a stack of papers like that, filling out this form and this one and and eventually they come down, you know, asking whether it'll come down to say uh list all of the diseases and and and such and such of your ancestors, you know, how many places you can go back. They wanna they want to see some trends They want to see the the DNA possibilities if there's cancer along here or if there's uh uh uh uh m some other you know delete it's it's come down to you and it's potentially part of you and we check it off, we check it off, we check it off and And it works with them. How did each one die? Cancer, diabetes, high blood pressure in the family, history of this disease or this illness because of the genetic links But the link that we have with our first father, Adam, doesn't take a blood test. It doesn't take a physical exam. It doesn't take any types of scans or whatever It's in us because we see from the moment we're born, brought into this world, we see the rebellious nature of mankind and we see it amongst all of us. And that's one thing the daughter of my cousin doesn't see We can't be educated out of it because it's born within us. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. In that we are all sinners, we are by our very nature enemies of God, and if we are his enemies, there is no peace with God, and that's not a good thing. You know? I don't want to be an enemy of God. I don't want to be at his fist when it comes time for showing who is in charge of life. I prefer to be at peace with God. But as we open this first gift, we see the value of the words of the Apostle Paul in Romans 5. 1. Ah, there's where Romans came out. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. What just took place? We were enemies of God from the moment of our conception and brought into this world as enemies of God. We remain enemies of God, and all of a sudden Paul comes along and says, we have peace with God. Wow. Brought to a place of understanding, he says we are justified, which means that God declares us just and right It's in his sight that he freely gives the righteousness of Jesus Christ and he imputes it to me. He gives it to me. He puts it on my account. He says, You are a sinner. There's nothing inherently good about you. You are an enemy of me. But I have the ability as the judge of all the earth to take the righteousness of my son Jesus Christ and to gift it to you. So as I look upon you, I don't see you, I see my son, Jesus Christ, and his righteousness. Paul says here that it doesn't come by works or tradition or baptism, church membership, or Christian parents or living a good life. It comes by faith. And that too was given by God. May 28th of this year, Eric Riddick walked out of the Philadelphia Criminal Justice Center as a free man. He spent almost thirty years in prison accused of a murder that he didn't commit. And he admitted it, uh, that it was a troubling charge. um murder that had been committed in 1992. And upon his release his lawyer called for the governor to grant Riddick a full pardon With further evidence in the case that showed that Reddick was actually innocent. And there are a lot of cases like that today. There are a lot of cases like that today. But when you examine mankind as a whole, without exception, we can truly say the eternal justice shows us that we have never been innocent. That there were no bogus charges, no abuse in the legal system, for we are all completely guilty of all charges. No hope! Man that puts a blanket over everything. Even Brother Riddick, released from his earthly confinement, but finds himself guilty by the judge of all eternity. Except for this one judge looking down and declaring not a mistrial or throwing the case out But judicio judiciously, legally declaring justified. Because the second Adam Not our natural Father, but the second Adam, Jesus Christ, paid the penalty. And the judge looks upon it and he says, this is just. This is right. When I see myself as a guilty sinner and by faith receive the payment made by Jesus Christ for my sake, I am united with him. His righteousness upon me, the bank account that I had that was spiritually empty, it had no righteousness, all of a sudden finds itself Full to overflowing with the righteousness of Christ, and that was sufficient for the Father to be able to look upon me and say, You are free. So you see, if we want peace to rule in our lives, God must rule in our lives. And if God does not rule in our lives, there never will be any kind of peace. Never kind of any satisfaction. He has to rule in our life. Second box. Move that one over and we open up this one. We open this morning it is a gift of peace with yourself. You know, when we see the world's troubles And we see all of the things that are going on and in and oftentimes it's just the constant influx of of stuff that goes in the ear gate and the eye gate and and we're just befuddled about all of the things that my heart becomes and the blood pressure goes up and all of a sudden we said, Yaaaa! You know, I'm just kind of at wit's end. There isn't no peace within my own heart We worry about everything, and we have no peace in our souls. We just tossed up. If you're quick on the trigger, Philippians chapter 4, just two verses. Philippians 4 verses 6 and 7. Paul says, be careful for nothing. Careful is kind of an unusual word. Don't be anxious. He says, set anxiety aside. Anything that you could be anxious about. And anxiety is exactly the opposite of peace. That which troubles the soul. He says, don't be anxious for anything, but in everything In everything, every situation that you find yourself in, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. In other words, I take those anxieties and I pick them up and I move them over and I said, Lord, I'm putting these at your feet. They're yours. It doesn't mean that they're not going to be of effect to me, but I can do nothing about them and am trusting you with them. And for those of you who saw our little presentation with Hudson Taylor His life was full of trials and struggles, and yet he only found release when he says, Lord. You have to do it. Whether it was the the finances that were gone or the death of of missionaries or his own family. Situations that he couldn't touch. And only when he surrendered them to the Lord did it ever happen. Roll your anxieties upon God. And then what happens, verse seven? That takes place, the peace of God, which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. When all of the trials and struggles of life just pound and pound upon us, see Lord These are yours. I leave them to you, and I'm going to trust in you for the accomplishment of your will in my life. And when that takes place, he says, God's peace Which passes all understanding. It doesn't make any sense. Why do you people come to this place Sunday mornings? What do you carry around that book that you look at? You called the Bible. Why do you spend time on your knees in prayer? Why do you talk about this or that? It's not going to affect anything. That the world doesn't understand. They're not beating the doors down to get, you know, we're on our way coming up ninety-five and I said these people must be late for church, you know? The only reason they're driving so crazy, you know. But you know what? They weren't going to church. They have no comprehension. And their anxieties have still twisted them and controlling them. And they'll be visiting the doctor on Monday to increase their their pills for this or that or whatever, see their psychologists or psychiatrists, and it just goes round and round and round and round. And so he presents to us this: that the peace of God, which passes all understanding, does it make sense? And our hearts and our minds are kept through Christ Jesus. Listen to Jesus' own words to his disciples. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Why? Because he says, I'm in charge. His peace. Did you ever see Christ frustrated? A little pinched when they were selling uh the market people when they're selling uh uh i i in the temple, you know. He did throw a couple tables out of the way and pull out, you know, a little bit of of righteous anger there. But I never saw him frustrated at any situation, from birth till till death and resurrection. All under the Father's control And he says, he says, indeed, he says, let not your hearts be troubled. Don't let them be afraid, because I've given you my peace. It's sure there are times when we're very comforted and when things are going well with that. Boy, praise God for that, you know Put that on a little smiley face on my post, you know. Oh, that's good stuff, you know. But then all of a sudden you don't see anything and there's nothing there. And that's because my heart's troubled. Paul's words to the Colossians. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts To the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Let it rule. Let peace be the defining factor in life. Let peace, because I've trusted in him, lead my life. You've redeemed me, therefore you look upon me with favor. Therefore I need not to be afraid. And it rules in my heart. Couldn't we say that Longfellow's struggles, the tragic death of two wives, the almost losing his son in war, and then the war that was raging on, yet he felt no peace in his soul? Again his words, in despair, you know, ah, I bowed my head. There is no peace on earth, I said, for hate is strong and mocks the song of peace on earth, good will to men. Interesting though that it didn't end there. His final stanza says, Then peel the bells more loud and deep. God is not dead, nor doth he sleep. The wrong shall fail, the right prevail. With peace on earth, good will to men. From what I read, uh believe that he was a Christian. That he went through trials, he went through depression, he suffered tremendously. And he witnessed what was tearing the country apart. We we look at wars in other countries, but I can't imagine how it was living in in the mid-1800s, uh, you know, during the Civil War time, the families torn apart. And yet he comes to this conclusion, God's not dead. He's not sleeping, he's not on a journey, he's not on vacation. Wrong shall fail, right will prevail. And and and I take this eternally, you know. We're always going to have these struggles, but I believe that he found peace in Christ with that. Our third gift that we open today is that we would find peace with others. We begin by having peace with God because of the salvation that He's giving me through Jesus Christ. And then we grow spiritually and we have peace in our own hearts because he cares for me. But finally we need to learn to have peace with others. Romans twelve eighteen If it be possible, as much as lieth within you, live peaceably with all men. Good suggestion, isn't it? You know? Good suggestion. Kind, powerful thought. If it be possible, as much as lies within you, it's in your court, it's your opportunity. Live peaceably with all men. From here on, at family gatherings, at office parties, and various occasions being cut off on the highway by that big tractor trailer All the way through 2021 and for the rest of our days, repeat that verse. If it be possible, as much as lieth within you, live peaceably with all men. Living at peace begins as I remember how Christ forgave me. Because there is no peace if I don't recognize the relationship that I have with Him Paul says in Ephesians four, let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor evil speaking, be put away from you with all malice, and be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath also forgiven you Yeah. Hudson Taylor's example there when his servant had taken all of the possessions and and you know apparently prepared them for sale uh because of his opium addiction. And uh Taylor says, I'm I'm gonna kill him And then he was smitten by the Spirit of God, and he says, You can't. You must forgive him. Why? He says, you have to, because God has forgiven you. It becomes the the the the starting point of life. I can look back and see a a certain time, 9 30 in the morning at at Sister's Hospital up in Buffalo, New York, that I was shot out into the world. That wasn't the beginning of of the struggles of life that I had, but they continued. And yet life really began on on I'll say November. November, December, somewhere in there of uh nineteen seventy-three, seventy-four, seventy no, seventy-five Maybe 75. That's where the beginning of it was. When all of a sudden life began anew, and everything started from that point on, because I had been forgiven My whole understanding of life, my whole adjustment in relationship horizontally with everybody else, and especially because it was made possible the vertical with God That forgiveness was the key. And all of these things, bitterness and wrath, and anger and clamor and malice and all this other stuff, is substituted, he says, in their place tenderhearted, forgiving one another because God has forgiven us. Do this in the presence of joy Richness in relationships and God's sweet peace will fill our souls. And there are times we need to stop and pause and have that done again, you know. It doesn't mean that once I've conquered it, that I I don't deal with it, but it raises its ugly head once in a while, and I have to go back and say, Lord, you are rich with my heart One final thought about the world in which we live. When will peace come? When will there be an ending of fightings and wars and conflicts and struggles, the stealing and the hated hatred and the violence and the murders and so forth Well, it will end when the King of Peace returns. He's already working at that. He's already in the works to rule in the individual hearts of mankind or at his second coming. For every knee will bow, every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It comes either way, either by personally me surrendering to him and saying, You are the Lord of my life, that I want peace with you, I have that, or will come one day that the entire world's population from the beginning of time all the way up until that very moment will bow before him and cry unto him that he is God and he is Lord to the glory of God. He is coming back soon. Allow, permit, and welcome his peace that it would first rule in your hearts Then peal the bells more loud and deep. God is not dead, nor doth he sleep. The wrong shall fail, the right prevail, with peace on earth, good will to men. Let's pray Thank you, Father, for um again the ability to witness the lives of those who have gone on before us. uh the testimonies of Christians and in others within a few hundred years even of our own lifetime, but especially the men and women of Scripture We have the uh the perfect accounts of their lives from Genesis through Revelation. We walk with them uh we fall with them, uh we rejoice in victories and we sorrow in uh failures with them. We thank you for letters that have been preserved for our fullness and for our understanding. And that as we read them, your Spirit brings there to our hearts' attention that that they make sense to us that if we do these things, uh you will bless, that you will bring peace, that you will bring a joy that the world doesn't understand, that you will make things right. And if we don't do them, we have no peace with you, within my own heart with our fellow man. And there is nothing but heart struggles throughout our days. Uh thank you, Father, for providing these things for us, and and they are impossible for us to do, except your Spirit work into us and make it right. that we uh again, Lord, uh ask that you'll be kind, uh you'll be long-suffering, that you will be gentle. and continue to show your love to us that we might more fully understand these things in that relationship. Thank you again for this time of the year. Thank you that it does awaken a certain spirit of people, uh this Christmas season, certain random acts of kindness, um, but may our kind acts continue well beyond this time of the year. Bless we pray for Christ's sake. Amen.