We good? Uh yeah, that's good and I can see now. Okay, that's a good thing there. Okay, so um Well, this seems familiar. Oh yeah, I was just here a little minute a few minutes ago. Okay, that's good. That's a good thing. Now I'm going to ask if you open your Bibles to Romans chapter 1. that you may follow along. And um We're going to be looking here in Romans chapter 1. And now if I remember correctly, I've every time I've come here, I've done Romans. Just take one verse from Romans. So that means I did here. We're going to look in verse number 21. So I think this is my twenty-first Sunday here with you. I believe something very very similar to that anyway. So I thought we might take this verse apart. Uh Romans chapter one verse twenty one and um of course it you want to get The instruction of the Holy Spirit, not me. I'll only mess the thing up. But if we can have the Spirit of God be our true teacher, it'll be a blessing for all of us. So why don't we pray for this first? And then we'll take a few minutes and look at these 26 words. So let's pray together. Our Father, we want to give you thanks again today. Here we are in a New Testament church. That believes in your word, that believes in the inerrant, infallible, inspired word of God. And what a blessing this is, because we as we look across the landscape, fewer and fewer churches are holding up the inspired and errant infallible word It's becoming mixed with ideas and philosophies and opinions of men. And Lord, we don't want this today. We want your word. And Father, the only thing I, Donald Britton, will do with this is to confuse it. Please get me out of the way and in some mystical way that the Spirit of God will be our true teacher. And the truths that are given, which are given properly, we pray that you'll drive it home to the hearts of our people, so that at the end of our service. We can honestly, genuinely say it was good to have been here. I'm happy I made the effort to get up and to eat breakfast and get dressed and get over here to the church They you will conclude that it was well worth the effort and the time So guide us, Lord. Help us. And then perhaps someone here has a specific issue, a particular personal problem they haven't told anybody, but they're struggling within themselves about an issue Could it be that the words given here today will address it and will give comfort and and understanding and direction? So our Father, we're asking for you to do a variety of things here today. And we ask all and we ask it in our optimism and hope. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for being with us today. And we now pray this. And again, we think we preach for Lisa today, Lord. Again we bring her to you and ask that you will give the doctors wisdom and diagnosis and treatment so that she will be back home soon, healthy and being busy in the church and enjoying her family. Bless her life, Lord. We pray through Christ our Lord. Amen. Okay, so now we're going to be looking here into Romans chapter 1 and verse 21. And you know, with these verses I use, I preach here and I preach in two other churches. And so I I'm thinking, did I preach this already here? Am I repeating myself? But I think I think I'm doing good. I don't think I don't think I've I've shared this with you yet. Romans chapter one verse twenty-one and it declares Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Here we have twenty-six inspired words here from the Holy Spirit and pray that we can accurately understand it and make a make a practical application which can be helpful to us. Now what I'd like to do is break this down to about three or four different phrases, break it down to small loader groups, analyze it, and then put them all together, and it will help us for understanding. So here's the way I go through it. I broke it up this way. I took the phrase The first six words, because that when they knew God. And then what's that all? Now what if somebody, what if we asked you to come up here now? And I I just go like this. Okay, not knowing anybody, I just go, uh, you. So who's that? Oh, it's my wife, I better do this. And ask you to come up here and expound on this for ten minutes, this freeze, if you're going to talk on this freeze, because that when they knew God What do you what what do you think you would pull out of this? What do you what do what do you see there? So I'm going to share with you what I see and um hopefully we can come together in our thinking here. The first thing I do is I look at the word they. Who's they? The text said because when they knew God. All right, understand that. Who's it talking about? Who is the day? Well, if you go back to verse 18, we discover who the day is. It's the ungodly and the unrighteousness. You see there in verse eighteen. And so what about them verse nineteen? Um And in verse 20, notice this, verse 20 says that they are without excuse. These people are without excuse. So we're going to be talking about them. So when they knew God, now let's take the phrase new God. What's that all about? This is important to understand this text. As I understand this, they did not know God like you and I do through a faith Faith in Jesus. They knew about God. I think that would be a more accurate understanding of that phrase. When they knew about God, when they knew the concept of God is what is trying to get across here, I believe, as we put the whole verse together It's not that these people were not atheists. Did they? And it's going down now to verse 21 talking about the same group, they They're not atheists. They believe in God. But it's not as we do through the Lord Jesus Christ. As I understand it, you correct me if I'm If I'm not accurate on this, but follow this too and see if this does not follow the flow of the text. So we're saying then on this first phrase, because that when they knew God Again, whose day? Those in verse 18. They knew God, meaning they knew of God. Okay, let's take the first next phrase. They glorified him not as God. So this God that they knew in their head, they didn't give them any glory. Now, think for a moment. What do people do with God? What does the average person or when you come to worship in a church, what do you do with God? You praise him. Don't we? We come together, we sing hymns, we give testimonies, and you know, one of the greatest things we did years ago in in our church back in Pennsylvania Um we had, I don't know why we stopped doing this. We did this for for the longest time. We had a a a praise and prayer service. So we just didn't have uh, you know, it was a time when you didn't have the sermon But we would just sing hymns and then someone would get up and give a testimony. And then sing another hymn, someone would get up and give a testimony. Sing another hymn. I might expound on a verse for you know five, ten minutes or whatever, but it really makes for a beautiful service For the whole day you're praising God. And it's a wonderful thing. And um so that's what you do with God. That's what a church should be doing with God, giving him praise and giving him honor. Um you don't want people to get the praise and honor, and really you don't want the pastor. Sometimes the pastor gets wrongly praised. Oh water pastor, blah blah blah blah. Did you know the pastor is just a frail person, he gets up here and and tries to keep everybody organized and present God's word. But no, the church is where God gets the glory. And so and you know when Spurgeon talking about this verse Romans 121. He calls this the ingratitude of benefactors. Meaning he's talking about that we we receive so much from God. We have blessings, we have health, we have faith, and all the things that we have But it says but he calls it the ingratitude of benefactors. All people who receive much from God but don't have gratitude. And they're and so he labels this verse of the ingratitude of the benefactors. 1 Thessalonians 5. 18. Now this is a memory verse. You should have this down. Do you know it? So if I ask you to recite 1 Thessalonians 5. 18 Could you do that? Would you I'm not going to embarrass anybody and ask you to do it. But because now there are certain verses we should know. You know, this they have great central themes to them. And this would be one I would suggest if you've never committed this to memory, do this And make that a habit in your life. Commit scripture to memory. And years ago, where did this happen in my own life? Years ago. Um where did I anyway, I was at a meeting and the guy stood up and recited like a the a chapter of the Bible. I thought, man, this this is really good. And he said he got up again later and did another chapter. And that inspired me. Listen that guy, you know, I'm thinking, if that guy can memorize chapters of the Bible. Why why can't I? Why shouldn't I? And so I began to make this a thing in my life to memorize scripture. And um and believe me, if I can memorize scripture anybody here can do it And what I found to be helpful was simply you get like a three by five card and just carry it carry it aro around with a Bible verse in it and then If I'm driving and to stop at a red light, get that card out, look at it, read it, think about it, and go over it and over, and eventually, believe it or not, it'll stay in your head. Then do the next verse. So uh let me just think. Not showing off here, just trying to tell you that if somebody like me can do it, you can do it. So I'm thinking one of the things I learned was Psalm thirty-four. So it goes, I will bless the Lord at all times, his praise shall continually be in my mouth, my soul shall make the boasting of the Lord, the humble shall hear here, and be glad Magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord He heard me and delivered me out of all my fears. They looked at Him and were light and their faces were not ashamed and go on and on and on. The point is the only point I'm trying to make is you can do that. If I can do it, you can do it. And it's a blessing To have not just a verse, but to have large chunks of scripture in your head. Can really be a blessing. And it's also a good mental exercise Uh because my wife is accusing me of having uh what's the word we use? Uh brain fog. She's probably right. I think I do have a little bit. But you know, memorizing scripture, that's a good way to keeping your your brain sharp Memorize the word of God. When you find a verse that really speaks to you, write it down and go over it and go over it. Because think about it. If that's not going in your head, what is? Some worldly idea, some worldly song, some negative thought. So put scripture in your head. Let that be going over going through your head here. So I cited all this to talk I'm getting off trick track here Talking about 1 Thessalonians 5. 18 says, Give thanks in all things, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Isn't that beautiful? Now that verse has come to my aid many times. Especially when something happens and I'm not happy about it. And that that verse comes to my mind. Give thanks in good things? No, give thanks in all things. Give thank because this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Do you know what God's will is for your life? If I were to ask you what's God's will for your life? I'm not sure. Well here's one area. Give thanks. Be a grateful, thankful person. for the blessings and for what God is doing in your life. Let us learn to be thankful, complain less, and express gratitude here. And so we find here, looking here in our text, the phrase in our text, they glorify him not as God. So these people, they in verse 18 have uh numerous things going on. One is which they did not give glory to God. And uh they would not seek God. Now you know that's that's humanism. The philosophy of humanism It's a philosophy which simply takes God out of the picture. It acknowledges all forms of life except for God. Don't mention God, don't think of God, God's not in the picture. And if you adopt this philosophy, you're practicing humanism. And by the way, humanism is very popular in our college campuses and things such as this. And we're looking here. These people here glorify him not as God. They would not seek after God. They will not go after him. And you know what that reminds me of? Now here's a my does anybody have this memorized Probably not, because it's not a verse that you would probably do it. I'm thinking of Luke 19, 14. Luke 19, 14. And the people in view said this. We will not have this man to reign over us. It's a response to Christ. And the leader of the crowd says, We will not have this man to reign over us. We don't want him. That's the attitude of what's here in this. They glorify him not as God. Such an attitude will bring about and it will attract and develop Three issues in your life which are not good. It will attract, shall I say, detrimental forces in your life to have such an idea, to have such a mind as I want God not in my mind, glorifying him not as God. Here are the three enemies that come upon us with such an attitude. Number one, the Bible tells us one of our enemies is what? The world. Can anyone here recite to me first John 2. 15? Love not this is powerful. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Isn't that something? Now, key is though, if I'm out there, I'm raising my hand. Don, what do you mean by the word world? That's a great question. What's that talking about? Because in scripture the word world is the word cosmos And it has different meanings. Sometimes it means the physical globe that we're standing on. Many times it means people on the globe. And many times it means just a small segment of the people that are on the globe. So you really have to define the word world. But here the word world means the organized, systematized ways of the ungodly. That's the world. You know, you you hear statements about this person's w he's worldly. Uh she's worldly or whatever. And so, you know, we we we behave like the world. And yet scripture tells us 1 John 2. 15, for the believer. Love not the world. And you know for me, in my earlier life, that was hard for me because I had a natural attraction to be in the world. You know, having been involved in athletics and and all the things that comes with that, a lot of sin comes with that by the way, in some areas. And so you have a desire to be like everybody else and be gays and all that stuff, and yet all the while scripture said, Don't be part of the world. And because I knew that, I I you know pulled back from things I would have gotten in trouble with. Love not the world. And maybe somebody here now is thinking about flirting with the world. And you have to be on guard because every time you flip on your television or your computer, you're getting a message probably from the world, unless you're very selective. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. So really check that out. Check your heart, check out your mind. Now, that's one of the problems we see here The next one, the second enemy that we all have that we have to deal with is the flesh. That comes from the word sarks in in your Greek text. The words the word flesh and it and and literally it means this my skin my body but it it but it's used as uh an emblem of Again, distancing myself from God, pleasing myself and not as opposed to pleasing the Lord. Now, what does the Bible tell you about the flesh? Galatians 5. 17. The flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. These two are contrary one to another, so that you cannot do the things that you would. So you have this battle. This represents my spirit, Don Britton and the Holy Spirit, and this represents my flesh. My flesh wants to do evil, wants to do wrong. I've got this battle all the time. If I am filled with the Holy Spirit and following the Lord, this represented here, I'm dominating the flesh. But no doubt, I'm sure we've all had this from time to time, the flesh raises its ugly head and dominates the spirit. And that's when we get into sin, we get in trouble and all kinds of things, and then You wrestle for all those griefs and eventually you come to your senses, confess your sin, get right back the way it should be. But you're all that's part of the spiritual battle. You have the battle with your flesh, we have the battle with the world, we have the battle with our own flesh And that's what you find here in Galatians 5. 17. But then there's another battle that we have here, and of course, that is, as you all know, the devil. That's another battle that we have as a Christian. Satan himself. And just looking the other day, Galatians chapter 3, verse 1, here's a tempted e and Eve's tempted to eat the fruit, and here comes along Satan. What? You can eat that fruit? Are you telling me God would make this fruit and y you can't eat it? Come on, you can have I could just see him in a very persuasive way. Well what did what did Satan look like? I don't know what he looked like before the curse. Who knows what it but it must have been attractive because people were attracted to it. But anyway you can see him just Telling Eve, come on, eat, here's this fruit. What do you mean God said you can't have this fruit? Were you crazy? Here it is, enjoy it. But that's what we have to learn how to resist as well, the devil. So our enemy is the world, the flesh, and the devil And we have to you know have to learn how to deal with those things. Moving on with this with this verse here. So we have looked at what? Because that when they knew God. These certain people were talking, they glorified him not as God. Now here's the third thing it says about it. Neither were thankful Now meditate on that for a minute. What what's the big deal about this? They're not thankful. And I thought, well why why is that written in scripture? I mean they could say, well, you know they shouldn't commit adultery, or they shouldn't steal, or they shouldn't kill, but it says they're not thankful. And I'm thinking I'm wondering you know what this is about. But think about it Let's talk about gratitude for a moment. Gratitude is the foundation of thankfulness. Are you grateful for the things that you have? To have a grateful spirit. The fact that we can get up out of bed every day. Isn't that a wonder and you feel good and you can stand up and you can walk and you have a nice home to go home to and you have a night we'll probably have a nice meal after after this service here and Uh look at this lovely room. I mean and learn to be grateful for these things. We tend to take them for granted, especially Americans. We have everything At our disposal here. But it's a wonderful thing to be grateful, giving thanks. I already gave you that verse, First Thessalonians 5, 18. But this is the indictment against these people in verse 18 And it's bring bringing it up again in verse 21. And one of the problems against it, they were not faith. They were not thankful. The fourth thing we see about this, they became vain in their imagination Meaning their vein and their thinking. Their thinking was flawed. They were like putty in the hands of the devil. Being used of the devil himself. James 5:7 says what? Resist the devil and he'll flee. Did you know that verse, by the way? So if I were to ask you today, having a test today And I taught in the Bible college for a number of years, and we give a test. Okay, start the class off. Okay, class, take out a piece of paper, and here's question number one. Recite or write down James 5. 7. And then I start writing down, you know. But what a great exercise that was. Learn scripture. Write it down. Memorize it. James chapter 5, verse 7. Resist the devil, and he'll flee. So there are times we go through trials and temptations and we we cave to it and get into it, but the scriptures say, resist. And as you want to resist, resist the devil and what? They'll say, you know what? Not no sense working with Don Britton. He's not gonna give in. Go bother somebody else. Resist and maybe somebody here today, you got a problem today, your thought life or a relationship issue or something going on and it's not right? Remember this. Resist the devil And he will flee. And then you'll be able to go on and do that which is which is right. became vain, that the people became vain in their imagination, again their thought life. Now here's a little not a poem, but a little thought. Think this through. A thought, your thought left we're talking about, a thought becomes an action. An action becomes a habit. A habit becomes a way of life, and a way of life becomes a destiny. Think of that little subtle progression. That's why the Bible says, guard your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. You've got to guard your heart. Why? Let me say it to you again. You entertain a thought. Not that it just goes in your head and out, but you know, you're entertaining, you're thinking about it and developing it. A thought becomes an action. An action becomes a habit. A habit becomes a way of life. And a way of life becomes a destiny, all because of a thought that was not guarded. So you need to guard your thinking. Guard this kind of thing. And that's and what we we see here in this text, they became vain in their imagination, their thinking was not protected. And then we go on to the next phrase, and it says, their foolish heart was darkened. What's that all about? Again, these people who are straying from God, here's another indictment against them, their foolish heart was darkened. Darkness in our mind brings with it confusion, vulnerability, and disorientation. Darkness Notice what scripture says about darkness. Look that up in your concordance. Darkness. And it's always associated with some kind of problem, some kind of trial. The devil, the kingdom of the devil When I say darkness, I this experience comes back on my own mind, which dramatizes the danger of darkness. Now you can be in darkness not physically, but you can be in spiritual darkness. So I was like about ten years old, ten, twelve years old. My father took us to An amusement park in New Jersey. To this day I don't remember the name of that park but so w why go there. I think it was my it could have been my dad, me, and my good friend Magnus. So we he gets out of the car, we run through the amusement park, and we came to a fun house. You know what that is? Everybody know what a fun house is. You know what I'm talking about? It's like if you you're wondering this thing's like a big dark room but it's it's like um narrow hallways and then and then mechanical monsters jump out at you. You know and that's supposed to scare you. That's the fun house. I haven't been to one of these and you probably maybe don't even do it anymore. I don't know. But um so anyway and then it's all the whole idea it's dark. And these little mechanical things have jumped out. There's a light on them, but otherwise it's all dark. So I'm walking through this thing and you know creature. So I come to a room which is slanted So the idea is you you enter the room and you have to walk to the exit, but it's difficult because it's on a slant, so it's hard to walk. So I actually had to get down on my hands and knees and sort of crawl to get to the exit I finally get to the exit, I'm ready to walk out of that room into the next thing that they had. And three boys walk the other de other way facing and they're going the wrong way. You have to go there's only one way. But they're walking one and they stop me to leaving the room. And one and I try to walk around them, try to ignore them, but they wouldn't let me walk around them. And and so I think I think I'm in trouble here. And the guy says, Do you have any money? I said, no. Now you know when you go to an amusement park, you you buy hot dogs, you do this, and you accumulate change in your pocket. And so you have like a bag of change in your pocket. And the guy taps my pocket. He says, You've got money, give it to us. I said, no, I'm not going to give it to you. So another one of the other kids pulls out a knife and points it at me. He said, now give us that money. So I'm reaching into my pocket and I said, jokingly, I said, you know what, okay, I'm going to give you a quarter. I don't know I know I know what to say or what to do. But as I'm reaching into my pocket One of those kids asked me a question, and with that question, they ran out the door. What do you think that question might be? What kind of question could they ask me? And I would respond, and they and they just ran away. But here was a question. One of the kids said, Is your father waiting for you outside? To which I quickly said, yes. And with that they just turned around and ran through the rest of the fun house. And at first I go Man, I'm glad that's uh but then I realized I've got to walk through the rest of that front house and they could jump out at you now 'cause the whole thing is designed for that kind of thing. Obviously it never happened. And I can remember As I walked into the next room, there's a little bit of light, like daylight, at a certain spot. I just walked toward that daylight and you know got out of there. But the whole point is this darkness. In darkness, things occur that ought not to occur. It's a dangerous time in darkness. And what does this tell us here? Our text tells us the foolish heart, these particular people who they have in most is the sinner. It's the unsaved world whom is is in view here Their foolish heart was darkened. A darkened heart leads to man and humanity to man. It leads to wars, it leads to divorce, it leads to sickness, it leads to all kind of chaos. Fortunately, the things we see in this verse do not necessarily have to affect us because we've been saved out of the world. We've been saved and we're and we're the Lord's. By God's grace, He called us out of this mess. So the mess that you read about in Romans 121 is not necessarily your problem. This is a statement about the unsaved world, but they are people with whom we have to rub shoulders with every day And it can help to give us insight to the people to whom we witness, the people to whom we're going to uh to live and have to uh to to uh get along with. But by God's grace he called us out of this into his marvelous light. And therefore he delivers us from the awesome power of sin through the through salvation and through the Lord Jesus Christ he delivers us from this. Now that's the end of this verse. I probably have a few minutes left so I want to add some I want to give you an addendum So good preaching does what? It takes the text and focuses on the text, doesn't go everywhere, stays on that text and drives the point home of the text. So we've we've covered pretty much every thought in that text in verse number 21. Now I want to make some of an application. Uh or may may I say uh make an appeal at this time. Here we're looking at those who are unsaved and the mess that they have to go through, generally speaking. Okay I would like to take this situation and use it to encourage you and encourage me to I should but how should I say this? Be more aggressive or more involved in our evangelism. Because this is the these people we're describing here is the unsaved. These are the people who you're going to talk to and rub shoulders with every day That being the case, I want to encourage you as a body of believers to be engaged in evangelism. And maybe I should be saying, be more engaged in evangelism than what you presently are. So I just want to you just use that in order to meet the world in which we live that we just discussed at this time right now So I would like to ask you just a few questions. Um what you know I said earlier today something that is helpful to me and I already lost it somewhere it's around here, that that track, the track, am I going to heaven? That can help you to Reach out to the people who are lost. It's a good way of doing it. Share the gospel with them. But let me ask you another thing here. If you were in in conversation with someone, I'm sure this happened to all of you You're in conversation, and what you really want to do, the Spirit of God speaks to you to share the gospel with that person. But you don't know how to do it. You don't know what to say. You're afraid to say it. You're fearful that he's going to ask you a question you can't answer. So what happens? You probably don't say anything. You may just pray for the person, which is good, but not really verbally talking to them about the Lord. And so I just want to just say um how do I say this properly? Um if any of you may be interested in and talking about witnessing, how to witness, what to say, how to say it. I would be I would be happy to Come here on a Saturday afternoon or sometime and teach you how to do this. We've done this many times. And how can I approach someone to to uh naturally get into a conversation about the gospel and then to actually lead someone to Christ If the Spirit, now you're following the Spirit of God. It's nothing I make up of myself. The Spirit of God is involved. And there to share the Christ, share the gospel in such a way that the person will come to Christ. And I could share that with you. It would take about five or six, seven weeks to do it and to do it right and take you out in the nearby area and do it. knock on doors, perhaps, or meet somebody in the street and share Christ with them. And you know what? If you do this for a particular period of time, you know what you're gonna find? Occasionally you'll start to see a new person show up and uh you know, may join, become part of the church perhaps, or you may you may never see him again until he'll come once. May he may come uh you know, two weeks later. Um and so that's what I just want to encourage you. Get involved in a plan of how to get the gospel out to people. I'll just give you a little preview of the uh just something to think about. Um a good way of getting into a conversation with someone about the gospel is simply saying Um have you ever thought hi hi Bob. I'm I'm talking to Bob. I'm in a conversation. Bob, could I ask you a question? Yeah, what's that? Do you ever think about this? If if you were to die, if you'd have die today, do you know if he'd go to heaven Just just ask them that question. Now you get many most people will say, you know what, I really don't know. I hope so, I think so, but I don't know. Sometimes you get someone who will say, I don't want to talk, you know, he'll get offended and walk away. If he does, okay, then he does. But many times you'll get into a conversation and that person will say something like, Well I don't know, but I hope so. And when you get that conversation, you can back with them and say, well look, can I share with you, John, can I share with you how I came to know I have eternal life and you can have it too And usually people will say, okay, alright. Then simply get in your testimony. And that's something else we could talk about. How do you give a testimony? Do you know how to give a testimony? If you're going to stand up And give your personal testimony, do you know what you would say, how to say it in such a way that it leads to the gospel? That's some of the things we you know you could talk about and help you in your evangelism. And then uh I'll just finish this up quickly. So if you go through all this, present the gospel to maybe ten minutes, fifteen minutes, maybe ten, twenty minutes according to his questions. Then simply ask him at this point, John, would you like to receive Christ as your Savior? Having explained the gospel John, would you like to receive Christ as your Savior? Give him an opportunity to say yes, no, whatever But you know what's gonna happen. Usually by this time if the Spirit of God has really touched this person, you'll start to see tears coming down their eyes. John Would you like to receive Christ into your life? And John says, if the Spirit of God has touched him, he'll say, Yes, I would. And then you give him the final question. John, would you like to receive Christ now? And he'll say many times they'll say, Yes, I would if they're under conviction, they'll say, Yeah, yes I would. And just grab his hand and and pray with him. Pray for John that he will truly receive Christ, be born again, have the gift of eternal you're praying for him to receive Christ. And after that, you say, now John, I just like to uh just say if what you said is true, you truly believe these things, according to God's holy word, you're born again. You're a child of God and you have heaven as your home. And at that point, I'd like to give him a booklet. And you know I was looking today, I wanted to bring this booklet to show it to you. I couldn't find the booklet, but it's a little little discipleship booklet. And I give to a new believer. And it just simply asks questions. Little questions like uh You know, uh do you belong to a church? You write down yes. Uh have you heard the gospel? Blah blah blah. And it's a little church a little booklet that has maybe three chapters to it. And so he'd give it here John since you received Christ I think you'd like this book with. It'll help you to understand the gospel, understand what you just did, and understand things in God's Word. And he'd give it to John John, I have an idea. Why don't you take this book, go through the first chapter, and Saturday, why don't we read for breakfast? And I'll go over these questions with you and answer any questions you may have. And you know and that works out really it's worked out well for me. Each guy really has to get his own way. That works good for me, and I get suggested to you if you want to do follow-up discipleship work. Meet with that person that makes a profession of faith in Christ and then get with them on a regular basis and go over scripture. Do things together. And then here's the last thing, and I'll conclude with this. As it's more of like a discipleship approach, invite them to church. That's a good thorough discipleship procedure. Pray with them. Give them let it go over the word of God together. And then bring them to church. And you know, hopefully be able to do that with regularity. And that's how your church will begin to multiply a little bit and grow a little bit, and you're reaching out to people. Because there are a lot of people that are out there. They are lonely. They don't know what to do with themselves. They're wondering what the m meaning of life is and all of this. And they see time going by and they're not really advancing like they would like. And then you come And enter their life, share the gospel with them, they receive Christ, they begin to grow, they become a disciple, they become engaged in the church, and that's how these things happen. But how does that all start out? By you being bold to share the gospel with someone, giving them a track, answering a question. And you'd be amazed how and I know I think I'm quite sure I've said this to you before, but The very best friend I have to this day was someone I did that with many years ago. And in fact we just heard from his wife. Think he did her from his wife I guess a week or so ago. We stay in touch all these years. But you see people you talk to about Christ and they receive the Lord, you've got a lifetime friend. And they will be faithful, loyal friends, and that they grow in the faith and knowledge of Christ. So we looked in in Romans chapter 1, verse 21, the the mess that the unsaved world is going through And then you pop up in their life with the Word of God, with optimism and hope and sharing the gospel, and take them out of that darkness and place them upon the solid rock of the Lord Jesus Christ. and make a life transforming difference in their life. That's what you have. Wouldn't it be wonderful if you come to church every Sunday, let's say after a period of time And most of you bring in somebody along with you. Somebody you met at the store, you've made a or or a relative or a friend or your neighbor. Bring these people to church. Have them hear the word of God. Minister to them. and begin to see your your your ministry begin to grow a little bit and to expand. It's an exciting thing. In other words, I guess I'm saying become a s use the phrase a soul winner. Focus your life On winning soul to Christ. And I'll just close with this. I didn't mean to say this, but uh this came to my mind that I I came to a point in time in my own life when that that was my one goal in life. In fact I had just I started to grow my faith and knowledge of Christ during college years. I'm getting ready to graduate and the one thing I wanted to do was to be able to share Christ with other people. That was my goal. Can I learn how to, no matter who I'm talking to, under any kind of circumstances, can I learn how to share the Lord with that person? So in order to answer that question, I went to Bible college to learn that. And um with the intention of going just one year, learning this and then going I had a a job business waiting for me back here. But once you get deep into God's Word, one year led to two years, to three years, and here I am at preaching. But the point is, seek souls for Christ. And if you say, well, I can't do that, I don't know how to talk to people, can I just tell you one other thing? Because this this honestly is a miracle. Me talking to you is a miracle. I should be s sitting out there because I am very very introverted. I don't talk you know I I c I could go the rest of my life and just Yeah, yeah. It's just the way I am. So for me to get up and speak in front of somebody, i it's a miracle. You don't understand that because you don't know me, but if you knew me, this is miraculously me being here like this But that's what the Lord can do to you. Turn your life over to the Lord. Ask Him to make you teach you the Word of God. Make you a soul winner. Have a burden for souls. And just ask and let him guide you. And follow his guidance. And here's the thing: get ready for an exciting life. If you mean this, Lord, share with me how to win others to Christ. And if you pray that and mean it, get ready. Get ready to follow the Lord. Let's pray. Our Father, we want to say thank you that we're able to meet here today in this lovely room that you provide for us, and we're so grateful for this. Thank you that we have a message to declare. Thank you for what you have done to us, O Lord. You could have left us like these people in Verse 21, all confused, all messed up, go in our own stubborn, independent way, and ultimately headed straight to hell. Thank you for rescuing us. Thank you for placing us upon our feet and giving us a message to share with others. The good news of the Lord Jesus Christ, that Christ died on the cross for our sins. He was buried and he resurrected. And now he offers the gift of forgiveness and a home in heaven to anyone who will repent and believe in him. Oh Father, help us to be faithful with that message and minister to our hearts. And I'm Wondering Lord, I wonder is someone here really getting the thought, well this can't work, I can't do it, uh he it's his experience, not mine. And we have all these negative things rushing through our head And I to if anyone is having that experience, I would give you the verse. Guard your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Guard your heart, what you left into your mind and in your thoughts. Guard it. May it be the word of God. May it be positive thoughts for the glory of God in His kingdom. Our Father, thank you for bringing us together this day. Guard our fellowship after this service, that all that is said and done will be for your honor and for your glory. And we thank you through Christ our Lord. Amen