Well, we sang a very good hymn earlier, And Can It Be, one of my favorite hymns. And what's one of my favorite things about it is that third verse. That third verse about long my imprisoned spirit lay. Fast bound in sin and nature's night, Thine eye diffused a quickening ray, I woke the dungeon flame with light Do you see election there? That's definitely election. We're all chained, we're all dead, and the dungeon flames with light. And I rose, went forth, and followed thee. It's a very good Calvinistic verse. The funny thing is, this hymn was written by Charles Wesley. who was one of the Wesley brothers. And you know, I that's the thing about Arminians, although I don't know about Charles. I know John was the great uh ch champion of the Armenians But anyway, uh that's the thing about Arminians though, you know, if you really look at their teaching logically and the logical end of it, they can't really get to heaven if they think they do it. But they're inconsistent. They're inconsistent. And here Charles Wesley penned this thing, which uh was definitely Calvinist there, definitely election. Of course, we use the word Calvinist. That's a term of convenience. It doesn't mean that Calvin originated that doctrine. No, it was long before him. We use that term. Of course there's other terms for it. Doctrines of grace, the doctrine of election, the sovereignty of God, all those different things. Well, let's turn our Bibles to 2 Kings. 2 Kings. And we're just about done with 2 Kings. This is the second to the last sermon on 2 Kings. Second to the last. And here we are at 2 Kings chapter 24, verse 17. 2417. And so the next message on 2 Kings will be the last one, but here we have the final fall of Jerusalem. The final siege of Jerusalem. And the next message, the last message on 2 Kings will be sort of a postscript on the fall of Jerusalem and on the fall of Israel. And so here we start reading with verse 17. And the king of Babylon made Mataniah, his father's brother, king in his stead, and changed his name to Zedekiah. Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libna. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord according to all that Jehoiakim had done. For through the anger of the Lord It came to pass in Jerusalem and Judah until he had cast them out from his presence that Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just pray that thou'd open up thy word to us this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, here we're at the end And we have the last king, the last of all of them. And once again, this story of the kings of Judah and Israel is a very important Story. Very important account. Four books of the Bible are devoted to this, 1 and 2 Kings and 1 and 2 Chronicles. And so here we have at the end: Zedekiah is made king, he reigns for 11 years. And again, we don't have to wonder whether he was a good king or a bad king. It says he did evil. Verse 19 He did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, like most of the kings did And then verse 20 is an interesting verse. It says, Through the anger of the Lord, it came to pass in Jerusalem and Judah, until he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiah rebelled. Now, we were talking about election this morning. And you know, this is definitely election right here We see here that God is the one that's behind Zedekiah rebelling. It was through the anger of the Lord that he rebelled. And God was pushing him to rebel. He had not against his will. You know, people don't go, don't uh go to hell against their will. They're not uh they're not trying to come to God and God just won't take them No, they don't want to come to God. They curse God. It's according to their fallen will. But here, through the anger of the Lord Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. And so God uses means to accomplish his purposes. How does God bring us to Himself? It's through the preaching of the gospel. It's through the giving out of the gospel. That's the means that God uses. And, you know, it's uh that we had those objections this morning to election. And you know, why should we preach the gospel? If God has elected people, because that's the means that God uses. That's how he does it. And so God uses means with what he does And here the means of the judgment of Israel was Zedekiah rebelling. That was the means to accomplish the end of the complete destruction of Israel. And you remember with the shipwreck of Paul, once again, that's a great example of means. Paul said, if these guys get off the ship, you will not be saved. And yet Paul had already prophesied that they would all be saved. Was there any possibility that those guys were going to get off the ship? No. But the means to keep them on the ship was the warning that Paul gave through the Lord. The means that God brings us unto Himself is through the preaching of the cross, the foolishness of preaching, the Bible says. And so the means of Israel being judged was Zedekiah rebelling. Then let's go on to chapter 25 and verse 1. And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign and the tenth month and the tenth day of the month in Nebuchadnezzar King of Babylon came, he and all his host against Jerusalem, and pitched against it, and they built forts against it roundabout. And the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. And on the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine prevailed in the city, and there was no bread for the people of the land. And the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled by night by the way of the gate between two walls, which was which is by the king's garden Now the Chaldeans were against the city roundabout, and the king went out toward the plain And the army of the Chaldees pursued after the king and overtook him in the plains of Jericho, and all his army were scattered from him So they took the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon to Riblah, and they gave judgment upon him, and they slew the sons of Zedekiah. before his eyes and put out the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him with feathers of brass and carried him to Babylon Here is the end of all things for Israel and Judah. The end. Well, first of all, we have the siege. And once again, we've seen this many times going through kings, that they have the sieges, that they have the cities with the big walls around them. So when they see the big army coming, they can withdraw into the walls and be protected at least for a while. And here they were protected for a year and a half. That was a long siege. For a year and a half, nobody went in, nobody went out And they were just starving and starving and starving. And we see about that in Jeremiah. Jeremiah was there in that siege. And so finally the the siege got so bad that they were starving to death, and finally they had to make a break for it, and they did And you know there have been famous sieges all through history. Is that remember Masada? Masada, they had that big mountain by the Dead Sea And the Jews in the rebellion of 70 AD, they went up on top of that mountain and they were impregnable up there. Nobody could get up there. And they had a siege of them there, but finally the Romans built ramps up to the to the top there, and they were able to take the mountain. Of course, when they took the mountain, everybody had killed themselves But that was a famous siege, Massada. There was a famous siege right here in America. What was a famous siege in America? Anybody t able to tell me? Right? And what siege was that? Petersburg. The Siege of Petersburg, right here, not too far away from here, just south of Richmond. They had the Siege of Petersburg And so Grant finally cornered Lee, finally got him, finally Grant could face the arithmetic. You know, that was the problem with the union all through They had to face the arithmetic that it was going to cost them a lot of troops to conquer the South. So finally he faced that. He finally got Lee cornered There at uh Petersburg and that siege went on for something like nine months. There at Petersburg. And you know they had a great idea during the siege They decided that they, some of the soldiers of the Union, were miners and they were going to mine down underneath the you the Confederate line and they were gonna plant explosives down underneath there and blow up part of the line. And they did that. They mined underneath there, they put explosive on it, blew it up, and you know what happens when you make a big explosion? Well, just like when they drop bombs, is you have craters And so this was called the Battle of the Crater. They blew it up and there was a big crater there. And so the Union thought, wow, we could go right through this crater. But you know what the problem was? The crater, you were going down into this crater right in front of the Confederates, and so it ended up being worse than ever. They were down in the crater and it was like a shooting gallery in there and they were just tearing up the union guys going down into the crater. And so it didn't work very well But anyway, that was a famous siege. But you know, just like in this siege right here, finally it got so bad, and the Confederates were not getting enough supplies, and finally Lee had to break out And he broke out and he got the little ways to Appomattox where he finally had to surrender. And then, just like in our story here, what happened with the king here? Well, the king tried to escape when they broke out, but he was captured. What happened with the breakout at Petersburg? Well, Jefferson Davis tried to escape. He got down to Georgia or so, and he was captured and taken back and put in prison. Well, just like the siege here in our Bible, our siege of Jerusalem. The city was besieged a year and a half. Of course, Petersburg was only nine months, and Petersburg wasn't even totally surrounded. But it was pretty well cut off. And so, anyway, here we have as besieged, verse 2 to the eleventh year, finally verse 3, the famine prevailed There was no bread for the people. Notice there in the scriptures it talks all the time about bread. Bread. No bread for the people of the land. Today many people tell you that bread isn't good for you But the Bible's full of it. It's full of it. And even though the bread today might have some additives or whatever, but in in principle, bread is good for you. And so here is no bread for the people of the land. In verse 4, they fled by night and tried to get away, just like the Confederates did. And so they took the king, verse 6, and brought him up to the king of Babylon. Now the thing is back in the old time days when they had these sieges, first they had the the usual procedure was to call upon the city to surrender. And uh if the city didn't surrender, then it was that everybody would be slaughtered in the city. And that that would be the punishment for not uh surrendering when the city was finally taken. And uh so anyway Here the city was finally taken, and what happened? They got King Zedekiah him. Here they brought him up to the King of Babylon. What did the king of Babylon do with Zedekiah? Well, we have verse 7. And they slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put out the eyes of Zedekiah. So he wanted to do the most Punishment that he could think of to Zedekiah. And he didn't want to just kill him. No, he wanted him to suffer And so he had the sons of Zedekiah killed right before him, and then the last thing that Zedekiah would see with his eyes before they were put out was the killing of his sons. And so they did that with Zedekiah. They bound him with feathers of brass and carried him to Babylon. Here's the end of the last king of Israel in Judah. Well, let's go back to Chronicles. 2 Chronicles for the parallel account and see a few other things. We read this in the responsive reading earlier. 2 Chronicles chapter 36. 2 Chronicles chapter 36. And here we have basically the same history, but it has some other details. Verse 11, we have Zedekiah, and he's reigning 11 years over Jerusalem. Then verse 12. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, just like back in 2 Kings. He did that which was evil. And then it points out here that he humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet. Here's talking about the Jeremiah that we have the book of Jeremiah from. And if you go back to Jeremiah, and we are going to go back to Jeremiah the last time in Second Kings There we have an account of the siege, and we have the account of Jeremiah's contact with Zedekiah. And so Jeremiah was preaching here. All the prophets down through Israel and Judah all preached to the people. They preached to the kings that they should repent. Turn back to the Lord. Well, see, the sticking point was their pride. Why don't people want to believe in election? Why don't they want to believe in election? It's the basic thing is people, it goes against their pride that they want something to do with it. They want to have had something to do with their salvation, something that they're better than the guy next door that didn't believe. They wanted, and it just doesn't appeal to pride to have it all up to God. Well, here it didn't appeal to Zedekiah's pride to turn to the Lord And he humbled not himself. How do we get to heaven? We get to heaven by humbling ourselves. Is that uh, you know, in the book of Proverbs it says That if you beat your son with the rod, you'll deliver his soul from hell. How is that? Because you give him humility. And he'll be likely to come to the Lord then. And of course that brings us to our subject right here. These prophets were preaching And they were telling about God's judgment coming, telling to follow the Bible and God's word, but the people just ignored it. Just like they do today, just like Christians even, professing Christians do today. They like to ignore God's word. They don't care about God's word. You quote scripture to them, and you know what the majority of the people do today is they said, Oh, all he did was throw verses at me Throw verses. Throw verses from the Bible. They don't want to have those verses. No, people don't care about the Bible. They care about their own uh attitudes and they see what they see in the world around just like on that very subject of the child being humbled. Today They nobody wants to hear about using the rod on children. Nobody does. Even in the best churches, people don't want to hear about it. And but it's in God's word. It's there. But it's against the current of our age today. People don't want to hear about it. They don't care about that. And they say, oh, you know, when it says rod in Proverbs, it doesn't really mean that. And of course, that's just like with the devil in the Garden of Eden. The devil in the Garden of Eden said, yea, hath God said? Well, yea, God said that you shouldn't use the rod. And of course they say the rod is just some sort of correction, but you know that verse that I just quoted, you beat him with the rod Deliver his soul from hell. Hell, you know. Of course we don't want to be cruel with that, but there's a place for that. And of course, if you use the rod, you don't have to use it too much After the kid gets the idea, you don't have to use it that much anymore. But anyway, here we have the Zedekiah didn't want to humble himself before the mouth of Jeremiah. And it says here, Jeremiah was giving a message speaking from the mouth of the Lord. Look at that. That's pretty striking language here. From the mouth of the Lord, Zedek Jeremiah was speaking. And that's what the prophets did. The prophets gave God's message. And you know it's a great thing that the God of the universe The God that is all-powerful, that controls all things, that controls Jupiter and Mars and everything, that He's interested in people. And that he sends messages to people, and that he saves some people. And so here Jeremiah was speaking from the mouth of God. And then we have verse 13 And he also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, remember that was through the anger of the Lord, who had made him swear by God. I don't know what exactly what that's all about about swearing by God, but evidently Nebuchadnezzar wanted him to swear by God. But he stiffened his neck and hardened his heart. And of course that picture is always of stiff necked The children of Israel were stiff-necked all through their history. What does that mean, stiff-necked? That means when God wanted to turn their head, they would not turn it They just would not. And so they were stiff-necked. They stiffened their neck. And here we have Zedekiah stiffened his neck. And hardened his heart from turning unto the Lord God of Israel. And of course, these prophets preached for a hundred years or more. They preached this and preached this and preached this, and nothing happened For a hundred years and people thought everything was just going to keep on going as it always has. What about today? Today we can talk about how God's judgment's going to fall one of these days, and we can talk about the end time events, but you know, things are still keep on going about the same, and people think, well, you know, they'll just continue on. But there is a point where they stop. It's just like the guy that's falling through the air from a tall building, and he says, he's heard to say as he's passing, so far so good. You know, that's how it is. And so the the children of Israel were saying, so far, so good, for a hundred years. But then it all, the rubber met the road, and God's judgment finally fell. That was the truth that the judgment would come. You know, you could argue with God's truth, for the true judgment did fall. And so he, as Odekiah stiffened his neck, hardened his heart. And then verse 14. Moreover, the chief of the priests, the people that really should know better, the chief of the priests, the religious leaders, of course, they were the ones that put Jesus to death And here we have them. They were the ones that were transgressing against the Lord. And the people, the people in general, they transgressed very much after all the abominations of the heathen. And of course they know things better. You know, people know better than the discipline in the Bible. You know, we've got enlightened ways of disciplining children today. We know better. And no, that's not the way it is. Is we go by the scriptures. The scriptures are for all time. And uh Europe was listening to a guy on the from Brazil and he was talking about, oh, you know, when it says that That the woman should not usurp authority over the man and preach, well, you know, that only applied back to the that particular church in the New Testament. It doesn't apply today No, it does apply today, and the things of the Bible apply today. But here they have all kinds of rationalizations and excuses why people don't want to believe God's word Well, anyway, here we have the chief of the priests, the people transgressed very much after all, the abominations of the heathen, and polluted the house of the Lord. They even put idols in the temple. And the Lord had said he would keep his name there, but that was conditioned upon them obeying the Lord and being with the Lord. And then verse 15, the Lord God of their fathers sent to them by the prophets over and over, rising up the times and sending. So they were totally accountable. When we go out tossing out tracts, we're making people accountable. God wants that. He wants to give out his word, and hopefully some of them will come to the Lord. But these tracts We'll get to some of the elect. And God will use them. But anyway, here the messengers, the prophets gave out God's message for a hundred, more than a hundred years. But what was the reaction of the people over these hundred years or two hundred years? But they mocked the messengers of God. First they mocked them. They made fun of them. They made fun of the narrow fundamentalist prophets. They mocked him. They don't care about those things. And they despised his words and misused his prophets. until the wrath of the Lord rose against the people, till there was no remedy. So this is the epitaph on Israel here. The epitaph. Till there was no remedy. They don't care about the things of the Lord. Everything's so far, so good. Everything's going good. But eventually going to hit the wall of God's judgment. Same thing here in America today. And same thing with those that want to ignore God's word. Till there was no remedy Therefore, verse 17, therefore, why? Therefore, because they rejected God's word, therefore, he brought upon them the king of the Chaldees. And you know, that was some literal prophecy that God was going to judge them and bring literal physical judgments upon them. And God's going to do that again in the future And they brought upon them the king of the Chaldees, and they slew their young men. They slew the old men. Now I like it how it says here, for him that stooped with age. And you know that's a funny thing about it when we get older. Uh many times we start stooping because our back gets uh curved there and uh that's something with age. But anyway when he's given here about who all were slaughtered, even those that stooped with age. Were slaughtered. And so this fall of Jerusalem is a great lesson for all time. That you can't ignore God. You can't say, oh, I don't care about Scripture. I don't care what God says. We have better days, things today. We know better. No, we don't know better what God's word says. And we need to put it into practice, obey it And serve Him with our whole hearts. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that Thou would bless this account of the fall of Jerusalem. To our hearts, and oh Lord, help us to take it to heart. Help us to see that maybe it's so far so good to now, but it's not going to continue forever. In Jesus' name. Amen.