And today I wanted to do something different than Revelation. I wanted to do a 4th of July sermon. And our 4th of July sermon is three weeks late. But the thing is, is that I wasn't here on the 4th of July. And so I haven't spoken on this for a while here, so we thought we'll do this. So let's go back to Exodus chapter 12. Exodus chapter 12, and the title of the sermon this morning is The Presbyterian Rebellion. That's what the American Revolution was called by the English at times, the Presbyterian Rebellion. Here we have Exodus chapter 12, and we read that in our responsive reading. And here it's the Passover And they kept the day of Passover all through their generations, remembering how the Lord passed over and how the Lord did great things for them. Well, what are we doing on July the 4th? We're remembering the great things that God did for our country, did for our forefathers. And we have chapter 12 of Exodus, verse 14, and this day shall be unto you for a memorial. Fourth of July is the day that they signed the Declaration of Independence. And then verse 17, ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread in the self-same day. Have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt? Therefore ye shall observe this day in your generations by an ordinance forever, just like the 4th of July. And then we go on down, go down to verse 21. Or actually, it's twenty-six. And it shall come to pass when your children shall say unto you, What mean ye by this service? That ye shall say it is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt. When he smote the Egyptians and delivered our houses, and the people bowed the head and worshiped. And we have a great heritage in the United States. Of course, we've gone far from that heritage. We've talked about that with Babylon the Great and the Book of Revelation. But you know, we have a great heritage. God did wonderful things back in the American Revolution. When the colonies rebelled against England. And then we want to go skip over to chapter 14, 14 of Exodus and verse 30. Thus the Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the seashore. And then we have verse 3 of chapter 15, going over to chapter 15 and verse 3. The Lord is a man of war, the Lord is his name. Now, when we come to the American Revolution, we come to the great question of pacifism. Are Christians supposed to be pacifists? Are they just supposed to say when the government says your church is closed? Are they supposed to say Well, you know, that's the ordinance of man, and I need to be subject under the ordinance of man, so we'll just close the church right down. Well, I don't think so. And we are not pacifists as Presbyterians. That's why we talk about the American Revolution as the Presbyterian Rebellion. Is that the Presbyterians were a hundred percent behind the American Revolution? And I know in Smyrna, where we're from, in Delaware, the pastor of the church, right there in Smyrna, the Presbyterian Church, he supported the war. The revolution, he pushed the war, his sons went off to bite, or went off with the army in the American Revolution. And it was the big question during the American Revolution. Should we just submit to England, submit to anything they come up with? Because they're our government? Or should we resist, even resist to the point of a revolution and a war? And then if you skip down here in chapter 15 of Exodus down to verse 9, the enemy said, I will pursue. I will overtake. I will divide the spoils. My lust shall be satisfied upon them. I will draw my sword. My hand shall destroy them. Well, as a Christian, just supposed to sit back and let the enemy destroy us? Just sit back and say, well, it's all up to God. I'm not going to fight. I'm just going to submit to the government Well, that has never been the idea of Presbyterians. That's been the idea of the brethren, of the Mennonites, of other groups, of pacifism. But not of the Presbyterians. Well, then that brings us to Romans chapter 13. We're not going to go there, just mention about it. Romans chapter 13 is the great passage about obedience to the government. And it says, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for the powers are of God. Well, what that passage teaches is that God does not like anarchy. And anarchy is the worst thing there can be. Even a bad government is better than anarchy. But that passage is against anarchy. And uh but that passage has some qualifiers in it, and the Bible has qualifiers in it And if you look at that passage just on the surface, be subject unto the higher powers, well you say, well, we're just supposed to be subject and not do anything. Well, the problem is you look at the rest of the Bible. Look at the book of Acts. When they told the apostles not to preach, What did they say? They said, we ought to obey God rather than men. They did not submit to those ordinances of man. They did not. And it's clear that they did not. They obeyed God rather than men. And so there's a limit to the authority of government. There's a limit. And there's a limit to all types of authority. If a father is killing his children, does he have authority to do that? No, there's limits to it. And there's limits to governmental authority. You know, the Bible tells us, render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and then to God the things that are God's. Well, you notice there are two spheres. There's God's sphere and Caesar's sphere. And you know, it it when it says render unto Caesar the things that would be Caesar's, it's not saying render unto him everything that he could possibly demand. No, render unto him what he rightfully demands, what is his to demand, that is Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's So the question is, where do you draw the line? Where do you draw the line with obeying the government and resisting the government Well, I think everybody has to draw their own line in the end, but there has to be a line where you have to obey God rather than them. And we see that line drawn in the book of Romans, chapter 13. It says in that passage, it says, the government is the minister of God to thee for good. And I believe that when the government ceases to be a minister of God to thee for good, then resistance can be attempted and can be done. And you know, the Bible teaches that liberty is a good thing. You know, on our Liberty Bell in Philadelphia that came out of the American Revolution, what does it say? It says, proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof. That's from the Bible. That's talking about the year of Jubilee. And every 50 years there was a year of Jubilee where there was freedom, where people could take back their ancestral properties. And there was a liberty proclaimed. And so I believe that liberty is something that is taught in the Bible. In the book of Judges, remember they had the enemies were oppressing Israel, and then God raised up judges to fight. and to free them from the oppression that they had. Remember, David was a man of war. Blessed be the Lord that teaches my hands to fight. And so liberty is something from God. And then one objection that's given today, you know, of course, the American Revolution, many of the people in the American Revolution were slaveholders And that's being really bandied about today, and they're wanting to tear down the statues of George Washington or whatever because he had slaves. Well everybody had slaves back in those days He was a creature of his age, George Washington and the others back then. And uh, you know, just to show how creature of his age he was When he died, he was having blood, bad blood, drawn out of his body, because that's what they did back in those days. He was bleed-bled, and that contributed to him dying. And that's what everybody did Those were the practices back in those days. And you can't judge them by what we have today, but liberty is taught in the Bible. And you know when we come down to the Civil War. You know, the United States didn't need to have a civil war. It didn't need it. Slavery was on its way out at that time. In Brazil, they got rid of slavery in 1888 with no war whatever. And they had just as much slavery down there or more. They had big plantations just like here in the United States. And it was just a decree and everybody was ready for it and they got rid of it. And it was on its way out in the United States. You didn't need to have a w war about it. But anyway I believe that slavery in the end is really not according to God's word, and that there's there's liberty, liberty taught in the Bible. And let's go over to Luke chapter twenty-two. Luke chapter twenty-two. Luke chapter twenty-two. But are we supposed to be pacifists and just submit? Luke chapter 22, and a lot of people at the time of the American Revolution were pacifists A lot of people didn't participate in the American Revolution, but the majority did. And the Presbyterians were 100% behind it. Then we have Luke chapter 22 and verse 35. And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse and script and shoes, lacked ye anything? And they said, Nothing. Then said he unto them, But now he that has a purse, let him take it, and likewise his script, and he that has no sword Let him sell his garment and buy one. And then down to verse 38. And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said unto them, It is enough. Now, here Jesus went so far as to say, to sell your garment and buy a sword. This is the strongest verse I believe in the Bible against pacifism In the New Testament, anyway, the strongest one. Because what do you do with a sword? I think I've mentioned that here before. What do you do with it? Do you shave with a sword Do you cut your stake with a sword? No. A sword is for battling other people in close combat. Of course, the farther away you use a bow and arrow, you use other things, but close combat with people. And I may have mentioned it here before that I used to have discussions with a Jehovah's Witness there at work when I worked at the post office. And I discussed with him about this and I pointed out this verse to him because you know Jehovah's Witnesses are pacifists. They won't go in the army, they won't do anything like that. And I brought up the scripture to him and he said, Well, you know, I gotta go ask my leaders in the church about that, because he didn't know what to say. And when he went and asked the leaders in the church, they told him, oh, don't you know that they needed swords to defend themselves against wild animals? But do you use swords for fighting with wild animals? No, you don't. If you got a bear close enough to use a sword, you're done for. If you got a lion close enough to use a sword, you're in bad shape. And uh no, y you have to fight with wild animals further off with a spear or with a sw with a bow and arrow or with something like that. Sword is only for fighting with other people, and it's for defense. And so the Bible does teach that we can defend ourselves. And on the level of a country that we can defend our liberties, as they did back in the American Revolution. Well you notice here they said we have two swords, that's enough And someone might say, well, you know, Peter, he got out his sword, and Jesus said to put it away after he sliced off the ear of the high priest's servant. That's because at that point it was not a point to use the sword. It was not a point for fighting because Christ was going to go offer himself as the supreme sacrifice. But there is a time to fight. A time to fight. You know, uh they had Presbyterians getting up in the American Revolution and said there was a time to sow, a time to plant, a time to for peace, and a time to fight. And they said it was time to fight right then in the American Revolution. And so we have a great beginning in the United States with the American Revolution. And a lot of people say today that they were wrong fighting against Great Britain. A lot of Baptist brethren today have become pacifists in that way. And you know, it was godly. The Presbyterians were all behind it. The only clergyman that signed the Declaration of Independence was John Witherspoon. He was a Presbyterian clergyman. And he went on to become moderator of the General Assembly of the entire Presbyterian Church. And uh it was said in England that America has run away with a Presbyterian person. Well, they ran away with John Witherspoon. And so we have the Declaration of Independence. And let's read a few things from the Declaration of Independence, which they put out, that's what we celebrate on July 4th. And it talks there about certain inalienable rights: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness And that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it. And then it says that governments should not be changed for light and transient causes. But when a long train of abuses and usurpations Come along with a design to reduce the people under absolute despotism. It is their duty to throw off such a government. And so that's what our forefathers said, and many of them were godly. Well, they all had Christian principles You know, people have talked about our forefathers in the American Revolution, oh well, hey, Thomas Jefferson wasn't a Christian, and Benjamin Franklin wasn't a Christian, but they all had Christian principles Benjamin Franklin went to hear uh uh George Whitfield and he was very impressed by Whitfield. And they were they were uh people with Christian principles. A country was built on Christian principles. And so that goes on in the Declaration of Independence. There was a history of repeated injuries. With the direct object, the establishment of an absolute tyranny over the colonies And then it goes through the different grievances that they had. Many grievances on here. And it talks about that the king had dissolved the representative houses that he had made judges dependent upon his will alone. He has sent thither swarms of officers to harass our people and eat out their substance. Does that sound familiar? Sending out swarms of officers? That's what we had today. You know, they were talking about Biden was talking about that he's going to hire 50,000 new IRS agents. Swarms of officers out to harass the people. You know, you can travel out west and you're out there in the the great uh wilderness out there and the great outdoors and But out there, they're just overwhelmed by swarms of officers out there of the government, environmentalists, and whatever else you can imagine. But anyway, in times of peace, standing armies have been kept. They have quartered large bodies of troops Among us. Back in those days, it was the custom of the British to just say to you, we're going to keep some soldiers in your house, and you have to keep them. And they did that all over. He has imposed taxes on us without our consent. And taxation is the power to destroy. It is. And so they have no consent in their taxes. It says that he has put large armies of foreign mercenaries to complete the works of death, desolation, and tyranny. They're in the in the colonies. And of course those are the Hessians coming from Germany that they hired They had taken citizens captive on the high seas. They used to just grab sailors on their ships and make them in the British Navy. Put them in the British Navy. Impress them And he has endeavored to bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian savages. The British were stirring up the Indians against the colonists. And we have petitioned for redress. And a prince whose character is thus marked by every act which may define a tyrant is unfit to be the ruler of a free people. This is in the Declaration of Independence. And nor have we been wanting in our attention. We have warned them They have told the British about all these things, but they don't get any redress. So at the end, he says, appealing to the supreme judge of the world. They appealed to God. And they declare that these United Colonies are, and of right, ought to be free and independent states. And then, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine providence, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. Well, they had to pay a price to do all these things. They pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor. And you have all the signatures there, starting with John Hancock, you have Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and you got the three guys from Delaware, Caesar Rodney, George Reed, and Thomas McKean. Well, you know, we live in Smyrna, right on Main Street in Smyrna. And you know, back in the old days, the main roads always went right through the center of town. They always did. And so Main Street, it used to be in Smyrna, the main north-south thoroughfare between Dover and Philadelphia, going up that way. And we live right on it Well anyway, Caesar Rodney on the quarters for the different states. It has the ride of Caesar Rodney on there for Delaware. And Caesar Rodney was the representative from Delaware. He was down in Dover and he was sick. He was sick in bed. But he heard that they were signing the Declaration of Independence and that it was possible that the Delaware de delegation would be split. And so he made a famous ride right by our front door there in Smyrna, all the way up to Philadelphia to sign the Declaration of Independence, to make sure Delaware was on board. And you know, and here on the Declaration of Independence, here we have John Witherspoon. And we have all these godly men that were behind the American Revolution. It's been said That every colonel in the Revolutionary Army, except for one, was a Presbyterian elder. All of them were Presbyterian elders. And uh, you know, they paid a uh heavy price for this revolution. When you disobey the government, when you resist the government, there's a price to be paid You know, when they had decree to have no services, to have no church, well, it was uh it looked like there might have been a price to pay to still have services. And these people paid a price at Valley Forge. One out of four people at Valley Forge died. One out of four soldiers. They paid the price, but God took care of them. When they were there at Valley Forge, they had a miraculous run of shad up the river there. And they were dishing shad out of the river with shovels. God supplied their needs. God blessed the American Revolution It's been said that the American Revolution was fought with a corporal's guard, but that's about what Washington had. When you compare him to the British, the British were the foremost power in the world at the time. They had a big navy, the biggest navy. They had a big armies, well supplied, and the American colonies had very little. But God prospered them. And so they had all these things that they paid the price for, but they believed it was worth it, and not submitting to tyranny. And they stood. And you know, the key battle of the revolution, or one of the key turning points, was the Battle of Trenton when Washington crossed the Delaware. And you know, that was a miraculous battle there. That God prospered Washington. In fact, they just put out a quarter, I guess I think saw it yesterday for the first time. They put out a quarter of Washington crossing the Delaware. But anyway, it was miraculous. And that it ch turned the tide. Before that point, the uh the colonists were losing everything. But this is their first great victory and a and all their army was disappearing because of their defeats. But when they had the victory at Trenton, uh people came into the army and uh it got uh going, the American Revolution. But you just see the hand of God in that. You know, the key thing in the Battle of Trenton with the crossing of the Delaware was surprise. They had to surprise the Hetchens. And the Hessians were professional soldiers hired by the British. And they were good soldiers. They were professionals. And there were 1,800 of them there at Trenton. And so the colonists came over to attack them and they had to have complete surprise. Well, you know, the night before their attack They were having, you know, they were celebrating Christmas at the time, and the the British, uh the Hessian commander was there celebrating, and somebody knocked on the door and wanted to see him. And he he thought there was no danger and he didn't even want to see him, see the guy. Well the guy passed the note. Passed the note and said, give this to the Hessian commander. And so they gave him this note, but the Hessian commander never even looked at the note. He put it in his pocket. And what did it say on that note? It said the Americans are attacking tomorrow morning. And he put it in his pocket, and they were completely surprised And they were defeated. The Americans captured 1,200 soldiers, and it was a turning point. And you know, they found that note in the pocket of the Hessian commander dead after the battle That the Americans were going to attack. Now, why is it that the Hessian commander didn't look at that note? It was the providence of God. The providence of God. And you know, there was a Presbyterian pastor in the Revolution by the name of James Caldwell. And there was a battle going on near his church. And the colonists were running out of wadding for their muskets. So we ran into the church, got hymn books. Ripped the pages out of the hymn books and said, Give them watts, boys, give them watts, Isaac Watts. And you know that pastor Uh he had his church burned down, his house burned down, his wife was killed, and he was killed during the American Revolution. They paid a price But they believed it was worth it in battling tyranny. And so it was a cause worth fighting for. Is there ever a cause worth fighting for? Well, today people would say there's there's no cause worth fighting for. You know? Uh y it's just uh no cause at all. Just submit, uh trying along, that's all. But there are causes worth fighting for. And the American Revolution was one of those causes that was worth fighting for You know, there's an example of the American Revolution back in the book of 2 Kings. In 2 Kings, we have Jehoiada, the priest. Jehoiada the priest was there hiding the king Joash. It was a boy. He hid him. Until finally one day the high priest Jehoiada brought out Joash. And proclaimed him king. And Athaliah the wicked queen had been queen for six years at that point But he made a revolution, Jehoiada the priest, and put the king on the throne, threw down Athaliah, and it was just like an American revolution right there in the book of 2 Kings. And if you ever wonder if it was right or wrong, at the end of Jehoiada's life, it said they buried him in the sepulchres of the kings because he had done good toward God and toward his house. And so, praise the Lord for the examples that we have in the Bible. Let's go back one more scripture, Leviticus chapter 26. Leviticus chapter 26 Leviticus chapter 26. And here we have the blessings upon obedience and the curses upon disobedience of God's law And you know that's the Mosaic Covenant, the covenant with Moses. Curses upon disobedience, blessings upon obedience. You have Leviticus chapter 26 and verse 3. If ye walk in my statutes and keep my commandments and do them. Then I will give you rain in due season. Then it goes on with all the blessings if they keep God's commandments. And then verse down to verse 6, and I will give you peace in the land. And ye shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid. Then down to verse 9, and five of you shall chase a hundred. That's how it was in the American Revolution. They were uh all with Christian principles and many of them very good Christians. The Presbyterians there, they were five of them chasing a a hundred. And then down to verse 13, I am the Lord your God, which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondman. And I have broken the bands of your yoke and made you go upright. It was always said to Israel that God gave them liberty from Pharaoh, liberty from Egypt. And God gave us liberty in our heritage here in the United States. Back when America was more or less a godly country. Well, today we've gone far from that. As we've talked about with Babylon the Great, far away from our godly heritage. And uh just last night, last night we were on our way back from Ohio last night, and we stayed in Frederick on our way through. to come here Sunday morning. And we had a botel room and right next to us at 1. 30 in the morning these guys came in making all kinds of racket. But anyway, it sounded like they I just offhand I'd say they were homosexuals. And you know the the country is just just full of that today. And uh we've gone far away from God. And today, you know, uh with your U. S. passport, you can declare whether you're a man or you're a woman. Just according to what you feel like declaring. And that's how far away from God. You know, God has made us man or woman. And to say that I can declare myself otherwise is a direct rebellion against God. And so, you know, we've gone far away. You go down to verse 14 of Leviticus chapter 26. You have the curses upon disobedience. But if ye will not hearken unto me, will not do all these commandments. And if ye shall despise my statutes, then it goes through all kinds of judgments and punishments. And then if you skip down to verse 26. And upon them that are left alive of you, I will send a faintness into their hearts, in the lands of their enemies. And the sound of a shaken leaf shall chase them, and they shall flee as fleeing from a sword. And they shall flee when none pursue it. Well that's where we're at today. And we have all this COVID stuff. People have the great spirit of fear today. Great spirit of fear and the media and the government stirring that up. And they think because just because there's an emergency all of our liberties can be taken away There are no more liberties because there's emergency. And of course it's an emergency that lasts for years. What kind of an emergency is that? And uh the thing is, is that America has in recent years lost its will to fight as a country. Uh you want to go to the Vietnam War that I was involved around, and you know, uh we lost the Vietnam War because we had no will to fight, and we didn't fight for victory And today people don't want a border of America. No borders, because we want world government And so we've gone so far away from God. But you know, liberty is worth fighting for. Liberty was worth fighting for back with Israel. Liberty was worth fighting for with the American colonists, the American Revolution. And liberty is still worth fighting for, although it may get to the point where there's not going to be much chance of winning, but Liberty is still worth fighting for, especially the liberty to worship God in the way we we should. I mean when the government comes in and tells you that you can't use hymn books in your service, I mean that's telling you exactly what you can do and what you can't do And that should be as far away from what it should be. And so let's remember that heritage of liberty that we have when we come to July the 4th. And let us see that liberty is a good thing. The American Revolution was a good thing. And Dr. McIntyre, he used to have a saying. Our forefather of the Bible Presbyterian Church, he used to have a saying that freedom is everybody's business. Your business, my business, the church's business, a man who will not use his freedom to defend his freedom does not deserve his freedom. And uh of course that's true. And so praise the Lord for our heritage, and let us continue in that heritage today, even though we can see things on the downhill side here today But uh we need to fight for our liberties still today. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou bless these thoughts to our hearts, and O Lord, we pray that we might see that there are things worth fighting for And we thank thee for that great heritage of liberty that we have in the United States. We thank thee for our godly forefathers. We thank thee for John Witherspoon, for James Caldwell, for the others that laid their lives and their sacred honor, their fortunes on the line. In Jesus' name. Amen.