We haven't quite reached that which we sometimes sing about and desire. Um but nevertheless, uh beautiful hymns. Thankful that we're able to sing them and from our hearts. Uh let's pause for a word of prayer before we look at his word. Father, we thank you that again this day is provided as we begin a new week, as we offer up ourselves to have your Spirit work in our hearts. to guide our steps and our hands, our ears, our eyes, our mouths, our hearts, that you would lead us to a life that is more pleasing in your sight Uh thank you for your forgiveness. Uh thank you as we can come to you at any time of the night or day and and open our hearts unto you, uh confessing our faults, our sins, that you are there, you are righteous, and you are just and uh well desirous to uh cleanse us and empower us in order that we might be more perfected, more workable servants for the Most High God. Again, thank you for this part of our worship hour that we would uh consider what your word has to say to us, that your servant would be hidden and Christ would be honored and glorified And uh Father, that you would uh help us to put away the the the things that we may have brought in. Our our minds can be cluttered with all types of uh thoughts and and uh things that we have to do yet or things that have happened. May we uh allow you, Father, to work in us completely. And we'll thank you for what you'll do in Christ's name. Amen. August the second, seventeen seventy-six, probably one of the most important but least remembered days in American history. It marks the 56 men who gathered together at the Second Continental Congress assembled in Philadelphia to the signing of the Declaration of Independence. Historic and historians believe that Congress uh declared its freedom from Great Britain on the second of July and didn't release it to the public until July 4th, uh, this particular day, and that's why we remember it. Uh they approved it upon a resolution of a unanimous vote Uh after that vote, Congress needed to draft a document, the document in order to be able to provide to the rest of the comp country Uh these are the things that we've resolved to do and these are the things that we in a country uh will do. The initial draft was done by what was called the Committee of Five. John Adams, Roger Sherman, Robert Livingston, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson being the most prominent of the names, at least as far as what was contributed in that declaration. The Congress received the draft and it took another two days for them to go over it, make some editing, some adjustments, and the final draft was completed again and signed on the 2nd of August. Um, it was probably in the initial discussion of the Declaration of Independence that Benjamin Franklin, as the men were assembled, made this statement. We must, indeed, all hang together, or most assuredly, we shall all hang separately What Franklin was basically saying is as we as a a body have to unite and do this together as one, or otherwise there won't be an independence. You know we won't have that which we in our hearts uh feel that was necessary and right for this country. I believe that was practically borne out in the lives of those fifty-six signers, as we've seen copies of it and the names lit n listed on the bottom The very final sentence says, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. They took that seriously. um unbeknownst to us how we would have thought uh sitting there at that time. Um historians have disagreed at times as far as about the men themselves, but it was true that a number of them were captured and put into prison by the British for being traitors. Uh a number of them uh had uh sons who were uh in the military, in the Revolutionary Army, um and uh two of them lost their lives. Um a number of them had homes seized and occupied by the British, while their homes were seized and burned in Ramsat uh with nothing left. Of the fifty-six, seventeen of them joined the Continental Army as officers or as medical personnel, and one of the decks of the Declaration actually died. from uh uh wounds that were done at the war. Today, this fourth of july twenty twenty one So much of the not-so-serious thinking about Independence Day goes around the thoughts and the words of of Red, White, and Blue and Parades and Fireworks, which started a couple days ago around our house. um picnics, you know, and and all those types of things. And there's nothing wrong with it because they encouraged it, even at those from the earliest days, because it was a a point of celebration But there is another aspect of it as we think of the more serious discussion. It would center around words and ideals such as independence, rights and privileges, or freedoms. Yet the more I think about it, there is something more tremendously important to our nation's forefathers that affected them, and that was the bond of unity. Uh that one statement uh attributed to Benjamin Franklin spoke of the perils of that situation. We must indeed all hang together or most assuredly we shall all hang separately. And you could take it literally and saying, you know, uh as a body, we're committed to this, and if not, uh there might be hangings all around If you look at the overall picture, I'd say with the exception of the providence of God, the most singular factor, I think, that would contribute to the strength And the unity, uh, the the the birth of our particular nation is that attitude of a bond of unity. Uh certainly there was seen thirteen United States versus thirteen individual colonies. um the disappearance and essence of borders between Maryland and Virginia and Delaware and New York and New Jersey and so forth where they all became one. But there was also an attitude amongst the hearts of the people that united them. Yes, they had to be united in a military engagement against England. They had to be united in uh in an economic principle, uh how will we as a country survive unless we do it as a united effort? But uh there's also a uniting in a spiritual underpinning. Uh those of you were able to watch a video that we had here on the Great Awakening, which occurred uh over this period of time from before the the uh signing until after the signing or an awakening of the hearts of the people And I think this united attitude didn't come about by saying, okay, we are spiritually minded people, therefore we're going to unite, but I think it was the hand of God that worked amongst them Between 1700 and 1740, there was an estimated 75 to 80 percent of the population went to churches. Now I'm not saying that 75 to 80 percent of the people were born-again believers as we as we would count it. Um I think part of the video that we saw there said there are a lot of the Anglicans that were church people uh and weren't necessarily born-again Christians as we would think about it, but that's in God's hands. Um but I am saying that the nation's birth, there was a clear evidence of God's handiwork And I think it was evidenced in the way they acted, in the documents they signed, in the direction that they went. For example, you know these words. We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal, and they are endowed by their Creator with a certain unalienable rights that among them are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. You know, think of the content that's there. As they sat and they they they put this on paper, there had to be uniting attitude amongst the 56 who were there in that Congress. But they also had to have a hard attitude representing their various regions that those men were part of. you know, from this colony and from this colony and this colony. They they'd have to come to say, this is it's obvious that all men are created equal and God, the Creator, has endowed them with certain rights. Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. You couldn't have a spiritual attitude, a God-gifted attitude, unless those things were there. Not just the pious words to be formulated to be theologically correct, but words, a statement, a declaration that reflected the common principles of the delegates and the country And that included Baptists and Presbyterians and Methodists and Anglicans and Congregationalists and Puritans. Included the whole spectrum, you know, and included the much larger picture. And again, that last sentence of the doc declaration which they willingly place their signatures to And for the support of this declaration, we with a firm reliance upon the divine providence, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. Their trust in God. And therefore, what God has initiated, we therefore therefore representing our areas, ourselves ourselves, we we pledge this, but but the country at large holds to these varied things. And we've talked about the fact factors that they did many lose lives in fortunes, but they did not lose their sacred honor. They did not lose their sacred honor You will not take such a stand unless there's unity. It's not possible. You all know very well that a bond of unity is key to the success of any organization. Our American athletes are all poised to go over to Japan and and win for the USA. And you hear them talk and he says, yes, we're one, you know, we're one in the you know in the the unity aspect of it You can't see a military unit go to a field of battle and not have those soldiers unit as a unit. uh bound together in order that they would uh fight together and save each other in the particular fight that they're in What about a nation? How long can a nation last without unity, the willingness to work together for the good of the entire country? It just can't happen. It just simply won't work And within the body itself, the church. Does the church last without unity? Can it? Can it? Like us to again grab those words from Franklin, we must indeed all hang together, or most assuredly we shall hang separately. That's the body of Christ. Let's turn our shift to 2 Timothy chapter 4. Second Timothy four and beginning at verse nine, where we've left off from before. We come to this section of the final section of this book, this epistle by Paul, and there's a lot in it, a lot to look at it. Uh but I want us to see something this morning that I think is often passed over. Um a general picture of what the apostle has given us here. As I read, I'd like you to notice the people the Apostle Paul is talking about. He's telling Timothy about these. No doubt Timothy is very familiar with names uh situations. And as I read through here, sometimes we'll just give a mention and other times we'll comment on the particular person that's there. But Put yourself in the place of the apostle in his heart. Verse 9. Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me. Timothy, hurry up! Do thy diligence. Remember, he's on uh his his uh uh the the death cell here. Uh Timothy recognizes that Paul's not expecting to get out uh except in death Now why does he want them to hurry up? Verse 10. For Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world, and is departed unto Thessalonica. Chriskins, whoa, another one. He also has forsaken me, and he's departed to Galatia. Titus likewise forsaken me and gone unto Dalmatia. Only Luke is with me. Timothy, hurry up. You know, fellowship is important, isn't it? People that we know and we we love to be with isn't the body of Christ. It's unnecessary to feed from. Paul says, in my day here, he says, I'm hungering for some fellowship, and he says, these three men took off. I don't necessarily believe that they've left the gospel. They're not necessarily unbelievers, but he says they forsook me. You know, they left me And only good old Luke is with me, he says. Luke, Dr. Luke, the author of the book of Acts. You read through Acts and you find Paul and Dr. Luke in there many, many times, close with him. Take Mark. What Mark is this? This is John Mark, the author of the Gospel of Mark. This is the one that Paul and Barnabas took out in the very beginning. He was the nephew of Barnabas, and all of a sudden he became a little homesick or something like that, and there was a disagreement And you know, the boy's kind of worthless, Paul says, and Barnabas says, no, we ought to stick up with them, and no, no. And so Paul and Barnabas have this sharp dividing. And all of a sudden Barnabas says, I'll take him. And Paul goes off with uh I think it was Silas and and they do do their own do their own part. But now, after this time He says, and John, take John Mark and bring him with me, for he is profitable to me for the ministry. John Mark is useful. The little boy who caused great dissension between these two brothers in Christ, all of a sudden he says, bring him. He's useful to me. Verse 12, and Titicus, have I sent to Ephesus. In Paul's letter to Ephesus to the Ephesians, Paul says, Titicus is a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord. Timothy, you come from Ephesus. I'm sending Tychicus to Ephesus. He'll fill your position that he's there in this ministry. And the cloak, verse thirteen, which I left at Troaz with Carpus, the only place he's mentioned, When thou comest, bring with thee and the books, and especially the parchments. Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil. The Lord reward him according to his works, of whom be thou also. For he hath greatly withstood our words. And my first answer, and this is probably in a reference to the times he stood before Caesar. Before Nero went to trial. And then he says, the first time I went to trial, he says, No man stood with me, but all men forsook me. Any v any witnesses as to my character? You know, and he looks around and nobody's there. They all left there obviously afraid for their lives. No one stood with me, all forsook me, I pray God that he that it may not be laid to their charge Notwithstanding, verse 17, the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, that by me the preaching might be fully known. and that all the Gentiles might hear, and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. More than likely this is Nero, a reference to the wickedness of this man. Um and the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve unto me the heavenly kingdom to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 19 Salute, Priscilla and Aquila. Um spelled a little differently, but these are no doubt his good friends from uh Acts eighteen uh gave much into the work of the Lord. And the household of Anesophoros, uh, he was mentioned earlier in this epistle. And they say household in both cases, probably Anesaphorus who was dead And these are his family members. Uh they still give much into the ministry of uh not only the Apostle Paul but others. twenty. Erastus abode in Corinth. In Romans sixteen you find that Erastus was the treasurer of the city of Corinth. A high position, powerful. Patrophimus from Acts 16, uh have I left in Miletum Sick Do thy diligence to come before winter. And that was probably telling him, you know, bring my cloak, bring that overcoat, you know, the one with the hood, you know, and the something that keeps me warm Eubylus, Greedothy, and Perdons, and Linus, and Claudia. Nothing is known from those, and they seem to be Roman names. that are there. And all the brethren, all the brethren there in Rome, the Lord Jesus Christ be with my thy spirit, the grace be unto you. Amen. You look at all of those names that are mentioned here, and with the exception of Alexander, these are all special people to Paul. They are special to him. There's a similar chapter in the very end of the book of Romans, Romans 16. And there's a grocery list of names, 28 of them. Very similar in structure to here, where he mentions sometimes salute, greek, you know. Other times he gives them a little detail as to what the person is, why he's important, what goes on with their life And and you read through those, uh men and women were dear to Paul, special, precious, and and in both of these cases, uh 2 Timothy and in Romans Paul shows the importance of the body of Christ. They were dear people, men and women. You read of various economic uh stations in life. uh religious backgrounds, government officials, tent makers, some poor, some rich, uh some servants, some soldiers, uh all types. But they were all important to him because they were all one in Christ with Paul. And he's not writing this simply because this is this is, I want you to remember this, but this is Paul's heart. He says, Part of my life is in these people. Part of my life, my ministry, it's within this. They had a fellowship one with another, a bond of unity And Paul drew upon that. Hurry, send Timothy. Timothy, come, or bring this, bring that. This is Paul, one of the greatest theologians ever. Why would Paul need fellowship? Because he's part of the body. The importance of the unity of the body that is brought to our attention by these simple verses that are found within this passage. Psalm 133. Here the psalmist comes along and he says, How good and how pleasant It is for brethren to dwell in unity. It's good. It's profitable. I think this body understands very well how how beneficial it is to the body, to the individual and the collective body when there is unity found. When there's disunity, it's disrupting to all. Physically, spiritually, mentally, it's it's extremely hard. And then he says, How pleasant. Well How many times do we sit and talk, boy, how nice it is. You know? But look forward to coming on Sunday and look forward to being there on Wednesday and look forward to getting together. We're going to over so and so's house. Yeah, the they're believers. And boy, I just enjoyed that. Well, Doris comes. She's from you know, thousands of miles away or on the other side of the world, and she can sit here because she's part of the body of Christ And we accept her testimony, we accept her way she is of of a life in Ghana, and and she says, these are people that were here. And we have a uniting and an attitude that's there that wasn't derived from us. But it was made by the unity that God had provided. uh the precious ointment upon the head that ran down the beard, even Aaron's beard, went down to the skirts of his garment. At the anointing oil of uh it's an olive oil, and there were apparently four uh precious uh herbs and spices that were put into it. And it was very fragrant. And so they poured the anointing oil on his head and it runs down and down through his beard and all the way down his garments, all the way to the bottom hem And it's saturated in there. It's, you know, we went out to some I forget what restaurant it was and I cut into some salad and some oil. Phew but you know quick, let's clean that out, you know. But it was stuck there until they get home, you know But you can imagine the horn of oil, fragrant, poured on him, saturated into his beard and into his garments, and everywhere that Aaron went throughout the camp, they could smell it How pleasant, how delightful, how how satisfying, how good it was for that to be accomplished He talks about Mount Hermon, the dew of Hermon, as the dew descended upon the mountains of Zion. There the Lord commanded blessing even forevermore. as the as the dew came out or even from the snow melt, and Herman had poured down moisture onto the dark uh dry valleys below, and it brought forth nutrition It brought forth life-giving moisture into those valleys and it gave life. And the people who lived there recognized this is God's blessing The dew, the the the the the rains coming down or the rivers that are there uh from the snow melt. God did that. God provided. How good and how pleasant Such a unity is provided in our day. Yet what the psalmist expresses is different from the unity of a sports team. or from the soldiers in a military unit or from the citizens of a country. Look up dictionary definition of unity and it says it is a state of being joined together or in agreement. As members of the body of Christ, we have that unity of a state of being as part of being one. We have an agreement with the things that are there, but there's something else. There's a bond that the Spirit of God works in making a person a child of the living God. And that brings the real unity, as we saw in our video earlier. The early church within the the colonies was a church and they had all of the all of the the the uh the couturements for for worship and people sat there and they sang and they listened to a message and so forth but their hearts were dead they were asleep And hence the great awakening awoke them when it became obvious that there was a demand for a personal relationship to Christ, a personal one. And that's what the new preachers came in and brought to that picture. So what makes up this bond of unity, this fellowship of the saints? Two things that that uh are found within it. And the first is that true unity, true fellowship begins with the Lord Jesus Christ. True unity and true fellowship is centered upon Jesus Christ. Listen to Paul's 1 Corinthians 1:9 words. God is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. God is the one faithful who called, who brought you into this fellowship with Jesus Christ. He was the source of such Paul here says that he alone called us into fellowship, that relationship, and that's made possible and it's secured by the work of Christ upon the cross. John 15, 16. You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you. I didn't one day say all of a sudden, oh, I want to be part of this body, or I want to be a Christian, or I want to, you know, the seed The growth begins with the Spirit of God within our hearts, and He does the work. 1 John 4. 19. We love Him because He first loved us. I can't say I love Jesus Christ because it was a seed that I planted, because I came to understand it. It came about because God called me into the fellowship of Jesus Christ. It made it possible, it made it secure. It was God's sovereign choice to bring me first into a relationship with himself. And it's a friendship and a fellowship with Christ. Brothers and sisters in Christ is that bond. Christ is the common factor. And without what we often speak of, without the vertical, without my relationship to Christ, I have no horizontal. I have no relationship and fellowship with others who are. I have to find that salvation begins with him. For me, this had to be the unseen factor that was behind the unity found in the colonists. They didn't think about it. But it was the Spirit of God working, binding their hearts together. We saw where Whitfield went around to preach it, irrespective of a denomination, those who would want to hear. Thousands upon thousands of people came from all backgrounds And it was the Spirit of God calling them into fellowship with Christ and binding them into unity. And I think that's clearly was the passion that was there. And obviously the the Apostle Paul, uh, it was clearly explained with him, that was the source of everything he had. He was a child of God, and his calling to all of the churches, to the to the clarity of not only the gospel, but many of his letters speak of the disunity within the church, and he addressed that in order that they would be one. So unity begins with Christ. But secondly, the unity and fellowship that we have with God is to affect the way we are in the way we treat others. If I have this vertical relationship with God that He's called me into, I am His child. I have fellowship with Him. Therefore, I have fellowship with others who are in that same common denominator with Christ. It ought to affect the way I am. It ought to be the way I affect each other that is within the same body. Read from Philippians 2, 1 through 4, Paul again says, If there be therefore any consolation in Christ. If any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels of mercy, fulfill ye my joy, that ye, listen to this, that ye be like-minded Having the same love, being of one accord, and of one mind. All words of unity He says, if you are a child of God, he says, there ought to be a single-mindedness, a same heart of love, a unity of accord, a one mind. And then he says in verse 3, Let nothing be done through strife for vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, in humility, let each esteem the other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. There was disunity in the church that Philippians Paul says Listen, if you're a part of that body, he says there needs to be a unity that's bound and common. And it doesn't mean it doesn't mean uniformity. It doesn't mean that we all look the same and we all have the exact same things, but there are principles, there are spiritual building blocks that we hold in common, say these things we all believe and we hold hold to And that must be right. In many of the old ethnic parts of the big cities you find groups such as the the Sons of Italy or the Polish Falcons. You have groups that enjoy car racing or bowling or playing softball. Ensure those groups are made up of men and women with a common interest. And yet they lack that which is common in the heart of the body of Christ. Paul saw Titus and John Mark and Tichicus and Barnabas and Eusebubulus. Prudence and Linus and Claudia and scores of others as dear precious people. He may have been with them a week or a day but he saw them distance in time and space as precious to him as many others not even mentioned in named One mind, one mind, one heart, one love, one accord. That's the unity that goes way beyond sharing recipes or sharing crafts. It goes way beyond of going bowling together on Monday night. Jesus gives the directive. This is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. How has Christ loved me? He's seen me in all my frailties and all my weaknesses. He knows my heart's direction and so forth. Yet he continues to love me. He continues to offer such an appeal because we are his children. We have that fellowship, that friendship that is there. Those who signed the Declaration of Independence were mutually pledging to each other lives and fortunes and sacred honor. They did that because the Spirit of God was working amongst them. And again, I'm not going to count every signer of the Declaration of Independence as being a born-again believer, but I think the Spirit of God worked amongst them. in making such a unity. And Paul, well, he expressed throughout thirty years of ministry in word and in deed. That was that was, you read through that and you see that's the common thread through all of what we have. Ephesians 4. 3. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit. Where is the unity of the spirit? was first is found, as we mentioned, from Christ first. But he says, endeavoring to keep it In other words, there's an effort upon our parts, as part of the body of Christ, to do what we can to keep the unity of the Spirit. You know, it is so easy to to shrug off this or to do that on my own. Well, I've got the right idea. I know what's right. When that brother or that sister or that area needs to be addressed in prayer and in love. And that's oftentimes what eats up the body. Give due diligence to keep that which God has established. the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. We must indeed all hang together, or most assuredly, we shall hang separately As a body, we have to give due diligence to our brothers and sisters in Christ. We have to pray for each other sincerely. It's just not Wednesday. It's just not when we see them. But we need to have a list and say, these are needs that we have. Keep this person pure. Keep this person strong. Keep this person in the in the hollow of God's hand. frequent you know connections that we have. Yeah, nice to see everybody and the fellowship that we have, you know, on and and certain times we get together. But what about the other times What about the the the the the loneliness of that week or that day? Uh do we give them a call? How you doing? What's going on? You know to endeavoring to keep the bond, endeavoring to keep the unity. And if we don't, what happens? We find uh uh a pathway and we look back and say, what happened to that one? Oh I don't know. What happened to them? Oh I don't know. What happened to them? Oh they just left, you know And I'm not talking about anything specific, but I'm saying the strength of the body is endeavoring to do that. And that's what I believe God's Spirit used in making this country strong. Um not necessarily seeing uh any type of decline, anything different than any other time of history. We feel it today. We we're saddened with the way our nation has gone. We're saddened with various aspects of it. But I think the only way that the the nation can turn around is by the grace of God through the faithful preaching of the Word, and that the body itself acts as the body of Christ, not as a body of anything else. That we pray for our nation, that we pray for those in authority, because we're commanded to do, that we love each other with the love that Christ has given unto us. And when that's accomplished, we benefit from it. We profit. And I think that's what those early colonialists found to be necessary, to found to be key to their survival. Um, the Lord knows when he's gonna return. Um Tim mentioned in prayer, you know, if this church stays for another hundred years, can you imagine how many new roofs they're gonna have to have with another you know, that that's very, you know uh It's more than a building, isn't it? It's more than a building. It's more than those who are here. That's what God has given. Shall we pray? Father, thank you for the unity and the bond of Christ. Thank you for a day in which you called us to yourself, unbeknownst to us. um day before the foundation of this world, and uh names to be brought to our hearts' attention when we saw ourselves as sinners. And we within the secretness of our own hearts said, Yes, Lord Jesus, I am a sinner and I deserve hell. But you have provided for me Not only a way of escape, but you've given unto me eternal life. And I receive what your work had done upon Calvary's cross And being adopted into such a family. Not because I wanted to, but because you called me. And now, Lord, you've not only given me a family where there's a a Father who oversees all things But there's a spirit who works in my heart today, and may that spirit continue to work in my family, in my church family. That, Father, I might do those things that uh even our Lord Jesus Christ commanded me to do uh to express such love and concern and and care for the other members of the family. That we can do what we can even in the giving of ourselves, of our our possessions, of our talents of our time, uh even just to listen or to talk, uh, to spend the heart's time with others that have needs Uh help us to realize, Lord, that it's a beautiful family. That we can have brothers and sisters in Christ come from different corners of the world and we know them. Even though we've never met them before, we know them because of the common bond that we have in Christ And we rejoice in that. So may Father we remember to pray for them as best as we can to their particular needs and for those that we have never met Even as Paul has mentioned so many names of of men and women that were precious and dear to him, there were others that that he didn't even know, but he prayed for them And so, Father, may we pray likewise. Use us today as a bond in Christ. Keep us strong as a church. Keep us strong as a body. Strengthen us, Father, for the days ahead. And we'll thank you in Christ's name. Amen.