See this name here, Roberta. Roberta, Britain. I'm wondering if I'm because Britain's not that to be here today. And we're going to be looking into God's Holy Word. Of the 1,189 chapters of God's Word, 788,280 words, 3,556,480 letters in God's Word, which one are we going to look at today? Well, I actually I selected one here found in none other than Romans. So let's look in that Romans and I'm going to start in Romans chapter 9 And um go through the cover cover several Verses here in Romans chapter 9, as I get my Bible after look at my notes, and then Romans chapter 9 Excuse me, Romans chapter 3, verse 9. Romans 3, and then we're gonna look focus on verse 9 today, start there, and See where the Lord takes us. Since this is the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God, let's begin with a prayer, please. Our Lord, again, we want to say thank you that you have saved us. Thank you that you have placed in a local church. Thank you for our Bibles. Thank you that we have the good health to be here today. Thank you that we're brethren through the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. We say thank you for saving us, for keeping us saved. We look forward to being in heaven, but right now we're in the battle. So help us to put on the whole armor of God that we may prevail in this battle. Serving you Turning from our sins, being filled with the Holy Spirit, getting the Word of God out, doing the work of evangelism and discipleship. Have your blessing on this church. On this hour, we pray through Christ our Lord. And finally, before I conclude, I would ask, oh Lord, you know all of our hearts of here today. Is there a person here today who In their heart, they're not happy. Maybe they're going through stress or a struggle that only they know that nobody knows, but they're struggling with something. We pray that you will minister to that individual or those people Let the word touch their heart and give them healing and hope and optimism. Thank you for bringing us together this day, and I thank you in Jesus' holy name. Amen. So we're looking here today in Romans chapter 3. I'm going to start in verse 9 and just look at the verses one after another and make some comments on them and see what God's Word has for us today. So if we're looking here in Romans chapter 3, verse 9, we see this. What then? Are we better than they? No, in no wise. For we had before proved, both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin So the the verses we're going to be looking in today is all about comparing Jews and Gentiles and how the Lord ministers to them and through them. So the last word here is the word sin. And of course we know that this is a worldwide epidemic. Sin. Sin is cut has hidden every race. Every person we all struggle with that issue of sin. Of course we all know you already know why Jesus went to the cross and all that, but still looking at the history of this This is where we're beginning by thinking about sin. That's the last word in our verse here today. And also it's talking about sin in the context of the Jews and the Gentiles And so we understand, of course, that's what the scripture is about. Two groups of people, Jews and Gentiles. My assumption is probably most of us here are of the latter group, the Gentile group. But in order to understand Scripture, we have to understand God's plan for the Jew, as well, obviously, as the Gentile When I use the word Jew, obviously we're talking about God's covenant people. And they're put forth as God's covenant people from the very beginning, from Genesis all the way through Malachi The center is Jew or Israel as we uh as we look at them. Now the Lut we're all talking about the There's the Jew and the Gentile, or what they call the Goyim. That's a slang word for the Gentile. You'll see sometimes that that's used once in a while. We know that the Jew was God's covenant people, as I have mentioned. However, the problem that we see in Scripture, which is so clear, we see in Romans chapter 3 and verse 23, all have sinned. We've got the sin problem, right? And sin is what? It comes from the word Hamaltan and it means missing the mark of God's perfection. So when you see that word sin, think of that little definition. What is sin? Because that's like a little nebulous term, but it means missing the mark. of God's perfection. If you, I know I did, and I'm saying you, if you are not perfect, you're missing the mark of God's perfection, meaning we are sinners, and therefore Happy so happy that Jesus went to the cross for us. All have sinned. Romans 3. 23, as I have said, there's no exception. All of it has has done this. Therefore, we're all sinners. That being the case, I want you to look in Romans now, Romans chapter 3, and let's look together in verse 11. Romans chapter 3, verse 11. Excuse me. Let's go back to verse 10. Romans 3, 10, and here the scripture tells us. As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. Now that means standing before God. As we stand before God, nobody is righteous in and of themselves. Now we may be righteous in front of one another. You know, hey, he's he's a nice guy. That's a nice lady over there. Yeah, we're nice to all among one another, but in God's sight, no one is righteous in and of themselves We need help, we need rest, we need rescue. Basically, and that you know that's that's the message of the gospel. But what a significant verse this is Romans 3:10, as it is written, there is no no one righteous, no, not one person in and of themselves are righteous. Going to Romans chapter 3, verse 11, there is none that understands There is none that seeketh after God. So this is the plague of sin. This is the problem of sin. Nobody really, in and of themselves, seek God. Nobody wants to hear from God. And why is that? Because God is holy. We are anything but holy. So, and you know when you think back when you were a child and you Disobey your parents. The last thing you want to see is your parent, right? But in a way, that's that's the picture of us. God, holy God, when we sin before holy God That's not a good thing. Of course, that's why our Lord Jesus had to come to rescue us. You look in verse 12. For they are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable There is none that doeth good, no, not one. So here's God's assessment of the human condition And we're born into this. We're born into a world with our parents, but we're born into a world that is under the curse of sin, and as God looks at it, there is no none good, no not one And yet, as we continue on to read, this is this is like uh discouraging, but the more you read, the worse it gets for a moment here in Romans. Now you know you you might think, well boy, the Bible's so negative, get all this, but you know the Bible is a is a book of truth It's really not to make you happy or to feel good about yourself, although that can happen as we understand what Scripture is saying, but it is a book of truth, and it's laying that out, and especially in Romans chapter 3, it's laying out Your natural condition, my natural condition, if we were not rescued by the Lord. But let's look here at verse 13, Romans 3, 13, because the indictments get become worse Speaking about the common sinner, here it is, their throat is an open sepulcher. With their tongues they have used deceit. The poison of asps is under their lips. So could you find more derogatory terms describing the human race? So In some parts of Scripture, the Bible does not speak well of human beings, of our condition. Verse 14. Again, speaking about the human race, whose mouth is full of cursing. And bitterness. And isn't could there be anything more foreign to talk about issues of holiness, which the Bible does But to speak of a message of holiness to these kinds of people, which is really we're one of them as well, when you talk about holiness And uh you know I'm I just as I was putting this together, I was thinking of my times back when I was a student at University of Kentucky. And and um I I I went there 'cause I got a a football scholarship, so I'm there on that. But but the wickedness that prevails on in in you know in the in the locker room and I'm thinking you know, you've gone through it too, you know. But we're thinking here whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. That's all you ever hear about. You know, when when you're on on the football field during the game, all you hear is all kind of propriety going on. And that's what my mind went right back here to this Who's man and this but this is mankind? Your mouth is full of cursing and bitterness And uh, you know, the seriousness and uh that our speech can damage. You know, your speech can damage people. I hope you speak to people and your family with respect. You really have to be very careful and especially I would say I would talk to husbands. You know, sometimes when I'm speaking to husbands, I try to bring that up. You know, speak to your to your wife in terms of endearment Because it's tough. It's a tough world out there. And if she's getting harshness from her husband, that's tough. So I'm hoping all of you as Christian men, you know, speak To your wives with great respect. Tremendous respect. They need that. We all need it, but I this is what comes to my mind I would like to just give my two cents in that there. Because I see that violated a lot of times and when I'm doing counseling and you to get into the you know the problems of the couple And almost inevitably, the husband speaking to his wife in derogatory terms, showing no respect, you know, and what does that do? Just charge her down more and more and more. And so anyway, I threw that out here. Going on here, looking here, verse 14, we just talked about their mouths are full of cursing. Their feet, look in verse 15, their feet are swift To shed blood, this is a picture of violence. And again, it's just making a an analogy of mankind And here's what the scripture comes up with. These pictures here. It's not very nice. But again, we're looking at the Bible, which is what? It's a volume of truth. It's not here to pick you up and make you feel good about yourself, although I guess as you understand certain things in God's word you do. But it also gives you the good and it gives you the bad. And today we're looking here at the bad, you might say, their feet are swift to do what? To shed blood Giving us a picture of violence. Of course, all you have to do is put the news on and you see violence. It's an account of violence of man's and humanity to man around the world, where it's a war Or someone is shot in the inner city, or you know, it goes on and on. That's what mankind is all about. That's the world in which we live. Therefore, that's why we want to get the gospel out. Because what's the solution to all of this is the gospel. We'll talk more about that in just a minute Verse number 16, Romans 3. 16, destruction and misery are in their ways. We see here a picture of deprav you know depravity. And you know, again, I get back to this and You know, I stand amazed. You know, I do marriage counseling. And some of the times that you know the the the situations that come in, and I'm trying to you know encourage them and then you hear Just mistreatment and disrespect and harshness and sin. A lot of sin. But that's what the world is. That's what the world is. Praise God, but think about this. The Lord co pulled you out of all that and set you upon the solid rock of the Lord Jesus Christ, where you have the Word of God to be your authority. You're in a church of fellow mind same-minded believers So the Lord has put a great blessing on you and on us. But out in the world, it's a rough, nasty thing. Sometimes that actually can seep into the Christian family as well. So So anyway, we're looking here at verse 16. Destruction and misery are in their ways. Verse 17, and the way of peace they have not known. A lot of violence in this world. And I have a little note here, and the word says court. C-O-U-R-T. And that was to remind that was to remind me of a time when I was in court. I may I may have shed this told you this before. If I didn't, I'll gotta remind forget me, you know uh I was in a court case and um that's a scary thing because what they want to do is put you away and um so obviously I I well I did go to jail for a day I was I was there for like twelve hours. And you know what? That's not a place you want to be ever. Can you imagine somebody being sentenced like I sentenced you to five years or ten years? So um The way of peace have they not known. Verse 18. There is no fear of God before their eyes. In other words, they're arrogant. Again, he's describing human nature. And one of our problems is we're ar arrogant. So these are disastrous accusations. And therefore, mankind of his sin is doomed because why? Because God is holy. That's the whole problem. We by choice and by nature are sinners. And by the way, the word sin means what? Coming from the word Hamoton, and it means missing the mark of God's perfection. So if you are not perfect, you are a sinner. But you you share that well, how dare you call me a sinner? Uh are you perfect? Well no. Well then you're a sinner. That's that's the literal meaning of that word sin. Going on to verse 19. Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law. That every mouth may be stopped and all the world may become guilty before God. Now we're talking about the law Now in Scripture, you know, the law breaks down into three major categories. The law, there's what's called this the moral law, that's the Ten Commandments But then there's the civil law and there's a ceremonial law. And all that's incorporated in the word nomos or the word law. So really when you see the word law you want to inquire what law are they referring to, the civil, ceremonial And usually it's what they what we call the Ten Commandments. That's the moral law. And normally, most of the time when you see the word law, it has the Ten Commandments in mind. But not all the time. Sometimes they're just talking about the civil law, sometimes it's a ceremonial law. So we need to know something about the context. But we're going to find out that this is a condition of mankind. As we go over to verse number 20, what do we find here? Therefore, the Bible tells us in Romans 3. 20, therefore, by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. So there is the purpose of the law. Why the law? Why didn't God make the law? So that man would know what sin is. You violate the law? That's sin. So when Scripture tells us all have sinned to come short of the glory of God, we can easily understand that. Simply mean we break the law. We've all broken the law. One of those ten commandments we've broken. And so therefore, again looking at verse twenty, therefore by the deeds of the law Shall there no flesh be justified in his sight? For by the law is the knowledge of sin. I think we all understand this. We get into this thought in just a moment of justification. You see the word justification. Now what does justification mean? It means just as if I never sinned. That's justification. And we're going to get into that in just a minute. If I were to give you I'm sure I think you this example, but let me give it to you again. Maybe somebody news here But if I let this hand represent me, it's Don Britton, if I let this pen represent my sins. Actually, if if you want to have a more accurate uh analysis here, I'd probably put This pulpit on my hand to represent my sins. But we'll use this. Scripture tells me that Don Britain and you by the way, this is your story as well. You are, you suffer with sin. This represents our sin. Let this hand represent the Lord Jesus Christ, who loved us and gave himself for us. Notice there's no sin on him. So what did Jesus do? Well he did many wonderful things, but here's one of the things he did when he was on the cross He's taking my sin on himself. And make paying the penalty for my sins. The Lord Jesus is paying the penalty for my sin. So that I have how many sins to answer for? None. Based on this, I go to heaven. But if this issue is not taken care of and I stand before God with my sin, You know what that's and that that's rejection to hell. But wonderfully the Lord, we know this, that when we place our trust and faith in Jesus as our Savior, This is what's taking place. Jesus is taking my sins, dying on the cross for my penalty of my sins, and you think of the agony and misery of what that is? But not only that, he takes the sins of all his elect, all his people. So to how? We can stand before a holy, righteous God with no sin. Hence, we have heaven waiting for us However, then when does it take place when you believe in Jesus? So I'm saying then, of course, I don't know all of you, I know you generally speaking, I don't know you deeply, all of you. But if you've not received Christ into your heart, you're going to stand before God like this with your sin. Then what are you going to say? Well, I did my best. I tried. I didn't mean to hurt anybody It's not going to matter. That's why you have to the only way you can get rid of these sins is by receiving Christ. Then the sin issue is taken care of. Then you can stand before the Lord. And Hear those words, well done thou good and faithful servant. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. So I'm hoping and trying, and just assuming, I'm just this this is not good to do, by the way, either, but I am assuming all of you have done this. You've received Christ into your heart. But if you hadn't That's something you should probably hopefully do today when we close on a prayer, because this sin has to be dealt with. To us, sin is not that big an issue. It's part of our life. But to God, God is perfectly holy A sin, one sin, is very, it's massively offensive to God. That's why he sent his only begotten son for you and for me And his plan worked, because here we are, we love Jesus, we know our sins therefore are taken care of. But what a wonderful thing this is. Getting back here, I got off a little tangent here, but let's look at this, about this justification. Look at we saw the word here in verse 24. Couple key words here in verse 24. Being justified, just as if you never sinned. And let me get back for a moment. I may have shared this with you. If I did, it was a long time ago, when we were involved in a what's called a rescue in Philadelphia. We picketed a an abortion clinic. And when I say picket, you're just standing in front of it and passed out tracks, preached I had a bullhorn. For God so loved the world. And it was a wonderful thing until the cops came. And the cops say, Come here, you come here. Get in. Why? Get in white. Get in the get in the wagon or why? Why? What'd I do? And and then they take us off. It must have been maybe thirty others. They put us in this band like thing And um take us um to the judge, downtown and the judge. He said, now you're accused of blah blah blah blah. If you're guilty Two years in jail and a fine of thirty thousand dollars. You understand? Yeah. Okay, you're f you're free to go And the court case is maybe about two months up the road. So now you got two months. We've got to find a lawyer who can defend us and all this. And By the grace of God, if you're ever if you're ever into something like this, if you get a lawyer who understands the pro-life movement You usually can get off. But if you don't, if you just get a regular lawyer and he's not really into these things, you're probably going to spent send some money and maybe send some time in in jail So anyway though but that that that reminds me here when I see these words redemption and then also uh we could tell you one one little other story about redemption that occurred when we were in Ghana, Africa We did a ch uh a missionary journey there in Ghana after and you know what? Well I landed Back in America. I get on my knees. Thank you, Lord, for the great United States of America. You know where you are free to preach God's word. You say, well, aren't you free to preach God's word in Ghana? Not really, you're not A lot of those people don't like that and they do they'll do some things too if they don't like it. But there's you you realize if you go to another country, there's nothing even close to America. Not even close That's why we gotta continue to pray for America, pray for our president, pray for our Congress, our Supreme Court, our churches, our pastors. We gotta pray for these things. Because we've got something special here in America that's nowhere near you, you go to the rest of the world, okay, but there's nothing near America. But we have this great blessing, I believe, because we're a Christian nation. But we gotta keep on getting the Word of God out, living godly lives and serving the Lord. But you begin to appreciate appreciate that when you you know travel a little bit. Let's go to verse uh what verse am I on here? 25 Verse 25, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. To declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. Let's break this down a little bit. You see here Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation. And that word propitiation means like an atonement, a covering for our sin. So that when God looks at you, he sees the righteousness of Christ, not your sin. And that's some of the idea under that word propitiation. It's a good Biblical term. You don't hear it much anywhere else, but we should be aware of it here. You see the word propitiation. And how then we see the word faith. It's through faith in his blood. You see all the doctrinal issues that are here Through faith. And by the way, faith, I would like to say, scripture also makes it very clear. I'm sure you all know this, but it's good to have it reaffirmed again. Faith, that's a gift of God. That you believe in Jesus Christ, that's a gift that God gave you. And if He didn't give it to you, you would not have it. You'd be a pagan out in the street carrying on like some strange some strange creature I'm sure some of you can recite Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9, right? Say it with me if you know it. For by grace are you saved through faith. And not not of yourself. Nobody's saying it's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Does anybody know it here? Nobody said anything. I know you feel weird saying, I I understand that. Uh a lot of times on where you are, the guy's back here preaching, he's now let's do this and it's weird, I know. But anyway, but I know you won't know it. But think of that verse, right? Grace are you saved through faith And where do you get that faith? That's a gift of God. How do I know that? Philippians 2. 13. It is a God that worketh in you, both to know and to do his will. This whole thing, salvation, the whole thing is up is all of God. You know, it's not of you or of me. It's all of God's mercy. We found mercy in the eyes of God But now you ask the question, well why? Why did I find mercy? But Joe over here didn't. How did I find mercy? I can't answer that question other than the only answer that we s that addresses this is grace And that grace is what? Receiving comes from the word caras, and it means receiving something good that you did not earn and deserve. That's grace. You received something good that you didn't earn it. You and especially me these deserve hell, but we're getting heaven because we have been recipients of grace It's a wonderful thing. When you start to know that God put his grace on you, he didn't have to, but I don't know why he did. I don't know why he put grace on me. I have no idea But I'm so happy he did. And for all of you as well. It's a glorious thing. So as we look at these words in scripture, there's so much in here that it's really hard to understand it all Going back to this verse I just talked, whom God has sent for to be a propitiation through faith. In his blood, we know the scripture tells us without the shedding of blood, there's no for no forgiveness of sins. You understand that. There had to be the shedding of blood on my behalf, on your behalf. And it wasn't the blood of bulls and goats, but the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. In his blood to declare his righteousness. For the remission of sins. And that's the issue. The remission of sins. I have these sins. Where's my thing? I'm trying to look for something here. That might be appropriate and um well I'll use the pen again. You know, again, me, my sin Jesus takes my sin off of me. You just did that, didn't you? Yes, I'm doing it again. Why? You know why? Because if you're like me you gotta see things two or three times before it sinks in. So if I just did it once, maybe one of you might know it or remember it. If I do it twice, maybe more of you. If I do it three or four times, you're going to get the idea. So that's what we mean by the remission of sins through the forbearance, and the text says through the forbearance of God. Let's look in verse 26. To declare, I say this at this time, his righteousness. that he might be just and the justifier of him who believes in Jesus. There's that key word. Who believeth in Jesus. That word belief. Pistos means to trust in rely upon or adhere to. So really the word belief is not just like, oh okay, I believe just like a mental ascent. But it is belief that leads to some kind of discipline, some kind of direction in your life. To declare that he might be just and a justifier of him which believes in Jesus. And that word justification and just, you know what that means? It means just as if I never sinned. So if I am justified, here's Don Britton, here is my sin, somehow I have to appear before a holy God without this sin. How in the world I can't I can stop my sinning if I'm lucky I can stop my sinning, but I can't do anything about the past. That's why Jesus had to come and take. your sin off of you through the work and doing of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's grace. Because you didn't deserve it and I didn't deserve it. What I deserved be left of founder in hell. But I have eternal life waiting for me. It's a glorious thing. We receive the Holy Spirit to guide us, to direct us. Isn't that wonderful too? We probably don't talk much about this as we ought. The gift of the Holy Spirit And what does it give to the Holy? It empowers you. It guides you. If we didn't have the Holy, we couldn't live the Christian life But wonderfully, the Lord not only told us what to do, he gave us a power to do it. Now I'm wondering as I say that, maybe there's somebody here today who's struggling with a particular sin in your life And you think, oh, I've tried to stop this, I can't do it, I try to stop this, dah blah, blah, blah, blah. You know the Christi the human condition. But that's not really true. If you know the Lord Jesus He will give you power to overcome your sin or your problem, whatever it is. In fact, I'm gonna Close in a few minutes with a prayer, and that's something we might want to pray about. What is the issue in your life? You probably all have these issues. We get hung up on this and hung up on that So, for just a moment, think about it. What is the thing that you struggle with? We want to go to the Lord and ask him to give you deliverance from this, give you victory over this. Isn't that what we should have? We have the Holy Spirit living in us. What? To have victory over sin. So I'm hoping and I know none of us are certain certainly I know for me I'm not perfect. I got my issues I got to deal with. And you know I just thought of something. I wish I didn't think about it. I just thought my dear wife, if she'd be here, she'd be like Don't talk about everybody else's sins, think about yours. She'd be doing that now. I wish I hadn't thought about her 'cause now I you know I lose it a little bit I didn't let me get into this, but anyway, we're looking here at what 27 here. Where is posting? Right, where is boasting then? It is excluded by what law You know I can't see the tears get in the eyes and I can't see it. Okay, let me try this again. Where is boasting then? It is excluded by what law of works? No, but by the law of faith You know, through faith. Now you all know verses dealing with faith, don't you? Like we all know Ephesians two eight and nine. Grace. We talked about that, right? Grace is saved through faith, not of yourself, gift of God. Not a works list any man should boast. That's a good verse to get down if you're not familiar with it. Because that clarifies a lot of things. And that's really good when you're witnessing and sharing Christ with someone. They don't understand concepts of grace and faith and all that, so you sort of have to Discuss every little aspect of it. So Ephesians 2. 8. 9 is a good verse to have clear in your head. And now I would ask this question too. Are you memorizing verse Bible verses? Get in the habit of memorizing scripture. Because that always you know comes in handy when you're talking to someone and especially you're talking to someone who's skeptical or is a wise guy. Oh yeah, I don't believe in God. You get those kinds. But if you can research to them, that does so much. It's amazing how it just sort of shuts down all the arguments and they and they listen to it So memorize, memorize God's word, especially if we're going to be soul witness for Jesus Christ. We've got to have God's word in our head. Now somebody challenged me to do this, and I'm going to give you that same challenge. We talk about memorizing a verse of scripture. Wonderful, do it. And if you're doing that, wonderful. Here's something to think about. And when somebody told me this, I said, man, you're nuts telling me this. But he said, think about memorizing a chapter of the Bible. I said, why? Let me clear my ear. I thought you said chapter. What did you say? Yeah. Commit yourself to memorizing a chapter of God's Word. Well I can't do that. How in the world But you know for some reason that stuck in my mind. And it was probably months later I remember and I thought, you know, I'm going to try that. See if I can memorize a chapter. And you know what? I can. I did Paul the servant of the Lord Jesus Christ and the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad greeting, my brother, kind of all joy when you informed the various trials and winess of the trial of faith for its faith. I'm not going to go on and on. But I was able to memorize that chapter And um and I'm thinking, you know, if I can do it, anybody can do it, if we took if we all took an IQ test here today, I guarantee you the guy with the lowest IQ is me. I can guarantee you that. But I know this if I can memorize a chapter of the Bible, you can do it. You can do it half the time and you can memorize much more than I can. So therefore I'm giving you a challenge. Memory, take out a chapter of God's word that's meaningful to you and memorize it. Not the verse, the chapter. You can do it. Just matter of desire. Right, you know, do I have anything here? I probably don't have anything I want to show you here. Do I have anything here? You know, uh put put the put the verse on me by five card, carry it with you. When you stop at a red light, get it out and look at it, or when you're walking down the street, look at it, the over. And once you get one one verse down, you'll be amazed. It's easy to get the next verse and the next verse. And Do it. That's the point I'm trying to make here. Why am I even getting into this? Because I'm looking in Rome in Romans 3. 27. Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? Of works? No, not by works, but by the law of faith. Where is boasting then? Again, we pointed out Ephesians 2 8 and 9, you got nothing to boast about. Nothing to boast because our salvation is all of God. And so I'm going to stop here and leave it here. But we're going to find through these verses here, we're going to stop the world is guilty before God. That's I think that was my wonderful title I gave to this message. The world is guilty before God. And if the world is guilty before God, what is your responsibility? What is my responsibility? To get the Word of God out You know, let's be more evangelistic. Get God's word out. And I was looking here. I wanted to do something to be a good example to you, and I didn't do it Oh man. Because I mean I'm forgetting more and stuff, you know, older I get I sh man. Anyway, I wanted to give you I just wanted to show you a track. You know, a track I like to carry around and use Not here, not in that pocket, not in that pocket. Could it be over here? No, it's not there. It could be here. No, I don't have it. But find a track that you're happy with, you know, that you can use, that you can defend And carry it with you and give it out. That's one way of starting the conversation. If you have another way of doing it, do it. If you got a better way of doing it, do it. That's what I'm know sharing what does what works with me But we got to figure out a way, uh all of us, you and me especially, that could be more evangelistic. No, we want to be more evangelistic and get make Jesus an issue in this community. Some houses over here, I think. And um, you know, I think we should do that. That we we want to enjoy our Christian life and thank the Lord He saved us, but also we don't want to be lazy with it. It's a great responsibility for you to know Christ. And then also to know how to communicate the Word of God And you know nothing's more exciting. You talk to somebody and then they come to the Lord Jesus Christ. What a wonderful thing that was. I'm going to start to cry again. Because Thinking of I guess my best friend, one of my best friends, I may probably shared this with you. I know I did, so But you know what, I said it again because if you're like me you forget stuff. So but just in sharing Christ. When I started to grow my Christian life I was in on the college campus. And you know that's full of atheism, all the nonsense you get on a country. Even back then, this is back in the 60s. There's nonsense there. But it was in that environment where I learned to share Christ And um I thought, well there's no time to learn to do this than with my roommate. He didn't need it. So here comes my roommate Alex. Now he was a he's from Canada, Montreal, Canada. We were getting we're pretty good friends, you know. We got good friends, understood each other, we did things together, we're now on double dates together, we'd do wonderful things together. But I know but he was not saved. I thought it's bothering me. It's bugging me more and more. It's bothering more and more. And I thought I gotta talk to him about the Lord. So So we're in the room one da one day, and it was like I think it was an afternoon if I remember right. Usually you're not in your in your bedroom because you know in your dorm room, but for whatever reason we were both there And I thought, ha ha, here's the time. Nobody's around. I'm going to witness to them now. So I got a track. I gave it to him. Al, can you answer this question? And the track says, Am I going to heaven? He looked at that and said, I don't know that stuff. I don't want to hear all that. Oh man. So I began to share with him anyway. That God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. Jesus Christ is God's provision for a man's sin. Through him you can know and experience God's loving plan for your life We must receive Christ by personal invitation. Have you ever done that, Al? No, don't bother me with that. Oh man What do you mean don't bother you? That's my life's about that. What are you talking about? Well, the thing was this, I'll close with this. I'm going long-winded here. You're getting tired and I don't blame you But but but how that this this this story ends good. This is a very wonderful, wonderful story. I guess I won't take the time to go into the detail that Al did get saved, by the way. I brought him to to Christian meetings and things such as this, and eventually he got saved. And now he and I are having Bible study in the dorm, in the football dorm. And we're getting other players to come and other players are coming to know the Lord and we're starting to be a movement on the campus. It was like an exciting time. And um that's how these things happen And I'm trying encouraging you to do the same thing if you can, if you're able to share Christ with others Now you but I know what you're thinking. You're thinking I'd like to do that, but I don't know how. How am I going to do this? Oh you want to become a Christian? How am I going to do this? Well there are ways of doing that. You can Maybe we can talk about that next time. There are ways and you know the best way to do it is with a track. With my track. Oh my gosh. I want to get my track and here's my check, my offering God. Where where's the plate? Let me put that in it for it. Is it here? Is the plate here, by the way? What happened to the plate? Did you take them in? Where? Under here? All right. It's in there, so I wish I hadn't done that, I could have gone left and still had my check and everything. I'm just kidding. Anyway. Alright, why don't we conclude with a prayer and then we'll continue on. Our Father, we want to give you thanks Lord, thank you for this wonderful church. This is a splendid, wonderful church right here, where the Spirit of God is it prevails week after week after week. We call your blessing upon it. We call your protection upon it. We ask, Lord, that you will encourage the believers here and the pastor here, your leaders. Your blessing will be upon them. We pray that you may even bring more people in so that one day every seat can be filled. But that may not be your will. I don't know what your will is on this, because I know so many wonderful churches and they're not the the pew's not filled. So I don't know what that's all about, but I would pray for that. I would pray that you'll bring additional people here, that one day this room will be filled with those who love you, who serve you, and the Word of God will go forth in great power. Bless this wonderful congregation now. Have your blessing on them. Thank you for bringing us together. And could there be someone here today who does not know the Lord Jesus? Maybe you're just a friend of a Christian and you're looking Just out of curiosity, receive the Lord Jesus Christ now. What must I do to be saved? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. The Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God Died on the cross paying the penalty for your sin, or else you could not go to heaven without that being paid. Dies on the cross for your sins. He's buried and resurrected. And he calls you and me to receive him. Receive Jesus as our Savior. Jesus, I want you as my Savior. Please save me. It's all a simple prayer. Please save me, Lord, from my sins. Do that now if you've never done it. Thank you, Lord, for your love, for your mercy, for your patience. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.