The Chinese flew. They didn't have any ceremony or anything. They gave them the certificates out in the hallway more or less. Uh normally they would have a big assembly of a lot of people and photos and everything. They didn't have anything. And uh of course that's how it is with the church as well. The church is really shut down to a great extent through this Chinese flu as well. It's uh something that shuts down personal contact, that inhibits personal contact And how do you witness the people? Well, you witness the people through personal contact. Uh, you know, you try to give people tracks. And people don't wanna take anything, they don't want to touch anything. And uh of course uh people can do their services online, a lot of places, but you know, they don't have Sunday school, they don't have anything extra And even when they do have their services, they don't have Sunday school. And so this uh Chinese flu has been something that has really been inhibiting the church and shutting it down, and of course some of the time shutting it down completely And uh so we have to pray to the Lord that He'll remove this from us and uh that we can get back to normal someday. But it's hard to have a day when there's no more flu. And so it's gonna be hard to get back to normal since they have a big deal about the flu today. Let's go over to Revelation chapter fourteen. And of course with all these things going on in society We have things leading up to the coming back of Jesus Christ. Somebody, my daughter said to me this past week, she said Oh well, hey, you know, uh you know, things have been bad before in the Roman Empire and Jesus didn't come back and you know Things are just going as they always have been, and uh they all just go back and forth and up and down and Jesus really isn't necessarily coming back soon, but it's not really the same as it's always been is that we have tighter government control possible today than ever has been possible. And tighter control of everything. through the internet, through all those things, and his big brother is completely watching today and trying to take control. And of course, we looked at the number of the beast, the mark of the beast last time, 666, at the end of chapter 13, and that brings us to chapter 14. And so chapter 14, we read the responsive reading earlier, and we have another 144,000 here. We have 144,000 Jews back in chapter 7, 12,000 of each of the tribes of Israel, but now we have a second group of 144,000. I don't think it's the same group. This one doesn't have twelve uh tribes mentioned or anything like that. And it tells us what this group is. This 144,000, verse 1, they have the Father's name written in their foreheads. God's name is always important. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Name is important. Name of the church is important Name of Christian is important. Name of the Father is important. Father's name And of course you can have a dirty name. In Brazil, they uh if somebody's credit is not good, they have a dirty name. Anomi suja. Suzu. And so here we have the Father's name there, and then verse 2. I heard the voice from heaven. And a voice spoke, and he also heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps. Harpers harping with their harps. What are we going to do in heaven? Well, you know, we don't know a whole lot about heaven. Uh we know that it's going to be good. And uh, you know the Little bit scary thing perhaps about heaven is it's going to be different than right now. Something that we've never been experienced before. We're going off to something different. from this source, but we're told it's going to be very, very good and that we're going to like it. Well one of the things that are going to one of the things that are going to be in heaven is music. We have music in heaven. And here we have the harps harping there. That kind of music. What kind of music does a harp have? Well, it has a soothing, soft music. It has one that's appropriate for worship of God. And certain music is appropriate for the worship of God, and certain music is not appropriate. For the worship of God. And we don't have loud, blaring music here. We don't have drums. We don't have electric guitars. We don't have all that stuff. We got harpers harping with their harps And not only are they harping, but then we have verse 3. They are singing. The hundred and forty-four thousand people are singing. They sung as it was a new song. It was not appropriate to be sung before this time, but they're singing a new song now. And what are we going to do in heaven? Well, I don't know if everybody in heaven is going to harp on the harp, but uh we might be doing some of that. And we I think probably we'll all be singing. And if we're in the church right now, we should be singing. Singing is important. It's important to the worship of God. In fact, right now with all this Chinese flu stuff they're talking about and have talked about how people shouldn't be singing in church. They shouldn't be spreading germs as they're singing. Of course, we were in a church a few weeks ago on Sunday night, and they were all there with their masks on singing. So uh they were uh which I think is kind of hard to do. But uh you know, you know we have singing is very important. And a lot of people really don't like singing all that much. They don't like to sing. And they just say, well, hey, I don't like to sing. But you know a Christian should like to sing. He should like to sing. And you know, some of us don't sing very good, some don't sing good, but they still can make a joyful noise. A joyful noise. That's what the Bible talks about, a joyful noise And we can sing out with our heart as unto the Lord. And singing will be in heaven. Singing is here with the 144,000. And in the Old Temple, they had professional singers in the Old Temple with David in the Old Testament. So here we have they're singing, playing their harps, and then it tells us who these 144,000 are. Well, they're redeemed from the earth, verse 3. But there also, verse 4, these are they which were not defiled with women, for they are virgins. So this is an interesting thing here. It's pretty clear what it's talking about. I think we ought to just take this literally here. Let's take it literally. Take things in the Bible, especially in prophecy, as literally as possible. If there's no good reason not to take it literally, then we should take it literally. And this is, I think it ought to be just that these hundred and forty-four thousand are bachelors. They're all bachelors. 144,000 bachelors. And these are the close entourage of Jesus They follow Jesus wherever he goes. You know, all big figures they have their entourages They have uh people or crowd around them that go with them everywhere, generals in the army, they have their staff, and the president has all his guards and his advisors. And all their entourage. And Christ's entourage, his palace guard, if you will, that goes with him wherever he goes, is that 144,000 bachelors. Now, are these all Roman Catholic priests? They're all bachelors, supposed to be. No. This is uh uh you know cr good fundamentalist Christians all from all through history. uh that are bachelors. And you know, not everyone has the gift to be a bachelor. In fact, the Bible says that most people do not have that gift, but some people do have that gift. And they have, these 144,000 of them have a special place. I can think of one of them that's probably in this 144,000, is Jay Gresham Machin. Jay Gresham Machin was a bachelor, great leader of the Bible Presbyterian Church, way at the beginning of the Bible Presbyterian Church, back in the 1930s. He was a great Christian leader, and he was a bachelor and died fairly young back in 1937. In fact, he's buried right here in Baltimore. Uh Pastor Byrd always liked to take people to see his grave down at uh cemetery downtown and I went with him one time. But anyway, we have these 144,000. They follow the Lamb wherever he goes. And they are firstfruits. They're considered some of the best unto God. You know, Paul talked about in the Bible that there was an advantage to being a bachelor or being single. that you care more for the thing, tend to care more for the things of God than care for the things of your spouse. And that's not to say that it's wrong to get married, but there's an advantage to being single And most people don't have that gift, but a few people do. You know, you can't make it all one way or all another way. The Roman Catholics. They make it all that all the priests, they all cannot be married. They have to be bachelors. But we can't make rules like that. And over in Cameroon, where I was missionary, they had the opposite rule. They had the rule for the pastors over there that all of them had to be married. And uh they decided that that was a good rule to avoid problems, and so they they absolutely had to be married. And that's I really don't think that's a very good idea either. It shouldn't make a rule about it for everybody. But here we have these 144,000. Then we're told about the 144,000 in verse 5, in their mouth was found no guile. So all through history, a small minority All through history has made is making up this 144,000. And one great quality of this 144,000, these people that are picked out all through history, is that in their mouth is found no guile. Well, what is guile? Well guile is falseness. There was no falseness with these people. And uh, you know, that's a real problem with people being false. They put on a false face. When they don't like something or someone, they act like they do like it or like them. They put on this false face. And that's not what a Christian ought to do. Of course, that doesn't mean that the Christian has to blurt out everything he thinks at all times, just to be honest, but he doesn't want to do it false either. He doesn't want to act like he likes something that he doesn't like. And in their mouth was found no guile. And that's a rather uncommon thing. And they're without fault before the throne of God. And of course they were sinners as they lived on the earth, but now they're without fault, and they were without any public faults, as we have with elders in the New Testament being blameless. And then we have verse 6. Verse 6. We have the 144,000 following the Lamb. And then verse 6, we have, and I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven. Having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwelt on the earth, and to every nation and kindred and tongue and people. So the everlasting gospel is being preached here by this angel. And that's the same everlasting gospel that we give out today. It's the same everlasting gospel that was way back in the Old Testament. And we're going to see it here in a second. But you know this everlasting gospel is preached to whom? It's preached to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. It's preached to Jew and Gentile, it's preached to the Jews and also to Cornelius We were studying in Sunday school this morning about Cornelius, how he became the first Gentile convert as a Gentile. No, all the time before that, Gentiles could become Jews, but they had to become Jews first to be considered part of the people of God. But then with Cornelius, things change. There's a change in direction by God, and we have the Gentiles are coming in as Gentiles. And so here it points that out. Every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. And that was a big thing in the New Testament. The Jews were so used to only Jews being the people of God. Only Jews. And they needed to get the fact, get it, take it to heart. that other people could come unto the Lord, that the Gentiles could come unto the Lord. And so you know, we go through the Bible And in the New Testament, it talks about every, every, preach the gospel to every creature. And then we have all mentioned many times, all. And there's a saying by the Baptists, by the Arminians, they say that all means all, and that's all that all means. And they say that when the Bible says all or every, that means every single one that ever lived. But that's not true. It's pointing out the fact that it's both Jew and Gentile, that every type of person is included. And that's what we have right here. And then here we have the everlasting gospel in verse 7, saying with a loud voice, fear God and give glory to him. That's the everlasting gospel. The everlasting gospel. Fear God and give glory to Him. Well, you know, when we give out the gospel today, I like to give out the gospel and tell people that they need to pray and ask for forgiveness of their sins. And they need to give their life to the Lord. They need to pray like that publican in the New Testament prayed, God be merciful to me, a sinner. So I like to say that. But you know that's said right here in this verse as well. You know, God be merciful to me a sinner. Fear God. We're fearing God. Why are we fearing God? We're fearing God because of our sin. We're fearing the judgment that would come upon sin. And we need to get that sin right before the Lord and confess that sin to God. Fear God. And you know fear here means fear. Just take it literally. It means fear. I've heard preachers explain that away. They say, well, it doesn't really mean fear. It means that we're supposed to respect God. But it means more than just respect. We're supposed to fear him. Fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. And we're supposed to fear him when we come unto him. You know, that's how I came unto the Lord. You know, it's so often today people like to put down the idea of talking about hell when you're witnessing to people And they like to, you know, put down the idea of talking about everlasting punishment. But that's what I heard about when I was a child and I came to the Lord when I heard about that in Bible school back when I was a child Fear God. You know, back in the history of the church, remember Jonathan Edwards. They had a great revival here in America, the Great Awakening. back in the 1740s or so. And his great sermon that's always remembered is Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. And, you know, he preached that with great power. People were hanging on to the pillars of the church so that they wouldn't fall into hell. And the Spirit of God was moving. And here we have fear God and give glory to him. Fear him. Confess our sins to him so we don't have to suffer for our sins. So we don't have to go to hell. And hell is talked about more later on in this passage. And give glory to him. Well, after we confess our sins, what do we do? We give our life to him. We give glory to him. We don't give glory to ourselves. And uh uh I remember uh a few weeks ago I stopped by for uh prayer meeting here and And Mike was given the lesson on don't glory in our riches, don't glory in our wisdom, don't glory in anything else, but what should we glory in? Glory that we know the Lord and glory in the Lord. That's what we should glory in. Give glory to Him. And so there's the everlasting gospel. The angel is going out and preaching the everlasting gospel here at the time of the end. But there's something else with the everlasting gospel. It's for the hour of his judgment is come, verse 7. And worship him. The hour of his judgment has come. God is going to set things right, finally. God is going to put everything under his feet. The hour of his judgment is coming. That's part of the everlasting gospel, too. Then let's go on. To verse 8. Let's start reading there. And there followed another angel saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen. That great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and the image, and receive his mark in his forehead or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation, and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels And in the presence of the Lamb, and the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name. Here is the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God And the faith of Jesus. So we have the 144,000. We have the everlasting gospel being preached. And then we have another angel comes and says, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city. Babylon. Babylon the Great. There's a lot of space devoted to Babylon the Great later on. Chapters 17 and 18. And if you remember, I have said here in the church that I believe that the United States is Babylon the Great. With the condition that we actually are near the time of the end, which I definitely believe that we are, and if we are near the time of the end, the United States is the only entity that would fit. All the things having to do with Babylon the Great. Well, anyway, here it's talking about Babylon the Great. Babylon is fallen, is fallen. Uh some people think it's Babylon rebuilt. Uh you know, back with Saddam Hussein he was rebuilding Babylon over there. And people thought that was going to be Babylon the Great. They thought Rome was Babylon the Great, but those don't fit at all. But we have Babylon is fallen. So here's an announcement made. Babylon has not yet actually fallen. It's going to fall in verses seven in chapters 17 and 18. But here's an announcement made that it will fall, that it's as good as falling. It's fallen. It's fallen. It's just like we're elected from the foundation of the earth. It's just as good as we're elected, just as good as we're saved from the foundation of the world. If we're God's elect. And here it says, Good has fallen, Babylon the Great. And then it tells about Babylon the Great, why she's fallen, why she gets judged. It says, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. Well, here it would be spiritual fornication here with Babylon the Great. And so she has made nations turn away from the Lord. Well, you know the only place that really fits that is the United States today The United States is the one that's turning all the world away from God. You know, in the past, we have a great godly heritage in America. And today they talk about canceling culture. And they want to cancel our godly heritage today. And we do have a godly heritage in America. But that heritage is un unfortunately in the past And today America is basically a wicked country murdering babies to the uh tune of millions, uh having homosexual marriage and all kinds of things But the United States is the one that really influences the rest of the world. You know, we've been missionaries, and we've done a lot of traveling, a lot of living in other parts of the world. And you can see how the rest of the world is influenced by America. Influenced by America's music. The music is exported everywhere, all over the world. Of course, we're just getting into a little bit of Babylon the Great here with this one verse here, but it's exported all over the world. I remember way back when I was in the Air Force over in Thailand, walking through a village in Thailand, and coming out of the little huts in the village was American rock and roll music This everywhere. And we influence the whole world. Influence the whole world through our music, through our theater, movies. They go all over the world. Everybody watches the American movies. Nobody can make compete really with the American movies. Of course, today the movies are basically slam bang CG But anyway, the thing is, they these movies go out all over and so much of it is wickedness. Just wickedness. The movies today are all darkness. Did you ever notice a lot of these new movies? It's always eternal twilight in the movie. It's never bright sunlight. Always twilight. And uh it's dark. And America is influencing for evil And then of course we go to the internet. Who's the great influencer on the internet? America, with Google, with Facebook, with all those different things Exporting our things. Ira was just talking as we were coming to church this tomorrow this morning about how much trash there is on the internet. Anti-Christian trash, all kinds of things. Of course the internet can be used for good things Movies can be used for good things. Music can be used for good things, but they're used mostly for bad things. And especially the internet and movies today And so, just to say that in a word, America has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornications. Turning away from the Lord. And in Brazil especially, they take all their cues from the United States. And Ira was just talking this morning as well. She was saying she heard about in Brazil they were talking about the digital money And of course, they take their cue from the United States. Everything they take their cue. Although sometimes they run even a little bit further with it, but still they take their cues from here Well, let's go on. We'll say more about that when we get to 17 and 18. And then verse 9. We have a pronouncement of judgment. Upon the people that have the mark of the beast. And you know, it goes on in great detail here about the judgment upon people that take the mark of the beast. And we talked about last week that the bark of the beast could be a computer chip inserted in the floor forehead in the hand. But it says here, if they take that mark, they're going to drink of the wine of the wrath of God, verse 10. They're going to be tormented forever. And it doesn't sound very good here. You know, a lot of people like to talk about, oh, I'm going to hell. That's where all my friends are going to be. Yeah, well, that's not how it's going to be. It's not going to be party time down in hell. It's going to be God is going to be in control of it and it's going to be a terrible time and it's a terrible thing that to even think about You know, you don't even like to think about hell. And not to think about the punishment there. And uh of course that's one reason we go out and preach the gospel. We want to get people away from hell And so, anyway, it says, even in hell here, it says the presence of the lamb will be there. They'll be tormented in the presence of the lamb. People talk about with hell also. Oh, well hell really doesn't consist of much except it's just separation from God. Well, there's not really any separation in God either. There's the presence of the Lamb right there right here But it's a terrible place to be. There's a huge difference between heaven and hell. And people today like to live for the here and now. The people that are taking the mark of the beast, they live for the here and now. But the saints have patience. We have that in verse 12. Here is the patience of the saints. We have patience for the future, that we're going to be rewarded in the future. But the people that live for the here and now, well, they they have things a little bit better right now, maybe, taking the mark of the beast, but they're going to have things really bad in the future What if somebody takes the mark of the beast by mistake and decides to repent after that? Well, you know, the thing is I don't think that's ever gonna happen. It's gonna be God is gonna make sure that Only the people that need the mark of the beast get the mark of the beast, and only the people that don't need it, that are Christians, are not going to have the mark of the beast. God is going to control all of that And then we have here down in verse 14 or 12. Here is the patience of the saints. Patience that we're going to be rewarded in the future. Patience. To put up with the persecution. Here is the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. We keep the commandments of God. That's what a Christian does. He keeps the commandments of God. How do we know that we know God? We're told in 1 John if we keep his commandments. Hereby do we know that we know God if we keep his commandments And I hear a lot of going around today, I think maybe I've mentioned it before, where people like to put down commandments. Christians do. And the Christians say, oh boy, you talk about commandments, you're just all legalistic. And you know, I don't obey God because it's commandments. I obey God because I love him. And you know that's so much better. And we don't talk about commandments. But you know, the Bible is very clear about commandments. What is a commandment? A commandment is something that we have an obligation to obey. We're obligated. We're told to do it, and we need to do it. Commanded. And so a Christian he keeps the commandments of God, first of all, because they're commandments, but he also keeps them because he loves God. It's not one or the other, it's both. He keeps them because they're commandments and because he loves God. But commandments are very prevalent in the Bible. And what did Jesus say? If ye love me, keep my commandments. I was in a church, in fact, I was in a Presbyterian church a few weeks ago, and the preacher got up there and he said, When was the last time you told Jesus you loved him? Well, you know, where do you have that in the Bible? That's nowhere in the Bible that you tell Jesus you love. Of course you tell him when you give your life to him and But it's not a matter of, you know, saying like people like to do today at the end of every conversation, I love you. You know, it's not like that with with Jesus. He says, if we love him, we keep his commandments. We keep his commandments. It's not a gushy thing where all we have to do is say a few words. It's where we live a life for Jesus. Keep his commandments. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. Well, I want to go back. We're going to stop right there. I did have my text 13, but I think I'll save that for next time. But anyway, let's go back to verse 7 for a minute here. We have the everlasting gospel. And the everlasting gospel is fear God, give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment has come. But you know, we wrote in our call to worship this morning a verse from Ecclesiastes. Remember that? The last two verses of Ecclesiastes. And what does the last two verses of Ecclesiastes say? They say, fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man, for God shall bring every work into judgment. And so the everlasting gospel is not only here in the time of the Revelation, the everlasting gospel is today. We're giving out the everlasting gospel today, but the everlasting gospel was given out back in the Old Testament. By Solomon, he said, fear God and keep his commandments. And let's go back to Ecclesiastes for just a second. Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes chapter 1. Ecclesiastes is one of my favorite books of the Bible. And it's the book of Solomon reasoning about life on this earth. Ecclesiastes, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes. And so here we have Ecclesiastes. And the famous verse of Ecclesiastes is verse 2, Vanity of Vanities, all is vanity, says the preacher. As Solomon looked at all the things around him on this earth, he saw that everything was emptiness on this earth. And he saw the problem. And so he asked the question right here at the beginning of Ecclesiastes, verse 3: what profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? What is your raison d'être in French? What is your reason for living? What is your goal in life? Well, our confession of faith in the Presbyterian Catechism, what is the chief end of man? The chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And so Solomon asks that question and answers that question in the book of Ecclesiastes. And then he gives the problem, verse 4. One generation passes away, another generation comes, and the everything just keeps on going as it's gone And you know, we're going to die one of these days. Everybody that knows this is going to die. I'm assuming the Lord doesn't come back before that time, but everybody that knows it's going to die, and nobody will ever remember that we ever lived. I remember in Wilmington, a few years back, Wilmington, Delaware, they were doing some construction downtown Wilmington. And lo and behold, when they were digging around, they found a whole cemetery, a big cemetery that nobody ever even knew was there underneath the city there. And all those people completely totally forgotten. Their cemetery, nobody even knew it was there. Totally forgotten. And we're going to be forgotten. So, what good was it for us to live on this earth? What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? And so Solomon he tried different reasons for living. He tried wisdom. He tried to get a lot of wisdom. And Solomon had a lot of wisdom. And a lot of people today think that's the say the reason for living. Do a lot of research. Find new discoveries, and that's a good reason for living. But that's not really a very great reason for living. Is that uh you know you discover something, but it's after you discover it, what is it, you know, there's so many other things out there And then he tried, why do people live today? What do they live for? Well, they live for pleasure. And Solomon tried that. Chapter 2, verse 1, I will prove thee with mirth. He tried tried pleasure, and he found that was a dead end. And Solomon had lots of means to have pleasure. And then he tried money and things. People are living for money and things. Having more and more money, more and more things. Well, I read a book recently. The guy was talking about, actually William Jennings Bryan, he was the one who wrote the book, and he said that uh, you know, people spend their life getting money. And then after they get it, then they spend the rest of their life trying to keep their money. And that's all it is. And Solomon, he had all the money. Silver was like the sand of the street, stones of the street, we're told with Jerusalem with Solomon. And he had all those things, and he found they were all dead ends. And so we come to the end of the book of Ecclesiastes, as we just mentioned, they're back in chapter 12 and verse 13. After he reasoned about all these things, the whole conclusion of the matter, of the whole matter, fear God and keep his commandments. The everlasting gospel, the everlasting gospel the angel is preaching in the book of Revelation. Fear God and give glory to Him. Fear God and keep His commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment and every secret thing, whether it be good and whether it be evil. And you know we're all going to stand before God in judgment. Everybody's going to stand before God in judgment. And it's not just going to be a matter of saved and unsaved, although those are the two biggest things, but everybody's going to be judged according to their works. And those unsaved people will be punished more according to their works or less, and the savings will be rewarded more or less according to their works. And God will bring every work into judgment. So we need to remember that in our lives. We need to remember that everlasting gospel And remember those old words of Solomon that echo with the everlasting gospel in Revelation, fear God and keep his commandments. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, we pray that we would fear God and keep his commandments. O Lord, just help us to have the proper reverence and fear for Thee. And O Lord, help us to be concerned in serving Thee from day to day in Jesus' name. Amen.