We often encourage people to give out tracts. In fact, uh Vince told me that one of the things that was so impressed upon this young lady that he met in California, that she liked to give out tracts And she gave them out. My father and mother were both saved through giving through track ministry My mother, uh after I was born, someone handed her safety, certainty, and enjoyment And um my mother said, Well let me just read this before I send that to my husband. And so she read it And there, as my mother read this tract, she said, I need Christ. I need to know Christ as my Savior. Then she sent that on to my dad, but someone sent a track to m gave to my father. the matchless pearl. Have any of you ever seen that track? I ought to send some buck here for you to put in your track rack because I was able to go this year on a on a cruise because of a terrible, terrible congestion I had in the lung. And I said, Lord, please Give me a heart for the Indians. For the I mean from India. And I said, I want to reach the Indians. And I had a whole pack of the Matchless Pearl. I even had them in Spanish And so anyway I I looked on the ship and I would see one and I would become friends and I would say, Look, yeah, I've got something that changed my father's life. And as he read this, he thought he was going to heaven because of his good works I hope there's no one in here like that, because none of us can work that good. And so anyway, my father read the first page and he said, I'm going to hell. I'm going to hell Well you say that to an Indian, my goodness. Oh my okay, I c I can't believe you say that, you know. And so what I would say was exactly like that And so my father continued to read that story of the matchless for I will send a pack here uh and let you see and and give them out, especially somebody in Indian or somebody that likes jewelry or pearls or something. And my father accepted Christ as his personal savior. Also, he read The Good Black Doctor. My goodness, I recommend the m I may recommend you empty in once a month the your track rack. Empty it out. Go give it to someone. If you've given once before go on and give it again. We encourage the Africans also to to be evangelistic. They may not have the tracks that we have, but And so there was this one man that came, it's the the story is in a very good friend of mine's uh the memories of Africa. And I thought that you would like to have it. I very seldom tell it because it's so gory But I thought the kids like gory and I'm gonna give it to them. And so here we find This dear man he knew two or three languages, and a lot better than I do, guys And so anyway, um he knew these languages and someone wanted to go into Congo And they wanted to be able to do some trading and thing, and they needed a translator. And so they asked this one man, who was a Christian, They asked him if he would go with him and he's and they let him know we will not I'll not be coming back, so I will pay you good to go to translate, but you will get your own way back, and there was no problem As he was coming back from being the translator of this man, he came through a village in northern uh western um uh Kenya. And he noticed and wouldn't me he would make friends with different people and and he noticed that uh this one village was very clean and everything and so he thought he could trust the village And so he when as he came, this one man befriended him and he took this and this very common in Africa. If you have a friend you will want to m you want to introduce y your other friends to the to this uh people. And so he was introduced to other people and and and so uh it wasn't long before They took him to a room saying they were going to bring tea, uh, and they shut the door and locked it. And then he heard And the drums started. That may not mean anything to you, but if you were in Africa, uh you would certainly know that uh it wouldn't be long you were going to be their meal. And he realized that. He tried to get it loose But there were so many guarding him then that he could not get loose. And he prayed, Oh God, help me. And he said that uh the the drums got louder, the pot was out there, it was boiling and it wouldn't be too long before they he would be their meal of the cannibals that were in that village. And so he said, Oh God, help me, only you can help me. He asked them, he said, before I go before you take me, let me go to the bathroom or to the And so anyway, he he was taken there and he looked and he saw the hole was big enough that he could go down And so he went down the hole and he got on this side. It was naturally filth, but anyway, he held like this. And they came. They wondered why it took him so long. He said, Oh God, only you can help me in this very perilous time. And he held and God gave him the strength to hold on all night. They could not figure out, and they never thought to look down the hole. Never did. And it said that he stayed until there was no more sound, there was nothing, and he climbed up. through the hole and he got out and looked. He didn't have a stitch of clothes on. And so he thought, where could I run? And he there was no one around because the British re forbade anyone to do any countable uh things like that And so he ran to a river and he washed himself down. And then he promised when he was in that hole, he said, Lord, if you'll spare my life I will do everything I can to take your minute your word wherever I go. Now, my dear ones, I hope no one has to go down in something like that. But I'll tell you what we need to do. We need to say, Lord, use me for your honor and for your glory. And that's exactly this man came to Dandel. In fact, many of you pray for the Bible College of East Africa. Andy Lozier was the one who uh built that those buildings that later the independent board bought when Andy Lozier moved on to South Africa And that work is still going on to this day. Lord, we thank you for all the stories and things like that that we have known. And I thank you for sparing this man's life, and that he realized you had spared his life, that he might serve you for all his days. In Christ Jesus' precious name. Amen. My dear ones, there's one thing I would like to do today, and that is I would like to talk to the younger people. Here. Not that you older ones are not very uh deserving. I see an Arab lady here that uh that it's been a thrill uh to be able to speak to her in Arabic. Her Arabic is much better than mine and I can only say shwe shway. That means little by little And but I'm so thankful that she is here today. Thank you very much, dear, for coming. Here we look in God's Word, and let us look into Uh Elijah on Mount Carmel, 1 Kings eighteen. Probably Joe and Penny realize that Uh as a missionary you get to see things that tourists and people like that don't normally get to see And living in the Holy Land for six and a half years, I had the great privilege, and one of uh Jerusalem was nice to see But I don't know why I loved Mount Carmel. Oh my goodness, it was just great. I lived in Judea, uh the uh beyond Bethlehem towards it Hebron. And so then we would go all the way through Jerusalem and then we would go, or we could go along Jaffa and go all the way up to Haifa and go up there to Mount Carmel Oh, I wish I wished everyone could see that because I think that it is nothing like Mount Carmel. And I don't think there's anything quite like Elijah. Oh my goodness. I I the other night I was trying to figure which did I like? Did I like Elijah better or did I like Elisha? Well, I think I like Elijah because Elijah really had was a man of God, even though Elisha did a uh did a lot more things than Elijah I don't know if we would have had Elisha if we hadn't had Elijah. And here we find that Elijah, he wanted to serve God uh with all of his heart. And I would like to say, young people, as I was sitting there in a church in Highland Community Chapel many, many years ago, ten years old And a lady came from Liberia and she said, I don't think Africa will ever be one for Christ. She was from Liberia and she said, and I said, why? And she said, because we in America don't care about the Africans. And I said, Well, I do. And she said, Oh, may God help you that you will continue. And 13 years later, I was on the field. I thank God. But I'm going to tell you, if you're wanting to just give your heart out, there's a continent that's out there. There's a Middle East out there that needs Christ, and as I said, if we cared as much for the outer as we do for the oil, oh my goodness, it would be it would be a wonderful wonderful country for the Lord. But Africa was so very dear to me. And I I thank God I was raised never to have be prejudiced at all. My father said, son, we are not prejudiced in this family. We love. Everyone has a heart. Everyone has a soul. And my young people, I want to tell you today, as you look out there, every one person that you see has a soul. Whether they're a beggar or whether they're a rich person, whether they're the president or a prime minister, they have a soul. And Elijah realized that and uh and God brought Elijah there to to know King Ahab. Oh, King Ahab thought he could sin as he wanted, and he could do what he wanted. And so even he married a woman, and be careful, guys. Whenever you marry, be careful who you marry. Dr. John Dreisbach, that we had known, he's already in glory He said, Gary, I've seen many a man and many a woman that have left wanting to go to the mission field because they married the wrong one And so I said, Oh God, please, please, give me someone that wants to be a missionary and wants to get the gospel out like I do And so we find Elisha that he uh we're going to see some traits about Elijah, okay? Not only are we going to discuss about him climbing the mountain and telling King Ahab, no rain for three years. You know what I wonder if if s if we told uh uh here in this country As long as you are worshiping idols and doing all these different things, there's not going to be any rain. You know what? I bet that would get our attention. I'm here to tell you right now And King A and Elisha told King Ahab, there's no rain because you have turned to serve Baal. And that was because of Jezebel. Here we find that he was willing. No wonder he got it out of Dodge. I'm telling you what I would have too. And he was taken along there, the brook and things like that, and God fed him and gave him the water and things like this. We're going to find some things here, and just note these down. You can either write them or you can just think about them. We find Elijah And we're going to read 18, chapter 18, verses 17 to 40. I'm not going to read all of them because of my time. And so 1817 to 40 we see that it says, and it came to pass when an Ahab saw Elijah, and Ahab said unto him, Art thou the one that's troubled Israel? We're jumping ahead here. Because here we find three years before King Ahab was confronted by this man of God, and he said, There's not going to be any rain. We we you already know the story, how King Ahab tried every way possible to find this Elisha to bring him back dead or alive, bring him back because He has certainly troubled our country. And here we find the Lord is doing something with King Emma. Let's let's look at it, okay? First we find he was submissive. You remember he had a teachable spirit. He did. I I can't imagine. I don't know, Joe, if you have ever thought about this guy There he is, Mr. Big and everything, and he's a prophet and goes around all that, and all of a sudden he's sitting by a brook and God's feeding him every day, and he's content to do it You know, when you know that you're doing God's will, you can be content on whatever he gives you to do. That's right. I I I can't I can't believe I went to I was in college going there. I thought I was going to be a teacher, preacher, you know, I was going to be still be a missionary, and then all of a sudden a doctor comes through and he said, Oh it's too bad, Gary's not medical. Well, hello, I'm already two and a half years in Bob Jones University, and now you're wanting to tell me this? And I I I just had to go, Lord. Did he did you send him here, that doctor, to tell me that I needed to change things? And it was. It was And so I said, wait a minute, Lord, if that's if what I'm doing is not completely what you want me to do, then change it. And he did. He did. I I went from being at Bob Jones University thinking I was doing the right thing and music and all this, and all of a sudden They I went to a hospital and I said, I want to go to Africa. And someone says that I need to be trained in these in in something that it can benefit the Africans. uh so that I can I can be used and and and to show them Jesus Christ. And so with that I w I thought I was going to X ray and I ended up being a lab technician and then I learned to pull teeth and then I learned to do uh eye exams, refraction, and and then I learned to sew up uh people and oh I tell you what God God's a good God. Whenever you're willing to say, Lord, here I am, just use me for your honor and for your glory. That's what he wanted from Elijah. And there Elijah sat there by that brook and he and he drank and he had a time to think upon God. And he said, Lord, you are a one. I could be starving to death here. I could be. I could be dying of thirst right here beside this brook. But no, you didn't want that. You wanted to show me that no matter what, even in a time of drought, you could provide well it dried up, you're right And so God told Elijah, I want you to go on, and I want you to go to another place. Do you know where God sent Elisha? Elijah, do you know that he sent him to Jezebel's hometown? Can you believe that? You already knew it. Did you meet her there? Surely you didn't. And here we find that God, boy, his sense of humor is different than ours, and boy it is. And here we find that he goes there And he was he was willing to go there, and as he entered the town from that very long walk, you can look on your Bible, see how far he had to go And a very long walk, and he's what does he do? He's about all in and everything, and then he sees this lady picking up sticks, and she's getting ready to prepare the last meal for her family And this guy, I can't believe that he would ask now he didn't he wasn't gone. So he didn't know that it was the last meal that she was preparing with the sticks. He didn't she didn't know that But he had the grace of God to say, ma'am, would you please fix me something to eat? And what did she do? is the last time I'm preparing the last meal. I have a son, and when this man, when when this is done, then we're just going to go sit in the house and we're going to die. Boy, can you imagine this? True. Hmm. But what did this man that had sat there by the brook and had a time to think on God? What did he say? Well yeah I yeah it sounds like we're in a a kind of a hard situation here. Go on and fix mine. Fix fix for the man of God And and uh he didn't know that the Lord was going to continue provide the the flour and the zit the oil that that she had there. Oh my if an Arab ever d runs out of olive oil, that's the almost the end because they cook with oil all the time, all the time. And you know what? I think the Holy Spirit touched this lady's heart. And she said, let's do it. And so she prepared this food for them. And and then she looked it, hm, there's more grain there. And and there's well, I thought I used the last oil. uh when I prepare that man's meal. And and this went on day after day. She prepared his food and and they had for her son and things like this. My this was this was fantastic all these things that God was showing him. You know what? It's the same God that we have today. Did you realize that? It's the same one He can prov provide. I remember one time the board got very low on funds and things like this, and we were only getting uh about every, I may see, about every six or eight weeks We got a check and I said, man, man, I wonder how long this is going to have to stretch. And uh, but you know what? Uh uh some quit. Some and I I couldn't hardly blame them, but uh anyway I said, no, I'm not gonna quit. The Lord will provide And it went six months like this and he provided and and I'm still with the same board and and with the same Lord. How about that? And here we find S Elijah was a teachable spirit and he stretched by the brook. Boy, can you imagine his faith just had to keep stretching. I wonder if the Lord's gonna provide I wonder if those birds are gonna come in today, you know Boy, if they don't come, oh no, no, I know. I'm the Lord's, and He's going to provide. My dear ones, he'll do the same for you. He'll provide for you. You want to know where to go to college? You want to know what to do? Some of you are at the age when you're wanting to know, what does the Lord want me to do? What should I be uh getting ready to do? Oh, I know it's nice to have a mother and father to guide you and a pastor to guide you, but wait a minute. You have God's word right there. And you can say, now Lord, you did this for Elijah and Elisha. Now what about me? I want to be that child of God for you. And you know what? He's a wonderful Lord. He really is. A lot of times he just wants us to do like Elijah and wait upon him. I just, Lord, I am yours, and I want you to show me what you want me to. Well, I tell you what, it it gets even better Whenever this same lady that prov provided for this food and everything was going seemingly really going good And then she comes when her son got sick and she said, Oh, my son is sick. I think he's gonna die. What can I do? And and he died. He died And she comes and she basically, in God's word it says, she basically blames Elijah. Here I've done all this for for God's servant, and now my child is dead. And what's Elijah do? Well, I'll tell you what He he he he started backing up and he didn't know what to do. So he did the only thing he could do. He d he went to God and he said, God Please help me in this situation. If you leave this like this, then they will say, why serve God at all? Many times, my dear one, he will put us in a situation and he wants to see, are we going to to search out and say, Lord, I am yours. I want to do what you want me to do. I'll never forget the time I was out there in the bush And I wanted a motorcycle because I thought if I had a motorcycle, uh, I would go further and further to get more churches started And I went to the Lord. Lord, I'd like to have a motorcycle. I'm scared to death of them, but you can take that fear away. And so anyway, uh he didn't give it. He didn't give me the motorcycle. And six months later We had closed the mission station, the government had taken over, and we were gone. You know why he didn't give a motorcycle? It'd been a waste of of God's money, wouldn't it? Elijah went to his knees and he cried out to God more than he ever had, and God was with him. Don't forget it You cry out to God, He'll be right there. You ask the Lord, do I have any sins in my life? that I need confess, please bring them to my memory and put them under the blood of Jesus Christ. I'm going to tell you, he's a wonderful God. And here we find there he laid on that child. I guess this is probably the first resuscitation we that's mentioned of in God's Word. And he laid on that child and he laid him on his bed. And do you know God raised that child for his glory And he took it and he said, Here Mum, here you are, here you can have your child is all better. And then she you know what she said? I can never understand this. Now I know you're a man of God. You know, sometimes the world is looking at us And it said, are you, you may be from Ghana, you may be from Kenya, you may be from Lebanon, but now I know by your life you are a servant of God. Oh, I ask the Lord every day, Lord, make me that servant that others can see Christ in me. And here we find that uh the supplication when he prayed for the child and it was raised from the dead. My what a time. Elijah, I I knew you'd do it that way. But you know what? He didn't learn that overnight. He probably learned that by the side that brook And saying, Lord, I wanna I want to be your servant wherever we go. And then we find he was us he was serving Now we know that he was serving King Ahab because he told King Ahab, You have sinned, by bringing Baal into the country. And the second thing we know, he was a friend of who? Obadiah. I had a f I had a friend out in Afri in uh Holy Land, and it was from Ob Abud And Abud is means this somebody was there named Obadiah. I I don't know if that's the same town or not, but I know I visited that town uh there And there he told that that man who was not a big splash, in fact, whatever he did, he served the Lord He served the Lord kind of quietly. You remember? It says, I have hid a hundred servants of thine. in a cave and there he fed him bread and water. Where did he get that bread and water? I I he the Lord had to help him get that bread and water. You know that. He had he could he didn't have a a kitchen that has all this thing. He got it from somewhere The Lord gave it to him. And you know what? Many times the Lord wants to give us many things that we Just say, Lord, it's this is impossible. It's impossible for to give me uh a man that I can marry or a lady that I can marry that will serve you as I want to. This is imp No, it's not impossible. When you say, Lord, I am yours, I'm your servant, and I want to do it for your honor and for your glory, that's what he's waiting to hear. And it doesn't care matter what country you. I just gotta tell you this. We're gonna be here most of the day, but so I hope you don't mind. I have a guy, his name's Juma. He's a pastor. He works for Pat and I and and the last time we were out there in Kenya, Joe knows him, and Joe spoke in his other church And and we could tell there was something in Juma's heart that wasn't quite right. And and all some of them said he was cheating on his wife and stuff like this. I said, well maybe not, maybe not You have to understand, you know. And finally they went to Juman and they said, Juman, what's the problem? And he said, Mr. He said, to the church, he said, I have worshiped ten years at this church as the pastor And I cannot ever have my wife in the service because I'm coming ten miles by bicycle and she and the children cannot come. I want to have a church nearby that I could worship with her. That's not bad to ask. And so they said, Well, Jimma, you have a church, it's got tw it's t twenty by forty, you've got a pastor's house that's been built here, you've got a water tank. And now you're wanting to leave all of this and you're wanting to go to some other place with has nothing. He said, You're right. God will God will be with me. And and this is a guy that's got eight eighth grade education and he's got two years of Bible school. And yet this is He is sat at his feet and he said, Lord, uh come on, let's do it, let's do it. They gave him a church nearby. He could walk with his wife and all And so they were there in the church and in November a hard rain came. And when that hard rain came against that mud wall, It came down. You know what I'm talking about. It came all the way down. And he called me, Mr. Gary, my church collapsed And he said and I said, Oh my, what are we going to do? Oh, he said, Mr. Gay, don't you worry, don't you worry. The Lord will provide some way. I'm telling you, He'll provide some way Only if you were an African could you really understand this. And so he said, I know God will provide. And he started bringing rocks to make a foundation, 20 by 40, at a pretty good size. And there we find that he was able, and so when he got all the rocks in, he said Now, Mr. Gary, I need cement. That's going to be your problem. Oh no, no, no, no. I said that's not my problem. That's God's problem. If he can move you from one church to another, he can also provide for whatever you need. You know what, my dear ones, we sometimes think these base things, oh God just can't he doesn't think about it, he just thinks of of somebody up here uh on c on computer calculations or something. No. He's here with us and he wants to be our God. You know what? This week. As I was ready to come for this trip, I got a call from Missouri. Teddy, the Lord has just laid upon our heart, my wife and I, and we're sending you $300 to help make the bricks to start building the church. Now that's God. That's the God of Elijah. And Elisha. And that's our God. And here we find that it is growing. Because Elijah had stood firm with the Lord. And when he met King Ahab, and King Ahab blamed him He blamed him because of all of having the famine and everything die and stuff like this. Oh, he wasn't afraid. He had he had the strength of the Lord and he said King Ahab, you're the one that has troubled Israel because you have brought uh worship in for Baal. That's where the trouble is, and God cannot be pleased My dear ones, if we're having some problem and we're asking the Lord to help us in some way and we're not seeing that, then we need to go our knees and we need to say, Lord Am I sinning? Have I got sin in my heart that is not pleasing you? And that's why you're not answering. Well, I'll tell you if you look in this section, you will find that King Ahab didn't say anything to Elijah when he said, let's have a contest. Oh, how reason I wish you could be there. Pat and I have been there many times. Anytime anybody comes to see us, we take them to Mount Carmel. Oh my goodness, there you'll see this up here on this thing And and so I just thought this was just Catholics uh own it now. But w we would go there and we would see where the big contest was. Oh My goodness. I gang a oh my he said, sure, go on and make go on. You do first. You go on and make the um altar. And and you and that's the one where fire comes down, that's the God we will worship. Okay? And sure that'll be fine. And there they jumped around and they cut their self and all these things, and nothing happened. And then Elisha, he said, All right, now you've had enough. And there he said, Now we're going to see. Elisha he built the altar of twelve stones because of the twelve tribes of Israel, and he did all these things And he cut he took the wood from the cher carts and he took the the the ox and he put it up there and then he said, Boys, there's one more thing Bring me some bring me some water. What? I always wondered, did you ever think about it? Where did he get that water? But he said it'd been three years since there'd been any rain there. Where are you going to look for water? Pat and I, we said we want to find where this water came from. And so one day I didn't have anything else to do but look for this water And I went out down below where this all this contest took place and I found a beddo. And I said, Bedou, where is their water? And he said, Shhh, I will show you. I said, boys, I'm all ears and I'm all eyes. Let's go He got in the car and we went. There was a bush, just you would not have ever thought anything. It was just a bush laying down like this. He said Underneath that bush is water. There's a spring there. And not many people know about it. I went and sure enough, whether that was the real one I have no idea, but that was close enough that he could have gotten three barrels of water to pour on that sacrifice He wanted him to see there was no cheating. They were transparent in this in this time that they were going to call upon God. And I'll tell you, that's what we need to do. Lord, I am yours. I've been born again. I've confessed my sins, and I want to serve you with all of my heart. And that's what he said. And there we find that he poured that water on there. And he made sure there was no spark or anything because God was about to show that he was God. And fire came down from heaven. And the Bible says here, um it it says here, uh That in verse uh in in verse um Uh I'm sorry I I didn't have this mark read out. Oh. He says, I am thy servant, all I've done Thy word, hear me. Verse 37. Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know that thou art the Lord God. And that thou hast turned their heart back again. And what have what's the verse 38 say? Then the fire of the Lord fell Elijah knew it would. He had trusted God before. God had proved him. And he was a man that God could trust. And here we said, he burnt it up. And it says that he burnt the sacrifice up and the wood and the stones and everything He showed that was a hot fire. I am God. My dear ones, we find that Elijah is a man of courage. He had faith in God, and I would like to Young people, I would somehow like to give you that same faith that God is there and he can help you. I want to tell you a quick story because my time is almost finished. Not too long before we left Kenya um I had to go to Ketwi and a lot of times I went by myself. I I was not afraid of the Africans. The Africans love me and I love them And I was not afraid. I know some missionaries they always have trouble with someone. But I I just had the Lord with me and I and the others were busy and so I went to Kitwee and and I got ready to come back. And so I just said, Lord, I'm yours and just take care of me and it's about forty miles back and and so I got home and they said, Oh did you did you see him? Did you see him? I said, see what? And he said, Oh, there was bandits on the road. No, I didn't see them. Oh, they even they even stopped the Catholic uh Catholic uh caravan that was going down through there and they grabbed their cars and took them and and they they stole everything. I said n I didn't see anybody. I didn't see anybody on the road. And then I had to say, you know what? Thank you. Whatever it was you did, you blinded their eyes from me going past with nobody in the car because you were in charge Young people, let him be in charge. He is a wonderful God if we let him be in charge of our lives. Please. It doesn't matter where you come from. He wants to say, like Elijah, I would like to be in charge. If you'll trust me, Whatever I ask you to do, it will not be too much to ask of him. You know, he took care of me. I didn't even know I was in trouble And he's that way. He's that way. Oh, I don't know why I'm not in Africa now. I'd like to be. I really en I really liked it there. I could have died there, no problem at all. I even knew where I was going to be buried. He decided against that. But you know what? I often think when I went when Pat and I went there in 1995, the second time back We had two churches. Oh, they were nice churches. I enjoyed worshiping with those people. As I left, there was eighteen. Not from me, from him. He's the one that put in the African's heart to go to Bible school And to learn God's word and to teach others to teach If you'll read in 2 Timothy, he says, Timothy, I want you to teach others that they might teach others. My dear ones, I would like to ask you today, after looking at Elijah, and you can even have a better time than what I've taken you through today by looking into it yourself. But is your life, you say you're born again, is your life teaching others to teach That's the only way Christianity will keep going is by teaching others to teach. You know, you may have a talent of computers, you may have a talent of something else Are you willing to lay on the altar of sacrifice here and say, Lord, here is what I have, and here it is for you. This is my talents. I'm gonna give everything to you I'm not holding anything back. I want you to have this. You know, my dear ones I don't know. I'm not the Holy Spirit or the fourth person of the Trinity. God is the one that has to work in your heart And if God can work in a 10-year-old life and say, I want you to go to Africa and I'll be with you, if He can say that. And I will tell you, he's been a faithful God. He's been faithful all the way. You know what? He's the same God that Elijah had and you and I have and all. And he's there just saying, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden. I'll give you, I'll tell you what I want you to do. Heavenly Father, I I've done the best that I myself could do. And I thank you for being that faithful God. I thank you for the wife you gave me and the work that we've been able to do, and the work that is still going on with the dear Africans and the Arabs in the countries you've let us serve And Lord, I pray for the young people here, especially today, and the older ones, that we'll all be willing to say, Lord, I'm yours. And that starting this day and tomorrow and the next, I want to serve you every day of my life. Until you take me on home. Lord, I am so thankful for the way you have taken care of Elijah and Elisha and on down through Until today, you're such a faithful God. And we'll give you all the honor and the glory and the praise in Christ Jesus' precious Name. I'm in. Joe