Well last time I was here, I forgot to give uh an appropriate quote to what's going on in our Nation Around Us by Joseph Stalin, the great mass murderer of Russia. And he said that he didn't care who voted, he cared who counts the votes. And that's exactly illustrated in our nation today. And now we're back on back to Obamaland, back to except with a vengeance today and uh we had a little respite when Trump was in and uh you know uh the the computer and the Uh information age is becoming all-encompassing today. And the big tech had a lot to do with all that that went on with the election and things And uh it was really illustrated by the fact that they shut down Trump completely and uh wouldn't let him on anything online. And it's they used to talk about with the internet that it was freedom of information. Now it's control of information. And that's what we have. Well, just pray that the Lord will be gracious to us. And of course, we've been studying Revelation, and it just leads into those things, what's going on today. And uh it's be so easy for the Antichrist to take control with everything done online, every You know, there many people today don't do anything that they don't do online. Everything is online. And the government and big tech and everybody knows everything you do when you do it online. Well, today we're going to take a little vacation from Revelation. And let's go back to Mark chapter 12, where we read a little bit earlier. Mark chapter 12. And let's bow in a word of prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou bless us as we study thy word today in Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have the great commandment, the first of all the commandments. And somebody asked Jesus here, which is the first commandment? Now, I'm preaching a sermon today that I preached in this church in the past, although it was 15 or 20 years ago the last time I preached it. And it's good to go back to it every so often about the first commandment. So if you remember any of these things, that's why But anyway, a lot of you weren't here 15 or 20 years ago when I last preached it. But anyway, it's the first commandment. The scribe asked in verse 28. Which is the first commandment of all? And there's a lot of commandments in the Bible. Hundreds and hundreds of commandments for this, that, and the other thing, but which is the first of all of them And then we come to verse 29. We have the great Shema. That was mentioned in Sunday school this morning. That was good. Tim mentioned the great Shema, which is the great listen Listen, Shema, hero Israel, the Lord our Lord is one Lord, and thou shalt love him with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might. That's the first commandment. You know what's interesting today that uh people like to get uh very h holy in a way and they like to say, oh, you know, I do things for the Lord not because they're commandments, it's because I love the Lord. But you know what's interesting here? The loving of the Lord is obeying a commandment too. And that we're obeying a commandment when we love the Lord with all our heart and with all our soul. And a commandment is something that's an obligation, something that we must do. It's not just if we want to do it, we can, and if we don't want to do it, we don't And the second commandment is to love our neighbor as ourselves. And of course, those are the summary of the moral law. And we have behind behind me here, we have the summary of the moral law and the ten commandments. And then here with the first and second commandments, we have the summary of the Ten Commandments. The first four commandments: love the Lord our God with all our heart. And the last six commandments, love our neighbor as ourselves. So we're supposed to love the Lord with all our heart. And that's more than all burnt offerings and sacrifices, there in verse 33. And what are burnt offerings and sacrifices? Well, there are ceremonies that you do for the Lord. And we have a few ceremonies that we do. We have baptism, we have the Lord's Supper, we have giving offerings when the offering plate is past and things like that And some people think, well, you know, if they take communion, that's all they got to do. If they're baptized, that's all they got to do. If they give their offerings, that's all they got to do. But what we have to do is love the Lord our God with all our heart and with all our soul. Well What does that mean to love the Lord our God with all our heart and with all our soul? I mean, we can say, yeah, I love the Lord with all my heart But what does that mean? Well, I think the greatest illustration of that is with sports around our world today. People that love a particular sport, a particular team with all their heart and with all their soul, how do they act? Well, I think being a missionary to Cameroon over in Africa, I think of Cameroon football. I think of soccer in Cameroon. And Cameroon has been one of the big powers of Africa and of the world even a little bit over the years. It was African champion for three years or more running And not too long ago, and it made it to the quarterfinals of the World Cup. And so uh in Cameroon, people are great fans of Cameroon football And so if any if someone is a fan of Cameroon football, how do they act? Or if they're a fan of the Ravens or the Orioles or whoever. How do they act? Well, if they love it with all their heart, well, they'll never miss a game. Never. They'll never miss seeing a game if they love it with all their heart. They'll see it on TV. And they're never too busy to watch the game. That's a non sequitur there. You could never be too busy to do something that you love with all your heart. And you know they have their schedule and all their things, but they know when the game's going to be, and they clear their schedule out to make sure that they got time for the game. Well, what if somebody comes visiting them at time for the game? Do they say, well, hey, I can't visit the game, I can't watch the game today because somebody's visiting me. No, they won't say that. They'll say, watch the game with me, because I'm going to watch my game. Because I love it with all my heart. And how sick does somebody have to be to not watch the game if they love it with all their heart? They have to be really sick. They have to be sick in bed, not able to do hardly anything. And they love it with all their heart And over there in Cameroon, people have to uh walk a lot. They walk uh uh maybe to find electricity or a television to watch Cameroon football. But if it if they had to walk 10 kilometers, To go watch the game, that would be nothing. They do it because they love it with all their heart. And another thing that happens is that a lot of times when the World Cup is going on, those games in Cameroon might be at two AM in the morning. Well, would that be too difficult for that Cameroon football fan to get up at 2 in the morning and watch the game? No. Because he loves it with all of his heart. And if somebody loves something with all their heart, what do they talk about? Well, they talk about Cameroon football if that's what they love. And they can never talk enough about it. You know, there's a lot of people in this world like to talk a lot about themselves. And what do they love? Well, they love themselves. And so, and this Cameroon football fan, he knows everything about the team. He knows every statistic from 20 or 30 years ago. He knows what this player did and what that player did, how many goals this player had, how many goals that player had. And he knows all the details and lots of details. Is that too much for him to learn all those details and all those statistics No, because he loves it with all his heart. And so he arranges everything for Cameroon football And people look at this guy with Cameroon football, and what do they say about him? They say that guy is a fanatic. He's a fanatic for Cameroon football. And that's what it means to love something with all of our heart and with all of our soul. Let's go back to Malachi chapter 1. Malachi chapter 1. And this is an exposition of the first commandment here in Malachi chapter 1, the last book of the Old Testament, the last one. Malachi chapter one, and starting with verse one. The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi I have loved you, saith the Lord, yet ye say, wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, saith the Lord, yet I loved Jacob, and I hated Esau and laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. Tim was talking in Sunday school this morning about God loves us, loved Israel. God loved Israel in the past as a nation. That doesn't mean everybody in Israel was saved, but God loved Israel as a nation and loves Israel as a nation today. And that's a big thing when God loves us. That means he works everything together for good in our lives. If he loves us. And it's a really big thing. And God doesn't love everyone. Did you know that? God doesn't love everyone in this world in the sense of loving. He doesn't love the ones he sends to hell. Of course, he sends his rain on the just and the unjust and his sunshine and he blesses people, but he doesn't really love them. That's why I never say, you know, just with a blanket, God loves you to everybody. Because God doesn't necess God loves the elect. God loves his own. I loved Jacob and I hated Esau right here. But it's a great thing that God loves us, and assuming we are Christians, God loves us that we've prayed and asked for forgiveness of our sins and gave our lives to the Lord. Well, let's go down to verse 6. Down to verse 6. A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I be a father, where is mine honor, and if I be a master, where is my fear? Saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name, and ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? So a son honors his father. That's the way it should be. That's the way it is in the Bible. The son honors the father back in the Old Testament. If somebody cursed their parents, they were put to death, actually. And, you know, today people don't honor their fathers, don't honor their parents They treat their parents like dirt a lot of times. They yell at their parents. They just don't treat them right. But though in the right way, we're supposed to honor our parents, honor our father. A son honors his father And God says, if I'm a father, where is my honor? And how do we show our honor? We show our honor by giving first place. to that person. We show our honor by respecting them, by giving them the best. And we need to do that with God. And then it says, if I be a master, where is my fear? You know, back in those days they had slaves. Slavery was a common thing in Bible times. And today, you know, they talk about slavery that like it's only a thing with blacks. And whites, but it was white people who were enslaved back in the time of the Bible. But anyway, the slave had to fear his master. And why would he fear his master? Because he feared punishment if he didn't do right. And that's how we should fear God. You know, when the Bible says to fear God, it's more than just a little bit of respect We should fear him. The word taken literally, fear God. He is our father. He is our friend that sticks closer than a brother, but he's also the God of the universe. Of whom we need to fear. And so here we are, where is my fear? And then the priests and the people of Israel wanted to argue with Malachi and with God. Wherein have we despised thy name? We love the Lord with all our heart and all our soul. Wherein? Well, Malachi and the Lord tells them exactly how they despised his name. Going on. Verse 7. Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar, and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say the table of the Lord is contemptible. So, they offered moldy bread to God. Now, why would somebody offer moldy bread to God? Well, they would offer moldy bread because they don't want to give God anything that costs them anything. And you know, if you give God moldy bread, it doesn't cost a thing. It's just something you're going to throw out. And so that's what they did. And they didn't even recognize that they were dishonoring God by giving moldy bread and his offerings. They say, Wherein have we polluted thee? And then verse 8, and if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if ye offer the lame and sick, Is it not evil? And so not only would they give moldy bread to the Lord, they would give blind, sick, and lame sheep for their offerings to the Lord And why would they give blind, sick, and lame sheep? Because it didn't cost a thing. And we need to offer to God things that cost us something. That costs us something. We have to be willing to take maybe a few risks for the Lord. Something that costs us something. He offer polluted bread, he offer the blind, the lame, and the sick. And then going on in verse 8, offer it now unto thy governor. Will he be pleased with thee or accept thy person, saith the Lord of hosts? How would it be if you offered moldy bread or blind and sick sheep to the governor? You'd never think about doing that. But God and people do that to God. They did that back in these days to God, and people do that to God today. So we come down to today. How do people today offer blind and sick sheep and moldy bread to God? Well, we try to give God things that don't cost us anything. You know, I pastored churches and worked around Christians for a long time. And a lot of times when you're asking Christians to do something, even to come to church or do things in the church and do things for the Lord, It seems like it's only if they can't think of anything else to do, anything else they need to do, they'll do it. What about that Cameroon football thing? You know, the Cameroon football comes first, and all the other things are aside. And that's how it needs to be with our Christianity. Well, you know, you come to church. A lot of times people go right to sleep when the sermon starts. And what are they doing there? Well, they're getting their sleep time in in church. It doesn't cost them anything to be in church because they sleep. And uh, you know, I've been in churches in the past where people were there balancing their checkbook while they were in the service. or they were reading a magazine. Today it's much more high-tech than that. People are there with their cell phones and looking at their Facebook and looking at all kinds of other things. during the service. And of course nobody can tell if they're doing that or looking at the Bible because uh you can't tell because it's uh because you can't get that close to the phone. It might be the Bible might be something else. But a lot of times they're looking at other things. And uh why do they do that? They don't want being in church to cost anything. They're going to get their computer time in. And so, you know, we do the same thing as Israel did back here. And we don't want to give God things that cost us something. Now let's go on to verse 9. And now I pray you beseech God that He will be gracious unto us. This hath been by your means will he regard your persons, saith the Lord of hosts. What he's saying here is, is God going to be a receiver Is he gonna let you offer up these bad sacrifices just because you're a Christian? Just because back in these days, just because you're a Jew, just because you're an officer in the church, just because of this and that No, God expects of all Christians to offer up their whole heart and serve the Lord with all of their heart. And that's what we need to do. Then verse 10. Who is there even among you that would shut the doors? And you notice there it's in the italics for not, it'd be better to get rid of those two words. Just say, who is there even among you that would shut the doors Neither kindle fire on mine altar for naught. I have no pleasure in you, saith the Lord of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand. So Here God says it'd be better to shut the doors of the church than have people come and offer up half-hearted sacrifices. It'd be better not to come to church than to sit in church on our cell phone looking at our Facebook. It'd be better not to come to church than to think about other things or do other things, than concentrate upon the things of the Lord. And it'd be better to shut the doors of the church if that's all we're going to do. And then it says, neither will I accept an offering at your hand. And you know, when we give half-hearted offerings to the Lord, we don't hear a voice from heaven. Saying it's not acceptable. We think it's acceptable because God doesn't speak, but it's not acceptable, and God does not accept it from us. Now we go on to verse 11. For from the rising of the sun, even unto the going down of the same, my name shall be great among the Gentiles. And in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering, for my name shall be great among the heathen, saith the Lord of hosts. And you know, we can give God half-hearted sacrifices. We can give God things that aren't our best. And God doesn't accept it, but you know, that really doesn't hurt God. It hurts us when we do that. And God's name is great and will be great without us. We need God. God doesn't need us. And sometimes we have the idea that God's sitting up in heaven and he's wringing his hands. And he's just wishing Ken would do this for him. That's not how it is. God is telling Ken to do things, and Ken better do them. It's a commandment. Okay, then we have also here it says a great my name shall be great among the Gentiles. That's a prophecy of what we're doing right now, us Gentiles, among the heathen. Then verse 12, but ye have profaned it, in that ye say the table of the Lord is polluted, and the fruit thereof, even his meat, is contemptible. Now notice here, they actually weren't saying that. They were saying with their lips, wherein have we despised thy name? But they were saying it by their actions. They were giving God the half-hearted sacrifices. And they were saying that the table of the Lord is polluted. And then verse 13, ye said also, Behold, what a weariness is it And ye have snuffed at it, saith the Lord of hosts. And ye brought that which was torn and the lame and the sick, thus ye brought an offering. Should I accept this of your hand, saith the Lord. What a weariness is it. And for a lot of Christians, what a weariness to come to church. Oh boy, it's another duty I have to do this week. You know, that shouldn't be how it is. We should love it. What about the person with Cameroon football? Is he saying, oh, what a weariness. I have to watch another Cameroon football game No, he's never going to say that. Because he loves it. And we should love the things of the Lord. It shouldn't be a burden for us. to do things for the Lord, to come to God's house and to do things outside for the Lord. Shouldn't be a burden. Do things for other people. And then verse 14, but cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, and voweth and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing. For I am a great king, saith the Lord of hosts, and my name is dreadful among the heathen. So God is going to curse those. God will punish us if we give half-hearted sacrifices. We need to fear the Lord and honor the Lord and give Him our best. And we need to give them first place in our lives. Well, you know, uh There was an interesting illustration of this. Just recently we went to a church And in the church, it was given a testimony about how great God had blessed a certain guy And God had worked everything out for him and had worked out things that he had been trying to work out for a long time and praise the Lord. Well, that guy happened to have spent the night right at the church, right next to the church more or less. And he was there Sunday morning, but he couldn't be bothered to come to church. He had to be on his way and go on a trip. And then of course it was the Lord's day. And he should have been so grateful for what the Lord had done. And that just struck me, you know, that, you know, he should have, he was wanting to offer up to the Lord moldy bread. Lame and sick sheep. Instead of being offering up sacrifices of praise to the Lord, assembling with God's people on God's day, he wanted to go out and travel because he was in a hurry. And being in a hurry was more important than the things of the Lord. And that's how it is with a lot of Christians a lot of times. is that we don't put the things of the Lord first in our lives. Well, let's go back to that Cameroon football fan. Does all the world stop when it comes time for the things of the Lord? Do we arrange our schedule for the things of the Lord? And do you know if we're just a little bit sick, it's we're too sick to to be in the things of the Lord You know, uh uh are we willing to, you know, get up at 2 a. m. to go. You know, it's something that that gets me that I always hear is people talk about churches as being too far away to go. And they talk about, you know, this church, just this past week, somebody was saying a church that was 40 minutes away was too far away. Well, you know, people don't bat an eye to drive to work an hour every day of the week. But if it's the church is 40 minutes away, whoa, that's too far away. That's not what they love with all their heart and with all their soul. And then they say, well, you know, if the church is 40 minutes away, I can't be involved in the church. Well, let's see, when the work is an hour away, are you involved in the work? Yeah. And uh of course to be involved in the church you might only have to go there twice a week or something like that, two or three times a week, not the five times a week to be drive to work Well, are you interested in learning about God's Word? You know, we got the Bible here, and people complain that there's too many details in this Bible. And you go into the Old Testament, start studying the history there, and people say, oh man, all those kings and all those kingdoms and all that. Who can keep track of all that? Well, you know the Cameroon football fan, he doesn't have any trouble keeping track of all kinds of details. The Baltimore Ravens fan, he doesn't have any trouble with all the many details and statistics. Because he loves it. He wants to find out about it. And so we need to be in our Bible and love to study our Bible. We should be. We need to be somebody that people look at as a fanatic, fanatic about the things of the Lord. And can you be too much of a fanatic about the things of the Lord? You know, they have a saying that people say is, too heavenly-minded to be any earthly good. Well, you know, that that could be true in some cases if they're heavenly minded in the wrong way. But if they're heavenly minded in the right way They can't be too heavenly minded to be earthly good, because if they're heavenly minded, they're going to be earthly good. And so we need to be a fanatic, what the world would look upon as a fanatic. And then of course we talked about what does the person talk about? Who loves the things of the Lord? Well, we should talk some about that too. And be interested in the things of the Lord. Well, let's be like that Cameroon football fan. Let's love the Lord our God with all our heart and with all our soul. And that first the things of the Lord should take first place. In our lives. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that Thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, we pray that Thou would prepare us for the communion to follow. We pray that Thou would bless this communion to our hearts. Help us to be the Christians that thou would have us to be. Forgive us of our sin. Turn us from it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well here we come to communion this morning and we need to search our heart