Open in your Bibles, open your Bibles this morning to Second Peter uh chapter three. Also, it's wonderful to hear the Christmas Carols and hymns. This is our first opportunity to hear them. This has been the first time we haven't been in Christmas Christmas in Chile for years. And the first time back in the United States. in Christmas for for many uh uh years really and and uh we're and and we're we're thankful Lord too for that. Um Uh just would like to read from Second Peter uh uh chapter three. And um I'm just gonna rather than read all the verses, so just read Several verses here for verse number eight and verse number nine especially. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but his long suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And then I'd like to skip down to verse fifteen. for a moment. An account that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation, even as our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto you. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Our dear Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your love and goodness to us. Thank you for your long-suffering love. uh in in in uh uh driving us to the cross and to salvation and then in the Christian life as well But Lord help us to redeem the precious time that you've given us to serve you, to tell others about the Savior. And as we Uh think now this month especially of the of the the first coming of Christ and uh help us also to to focus on his second coming. uh as well and to redeem the precious time that that that you've given us. Challenge our hearts, Lord, um today to to to look beyond ourselves and to look unto the fields wide unto harvest. um and to to to to think beyond ourselves, Lord, and and to to think about the m our neighbors and and those about the world who yet need to know the Savior. But we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. This this morning we'll be focusing especially on that Last verse that I read to you, the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. The long suffering of our Lord is salvation. What does that mean? We'll be uh looking at that in just a a f a few moments here. Um but uh we we've um uh had the privilege to to serve the Lord for for for twenty seven years uh in in Chile in South America. All of our children were born there. Uh and um uh the time is really uh passing by very quickly. Uh our furlough now uh we it just seems like we just Uh got here. The only thing that convinces us that we've been here a long time is it's hard for us to fit in our car right now with all the things that we've accumulated and we're we're kind of furloughed out I think and and and and and ready to to to to go back to to Chile. But something that should be very precious to every uh believer. is God's long-suffering love and God's uh patience and and and and and the time that He has given us And when we can think about that and we consider and and ask, well, why the time? Why uh uh has God tarried in uh in speaking in those terms from his uh Christ's first coming to to his his second coming Why the time? Why the opportunities? Well, the answer is this. It lies in the passage that we have before us. The long-suffering of our Lord is salvation. The Lord gives time so that ones can come unto himself and that ones can can can be saved and know Christ. That's the purpose that we're here for. That's the purpose that the Lord has given us the the time that we have that we're to utilize and to and and and to uh and and to redeem. Um you know, the um uh i is something that that should be very precious to us. Um not only uh the uh the the time that the Lord gives us to come to himself, but then uh in our Christian life uh to utilize uh for uh his service and and for his his glory. You know In uh Matthew 18, there's the story of the parable of this unforgiving servant who was forgiven this tremendous debt. um um uh by the king. And he begged the king. He said, Be patient with me, be patient with me, and I'll pay it all off. Well he could never Pay it off. But but but when God's patience is is is is for a reason, not just to be patient, but his patience is to show mercy. Because it's only by mercy that we're saved. It's only by grace that that that that that we are saved. And that's God's purpose in it. You look at this wonderful chapter of the scriptures and uh 2 Peter chapter 3 and really it spans the ages. It talks about creation. And then it goes all the way into eternity into the into the new heavens uh and and uh and new earth. But it it tells you in this chapter that there will be in the latter days and in the times in which we're living now that there will be scoffers saying, well when will the time of his coming be? For all things have been the same since creation. Nothing has changed. Well, uh, that's not true. Um where we're celebrating Christmas, something tremendous happened. Um the Lord Jesus Christ came to earth, and that changes everything. But also as you go back even further in in history and contemplate in history, there was a great flood that covered the earth Uh and here it says that in the latter days we're going to have people willfully ignorant. Willfully ignorant. Oh, things have always been the same. No, they haven't Um God has intervened. Um God uh sent judgment upon uh the earth and then God in mercy sent his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ Uh and and the and the Lord Jesus Christ is is is is coming back uh again um uh very very soon. But in in these times of willful ignorance we can uh also be encouraged. I think because these very areas of which men are willfully ignorant of God's creation, the validity of his promises Um uh the flood, um uh um uh Christ's second coming. Um these uh are our advantage. These are are on our side. These are are are behind us in in in in the Lord's work. And though the world is w is willing willfully ignorant of of God, his character, the the validity and trustworthiness of his word, his promises, God's doings in time, his salvation, Christ's return. But But we can be encouraged to knowing that God's promises are still true, that they are uh valid, that the Lord is not willing that any should perish, but that all men come uh unto repentance. And and and that he's willing to wait. I I've often said that there's one thing I've learned in in the ministry. And and I I've I've probably learned some others but but but uh but one thing f one big lesson, probably the biggest lesson I've ever learned, is that Many times when we can't understand why things have happened, it's often because the Lord wants to show more mercy on more people. And and we've seen that over and over again. The Lord Jesus Christ came, uh, and and and in Christmas we celebrate that. Um but but but here um uh uh we look forward now to to to his his second coming. But why is he waiting? Why the time? The long-suffering of the Lord is salvation. He wants us to be doing something. He wants us to be praying. He wants us to be witnessing. He wants us to be telling others And for for that reason is to wait, and that alone, because God's not willing that any should perish, but that all come. unto unto repentance. And he's willing to to wait to save. Um and and and and for that reason we have this time that we have and and that's the business that we ought to to uh to to be about. Um as we um uh we'll be considering just briefly uh this this morning this uh this statement from 2 Peter 3. 15, the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. And especially of what that means. And also of uh to encourage us uh of the work of of missions in in these uh latter days. And again, the very things that men have scoffed at and men are willingly ignorant of. Um there are advantage. The first one. Uh would would you look here at Second Peter 3? uh uh verse nine. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But is long-suffering toward us. The first thing that we see here is God's word and promises are still valid and trustworthy and sure and will come to pass. Um uh the world scoffs at that. Scoffs at perhaps uh the the the idea of of of Christ coming again. But you know in the Bible And in in 1 Peter chapter 1, it says that the prophets told of the sufferings of Christ and the glory that will follow. Uh w when we think of Christ coming at Christmas, um that's part of the sufferings. He he came in humility and his in incarnation and and and and and lived as as a servant and and and and then suffered and and died for our sin. Um but as surely came the sufferings, so will come the glory. And you know there's more promises in the Bible? about the coming glory of the Lord Jesus Christ than are of the sufferings of Christ. And so if every promise was fulfilled of his first coming to Bethlehem. We can be sure that every promise will be concerned will will be fulfilled concerning his second coming. um uh uh before the church and and and and and and to this earth afterwards uh to reign. Um and and we we can be sure of that Here the the Lord is not slack concerning his promise as some men count slackness. I have uh there's a message I've preached before um uh on um in Spanish. But but but there's there's there there's a there's a message I I've I've preached before on on um uh how that we should thank God that He's God. and not man. Um if if if if God was man we'd be in trouble. Um uh if if he was like me we'd we'd be in big trouble. Um uh um but we can we can thank God that that that that he is God And he his promises are sure. His promises we can bank on. And we can trust him. Well, why do men doubt Christ's coming, according to this passage here? Well, it it's because they believe that things have continued always as they are now. That's uh a a big mistake to think that. Um uh people who try to date the world uh do that They use their carbon 14 and different things and they say that, oh, things have always been the same. No, they haven't. Um there was a great flood. Um the the fountains of the deep were opened up and and and this great canopy fell upon the earth uh uh in in in rain. And there was a a a sudden convulsion of things and and a great deposit of of fossils. No, things have not always been the same. Things have changed. God has intervened But especially when we look back at Christmas, no, things have not always been the same. Christ Jesus came, and that changes everything That ch that changes everything that the Lord Jesus Christ um uh has has has come to earth. God has executed his judgments. Jesus Christ came. And now we have signs of his coming and and and prophecies being fulfilled before us. No, you can bank on God's promises. You can be sure of God's promises. God is not slack concerning his promises like some men count slackness. There's a number of verses that that explain the the way that people think. I'm just gonna mention one or two in Ecclesiastes verse 8 or chapter 8 verse 11. Just read for a moment here. Ecclesiastes 8 verse 11. That says, Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. Also Psalm fift fifty-five, uh, verse nineteen. Psalm 55, verse 19, that says, God shall hear and afflict them, even he that abideth of old, Selah, because they have no changes. Therefore they fear not God. Nothing's going to change. Well that's a terrible philosophy to live by. The Lord Jesus Christ is coming back. Um but here this should motivate us. This should challenge us. The reason for the wait is because God wants to save more. The reason for the wait is because the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation. He has given us his time that men might come to him. that that Christians who have gone astray would come back to them. Um uh uh and and and and that the loss would would would would would would would come unto unto Christ and that we would use this time uh to tell others of him. Um here we think of the broad range of of God's promises, but concerning concerning uh Christ's uh coming. Um uh uh here the Lord Jesus Christ is is is is is coming back soon and we c we can be sure of that. And just as as sure as Christ came in his first coming. um uh we can be assured assured of of of his second coming, uh that the Lord Jesus Christ will return um uh uh s some day in in the uh to a uh to a world um that is enlarged and ready, we must continue to prepare men through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. But also all of the promises concerning salvation are are are are are valid and true today as they were in the time of Peter as a as they were in the time of Paul. Um Uh we all know John three sixteen. I even like one that's a little it's a little shorter and a little more simpler. Um uh um in in uh John six forty-seven this says That says, um, um, verily, verily, I say unto you, that he that believeth on me hath everlasting life. Um it's a promise. uh that that he that has the son has life and he that has not the sun has not life. Um the moment that one receives Christ as as as Savior, um uh they're um uh sealed. uh and they belong to him. Um and and and and will be given eternal life. Um God's promises are still valid. The world might scoff about that. The world might be ignorant of that But but this is this is our our our our great hope and this is our great anchor. Um we were just talking at the mission homes the other day about um about the importance of of using the scripture. and how important that was. And I I mentioned our our our old pastor, Dr. Dr. McIntyre years ago. He had a debate with Madeline Muriel Hare years ago. Um but he used scripture. He used scripture in that debate. And and then I was present in another debate where he debated the homosexual pastor and independence mall in Philadelphia and I was there as a young teenager um uh listening to that debate. But again he he went to the Bible. That was That was his sword. Um but this is what we have and this is what should encourage us that the Lord is not slack concerning his promises. And then concerning the Great Commission and and his promise to be with us Always. That's still valid. That's still true. There's an old story, an old illustration about a Japanese soldier that was on a island after World War Two and he didn't know the war ended and he he was commanded by his his um uh commander to to to to protect that island no matter what and so he just kept on shooting it everybody didn't know the war was over Uh and finally they had to get his old commander to tell 'em you can you can stop now. Uh the war's ended. You don't have to shoot anymore because uh th that com that his command was still in effect um uh uh in in all that time. Well th as we go back to Chile too, uh there there are times that It's difficult. There there are times when we're we're we feel ready to throw in the towel and and and and and and all. I'm not gonna say that that never happens. Uh there are there are those times Um but but but the Lord is is is always present and he's he's always with us and and and and to help and to and and and and and to bless. Um That's one thing that we have. We have the validity of God's promises. He's not slack concerning his promises. They'll be fulfilled We can trust him. He'll keep his word. But then there's a second wonderful thing in the same verse. Look at 2 Peter 3. 9. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But is long suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance Just think of that statement here. It's a wonderful thing when our will is in line with God's. You know, and this tells us what God's will is. He's not willing that any should perish. Well, that's tremendous, but that all men come to repentance. Not willing that any perish. Christ came at Christmas and then he died on the cross at Calvary. Not willing but that all men come to repentance, still sending out people to the world till Christ comes again so that they might be saved and they might know him and and and have them uh have him as as as their their their savior. When when our will is in line with God's, we know that we're on good ground. That none be lost. should be the theme of of of of of of of every believer. And there's a lot of Bible support for this. You look in the Old Testament and the New Testament, it says this over and over again I'm not going to read their verses, but Ezekiel 18, verse 23 and 32, why will you die? God takes no pleasure in the death of the wicked. Um 1 Timothy 2. 4, who will have all men to be saved and come into the knowledge of the truth, that both the Old Testament and the New Testament affirm this fact That God takes no desire in the death of the wicked, that his will is for a for all to uh to to to be saved. Um Christ he he he wept over Jerusalem and he he he lamented that that the that that that that Jerusalem would not come the people of Jerusalem under his wings as he invited them. And he uh put great value in one soul, whether a Nicodemus or a Samaritan woman or the thief on the cross. put great importance on on one. Um I I mentioned in Sunday school Dr. Hawks, our missionary saying that if a man can gain the the the whole world loses one soul, that means one soul is worth more than the world and and that's the value too that we should put on a soul. I I I wrote a little poem on a very well known There's a very well-known sermon illustration. I've used it before. And I wrote a little poem on it called It It Makes a Difference. Thousands of starfish were stranded on a beach, dying under the scorching sun. A boy in compassion hoped them to reach and pick them up one by one. As he threw them to the ocean bed, a man watched nearby with disdain. He turned to the boy, then he said, Your efforts are all in vain. Theirs is a hopeless case. Why should you even try? Why the time and effort waste, they are bound to die Then the boy for a moment thought and looked upon those on the sand. Were his efforts all for naught? Then he looked at the one uh in in his hand Uh should he give up and save none? Then he answered the man, but I can make a difference in this one. And he continued what he began. in this world have compassion on some, love them for Jesus' sake, bid them unto Jesus to come and he'll the the difference make. Uh why does God tarry? Why has He given us time? Because the long suffering Lord is salvation. He wants to come back to Him. Uh uh don't squander the time. Uh come to him, receive him as Savior. Come back to him if if you're away from him. um and use the time for for his service and and for for his labor uh and and and and for and and and for for his his work. And then when our will is in line with God's If that's our will too, we can anticipate and expect that the Lord's going to do something. We were kind of surprised in Chile. We were praying that the Lord would give us a door of opportunity with the Venezuelans arriving, and God surprised us. Um He he uh not only gave us one, he he gave us one upon one and and and and many that their their hearts are just prepared um to receive Christ. Uh the four received the Lord back in July and uh and others many others we've had contact with Um but but um but but this should encourage us. Um that God is not willing that any should perish. This should encourage uh encourage us. God is not slack concerning his promises But there's a third thing in in this final verse here, um, in verse fifteen, an account that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you This last point is that we we should realize too that God is willing to wait in order to save. Why the time? Because the Lord wants to save, He wants to restore. That's why the Lord has given us the precious time. We've had 27 years in Chile. Um but this is why. Um uh um the Lord is allowing us to go back and and and this this is why. Um uh the Lord is is long suffering. Um uh the long suffering of our Lord is is uh salvation. You you look in the Bible, there's a number of of of passages that talk about that. Uh Isaiah uh thirty verse fifteen, I'll just read for a moment to you. It's a wonderful verse. But but um Or verse 18. And therefore will the Lord wait, that he may be gracious unto you. And therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon you. For the Lord is God of judgment. Blessed are all they that wait for him. It's a smart thing to wait on the Lord. And and and and and here um he's he he waits so that he uh um might be gracious, that he might might bless Um we should wait on him and not give up waiting on him, not stop waiting on him. Uh uh that that would be uh a tragic mistake to to do that But he's he's he's patient, he tarries in order uh to save the more, to show more mercy. Uh uh on on on more people. Um it here Peter uses Paul as an example of this, and he says that that in his epistles He says. In in in in his epistles he says that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. I was trying to think, well well where does Paul say that? Well he does. in a number of places, um in Romans especially, where he talks in about the Jews and the Gentiles and the l in the later uh uh chapters. But also in Romans two four it says, Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to to repentance. Um God uh is is is is We we shouldn't despise his goodness, but but but but we it should use this time um uh that he's given us to persist, to to to plot on, to to plant the gospel seed, to to to pray. I I was I I was amazed at the mission homes in in uh North Carolina the first day that we we got there this month Um we had a meeting with the the the people there and and uh um w and and w while we were having a meeting there was a cardinal uh uh outside the window of the the mission homes there and it was it was Just desperately trying to get inside and it was just flying constantly into the into the glass window trying to get inside. I don't know why Um but the a day or two before we left it we I was in permitting and there that same cardinal was doing the same thing. He was just he was kept on flying into the in into that window trying to get into the into the building there. And oh if if we would be so persistent we would we would s we we would we would see much done and we would see much accomplished But it but it's but it but it's certainly a a lesson um uh um uh for us all. But but here uh Paul was was not only in his letters did he write about the long suffering of the Lord, but he was an example of it. And we read in 1 Timothy 1. 16 how that he was an example. of of of of God's long suffering with was Paul. If you want a good example of God's long suffering in salvation. That's Paul. If you want a an example of God's long suffering with his people, well think of Israel. Um and and and and and and and and and so so is God. So so is God to to us. the the time that we have um is so that men might be saved. The time that we have uh is is so that we might come back to the Lord if we if we are in any way uh uh astray. Um the time that we have Uh i i it's ours to plot on, to to to to plant and um uh to to pray, to to plead um uh uh for souls, but it's a time that we should not squander, that we should not just take for granted, but realize that if we have this time, and again, uh as we sing of Christmas It should be with the anticipation of of Christ's second coming. And why has he given us these 2,000 years so that men might be saved? The Lord is willing to wait. The long suffering of our Lord is salvation. But this time is to be treasured. This time is to be valued. This time is to be utilized. this time um uh is is is is to to be taken advantage of. Um and and and and and and with that we we we're we're we're we're going back to Chile again. We don't know how long the The Lord will have us there, but we know that these things are on our side. We know that these things are on our side. That we can count on God's promises. Christ is coming back. Though the world might scoff at it, though the world might be ignorant of it, but but but the Lord Jesus Christ is coming back and he's coming back soon. We can be also sure that God's will is ever that the lost be saved. He's not willing that that any should perish, but that all come to repentance. And then we can be sure that the Lord is willing to wait. He waited For Paul. With Paul, he could have the first time that Paul lifted up his hand against the church, he could have been struck down. He was not. Uh God was long suffering towards them. Um I I think that's something we should marvel at, is is the long suffering love of the Lord, his patience with us. But it's not it's something not to take for granted. It's something not to be despised. It's not something to be belittled, but something to be valued and used. Let's each one of us see more about our Father's business and more about his work till Christ comes of praying for souls, of sharing our testimony with others, of witnessing to the lost and and and and and um supporting the work of of missions also around the world. um because Christ is coming back soon. But we have all this on our side. All this on our side. God, the long suffering uh of Our Lord is is is is salvation. We should not give up. We should not discourage, be discouraged. To the eleventh hour, Christ was still Or or in the parable of the the the the of the workers in the vineyard still workers were being sent out to the eleventh hour Um in the parable of the Great Supper, we're told that that that the servants were sent out not just once, but a second time and not just a second time, a third time um that God's house will be full. And and and and this is his will and and this is his his his purpose uh uh for us. But we should remember As patient as the Lord is, there are limits, aren't there? And there is a limit of time. The Lord is coming back. And and he is coming back soon. And also there's a balance in the Lord's attributes that we should never forget as well. He's patient, but he's also just. He does have to punish sin. And that's why Paul says in Romans eleven twelve, behold the goodness and the severity of the Lord. Both are true. The Lord uh must judge sin, but the Lord is good. We shouldn't despise his goodness. the the that that leads us to repentance. There was uh Spurgeons that told a story about about two boys that uh um i th that were outside and the one boy said to the other, Well let's let let's let's let's go and pick apples from your your father's apple tree. Um uh and and uh your father's good and he's He he's he's kind and and and and he's he's he's he's not gonna punish ya. Um so so let's do that. And and then the other boy said, Well that's exactly why I'm not gonna do it, because my my my father is good Um the the the the goodness of the Lord should should compel us. The the the the love of the Lord should should constrain us use his precious time for his glory. As surely as Christ came in his first coming, he's coming back in his second. Let's bow for prayer. Our dear Heavenly Father, we we thank you for the fact that you haven't left this world alone, that that Christ did come in time and that he paid the price of salvation on the on the on the cross of Calvary. And now he gives time so that we might go to the world, so that men might uh receive Christ and know Christ as their Savior. Lord help us to also to to count as precious. this time that you've given us to redeem the time for the days are evil. And and and Lord to to to realize that on our side we have your promises. That you're not slack concerning your promises They'll be fulfilled. And and Lord, that behind us too we have your your will. That none perish, but that all come to repentance. Lord help our will to be in sync with yours. We pray it in line with yours. And Father, we also see in this great passage, too, that you're willing to wait the long-suffering of our Lord of salvation Lord help us also to persist, to be patient and labors. Lord, please work through each one here, through this church. uh and and and renew us in your work, Lord, and and and and and and and revive us up in in this great uh desire and and and and mission and and commission uh that you've given us to do. And and and Lord if they're at is any not saved, help them, Lord, today is the debt as salvation. Uh not nothing to be postponed Um uh we don't know how much time we have. Um Lord help us not to despise your patience, but if there if there's anyone here that hasn't received Christ help them to do so. If there are anyone here that needs to return to a former consecration, to a former um place of of of of having Christ as as their first love, help them to do so too. Um to utilize this precious time that she'd given. for that great purpose and end. And help us all to be about your work and and trust and believe what you'll do. For we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.