Always enjoy coming. We always look forward to this. And um it is a little journey, but it's not much because you know we we enjoy coming here, so therefore it's fun for us. It's not a problem at all And um so it's nice to be with you today. Okay, so what shall I talk about today? Shall I make a sermon up as I go along and uh see how that works? That wouldn't be a good idea. Okay. So what I'd like you to do is open up your Bible to, as you already know, which would be Romans chapter one. And we've been going through the book of Romans, verse by verse, is the way we've been doing this. And today we find ourselves in Romans chapter 1, verse 18. And uh so I shall simply read this to you and then just have a few comments. Uh but before I do, let's talk about the context. Always, you know, a good Bible scholar was always aware of the context There is the broad context of all that's in that chapter, but then there's the immediate context, which is the maybe two or three verses prior to the text that you're going to be looking into So that's what I would bring to your attention right now, the immediate context, to sort of refresh our mind what's taking place here in Romans chapter 1. If you remember in Acts, or excuse me, in Romans chapter 1, verse 15 Paul mentions that he is ready to preach the gospel. In verse number 16, he mentions he is not ashamed of that gospel of which he preaches. Verse 17 shares how that the gospel reveals the righteousness of God. You know, what is God? If you don't know God, if you're a pagan, you're a heathen, you don't have the Word of God, well what is God? What's He all about? Well We learn here that God is righteous. We know that by the law that he gave to Israel reveals to us the righteousness of the God who is there, the God who created. And then we have a sudden change in Subject matter. And now the next verse, verse 18, talks about the wrath of God. Now who wants to talk about the wrath of God? I don't. I'd rather talk about God's love, His mercy, His grace But the wrath of God, I'm not really interested in this. However, here's the benefit of doing expository preaching. And when I say expository preaching, I mean you take verse by you know verse one, verse two, verse three, and just go through the Bible that way. You can go through the Word of God topically, and that's a good way as well But I prefer on Sunday morning that s going through the book of Romans by doing it verse by verse. You say, Well isn't that meticulous? Yeah it is. Isn't that boring? Well I hope not, but it can be But I know this, if I was not preaching expositorily, I would not look at this verse. Because I don't want to talk about uh the wrath of God. I'd rather move on to something more positive, but it's found in God's words It's a truth, we should be familiar with it, and thus I'm going to share it with you. It is interesting to know though the word wrath in the Bible Is there 198 times? That's quite a large number. So there's much of scripture revealing and teaching about the wrath. God who exists, the God in heaven, expresses wrath from time to time. When you compare that with love, how many times is love mentioned in the Bible? 310 times. Grace, the word grace is used 170 times Forgiving or forgiveness 60 times. Joy 165 times. And that just gave sort of gives you a relative comparison between wrath, which is 198 times, It's you know it's quite a large number compared to the other things. Love is mentioned more. Um But then wrath comes in second here, so it's a very common theme in Scripture, the wrath of God. As we look, as we're going to talk about the wrath of God, we want to make the point about the wrath of God that God's wrath comes upon us. When sin is present, it is sin that rouse up the wrath of God. Since God is holy, absolute holy, this is what brings forth his wrath. Now, also bear in mind as we talk about God's wrath, there's nothing wrong with wrath in and of itself. As a matter of fact, do you know the Bible tells us To be wrathful. Did you know that? You find here in, or it tells us to be angry. You find in in Ephesians chapter 4 verse 26. There is the command. Be angry and sin not. Isn't that interesting? We're actually told to be angry. But if you look at the context, we're to be angry with sin. To hate sin, to be angry with sin, don't don't compromise with it, don't make it your pet. Be angry with it. Kill it. Take it out of your life. That we're supposed to be angry with We find in Colossians chapter 3, verse 6, the Word of God says, the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience. So again, many references to God's wrath in his holy word. Revelation 14, 10 mentions drinking of the wine of the wrath of God. So we notice looking in scripture, God's wrath, it is not hid, it is not explained away, it is not ignored, the truth is it's in your face It's in my face. The wrath of God, if we're in God's word, we'll find it. It's there almost on every page or closely there too. Now, before we get into analyzing RAID, we want to look at it in its full context though. Context is very important as we look at these various words. Obviously, I want you to remember, and you already know this. Is God loving? Yes. Is God merciful? Absolutely. But today we're not focusing on his mercy. We're not focusing today. Uh on his love, we're going to be looking at his wrath and see what the Bible has to say about that and its implications to us. So as we do this then, uh let's um Look at this and see what God has to say to tell us about wrath. Number one, the first thing I want to share with, well let me give you a phrase first. Let's look at the first phrase, and then I want to take five points dealing with the wrath of God. We find this, and well let's look at Romans 1:18, just to read the verse to you. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Our Father, we ask now that you will guide us as we analyze these 22 words. We pray that the Spirit of God will be our true teacher. We ask that you will soften our hearts, that we will receive the word given. And the benefit of this is that your name will be magnified and glorified. That we can grow in our faith and knowledge of the Lord Jesus and have more love for you and for one another. We pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen. Well, let's look for a moment at the at the phrase the wrath of God. Let's get that down, define that so we're all on the same page exactly. What are we talking about when I use that word wrath? Well, that word wrath comes from the word orge, the Greek word orge. Strict definition of the word orge, a couple lines here. One, it's an excitement, it's an excitement of the mind. You see the word orge in your Greek text means the excitement of the mind. It's aroused, it's active. It can mean a violent passion. It can mean anger, indignation, and vengeance. Now, I want to begin with an experiment. I want you to think Of a time when you were the recipient of someone's wrath I'm sure something comes to mind that maybe a father, a mother, a friend, when they were angry with you and they expressed their wrath, maybe they're raging you did that or They you know may do something uh which would let you know they're angry with you. You are the recipient of wrath. When I say that to you, two things come to my mind when I think of being uh a a recipient of receiving people's wrath. Um I don't have to think too hard to come across these things, but um being involved in athletics all my life, I was always under the wrath of the coach And um I I'm recalling here a time uh in ninth grade. We're playing a a football game on the ninth grade. And we're playing a championship game against Springfield of of Delaware County. The big game for ninth, you know, junior high school. And on the team, I was the running back for our team. And so here we go into this big game. Well I have to report to you in all honesty, not once, not twice. But three times I fumbled the ball in the first half, almost every time I touched it. Well, we went into halftime. And we're sitting there on the bench and the coach is going to give his speech. And I can tell I'm going to tell you exactly what he this is over what? 50 years ago. And I remember verbatim what he said. It stung me so bad And he gets in, Britain, you are the world's worst. Then he elaborates from there. But I remember that I'm receiving his wrath. And I started go uh I'm trying to see if I could disappear. The other thing that comes to my mind when I say that about being a recipient of of uh people's wrath was a school teacher, my fourth grade school teacher is giving She gives us 20, 25 minute explanation on how to write a term paper. Okay, I'm taking all this in, trying to be a good student And at the end of that she says, now does anybody have a question? That's when I made my fatal mistake. And raised my hand. Yes, Donald? Honestly, to this day, I don't know what I asked. But I do know it was a wrong thing to ask. Because I could see slow slowly her face is getting red, redder and red. I mean she was so and then she lit. Donnie Britton, you never pay attention! I talked to you about this, and we went on and on and on. Oh man, I'm again sitting here receiving wrath. And I'm sure, and this would be interesting, I guess we don't have the time, but maybe someone would someone here like to share something when you receive the wrath of someone School teacher, father, mother, whatever. Anybody want to share something? Because it's interesting to hear these experiences because it helps us to actually see that what this rec verse is going to be all about Anybody want to say anything about rather nobody wants to say about God's wrath or or not God's wrath, people any kind of wrath that you may be under. Of course it's a miserable thing, ruins your day and your but think about this Think about being under the wrath of God. What I gave you are examples of being under the wrath of my fellow man. Okay, that's embarrassing. It's humiliating. All right But think if you are under the wrath of God Almighty. And that's our that's what we're talking about today, this subject of wrath. A couple questions to ask about this wrath. Here's the first one. What does our text tell us about God's wrath? So if we examine those 22 words and we're asking, what does the Bible tell us about the wrath? It uses the word revealed Let's talk about that word revealed. Apokalupate is that if you go back to the Greek rendering, apakalupitae, and the word revealed means hiding. Anger or wrath? I'm sure you've done this. You've been angry with someone, but you sort of held it back. It also means to uncover. It can mean to lay open that which was veiled or to expose. So actually, you're not holding it back, you're unleashing it, you're letting that out. It is revealed. And so we're going to find the wrath of God in this text. It is revealed. It is open. Think of a Christmas morning. Uh preferably I guess when you were a child, you you go downstairs, open up the Christmas present, and what do you do? Rip up rip open there's the box, there's the gift. You don't know what is in it, nothing is revealed, so you rip it open Open the box and you get the toy or whatever is there. It is revealed. I opened the box, tore open the paper, and got the contents and it is revealed. That's what apakalupate. It is taken out of the box, shall we say, and it is revealed. What is revealed? The wrath of God. We're talking here about the wrath of God. It becomes Revealed. Not hidden, but open. It is revealed. Now think about this. What are examples in the Bible of God's wrath when He unleashes His wrath? What has happened in God's Word? For example, think about the worldwide flood. You talk about a catastrophe. That was probably the greatest catastrophe in the history of the world The whole planet under water. Can you imagine what that did to the Earth, to the rock structure? And it's interesting we know this today. You can climb up to the highest mountain on the earth and you know what you will find? Fossils of fish Now how did those fossils of fish get there? Because the earth was under water at one point. And that was an expression of God's wrath. Whew! I don't want anything to do with this. But there's another example of God's wrath. What about Sodom and Gomorrah? That an expression of God's wrath. Now where is Sodom and Gomorrah? It's at the bottom of the Dead Sea. It's all gone. Now you can go if you're a diver, you can go down there and st and still find the parts of it. But the point is it's at the bottom of the Dead Sea because God Judged it in his wrath. It was an expression, it was a product of the wrath of and then here's the worst one. The worst of all those. The Lord Jesus Christ upon the cross. was receiving the wrath of God Almighty for our sin. Think about that. I'm sure you you've done things wrong and the parent comes down on you and I know when my kids were young I not often, but I would spant them sometimes or if that's what was necessary. Um but think about think about God having his wrath Having to deal with the wrath of God Almighty and the Lord Jesus on the cross, taking the right the wrath of God. No, we'll I've given you examples only of wrath of our fellow man. I can't imagine if God was wrathful to us. That would just be so overwhelming. And that is here what our text is getting at. That's what is Analyzing. We've looked at three examples of this. But there's many verses dealing with the wrath of God. John chapter 3, verse 36. He that believes not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides upon him. Think of that person. Not a believer in the Lord Jesus. Now they may be healthy. They may be actually successful all the while they're under the wrath of God. Well, how can that be? Because God is patient waiting for repentance. And many times the wicked is out there and they're doing their thing and uh prospering and doing this, and all the while they're under the wrath of God. God is patient, giving them time to repent, giving them time to come unto the Lord, but yet eventually his wrath will be unleashed, and of course it's a terrible thing to experience such a thing. But we know this that God gives a a sinner time to repent. But if he does not repent, then he'll give that many times he gives the sinner over to his passion. Think about that. Think about people who are under The power of drugs, alcohol, sexuality, thievery, all the things that you can be stuck to. And many times, why is that there? Because God gave the sinner over to their sin Many times they heard the gospel, they rejected. Many times God dealt with them in one way or another, but they're insistent on going their own way. And so God in his wrath gives them over to the sin. And that's why you find people who are addicted to this, addicted to that Because there are some of those times God gave them over to their sin. That's what they want, that's what they pursue, okay. He'll pursue he'll let you do it to your own destruction. Think of the hamster. I think we've all seen the hamster. Don't we know how the hamster works? You get that little hamster, put it in its cage, and that cage has a wheel, right? And the hamster runs in that wheel. But you know if you let that hamster run, it'll run itself to death. It won't stop. It'll just run and run and then die. So you gotta come in there and put a pencil in that little wheel there so it so it can't run. But you know that's what sinful man will do. He'll consume himself in sin unless the Lord holds him back. Unless he is saved and given the gift of the Holy Spirit to empower some of these things, to empower all of them actually, we will consume ourselves with misery, with sin, with disobedience and rebellion. And thus they receive the wrath of God. I want to get into here a little bit, talk about the difference between just I want to make it very brief here. The difference between the wrath of God upon the unbeliever and the discipline of God upon the believer. We do not receive the same wrath of God upon ourselves as the unbeliever does But we do receive God's chastisement. And chastisement is correction to move us to godliness. And we have right here in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 6, for whom the Lord loves, he chastens. And scourges every son whom he received. I'm sure I know every one of us from time to time have been under the chastising hand of God for our sin, our rebellion, whatever it may be. But he will chastise us to bring us into godliness, to have us break these habits and draw closer to God. But to the unsaved, he doesn't chastise them. He comes down on them with his wrath and with his anger. And so we need to make that distinction between what the believer receives and also what the unbeliever will Will receive from Holy God Almighty. Next question I want to ask: what is the origin of the divine wrath? Where does it come from? Well, our text tells us what it comes from heaven The wrath of God's origin is not from hell. It's from heaven. It's God Almighty. Pouring out his wrath on the sinner. Because it tells us here his wrath, his divine wrath comes from where? It comes from heaven. So what's heaven? Heaven is the abode of God the Father. Heaven is the abode of God the Son. God the Holy Spirit, his abode is in in the believer. But this is the word it comes from heaven, meaning that is God's That is God's domain. And so we need to make n know this recog recognition of this. Let's ask another question. Specifically, what is the target of God's wrath? What is the aiming? Who receives the wrath of God? It tells us here it's against all ungodliness and all unrighteousness. That's the target of God's wrath. Ungodliness and unrighteousness. You ask, well what's the difference? Well, you know what, I'm not that good a scholar to be able to tell you this, but I did looking looking this up confer with in various commentaries And this statement I got from Calvin's commentary, and he simply says on this verse, he says, both conditions are basically the same, the same. And in their heart their rebellion against God, just different forms when you get down to it of rebellion Shaking my hand against God. I will do what I want to do. I will not allow you to have domination over me. I'm me. I'm going to do my thing. And here scripture refers to this using these words of our ungodliness and unrighteousness Next question. What about the unrighteousness and godliness that excites the wrath of God? What is it in God Almighty that becomes excited with anger against the sinner? And it's this. The text tells us he holds the truth in unrighteousness. You see, it's a very serious matter. To come into the presence of God. You know, Hebrews, Hebrews 1031 makes it very clear. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. That's serious. When we come to church and worship God, when we We are saved and we we repent and follow the Lord Jesus, that's a very serious matter for the rest of our life. We're serving a holy, righteous, loving, merciful, all of that is comprised of of God, but today we're looking at that part of Him that which will express wrath. And again, as we have said earlier, we will not receive the same kind of wrath as the unbeliever who's headed for hell But we will receive the judgment of God to bring about corruption in our lifestyle, maybe to break a habit or to cause us, move us to do something that we refuse to do. And so this is how the Lord works with the unsaved and how he works with the saved. And the truth is, think about the people who were not saved. Maybe you shared Christ with them. And they might mock you, or you know, you have some difficulties with them one way or another. But you know what? Not only from this word, we will see in about two verses if we're moving through Romans that the unbeliever When they are mocking you for witnessing and believing in Jesus Christ, they know simultaneously they know Jesus Christ is the Son of God. They know it, they won't confess it, they won't profess it, they fight it off But inside they know what you're telling them is the truth. They won't bow to it, they won't confess it, but they know it's in them. As I say, we'll see that in in a few as we move forward in a few more verses In reality, the wicked, they know the truth, but they dishonor it, they distort it, they pervert it, they ignore it They know that there's a God. They know that they're going to stand before God. So don't be fooled by their bluff. I don't believe in any God. There's no God. If there's a God, God, if you're there, show me. Kill me. Well, and they let you carry on like this. But they know deep in their hearts, it is an offense to God to kill someone, to steal property from another person. uh to uh to be immoral with a woman, uh to uh they deny the intelligence and the power of the universe, but yet they know deep in their heart that indeed God is there They instantly, in internally, they know the truth, but they disown it with their destructive lives, their foolish philosophies, their grandizing intellectual pursuits And just simply stubborn denial. They will not acknowledge God. But you know He has given more evidence. As again we'll see this in a couple weeks to come. God has given overwhelming evidence of his presence Of his awareness through his creation, and we will examine that in a few weeks. So what are we to do, knowing about God's wrath, that he will unleash it? And he will unleash it on the uns. Now maybe you have a parent, a friend, a brother, a cousin who was not saved. And they are subject to the wrath of God. What are we to do about this? You know, again, as scripture says it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a holy God. So having this information, having this knowledge, what what are we to do? Here are four things that we should do. I should do. You should do. Number one, obviously the people of prayer. Now you know think of someone before you go through with this. I'm sure you know someone in your circle of friends who you know they're not saved. You're concerned about them, you pray about them, maybe you've handed them a track and they threw it back to you, whatever. But as it these next words, think about that person. Let that person's face be in your mind as I say these next words. What are we to do for that friend of yours, that neighbor of yours, that cousin of yours, that fellow person that you may work with? Obviously, number one, make them an object of prayer. Casting all your care on him, knowing that he careth for you, and bring that person before the throne of grace. And I'm again I'm gonna say something I believe I've said here. I say this all enthusiasm, I share with you who I was just with yesterday my brother my brother You know, as I mentioned to you, I think, and if I didn't, I'm gonna say it again, making sure you got it. But you know, my brother I have an older brother who was not saved, harsh, nasty person My own brother was very very difficult to l to work with. We would pray for him and I would I would witness to him numbers of times and he was, Ah, you I don't want to hear that. Why if that if that's true, then why did this happen? Oh no, that kind of thing. And so y the truth is, I gave up praying for him. Because I thought this guy's so lost. I'm wasting prayer time praying about him. I'm gonna you know pray for someone else. And then Least expecting. I get a phone call late um about twelve o'clock at night. I'm getting ready to go to bed and the phone rings. I'm like, oh, who's this late night? You know, so I answered the phone, hello, and it's my brother Neil. And so I thought right away maybe dad had passed away. Why would he call me if he never never called me, never called me. And I'm living in Florida at this time Yeah, Neil, what what do you want? I'm expecting some some I want to tell you what tonight Sunday and I got saved. What? Cindy and I got saved? Are you say that again, what did you say? I thought you said you and Cindy got saved. What did you say? Cindy and I got saved tonight. And so he began to share with me the things that led up to this. And you know, just when was when were we with Neil? Just recently I was with him, my brother Neil, and and oh, his and now he think about the hardest person I ever met. So I was talking to his wife yesterday, and she's telling me something that Neil's involved in. Well, what's that? Well, our pastor, my brother Neil, his pastor. Wanted to learn how to play the guitar. So my brother plays the guitar. And so who do you think's teaching the pastor how to play guitar? Is my brother, who used to be formerly harsh, nasty kind of person, who's now the Lord is mellow them down and you know, worships the Lord and sir it's a it's an exciting thing to watch. How these things occur. Those things even when you think are impossible, yet we know that they occur. The power of God does us, he'll take those who under great discipline and even under the wrath of God, but they get saved. And of course they're born again and great and wonderful. So pray for these people. Number two, obviously we want to be faithful in our worship And you know this is a nice group here today. And we pray for your church that the Lord will bring the people, bring people to your church. You know, you have a wonderful church here. You know, we speak in different churches And this is one of our favorite ones to come to. Just the uh of the personalities that are here and you know, you make us feel so comfortable and I can just tell us certain just I think you have a exciting future here. But you know what? If you have an exciting future The devil's gonna fight you. You gotta realize that. If you want to go out with souls and bring people to the Lord, great, do it, but be ready for a spiritual download that comes with it. But if you got the Lord in you, you can handle that and move forward And um 'cause you got something great going here and I'm excited to see what's taking place here. So we talk about prayer, faithful worship. Evangelism and discipleship, as I talked about that during Sunday school, so I'll not relate there. And also become a faithful soul winner Get the word of God out. Learn how to share with it. I have my wife gave me this. Don't have any more of them to share with it. The track to handout. Learn how to share it. Have a way. You may not want to use the track I gave you. Get one that you like And as Vicky has as said, now by the way I say and now Vicki, that girl's a soul winner, man. I mean nobody talks to her unless they get the gospel. I'm gonna tell you. But the problem is, here this is sad, this is very sad Her hardest battle in this area is her own family. Wonderful people. If they were here, you would love them, but lost as a heathen in Africa. And Harry and you want to keep him in prayer, Harry, Andrea, Abraham, Sutami, Grace. Um that that's part of her clan there. Wonderful. You would love them if they were here, but they are totally without the Lord. Anyway, we ask that you would keep them in prayer. I think he's a faithful witness to them. I do my best to share the word with them. That's what we need to do in light of the wrath of God upon the unbelieving world and what that's going to bring to the world. The last thing I want to say is this. We as Christians, the Church of Jesus Christ, in my opinion, we hold the key to America. I honestly believe that. I think this church here has a major role in the success or failure of America. Because what if you know well I guess it was referred to, we are on the verge of imploding right now. Not far from it. We need to pray for the Lord to give us a revival to send some great preacher or have the church come alive and be bold witnesses for the Lord Jesus Christ? Because if the church doesn't come alive I don't I would not be surprised. In a year or two we can't meet here like this. We may have to meet out in the woods out there. Because I at least what I see, I see Everywhere I look, it's very discouraging. But here is one word of encouragement in such a condition. As I'm looking at the promise of God's Word in 2 Chronicles chapter 7, verse 14, I think you all know it, but hear it carefully. God is speaking, if my people, which are called by my name, that's you and me. That's the Christian community. If all called by my name. Now what do we what is he asking us to do? Humble yourself. That's that's probably the biggest battle there. You know, we're all so full of pride and all this. You know, look how great I am. And even if even if you don't show it outwardly, you maybe still if you're a human being, you have a problem with this. Humble yourself Humble ourselves before God. And the text says, if you humble yourself, number two, pray. I'm hoping that when you have prayer meeting here, it looks like this. I know in our church when we had a prayer meeting it was about one third. You know, it's not funny. I'm laughing, but it's not funny. That prayer meeting is the most in my opinion, the most important meeting you have is your prayer meeting. Come together and pray. Cast your care upon him, knowing that he careth for you. The text says, if my people, which are called by Main name, will humble themselves, pray, seek my faith, Turn from their wicked ways. Now I wonder if right now. Now I know we're all Christians here, and I have no doubt about that, but yet probably we're people, we're human beings. We have our ups and our downs, and maybe somebody here today is not really right with God as you ought to be for whatever reason. We all go through that from time to time, but maybe somebody here today is like this. Maybe somebody here today has a sin you need to let go of God has not struck you dead. He hasn't did to you what he did to Sodom and Gomorrah. He's allowing you to continue on and do your thing, but really God's waiting for you to repent. And if that be the case today, I'm going to close in a prayer in just a minute, to give you an opportunity to repent of sin that may be in your life. Get it out of your life Because you know the devil, the deceiver, wants to lock you down with that sin, that you miss all blessings, miss knowing the Lord better. Not saving souls, not believing your Bible, and but you you're sick you know you're caught to sexual sin or intellectual sin, whatever it may be. If my people which are called by my name will humble themselves, pray, seek my face, turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven. And forgive their sin and will heal their land. Isn't that beautiful? Now take this. This is our land right here. And if we will examine ourselves and the sin that we find, confess it before God. And by his power, forsake it, get it behind you and move away from it. God will pour out his blessing That's a beautiful promise. I hope you all have that memorized. I'm reading it, but I do have it memorized. If my people which are called by my name will humble themselves, praise, seek my face. Then I'll hear from heaven and heal their land. I skipped the verse there. Skip the part of that. Forgive their sin and heal their land. Because we know this where there is much healing There's a little wrath. You don't have to be worried about the wrath of God or the chastisement of God. Being a born-again Christian, you're not going to get the wrath of God, but you will get his chastisement But we don't want that either. Follow the Lord. Confess your sin, turn from it, and follow the Lord Jesus Christ. So we can have here healing. Or we can have wrath or or God's chastisement. We can have one of the two. Which do you choose? I choose the healing myself. And that comes with us calling out to the Lord. And that's because the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all unrighteousness and ungodliness. And um That's what he calls us to do, to follow him, to cast our cares on him against all unrighteousness and godliness who hold the truth in unrighteousness God forbid there may not be someone like that here today. I'm assuming everybody's saved here, but maybe you're not. Maybe there's someone here who doesn't know the Lord Jesus Christ. And if that be the case, we're going to close in prayer, and I'd urge you to receive Christ. Tell the Lord. I I'm a sinner, I maybe I I come to church, I like it and all this, but I'm sort of going through the motions. Is my heart really circumcised? I don't know. And if you have any doubt, talk to the Lord about it now. Talk to the pastor afterwards and try to get some direction Because the world, the flesh, and the devil is your enemy. And they will keep you pinned down, discouraged, defeated, as long as they can. But you can break that. Calling upon the Lord, let us pray together. Our Father, we want to say thank you for bringing us together today. Thank you for bringing together this church And establishing it and maintaining it and I'm sure like every church it goes through its ups and downs and successes and failures And yet through all of this, look at this wonderful congregation who you have brought here and kept here, and it's a beautiful, glorious thing. I would pray, Lord, for the church leaders that you will continue to give them unity, give them wisdom, give them understanding, that they can give the church good direction and it will continue to prosper, direct, uh go forward. And and reach sinners and disciple people. And it will be a great church for your name, for the salvation of souls, and for the edification of believers. Our Father, we want to say thank you for bringing us together this day. Thank you that we could share in with this marvelous congregation and use us, use Vicky, use myself to be a blessing to them. And thank you for this wonderful day. And Lord, I I don't bel I don't not you know, you know, and I know I don't deserve to be here. With these wonderful people that are here And you would have me be behind the pulpit given God's word. You know that's pure grace. And I thank you for it. I don't understand it, but I thank you. Now guide us as we go our separate ways, or as we have lunch together, we ask that you would guide our fellowship, that we would truly Be skilled in building up and encouraging one another. And if there's anybody here who doesn't know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, right now, cry out to God. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Call upon him right now. Again, Father, we thank you for bringing us together. Guide us as we dismiss and we pray all this through Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen.