Hey good morning. Open our Bibles. No surprise, Second Timothy chapter one. But we'll minimize it today. The final four verses. Follow along as I'll be reading verses 15 through 18. Be mindful as you're turning there that Paul didn't write in chapter and verse. He wrote in these sentences, so it was not until many years later that they were added Second Timothy one. Follow along, I'll read through fifteen through the end of the chapter. This thou knowest: that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me, of whom are Philegius and Homogenes. The Lord give mercy unto the house of Anesaphoros, for he oft refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain. But When he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me. So the Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day, and in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well I thank the Lord for his word, as we have read it this morning. Let's just pause for a minute of prayer. Father, cause our Our time here as your word is read and as we expound it to hide your servant and show forth Christ and his glory. And cause us, Father, each of us, to set aside the again the cares and concerns and the thoughts that so easily are brought into this place. And may our heart's attention be upon your word. We are people who are desirous to know more of you, your will for us, and how me we may better please you in all things. Forgiving us of our sin, we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Last week, I think it was last week, Sunday, uh did anybody watch Sixty Minutes? Leslie Stahl had a special on there where uh they were interviewing uh Holocaust survivors. And it was such a unique way. Um they had uh spent probably about um eight hours a day interviewing these people. They had umteen cameras around them and they asked them uh every possible question they could Uh they had something like uh 55,000 people totally interviewed. Some 2,000 questions were asked of each person. And these are all stored uh at the University of Southern California. It's stopped now because of the the COVID thing. But the idea is They're put into an algorithm in the computer and you are able to, or people in the future, will be able to ask them any question. And you're really asking the person these questions that have been in essence asked before and the computer picks that up and they answer you. They're sitting there on their own in the chair W you're watching this screen and they're and they're responding to you in your question. And yet they will have been dead for who knows how long is really neat, you know. And I thought, wouldn't that be really neat for today? If I could go back and Talk to Abraham Lincoln, you know, or or relatives, you know. Uh see how that is, you know. People of the Bible, you know, how that But we do have the ability to go back for those people in the Bible and to look at what's been given to us within the scriptures themselves. uh to be able to provide answers. Uh some, uh like Moses or Abraham, uh Jesus Joseph. There's a lot written. So we have a lot of volumes and we see many days of their lives and we see a lot that's gone on. Other cases we see their names mentioned once Maybe twice. Very little bit of there. And we basically have to say that's all that was supposed to be We have uh Lois and Eunice for Timothy, grandma and and mom. And that's all. And then the two characters that we have mentioned in our scripture today, actually three Philegius, Hermogenes, only mentioned twice in the scriptures, and Onesophorus mentioned here, and then later on in the book. And that's all. And when you think of all of history, God preserving just that name in that particular situation that we're called to look at and consider and study And say, for some reason, God says that's the only information going back that we need to know that's going to be profitable for us in honoring unto the Lord. Today I want us to, by God's grace, dissect these final four verses and see what it has for us. within these characters and see how it can relate to us. As we begin and we look at verse 15, uh we're going to need a little geography lesson first of all. Again, 15 says, Thou knowest that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me. Some of you may know when the New Testament speaks of Asia It's not Japan or the Philippines or or uh Malaysia or even India. It was a province that the Romans labeled Asia And you think mentally what a map of Turkey is, and probably about the one-third of the western side of Turkey was the province of Asia So if you're a Roman citizen and you say, we're going to Asia, that meant they're going to the western side of Turkey, and that's where they were. So as Paul reads this, writes this, this is what he's speaking about Now, really getting interesting, we look at this, the apostles Paul spent three years in the city of Ephesus, which just happens to be the capital of the province of Asia. God providentially taking Paul to this city, spending three years there, in in a prime city, a place that God led him to in order that he would not only establish a church, but that the work would go out from this particular area. And as a matter of fact, Luke writes in Acts 19, and this continued by the space of two years, so that all they which dwelt in Asia Heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Wow. Dr. Luke, he's writing history, and he writes down there, here's Paul. In this particular moment in history, all of the people of, not just Ephesus, but all of the people of the province of Asia, the word has gone out. that they have all heard the gospel. Obviously this isn't just Paul, but this is Paul taking it to somebody else and somebody else, and they take it on and it goes on and on and reaches out and reaches out and reaches out What particular details they're given to us is for the glory of the Lord. And I think a real encouraging note for us here today. You know, we're here to sow the gospel seed, to make the message of the Lord Jesus Christ known. And we say what we do is the hardest, we give our very best, and we kind of wonder if anything will ever come about it. Will anything ever happen? Yet the actual work of the Lord Jesus Christ is by the Spirit of God Himself. God alone uses what we proclaim and bring men and women and boys and girls to not only the hearing of the gospel, but in his plan. to allow them to see themselves as sinners in need of the Savior in order that they would come to know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. That's what God provides in that work. We hear at Pilgrim Church, if Jesus tarries, may it be said that all they which dwelt in Baltimore County heard the word of the Lord Jesus Christ. Doesn't mean that they all were saved, just as it was back in this time when Paul writes these words and when Luke understands that. Didn't mean that everybody in Asia was saved, but the gospel went out. In that whole region, that's our responsibility to see that the gospel goes forth. And so those that heard in Asia and believed Verse 15 gives us two names of those people. This thou knowest that all they in Asia be turned away from me, of whom are Philegius and Hermogenes. Timothy You know it. You're very aware of the fact that Asia has not responded. The the the the province, the this whole region that the gospel has gone forth, they haven't responded. everyone has deserted me. This is no shock to you. But what should be a shock apparently is that these two characters Philegius and Hermogenes did, and I think both Timothy and Paul were very aware of these two individuals. He says, even them, even they deserted me We must remember earlier the apostle told Timothy, I think it was in verse eight, that he says, Timothy, don't be ashamed of the gospel Don't be ashamed of proclaiming the gospel, and likewise don't be ashamed of of me, his prisoner. And apparently he says this again and again because Timothy's ears were maybe on Philus and Hermogenes because they were maybe friends. And he says, Don't be like them, because they've deserted me, Timothy. Don't allow that to happen All those in this region have not followed me. But I think it's also important to note that it doesn't say that they abandoned Christ. It wasn't their abandonment of the gospel, it wasn't their abandonment to the relationship with the Lord, but they abandoned personally the Apostle Paul. And it's quite possible that Paul asked them. Anybody in Asia, word got back, I'm in prison. Will you come and and be a uh a spokesman to my character Uh I could have to appear before the uh the Caesar here and before these other ones. Would you would you just come and help me? You know It's quite possible that these were the among the many who just never did. Or it's possible they were in Rome, and when they saw Paul arrested again in imprisoned, and the sentence of death had come down to him by Caesar Maybe they said it's time that we got out. It's time that we left uh the the city of Rome. And I think that's quite possible. I think that's a very human, natural reaction, not wanting to get arrested themselves. Yet the bottom line is: all they which are in Asia have turned away from me. What a testimony for over 2,000 years. What a testimony to have for people to remember them, those names, for people to remember that region. Obviously the Church of Ephesus does grow and it becomes a very prominent church Possibly because of what Paul's testimony was here, that they were ashamed, and after Paul's death they said, you know, we've really got to change. We've really got to proclaim the gospel of Christ. We don't know. But this is a markdown for all of history that these had deserted the Apostle Paul. However, the next three verses bring tremendous joy and happiness to the apostle. He writes of the experience of one who not only befriended him, but was a joy to his heart. For as discouraged as Paul was with the brethren of Asia, including Philadius and Hermogenes, Anesophoros brought him great joy. There are three areas that I want to mention or that Paul writes down here to Timothy that are important about this relationship that Onesaphoros has that we want to see. The first begins in verse 16. He says, The Lord give mercy unto the house of Aenecephoros, for he oft refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain. First of all, he says he was repeatedly kind to me, repeatedly, oft refreshed me. What a joy that was to the Apostle Paul. Adam Clark writes in a commentary about Paul. He says, to what trials did God expose him? His life was a life of perils and tribulations. His labors were superabundant, and his success was all but incredible. Wherever he went, he left a track of light and life behind him. To him, as the grand instrument of God, the Gentiles The whole habitable world owe their salvation. Yet see him in his old age neglected by his friends, apparently forsaken by God, and abandoned to the hands of ruthless men in prison and in chains Can you imagine the life? We look back and we we see Paul, this great theologian, and yet here he is. A man. No doubt how he feels saddened by those who have abandoned him. Actually, later on in this book, he talks about even more that were there Paul, the great apostle, refreshed again and again by Unisaphoros. But not only in prison, in verse 18, he says, And how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus Thou knowest very well. He showed him kindness. He ministered to Paul. Can you think of ministering to somebody in such a way? Mentally, we often think of ministry in the terms of theology, opening up a Bible and ministering to their soul. But here we get a definition of a principle of ministry of saying it's much more than that. It's the refreshment of Paul's life, an encouragement, sometimes just to be there, sometimes just to understand what he's going through. Remember the Roman prison system did not provide three square meals a day. No blankets when it was cold. No books to read, no papers or parchments to write on, no pen to inscribe all of the things that you wanted to. That wasn't part of the agreement when you went to jail If you wanted to eat, if you wanted clothing, if you needed anything else, and Paul mentions this in other letters, you know, you had to have your friends bring them to you. And so no doubt this was one of the avenues upon which Anusaphoros provided him relief. The verb refreshed. speaks of being revived by the cool breezes. We've physically experienced that. The hot day and you can sit down in the shade and and just have the breeze. Boy, I feel so good Paul's spirit, burdened by the life, burdened by the end of his life, all of the struggles that he has gone through. And this one man comes into his prison cell and brings him as a fresh breeze. The picture is dramatic, deserted by those he expected would stand with him. Paul was suddenly and unexpectedly revived by the appearance of this one man The picture in my mind is the Apostle Paul perhaps sitting there dejected in prison, chained to a Roman guard. All of a sudden he hears another guard on the outside. Paul, you've got a visitor. What's it happening? What's going to happen? And in walks Anisaphoris. And all of a sudden his whole attitude, because he knows this man He remembers what he had done for him, ministered to him back in Ephesus, and here he is, at his most discouraged time, walks into this jail cell and provides unto him tremendous encouragement. Jesus says in the Beatitudes, Matthew 5. 7, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. A Necephorus was a man who was merciful to Paul, gracious to Paul, kind to Paul, and for history we remember that. Second noteworthy comment that Paul makes comes at the end of verse 16. And here again, Paul gives praise to this man because he associates himself with the prisoner He associates himself with the chains and was not ashamed of my chain. Hey, Timothy. Don't be ashamed of me in prison. Don't be ashamed because I have these chains and I'm chained to a Roman soldier. Don't be ashamed because I have the death sentence on me. Unesaphoris wasn't. He may have been the only one. I think Anestaphorus had a a big soul. He found no shame whatsoever by standing next to Paul in his most troublesome times. Sometimes it's easy to stand with people and walk with them when things are going good, when it's an easy path. But here Paul's life was not such. There is a readiness to suffer, if need be, for the cause of Christ, which is a true mark of a Christian. And Annesaphorus allowed himself because it was within his own soul to be associated with a prisoner, impossibly even taking upon him that same judgment, because others were afraid for the same thing. There's an account of a missionary who, not necessarily as well known as others, as martyred missionaries, he demonstrated this very point of courage. Back in 1931, a missionary by the name of John Vinson was working in northern China. Bandits had come down as was all the problem in the the early earliest of years in uh World War II, uh bandits came down and and uh were robbing and looting and and killing and they had come to this place where Vincent was ministering It says they seized 115 Chinese together with Vincent as their captives. Government troops were after the Chinese. And they were cornered and the bandits basically said, Vincent, if you will sign an agreement and take this to the to the government troops, we'll let you go And Vincent says, no. He says, only if you will include in that these 150 Chinese troops or uh people that were captured with me. And he said, certainly not. His reply was, then I refuse to go free. That night the bandits tried to escape. They tried to grab Vincent and take him along, but he had a surgery. not too much before that and was unable to travel with them. A little Chinese girl later reported that the bandit pointed a gun at Vincent's head and said, I'm going to kill you. Aren't you afraid? At this point we kind of put ourselves in his place, don't we? We kind of understand the situation. What if if I'm in that particular situation, what would I do? Would I have the courage, would I have the peace about me to be able to say, yeah, go ahead. But we're not. None of us are. Maybe later on today you'd be in a situation, or maybe tomorrow or sometime in the future, we have to make that decision. But it's Our understanding, what God wants us to understand, is that when that time does come that we have to make that choice one way or another, we can say within peace in our hearts that God will be with me at that time to see me through. We have peace here. Nobody's going to break in and shoot us for worshiping. Nobody's going to arrest us, put us in like Paul and these others. But Will we have that peace at the time when that does come? Well, it was at this point that Vincent looked up and said to his captors, No, I am not afraid. If you kill me I will go straight to my God. Which he did. Which he did. The third point that the apostle gives for an encouragement of Enosaphoros out of verse 17. But when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me. Anesophoros made it his business to find Paul. He made it his business to search out this city, he says, very diligently. A true friend sticketh closer than a brother. This is the relationship that Onesaphorus and Paul felt within the body of Christ. And also forest made it his business. Millie and I enjoy watching a show called The Amazing Race. And we've been watching some of the older ones. And it's interesting because you start out with uh eleven, twelve teams of two, and they traveled around the world thousands and thousands of miles finding clues, uh doing certain uh events, uh challenges, some physical, some mental, in order to finally, and the last one in the line who finishes that particular challenge is kicked out in order to finally be one of the w last one to to finish this race, and they win a million dollars. They search diligently for these clues. They go through all types of of hoops and and physical trials and mental anguishing situations and eating this and all this other kind of stuff, diligently they push themselves for the goal of winning money. The same picture is drawn here of Anosaphoris to find my friend Paul. Now remember, this wasn't his hometown. Remember that Anusaphorus was in the city of Rome of about four to five million people at this time. It was the seed of paganism Christians were not necessarily the most honored of people, you know. Persecution. Nero, a man who, out of his insanity, uh decides to torture Christians in the best way possible because It covered up his insanity, you know. And so when you see that and you see Inusaphoros reaching this particular stage in his life He says, I'm not afraid of associating myself with Paul. And he goes throughout the city doing what he can diligently searching for him. You see the character or the quality. And Paul understands that. And that's why he finds even greater refreshment because he says, this man knows me, he refreshes me, he serves me, he ministers to me, and he's not afraid of what will take place. What a joy it brings. What a tremendous joy. And on one side, I think it's a challenge to Timothy as he's writing to him. Timothy, you know, he's and he doesn't say it, you know, be like an esophoris, but he's also reflecting, I think, in this final times of his life, saying, I have been blessed with people throughout my life I've been encouraged by them all. Well, there you have it. Glance back in history to three individuals. Two, don't necessarily bring tremendous joy, uh, their their their their report card uh really doesn't show uh the the characters that they were. And they um you know these two men may have been uh great blessings in the church later on after this these particular words were now but in this instance They're marked for all of history. Pelegius and Hermogenes, no, they were of no friends whatsoever. We're not looking upon their character, anything beyond that. But it shows how important every action that we have But we have also Anaphorus. He provides unto Paul, and I think he provides unto us some great encouragement in life. Sometimes we wonder, what can I do for the Lord? You know, I'm challenged to do that. You know, what can I do? Well, there's no way I can do a Bible study or or, you know, teach a Sunday school class or stuff like that. That's just not me, you know. Uh music? I can turn on a radio, you know I can play that, you know, quite nicely. I can work with that. Come to meeting people on the road and talking with them about the Lord, cold turkey? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not me. Yeah, talking to him, handing about some, you know, witnessing that's you know, I I'm really taken back by that But can you sit and talk with someone, ask them how they're doing, and just listen to them? You know, I sometimes I wonder what onesophores is ministry was to this man in jail. Brought him some water and and drink, uh food, um, maybe something to read, some news from from Ephesus. But I think a lot of times you're just sitting listening to Paul. So Paul could talk, converse. One of the hardest parts that we've experienced in this COVID-19 thing is people being, in essence, locked up. No friendships. The relationships of so many churches, what has hurt people, I've heard time and time again, I so much enjoy getting together in this this horizontal fellowship. It just oh I miss it so very much. When you think of the Apostle Paul, of all of the people that we read earlier, you know, he he in essence is the source of bringing the gospel to the Gentiles. In all of the lives that he's affected. And he says, there's nobody has come to be with me. But here's this one. And just to be able to talk with them What about calling that person on the phone to check in on them? No gossipy talk, but just to find out their their well-being. I miss ya. How you doing? You know? How have things been going? What's happening in your life? How'd the surgery go? Sorry to hear about your fill-in-the-blank. Mind if I stop over this afternoon? I'd like to bring you something I made, you know. That there's a connection. Ministry connections to the hearts of people mean so much. 50 cent card, or if you like to spend a little bit more than 50 cents, a dollar, or you can those cards go all the up to five bucks. And a 50 cent stamp. You see, but that's pretty expensive. And yet it's a small investment for somebody to receive something to say, you know, I care. I really do. You're important to me. You know, just just getting that. I remember Millie and I were in the Philippines and there were two churches that always send us cards on birthdays or anniversaries like that And and sometimes they just signed the name, other times little notes that were in there. And it just made a line. It just pulled us and took us way back to be with those people mentally, you know This is before, you know, this is when phone calls were like, woo-hoo, you know, no emails or anything like that. What a joy that was in order to have a connection and relationships thinking about you, praying for you. Very familiar story of the Good Samaritan. The Jew is robbed and beaten and laying by the side of the road. Left in a tragic situation and and two of his own countrymen, a Levite and a priest, come by And they don't even just walk by, they walk by on the other side of the road and they leave him there. They should have known better. They were religious people. They should have known better, but it's the Samaritan, the scum of the earth, according to the Jews. And he not only stops by, but he cleans the man's wounds. He puts them on his ride, takes them on into the uh to the urgent care, no, even more than the urgent care And and he says, Whatever is needed, when this man's healed, I'll be back by and I will cover his financial expenses. I'll do that, you know. And Jesus presents this as something that should be logical for the believer to do. This horizontal relationship that we have is a live body. And Anesaphorus and Paul present unto us this example of how that live body thrives. It doesn't mean we are able to reach out to those who have needs. It doesn't mean we can we can offer up this or offer up that I got a pastor in Kenya. He writes me probably once every other month or something like that and he talks about his children, he's some in college and he talks about an orphanage they want to start. He and he never asks for anything. He just talks, he just shares it. And so I'll talk send a message back to him. And and I think here's somebody f coming from America, and he's interested in what I've got going on right here, you know. It's important. One of the avenues upon which God has called all of us is that we are not people on an island. We are not just isolated by ourselves. We rub shoulders with people all of the time And there are times when we have to diligently seek out those who have needs. You have to, so the Lord, what can I do for them? I don't have an awful lot. You know, I don't I can't do this. But what can I do? How can I? And the connection is made. The reason I'm doing that It's not to make them happy, not to do this, and but it's my responsibility as a believer to tend the wounds, to put them on my own animal, to take them to a place and and park them and and and say, I'll take care of their needs. I'll see what's necessary. We have to ask ourselves, Lord, where can I help? What can I do? And we have to start the day by that and says, Lord, if there's an avenue, you want me to to do something. open the door for me, you know, had the person there, help them to help me to see their particular need. And then once you want me to do it. And it doesn't have to be great. It doesn't have to be monumental. But it's just You know what? That person refreshed me. Why? That can lead to because the love of Christ. And how Christ can use that one particular incident, or two, or three, or whatever, to open a door to their heart so the gospel is seated and great things can be accomplished Ask the Lord to help us this week. Find those avenues of ministry. Find those who need refreshment those who need a cold glass of water, those who need just an ear to talk to, those who need a uh A social distant hug? Whatever. Yep. Something like that. Just the advocate. I care. Help me. Let's pray. Father, we're thankful. The words presented unto us within this letter written so long ago are appropriate today, that there were three individuals mentioned And were sorryful, just as Paul was for those who deserted this great man. And yet out of your abundant grace there was one who came and refreshed Paul uh brought unto him some matter of joy, and not only at this one time, but he had done it again and again. Lord, lay on our hearts the privilege we have to serve others in such a way May Father we find that privilege even in our own community for our neighbors, the people we work with, the people we cross paths with, the faces that show there is a hurt, there is a pain, there is a struggle and that we have the joy of ministering to them, to refresh them in some way. May your spirit guide us to that end and we'll thank you in Christ's name. Amen