Well, today we're going to be looking into Romans. Chapter 1 and verse number 17 will be our focus for today is the plan. Now I I have Experience and seen happen. I have one plan, but the Holy Spirit has something else. So actually, what my plan is for today is to is to go through Romans 117 But also touch upon Father's Day, you want to at least recognize that. And also a little comment on current events as well, all rolled up into one message. So I hope I can pull this off. So I'd like you to open up your Bible to Romans chapter 1 verse 18 that you could or verse 17 that you could follow along Since this is the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God, why don't we have a little prayer asking for our Lord's direction today? Please join me in that prayer. Our Father, we are here now that we might look into your word, your inspired word. Father, I really have nothing to offer in this regard. I'm asking that you might minister through me to the people and grant what is needed for this particular church in this particular hour. Could it be salvation? Could it be encouragement? Could it be on the level of discipleship? Could it be personal instruction? It could be a variety of things. Could it be dealing with husband and wife relationship? Could it be dealing with children? What are the issues and the hearts of the people here today? You know what they are. I don't. But Lord, I ask that you will guide me to follow your word accurately, that it may bless the people, that they may receive the word given and use it. To honor you, use it to draw closer to you, and to bless the church. We ask this through Christ our Lord. Amen. All right, looking here in Romans chapter 1 and verse 17, here we have seven uh twenty-two interesting words. For herein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, for it is written: the just shall live by faith. Whenever we look at a Bible verse, obviously the first thing you want to do is to examine the context in which it's found. So just a quick comment on the immediate context Prior to verse 17, Paul makes two statements about himself. Paul, the human author of writing, we know that he was inspired by the Holy Spirit. But we do discover this. Paul makes a statement about himself in verse 15 that he's ready to preach the word of God. And that's a wonderful state to be in right there. You're ready to do it Means that you are prepared, you've prayed, you've gone over this, and he's ready to let it go. And then secondly, he makes this statement in verse 16 that he's not ashamed of the gospel. What two great statements to make. So that's his state of mind. But we're going to be going on now today looking in verse 17 where the spotlight changes from Paul. And it goes back to God Almighty, and it discusses the verse is about the righteousness of God, which, as we look in the holy word of God, is really a humongous uh theme and subject. Do you know the phrase the the righteousness of God is found over 300 times in the Bible? So this is a major theme, the righteousness, the rightness of God Almighty So that will be our theme today. So that when you go home, and someone may say, oh, I bet you didn't pay attention, I bet you don't even know what the pastor talked about. You'll know. The pastor talked about the righteousness of God. That's the theme So you may perhaps are hopefully through this week and also I have I think I put a little um little flyer there in the bulletin which is You know, the sermon in written form, and there's a number of cross-references which will explain why I say what I what I say here today. I don't have time to look at all of them here from the pulpit, so I have it in written form for you So the theme, the righteousness of God, is our concern today. Now let me give you a definition of righteousness so that we're all on the same page. If we are to look up the word righteousness, specifically what does that mean? Well, I'm going to give you a list of synonyms to righteousness, which may speak more clearly to you. By definition, righteousness is virtuous, upright, ethical, principled Moral, law-abiding, honest, honorable, blameless, irreproachable, noble, saintly, angelic, and pure. So all those words, you can probably grab one of those, which may be speaking clearly to you to you. And as I say this word, the w this concept of righteousness of God, three hundred and sixty times you'll you'll find it in Holy Scripture. Now, here's what we learned. The righteousness of God. Now we're not right now talking about the righteousness of man. Our focus is on God. The righteousness of God, do you know that it is expressed Clearly in the Old Testament. How so? The righteousness of God is expressed in the law, and the Mosaic law is an expression of the righteousness of God. But as you may know, the law found in the Old Testament is divided into three major categories. There is the moral law, and that's what we call the Ten Commandments. You'll find that in Exodus chapter 20. But then there is the civil law. And thirdly, there is the ceremonial law, which has to do with regulating the sacrificial system. If you add up all these laws, we're talking over 700 laws. So now when we say I'm hoping to go to heaven by keeping the law, we normally think the Ten Commandments. No It's referring to all seven and hundred and so laws to keep if you're going to attempt to earn your salvation by goodness and following it, but we know obviously you can't do this The only person who kept the law perfectly, we know who that is, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he's our example in righteousness as a Deals with obeying the law of God. Now, secondly, let me change the subject and let's talk about the righteousness of mankind. Okay, so on the one hand, we gave a brief discussion about the righteousness of God. Now let's compare that to what the Bible tells us about the righteousness of mankind, of you and me. And here then we have an obvious problem. While God is a hundred percent righteous, and by the way, let me just again comment on that phrase. We don't know what that is. Do we can we really comprehend what 100% righteousness is all about? I don't think we can. That is so far beyond us. But that's what God is. He's 100% righteous. You and I, at best, are relative righteous. The problem is mankind is in a state of sin. As we all know, sin came into the world And we are born in a state of sin. That's the struggle with righteousness. It's not in our nature to be righteous. It's in our nature to be unrighteous. So we have to discipline ourselves. We have to call upon the power of the Holy Spirit that we may live a righteous life as God would have us to do. But unfortunately, all of us are under the curse of sin, and therefore we struggle when it comes to living a righteous life. The whole concept of righteousness is offensive to mankind, and frankly, it's an embarrassment Because the truth is, what if what if we had up on here a screen, a movie of your life? Your life publicly and your life privately and your thoughts. Guess what? None of us would show up here because by nature. We're not righteous. So we have that battle every day to pursue righteousness. There are times we are successful and there are times we are not. And so we find then, by contrast, God being wholly righteous, mankind is alien to the concept of righteousness. We are not righteous on two counts. One by nature, we and and as Psalms tells us we come out of our mother's womb, screaming and crying, and in a state of sin the moment we come out of our mother. We are sinners by nature, but also we are sinners by choice. You're not a robot. When you last time you sinned, whatever it may have been, last time I sinned, guess what? It was by choice. Because that's what I am. I am a sinner by nature. I am a sinner by choice. And without the disciplining power of the Holy Spirit, I will be overcome with sin in my life. So we could say then that a biblical summation of our condition is expressed in Romans chapter 3 verse 23. Probably, hopefully, Olivia Declare Romans chapter 3 verse 23, for it says, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. That's me, and that is you. We've all got to struggle with this thing called sin. Mankind dug itself a deep, deep hole with its attachment to sin. Let's talk about a deep hole representing our attachment to sin. And I'm going to tell you, in order to relate this to you, I'm going to tell you a true story. Now this happened as when I was probably pre-teen, maybe eleven, twelve, thirteen, around that. It occurred in the front yard in the front street of number one Harmel Road, Bruno, Pennsylvania. That's where we were living at the time. And here come all the construction machines and they're going to dig up the road in front of our house So they start digging this and they dug a hole maybe gosh ten, fifteen feet deep. And once they've got that all dug out It was either an electrician or or a plumber went down into that hole to do some work. And the worst thing imaginable occurred. The hole caved in. So now here is the electrician caved in. All this dirt on top of him. Now they had to act quickly or he would suffocate So instantaneously they called a police to get over here, called the ambulance to get over there, and men grabbed shovels and started digging relentlessly to try to get this man out from under the covered up from all the dirt and grime and that caved in on him. I'm happy to say that they were able to rescue pull him out And um he was alive and they were able to give him oxygen and put him in the ambulance, took him to the hospital. He survived and he's okay and but it was a close call. He needed help, and if there were no one there, he would have perished. Well, you know, that's the same condition that we find mankind. And that is, he's in the dilemma that this man under the dirt was. He needed to be rescued. He was overwhelmed by the dirt, burying him. Robbing him of oxygen and just could not move. But there were people there who rescued that poor soul. Similarly, that's what conversion is for the sinner. The sinner must be rescued because he cannot rescue himself. And wonderfully Isn't it wonderful how God in his mercy rescued us from the practice and the penalty of our sin through the death, burial, and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ? And he rescued, and here we are today in a church. We love him, we want to serve him, and give God all the praise and glory. So let's just review what we said thus far. We're talking about the righteousness of God, and it is beyond comprehension, God's perfect righteousness. And then we talked about the righteousness of God. At best, it is relative. We all struggle in that area of righteousness. Well, thirdly, now I'd like to look in our text because it contains a confirmation as to God's righteousness. And what is it? Our text uses the word revealed. Holy God, in all of his righteousness, it is not a mystery, it is revealed And that word revealed, if we do a little study on what that word means, revealed, apakaluks, and it means to diverge, to display, to uncover. So, which means to tell you then that the holiness and righteousness of God is uncovered. It is exposed. God's righteousness, the nature of God, and his righteousness is not hid. It is not a mystery. It is not disguised. It is not concealed, but it is revealed. The righteousness of God is in your face. The righteousness of God is in my face, because the righteousness of God is revealed in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's how we know the glory of God and the majesty and the righteousness of God Almighty through our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Question, how has the righteousness of God been revealed in addition to the Son? There's another way the righteousness of God has been revealed, and the language of our text tells us it is revealed from faith to faith. That's a statement about the revelation. Of God and his righteousness. But what does that mean? The righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. And what that means is that the faith is passed down from one generation to another. It is passed down from father to son, from mother to daughter. And to the next generation and so on that is passed on. I imagine that most of you came from a Christian family. My guess is most of you have Christian parents. And if you look at the history of your family, there are generations of Christians. Because that's the way this works normally. Now of course From time to time a pagan gets saved and he starts the whole new tradition in his family. But normally as you look and talk to People who comprise our local churches, we come from Christian families. Why is that? Because the text tells us. The faith moves from faith to faith, passing on. And you look at that Greek language there, akpistios acepishin, from one generation to another. It's passed on from father to son, and now it's then passed on to you. I learned the Christian faith through my dad. And so I want to just say now, at this point, using that as a step in stone to talk a few little bit about Father's Day. I am a Christian here today. I'm saved. And the instrument God used to save me was my father. But I want to tell you a few things about my father. He may be like your father. Although I always looked at my father as being someone very special, and yet there's nothing special or unique about my dad. My father, as far as I know, never received any public recognition for something special. Never. He's a common, good Solid citizen, good man, good father. But there's not one, looking back, there is not one quality outstanding in his life. But everybody loved my dad. Everybody who knew him talked about his Charles was his name, Charles Britton. Everybody loved Charlie Britton. As a matter of fact, I heard, you know, playing on on baseball team, team, baseball teams, two coaches And and they didn't know I was listening to it because I was in the batter spot getting warmed up, but two coaches are over there talking, and you know what they're talking about? Charlie Britton And they were talking, what a wonderful guy, what a great helper, what a tremendous human being Charlie Britton is. That was my dad. I'm thinking, boy, it really made me feel proud. That's my dad. These two guys are talking about. What a great thing this is. My dad coached literally whenever I did s something in sports, dad was always there. I was from eight years old to about twenty-two or twenty-three years old, I was involved in sports every day, whether it be baseball, football, basketball, either coaching it or playing it. And whenever I would have a game, whether it be Little League Baseball, and I get up to bat and I look out there in center field, there's my dad Going to the Bape Ruth Lake, play baseball, nearest dad behind this behind the cage. Now, I think I mentioned to you before my college experience was that I was I went to the University of Kentucky. uh played on their football team. My dad, living here in Pennsylvania, didn't never got to see me play college ball except once. He he was deathly afraid of flying, frightened of it. But it took all his courage, he he got a plane ticket And came down to Lexington, Kentucky to w watch me play. I don't think I played Mac Game, or I didn't play much. But the fact is he had the courage to him, it took all the courage to get into an airplane And you know he did that because that's my dad. He would sacrifice anything for me. That's my memory of my wonderful father, and you know what? He never complained. Very rarely did you ever hear him complain. And his greatest gift, he didn't realize this, but he was a comedian. He was so funny um using dry humor and I can recall numerous times our families we get to his brother would come visit us in the family and so forth And he would like almost put on some kind of a show or just talk to the people using dry humor about some the neighbor or some event and he'd have everybody laughing Concerning the Christian life, he never preached. Never preached to me. Never preached. I do remember as a young boy we would come to the going to bed, we'd pray at the foot of our bed, he'd pray even with me, little prayers. He would uh bring us to church. He would never preach, never say, now you gotta do this. None of that. He just very, very quietly lived the Christian life. Now I told you a couple things about my dad on this special Father's Day and how he influenced me and I really believe as far as a tool is concerned, I'm staying behind this pulpit because of the tool of Charles Britton. I don't think if he was not in my life or different than what he was, I doubt that I would be here today for many re many reasons. But I know I realize I've sort of gone on a little bit about my dad. Maybe s this is Father's Day. Maybe some of you would like to say something about your dad that you'd like to share right now. A little testimony, maybe take a minute or a minute and a half And would you like to do that? Think about your dad and do you have something that you would like to say publicly to the congregation that you remember about your dad? And to show how you know our fathers You know, a godly father, if you have had a godly father, you really need to get down on your knees and thank the Lord for it. How difficult, especially for a man, to grow up in this world. And if your father is not a godly man, it's difficult to go on and to serve the Lord. But if you've had a godly father, what a blessing that is And I had one. I had a tremendous father. And I am, you know, so so blessed. I can't talk about him too long. I'll start to cry because I I have that that connection with him. And you know this nine, the person that met him didn't like him, I think I told you that. Okay. So would anybody want to say something about your father at this time? Lest I don't want to Monopolize the time when fathers say about my father. Well, because you all have fathers, I'm sure you feel the same way. Would anyone like to say anything? You're free to do so. If you wish. I should have given you warning about this that you could probably think of something, but um a godly father, what a blessing this is. And you see to me my father's only all that I had because my mom died young My mom passed away at the age of thirty-three very suddenly and so I'm attached to my dad in many ways. Well, moving on here then, having made that point, uh about my dad uh influencing me uh for the Lord, and that's how the the word of God goes from face to face, from my dad's face to me. and me uh to to our four children. We have three boys and a girl, wonderful family, and they're in church right now. I believe most of them are. And you know why? Because the faith the word of God goes from faith to faith, from father to son, from daughter to mother, and you pass it on from generation to generation. Okay, new subject on our discussion here of the righteousness of God. I asked the question: what is the proof that God's righteousness has been revealed? What proof do we have that the righteousness of God Almighty, who we can't see? What evidence do we have that He is righteous and that His righteousness has been revealed? Our text tells us, when you see the phrase, it is written. That's how we know God is righteous. It was written in Holy Scripture. Where God Almighty, we could not stand in His presence. So He communicates to us on the written page. And now think of the miracle of the Bible. Because during Bible times, most people could not read. Most people could not write, and yet God secured people, the apostles and disciples and so forth. And and the rabbis and all were able to log in the truth of God's word on the written page. Why is the written page so important? Because it is verifiable. It's written, and you can prove whether that word be true or whether that be false. The writing is available for inspection. The writing is there for scholars to pour over and to analyze The written word can be analyzed. And take this. Now here's the beauty, people. Hope you understand this. Here, the King James Bible. You know what a miracle of the King James Bible is, especially in this day and age of apostasy. Did you ever go into the bookstore today and pick up a Bible? Some of your more modern translations? And it's an altogether different account. You say how could this be a translation? It's it's amazing how they have taken such liberty to change many of the nouns and the verbs in these more modern translations This is a miracle right here. The King James and it survived all these years and all the attacks on it And here it is. When you're memorizing scripture, ladies and gentlemen, right here. And now you say, well, why do you say? Because what you can do is go back to your original text. We know where this came from. Your newer murder versions, you don't know what they came from. The Textus Receptus is the is the title of the documents used to write the English Bible. Coming from the Greek Textus Receptus, which now we know the history of that document. We know it is preserved, it was protected, it was recognized to be the Word of God. And that's why you have an accurate translation right here in your King James Bible. And that's why saying the word it goes from faith to faith. The word is written. It can be read. It can be analyzed, and I love this. Well, you know, it can be studied, it can be memorized. So, whenever you share God's word, eventually I'll get this response. Well, you come across people who are unbelievers and you try to share Christ with them, and of course, yeah, I'm sure you've all heard this. I don't believe the Bible. It's full of contradiction. And now they're talking in the imperative sense. They know for sure, oh, the Bible's full of contradiction. I don't believe that. And I love to do whenever they do that, this is what I love to do. I may have a New Testament with me or a Bible, and I will put this Bible in their faith. Here! Here's the Bible! Show me one contradiction. And they all say the same thing. Well, I'm not a theologian like you. I don't know every verse in the Bible. Well, can you show me one? You made the great declaration. The Bible's full of conscience. Show me one All these years have yet to anyone show me anything close to especially the people who give forth this kind of response to God's holy word. The word of God is written, it can be analyzed, it can be memorized, and let me say that too. Let me encourage you. Are you memorizing God's word? And you know what? Today it is more important to memorize God's word than than ever before. You know why? Because God's word is under attack right now. And I'll tell you, I am more concerned right now than I've ever been in my life for the Word of God, for the church, and for the great United States of America. You know, looking at my life, I am 77 years old. I've lived through the Cold War. I've lived through the Vietnam War. My son fought in the Iraq War. We've seen all the rebellion of the 1960s and all of this. But I'm telling you, the present state of America, I think, in my opinion, just my opinion. It is much worse today than it has ever been in my lifetime. I am highly concerned about it. From the highest level of leadership in this land. Our church, our family, our country is dealing with Traitors, quite honestly, in my opinion. Just my opinion. I know it's not yours, but that's mine. As I look at the world, as I read the paper, as I have some common sense. There's treason going on in this in the high ups of our government, in my opinion. Treason to the concept of liberty and freedom. With a desire and agenda to bring America down and to promote more of a socialistic state. Those who aren't high in authority That's what they're and so therefore when you see all the misery that we're dealing with right now in our country, inflation, the invasion of the borders. The irresponsible spending into the trillions of dollars, the high price in gas Uh the immigrants flowing through the country. You know what? My opinion, but since I'm here, I guess I can give my opinion to a degree That's all according to a plan. And the plan is to do this to America. What's the hope of America? You know what the hope of America is? Right here. I'm looking at it. The hope of America is found in the Christian community. These things that I just mentioned will continue on and be a problem in our nation unless The Church of Jesus Christ rises up and does something about it. And what can you do about it? Two things. One, we need to be men and women of serious prayer. Praying for our leadership, praying for our nation, praying for our churches. So I want to ask you a question. Since prayer is pertinent to the preservation of this country, it's pertinent to the preservation of this church, I might add. On Wednes I pr I perceive you had prayer meetings on Wednesday night. Is that true? Is it Wednesday night you have a prayer meeting? Okay. I'm assuming that on a Wednesday night we have a group like this. Correct? Are you here for prayer meeting on Wednesday night regularly? You're not. If you're like other churches. If you're like 99% of the only churches I know of and visited, you're not here like this. You may have maybe five, six maybe here. I never understood this. If we are in a spiritual battle for our own spirituality and for our own family and for our own children And we believe in the gospel that Jesus was the Son of God who died on the cross, he was buried, and he resurrected, and he offers the gift of eternal life to all that come under him. And we know the spiritual battles that we are in to live for him. How in the world can the church have a prayer meeting with a handful of people and expect to rock the community for Jesus Christ? That can't happen. You people, and I just don't mean you, but I mean the people of Marcus Hook and the people of New Jersey Church and all the and all the Christian churches. Especially on a prayer meeting night, whether it be a Wednesday or a Thursday, or whenever you do it, you got to get here to pray. That's the power of the Christian life. When a group of people come together and cast your care on him. Maybe you weep in prayer, maybe you laugh in prayer, maybe you give God praise in prayer, but we need to have that. And without it, the poor preacher is going to be here behind the pulpit and you praise him, Jim protect. And you know what? Very little is going to happen unless you As this church member begin to pray and take prayer seriously. You gotta do that for the sake of your church leadership. I would say for the sake of your pastor. I know you don't have one right now, so for the sake of of uh Tim who g gives you great leadership here because you're gonna wear him out because he's taking the gust of all this if the congregation isn't praying with regularity at prayer meeting Is it a pain to come to prayer meeting? Yes, I understand that. I'm like one of you. I know it's a nuisance. Put the Lord first. Put your church first. Put your prayer meeting first on Wednesday night. And then if there's something else you can do, do it. Make sure you are here and be in prayer. Not just be here a body here. No. You're coming here and you are in prayer, praying for one another. Praying for the finances, praying for emission, all kinds of things you need to bring before the Lord as a church. Got off on a tangent there, I didn't mean to do that, but that's what every church needs what I just shared with you At this moment. Well, I'm looking here at my text, and there's one more thing I want to say before we conclude. The last phrase is: the just shall live by faith. That word just comes from the word dikaios, and it means those who are innocent, holy, in accord with that which is right. It refers to the justified ones. You and I, we are justified. And I want to ask you the question, what does that word justify mean? Here's a definition, and what you hear, you'll never forget it, and it's simple. We are we you you and I, we are justified by the blood of Jesus Christ. We know this. But what literally does justified mean? Get this little phrase and you have it then and it'll be clear and you'll understand it. Justified means Just as if I never sinned. That's what justified. If I am justified before God, I appear before God as if I never sinned. Did I sin? Yes. Well you might say, well, how in the world does that work? Well, let me show you. I think I've I know I'm quite sure I've showed you before. But here, use this phone for something useful here. This hand represents Don Britton. This phone represents my sin. The Bible tells me God, righteous God, loves me, Don Britton. He hates my sin. As long as I have this sin, I cannot enter heaven So God solved this problem in the most amazing way by sending his only begotten Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to live a perfect life, as we have said. He did many wonderful things, taught many wonderful things. But what did he do? He went to the cross for our sins, and when so, what did he do? He took our sins on himself So that I have how many sins to ask answer for? None. Well, where are my sins? Because I got them. I got a lot of them. Where are they? Jesus in his mercy took on Calvary's cross my sins on himself. That now I can go to heaven. I can stand before a holy God without any trace of sin. Not because of what I have done, but because of what Jesus has done for me. And that's what he does for everyone who trusts in him. But if you don't trust in Christ, you may be a good person, you could be a moral person, but if you don't trust in Christ, this never happens to you or for you You're still in your sin. You may be religious. You could be a good person. You're still in your sin. And when you stand before God, God, holy God, the Father will see that sin. And there's no way you're going to get to heaven. This sin has to be taken away. And there's only one way, through the death of Christ on my behalf. And this payment for my sin is put in my account when I believe in the Lord Jesus as my Savior. When I repent, trust in Christ. Here I am. I have eternal life. Have you done that? Have you trusted in Christ as your Savior and as your Lord? And if so, praise God. Wonderful. Now here's the thing. I can predict what's going to happen. I can put if this is true, if the testimony is true, then all of you have received Christ into your heart, then you know what? I can make a bright prediction for this church. If the Lord Jesus Christ is in your heart, great things will prevail in this church. Because that's the nature of the work of the Spirit of God in our heart. He does great things. Within us as we trust and follow Him. So the last phrase, the just shall live by faith Did you get that last phrase? They shall live by faith. Finally, let me conclude. I'm going long here. So you know why I go long here though? Because we like being here. It's fun coming here, quite honestly. And we enjoy being with you. So you know, I don't want it to end, so I'm just gonna go on and on. But If you get tired, you can get up and walk away. I don't blame you, but I I'll be done here in two or three minutes here. But the last phrase is shall live by faith. Take that phrase and look at it in other parts of Scripture. Hear this. Hebrews eleven four. By faith able Went on and did a great work. Hebrews 11:5, by faith, Enoch was translated. Hebrews 11:7, by faith, Noah being warned. Hebrews 11, 8, by faith Abraham. Hebrews 11, 11, through faith also Sarah. Hebrews eleven seventeen, by faith Abraham. Hebrews eleven twenty, by faith Isaac. Hebrews 11, 21, by faith Jacob. Verse 22, by faith, Joseph. Verse 23, by faith, Moses. And again, the verse 24, by faith, Moses outlining the great works that these people of the faith performed, and the scripture says they did it by having exceptional skill. No, they did it by having great faith. And God spoke, and they were obedient, and great things occurred. What if I were to say this? By faith, the Pilgrim Presbyterian Church Blank. What great work is out there for you to do and to do it by faith? Could it be a great work of evangelism in the community? Could it be a great work of helping the poor? Could it be a great work of uh discipleship work. What is the great work that God is wanting to do right here in this church? That one day you'll be historians will be able to look back at this church and say, you know what? By faith, the Pilgrim Presbyterian Church did thus and so. And you know what? A lot of that has to do with you right here today. Are we committed to the Lord? To come here on a Wednesday night, pray regularly? Are we committed to share Christ, to do the work of evangelism? to do the work of discipleship, closing by just sharing four verses, and we're done. Galatians chapter 3 verse 24. Justified by faith Romans five one, justified by faith. Romans three twenty-eight, justified By faith without the deeds of the law. Acts chapter 13, verse 39. By him all that believe are justified from all things. When the sinner is justified, he is declared righteous, and he's going to heaven. And thus we have Romans 1:17. For herein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, for as it is written, the just shall live by faith. Let's have a prayer. Our Father, we come before you today and we want to say thank you. That most, if not all, everyone here has been justified by faith in Jesus Christ. And we know That should you call us home today, we would be in heaven with the family of God for all eternity. And oh Lord, how we thank you for the giving of your only begotten Son for unworthy, wretched sinners like ourselves. But also we are so grateful that you, yes, you gave us the faith to trust in your Son. We know that in and of ourselves, left to ourselves, none of us would choose Christ. But because of your gift of the Son, because of your gift of faith. Yes, we embrace the Lord Jesus and love him. And we're here at the Bible Presbyterian Church. Here worshiping, we ask, Lord, we want to call down your blessings on this church. We pray for Tim And Lisa, that you'll bring them back to us safely, minister through them to the congregation. Do a great work in this congregation, we would ask. And we pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen