Look uh crow uh in Second Kings chapter twenty-five. Second Kings chapter twenty-five And here we come to the very last sermon of 2 Kings. We've been going through 2 Kings for a while now. We've been going through it for I don't know how many years. Maybe three, four years, I don't know But anyway, we're coming to the very end here, the very last verses of 2 Kings, and we're going to deal with the remnant here today. And of course, we read the scripture reading at the beginning of the service, is the people had turned away from God and God destroyed the country. And we just saw those slides of Jerusalem, and God brought in the Babylonians, and they destroyed Jerusalem. They destroyed the temple that was there on the Temple Mount Where they keep building again in the f after that. But anyway, it destroyed the temple and everything. And so there was just a remnant left. And we read in our responsive reading earlier here from 2 Kings chapter 25, verse 22. The Babylonians came in and they made Gedaliah the governor. And so the place has been destroyed. Look, this is what I'm talking about. It's hard to know where the sites were things happened because everything's been destroyed and people chased off and And it's uh coming and going over the centuries. And so here we have some of that, where Jerusalem has been destroyed. Because of their sin. And we come with Gedaliah as made governor in the land. And so verse 23, Gedaliah set up his government. He got the people to come into him And he told them not to fear the Babylonians. Verse 24, don't fear to fear not to be the servants of the Chaldees. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon And what we're going to see here today is the remnant. Of course, what's a remnant? You know, uh they talk about carpet remnants today. That's all pieces of carpet that are left over And or remnants of material and sewing. There's pieces that are left over. And here we have the leftover pieces of Jerusalem, the leftover people of Jerusalem, just a few of them And even with a little remnant of people that they had seen of judgment of God, they had seen that come to pass, as Jeremiah had prophesied. After they saw all that, and they were just a small group left, do you think they ever really that they got their act Together? No, they didn't get their act together. They were still rebellious and hard-hearted. This little group that was left over And they didn't want to do what God wanted them to do here at the very end. And then verse 25. Well, this one guy here, Ishmael. He was of the royal seed, of the royal family, and the Babylonians had made Gedali a governor, and Ishmael, he thought he should be king And so he was jealous of Gedaliah, and so he and ten men with him came in and slew Gedaliah. killed the ruler of the governor of the Babylonians there who was a Jew. But anyway, that the Babylonians had set there. So he came in and killed them. They didn't learn their lesson. They still were rebelling. And then verse 26, we're going to see a little bit more of this later on, but they were still rebelling. Jeremiah tells them not to go to Egypt, so what do they do? They go to Egypt. Because they just were continually rebellious and hard hearted But it's interesting in the midst of all this confusion and hard heartedness and judgment of God, God shows his grace. We have that at the very end of Second Kings, the last couple verses, with Jehoiachin. You remember Jehoiachin was one of the kings toward the time of the end. When Babylon came in the first time and took the first captivity, Jehoiachin was taken. But his mother, remember. And so he was taken, he was imprisoned there in Babylon, and all of a sudden the king of Babylon. decides for no apparent reason to do good to Jehoiachin, to favor him And so we have verse 27. And it came to pass in the 7th and 30th year of the captivity of Jehoiachim. In the twelfth month, he had already been in prison for 37 years. And anyway, in the twelfth month that, in the seventh and twentieth day of the month, an evil Merrodat, king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, did lift up the head of Jehoiachin. And he spake kindly to him and set his throne above the throne of all the kings that were with him in Babylon. So all of a sudden, this king of Babylon decides to favor Jehoichin. That's God's grace. Unmerited favor. Jehoiachin didn't deserve this. Jehoiachin had been a wicked king. in Judah. Of course, I don't know, he might have come to the Lord maybe in his 37 years of prison. But uh uh we don't it doesn't say anything about that But he had been a wicked king, but here God shows his grace, and the Babylonians show grace to this king of Judah. Well, let's turn back to Jeremiah. Jeremiah, and we see some background here in Jeremiah chapter 42 Jeremiah chapter 42, Jeremiah chapter 42 and verse 9. And so here's a parallel account of what's going on with the remnant. Back in 2 Kings, here we have it in Jeremiah 42, and Jeremiah is on the scene here. Poor Jeremiah, he's had to go through the captivity of the The I mean the carrying a w away captive of Judah, he's had to be there with the destruction of Jerusalem And he's been there the whole time, Jeremiah has, been giving the word of the Lord. But nobody follows what he says to do. They didn't in the siege where they were told to give up to the Babylonians, and they didn't later on here. And so here we have Jeremiah, and we have verse 9 of Jeremiah 42. And said unto them, Thus saith the Lord, the God of Israel, unto whom he sent me to present your supplications. If ye will still abide in this land, then I will build you and not pull you down, and I will plant you. And not pluck you up. For I repent me of the evil that I have done unto you. This is what God says, that he was going to keep them there, he was going to take care of them, if they just would not go down into Egypt If they would stay there, they would trust in God. Of course, they thought that the Babylonians were going to come in and destroy them because they had killed the governor of Babylon But that wasn't going to be, and God told them that. And then verse 11, be not afraid of the king of Babylon, of whom ye are afraid. Be not afraid of him, saith the Lord. For I am with you to save you and deliver you from his hand. And so God gives them a promise here that he would take care of, but they would not listen. And of course here they had sent to Jeremiah and they had asked Jeremiah, what is the word from the Lord? And we will do it But they didn't do it. And they weren't uh on the level. And then you go down to verse 13. Jeremiah saying, But if ye say we will not dwell in this land, neither obey the voice of the Lord your God, saying, No, but we will go into the land of Egypt Where we will see no war, nor hear the sound of the trumpet, nor have hunger of bread, and there will we dwell. That's exactly what they were going to say. And Jeremiah says, if you say that, you know what's going to happen? Go down to verse 16 Then it shall come to pass that the sword which ye feared shall overtake you there in the land of Egypt. And the famine, whereof ye are afraid, shall follow close after you there in Egypt, and there ye shall die. Well, here we have uh Jeremiah gives him the message from the Lord to this small remnant. To stay there in the land, to not be afraid of the king of Babylon. And they would not listen. They never would listen. Not before and not all the way to the end. They never would listen And what does Jeremiah say here? He says, they don't want to stay there in the land because they're afraid of the sword of the Babylonians. They're afraid of famine. And what will happen? Well, they'll go down into Egypt and they'll have the sword and famine down there. And God will have them have the same thing they were afraid of if they refuse to obey the Lord, if they want to be hard-hearted And here we are. That's what would happen. And then you go down to chapter 43, or actually down to verse 20. Verse 20. Verse 20 of chapter 42, 42, 20. For ye dissembled in your hearts when ye sent me unto the Lord your God, saying, Pray for us unto the Lord our God. And according to all that the Lord our God shall say, so declare unto us, and we will do it. Well, they were liars. Just like the town of Smyrna is a liar. The town of Smyrna is telling people there's no tax increase, but there is a tax increase in the utilities. Anyway, so here they were lying. They said they were going to do the will of the Lord, but they weren't going to do it. They dissembled. And lied. And they were going to go down into Egypt. Then you go to chapter 43 and verse 4. Chapter 43 and verse 4. So Johannan, the son of Karia, and all the captains of the forces, and all the people, obeyed not the voice of the Lord to dwell in the land of Judah. But Johann, the son of Korea, and all the captains of the forces, took all the Remnant of Judah that were returned from all nations, whither they had been driven to dwell in the land of Judah, people had come back into the land. They thought that they would be blessed then. Jeremiah would say that they would be blessed there in the land. But here, the people that were in the land, they took everybody together and verse 6 Even men and women and children and the king's daughters and every person that Nebuchad Nebuzzaradam, the captain of the guard, had left with Gedaliah, the son of Ahikim, the son of Shaphan, and Jeremiah the prophet, and Baruch the son of Nariah. So they came into the land of Egypt, For they obeyed not the voice of the Lord, thus came they even to Topanese. So they were rebellious, hard-hearted, clear here to the end And they were rebellious and hard-hearted, and the city was destroyed. Then they wouldn't stay there and went to Egypt, and they were going to be destroyed down there in Egypt. They obeyed not the voice of the Lord from Jeremiah. And they claimed they were going to obey the voice of the Lord, but they they weren't going to obey the voice of the Lord at all. And then let's finally go back to 2 Chronicles. Another parallel account of this at the end. At the end of the book of 2 Chronicles. Second Chronicles chapter thirty-six. Second Chronicles chapter thirty-six and verse nineteen. 2 Chronicles chapter 36. So we saw the same parallel accounts in 2 Kings, 2 Chronicles, and Jeremiah, the same events. And so here we have 2 Chronicles chapter 36 and verse 19. And it says, And they burnt the house of the God. And they break down the wall of Jerusalem and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyed all the goodly vessels thereof. So that was the destruction of Jerusalem, burn down the temple, and the temple mount was what we saw where the dome of the rock is today. But anyway they destroyed that the Babylonians that did. Then verse 20, and them that had escaped from the sword. carried he away to Babylon, where they were servants to him and to his sons under the reign of the kingdom of Persia. Of course, he was talking about the bulk of the people that were left were carried off to Babylon, to the Babylonian captivity. They were carried off there and they were going to remain in Babylon until the Persians came in, until the reign of the king of Persia. Verse 21, to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed her Sabbaths. For as long as the land as As she lay desolate, she kept Sabbath to fulfill three score and ten years. So here it says that there was an appropriate amount of years that they were going to be in the captivity. The bulk of the people that were left were in Babylon. They were going to be there for 70 years. And that wasn't just a number picked out of the air. God gives us what that seventy years was. It was 70 Sabbath years. It says here the ye if land had to enjoy her Sabbaths. And so, you know, back with the Old Testament law and Leviticus, Numbers, back in the books of the law, they had it decreed That one year out of seven, the land was supposed to lay follow fallow. And they were not supposed to farm it. But you know all through the land of Israel's history, they never obeyed that And of course, you can multiply this out for 490 years, almost 500 years, they didn't obey that of leaving the land fallow for one year out of seven. And of course that's good farming technique really to give the land a w uh chance to regenerate But anyway, they would not do it. They would not stop farming that seventh year. And they kept on doing that year after year after year for 490 years Well finally, you know I that saying I like to say that nobody ever gets away with anything? Well, they weren't going to get away with li not leaving the land fallow. They were not going to get away with not forming For these 490 years, these 70 Sabbath years. So God was going to make the land lie fallow for 70 years. 70 years In the captivity. They were going to be off in Babylon for 70 years. And then go on to verse 22 Now, in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying Thus saith Cyrus, king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth hath the Lord God of heaven given me. And he hath charged me to build them an house in Jerusalem. Which is in Judah. Who is there even among you of all his people? The Lord his God be with him and let him go up. Well, it was a miraculous thing. That when the Persians came in, took over from the Babylonians, remember what happened with that? Remember that Belshazzar was there having his big feast And the handwriting was up on the wall, and that very night his kingdom was numbered and finished, and the Persians came in and took over. Well, when the Persians came in The king of the Persians, Cyrus, he decided that he was going to have the Jews go back to Jerusalem. And what made him decide that? God put it in his heart. Did he have a free will with that? I don't think he had much of a free will. God put it in his heart and God made him do it God stirred up the heart of Cyrus. And of course, he definitely wouldn't have a complete free heart, free will, if God was actually influencing his heart. And so anyway, he was influencing it. He stirred up his spirit to make this proclamation. And so then uh Cyrus made the proclamation. And you notice here with Cyrus' proclamation, he says, All the kingdoms of the earth hath the Lord God of heaven given me. Did you know that the Bible also talks not in completely precise language all the time. It talks in how things are basically are for all intents and purposes. the the general way they are, the the way that you see. And uh of course God hadn't given Cyr given Cyrus China or the United States. You know of course there wasn't any United States back then, but there was China But God hadn't given those to him. But the whole known world of the time was given to Cyrus. Basically the whole known world. Remember when Alexander the Great got to India, he cried because there were no more worlds to conquer. Because that was the known world. And uh so anyway, here he says, all the kingdoms of the earth hath he given me. It's like uh uh This homeless lady there in Smyrna that I was witnessing to, she had an objection to the Bible. She said, well, you know in the Bible it says the mustard seed is the smallest seed and it's really not the smallest seed. Well, for all intents and purposes, it is. You know, it's one of the very smallest ones. But the Bible doesn't always talk in the absolute precise terms. But anyway, so here we have all kingdoms were given to him, and so he gave this decree so that they would go back. And you notice what's right after this verse? What do we have right after this verse in the Bible? Well, we have the book of Ezra. The book of Ezra comes on and that continues right in line. This is where Ezra goes back with the Jews, back to the promised land, back to Israel. Back to the holy city. You know, God chose Jerusalem, and God has chosen Israel, and God has given them to them. And so that's why it's good that we f that we uh support Israel. But as we look at that passage, of the very end of the people there, the remnant, It's just striking how hard-hearted and rebellious they were all the way through. Israel was all the way through. And you know, God carried them into captivity, destroyed their land, but God was not done with them. God brought them back again. And you know, God has done many things to the Jews over the years. We were looking in Sunday school that God had those Jews get killed under Hitler And many things happened. I mean God uh let that all happen. And you know, the thing is God is not d done with the Jews, even though they ac don't accept Jesus They will come back to him. And they will come back to the Lord. He's not done with the Jews. And so we see that in our Bible. He's not done with them at the end of Second Kings. God gets Along with the Jews and Ezra and Nehemiah and then the Inter-Testament period, you have the Maccabees, and then you have Jesus comes on the scene with the Jews there in the New Testament times. But as we come to communion this morning, we're coming to communion, and why don't we have our elder and deacons come forward