Open your Bibles to Luke chapter seven. Luke chapter seven. Having a title for a message is never the easiest thing. And uh you heard of the widow's mite, and I thought, well, this is the widow's plight. You know, we'll take that. Luke chapter 7, and I'd like you to follow along as I read the first 17 verses. Luke 7 beginning at verse 1. Now, when he had ended all the sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum. And a certain centurion servant, who was dear unto him, was sick and ready to die. And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him. the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant. And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying that he was worthy of whom he should do this For he loveth our nation, and he hath built a synagogue. And Jesus went with him, and when he was now not far from the house of Centurion, he sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, Trouble not thyself, for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter into my roof. Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee. But stay in the word And my servant shall be healed. For I also am a man under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth. And I say unto another, Come, and he cometh. and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it. When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him, and turned him about, said unto him, unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. And they that were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole that had been sick. It came to pass the day after that he went into the city called Nain. And many of his disciples went with him and much people. Now when he came nigh unto the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and much people the city were with her And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said unto her, Weep not. And he came and he touched a bear, and they that bare him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. And he that was dead sat up and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother. And there came a fear of all. And they glorified God, saying that a great prophet is risen up among us, and that God hath visited his people. And this rumor of him went forth throughout all Judea and throughout all the region roundabout. May our Father be pleased to bless these words to his glory and to our hearts. Let's pray Father, we pause in our morning service here and our time as we begin this week with your word before us. As it is a banquet table of truth, spiritual food to satisfy the hungry soul. We pray, O Father, that your servant would be hidden, that your spirit would honor the word itself and the one behind it. We ask that Jesus Christ can be glorified in it all in his name. Amen. I think if I had a choice of the gospels, I think Luke is probably my favorite. Dr. Luke, the physician, the medical man. And he writes, if you note, with detail. And for me, I need a lot of detail. It's something that helps me along as I go through the word. So the details of what Luke presents is powerful and exciting. The message this morning is the second part, actually, from verse 11 through 17 of this particular text. The raising of the widow's son at Nain. And it's a simple story. It shows compassion, love, and the power of Christ And I want to break it down into like looking at it from four different views. From the point of God, from the point of the widow, from the point of Jesus, from the point of the of the people from the crowd that is there. Now, when I say when I look at it from the viewpoint of God and then later say the viewpoint of Jesus, I'm not removing the deity of Christ. He is always has been God of very gods But maybe for the lack of a better term, and you'll see it as it goes on, uh, it's just a viewpoint of grasping at this, holding on to it. And again, it's Luke. is giving details that normally we wouldn't necessarily think of looking at it. There are times when we get to a passage and we read through and and especially if you're familiar with it, you kind of go over stuff So we're gonna slow down. Um we're not, you know kind of driving like Pastor Keith does now as it he's older You know, real slow, you know. Uh people behind him we had people hurry up, get by, you know. Um had too. First part we begin with is God. And maybe we could say the scene. Verse 11 begins, and it came to pass the day after. The day after, ah, noting point. The day after what? Where was Jesus just before? He had spent time in healing of a young man, assuming a young man is the servant of this centurion. I think it's a great contrast. One was to the point of death and the other was dead uh being buried on the way to. And yet his compassion and his love for both was evident, and I think is beautiful the way Luke brings these details together. for us to see. And I, as a reader, have to stop and see that. And it came to pass the day after that he went into a city called Main. Alright, we break again This is the only place that you'll see this red in the New Testament, the city of Nain, close to where Jesus grew up. And no doubt it was an area that he was familiar with, and probably the people there. And probably they were familiar with him. Not in all that we understand him to be, but there's some familiarity with Nain and Jesus probably traveled through those areas and the people understood that. And many of his disciples went with him and much people. Now, if you're reading your New Testament and you see Jesus, you seldom find him without many people. You know It was an attraction. And they would bring the the halt and the mame and the blind and the palsied and uh bring them all to be healed for Jesus to touch them and for them to touch him They wanted to hear what he had to say. They found him to be that which was was magnetic and some enemies. But the crowds came. And so this isn't unusual. Mentally, you're trying to get a picture of what's taking place here as Luke's looking at it and describing it for us. Uh his years of popularity drew great crowds, so it's no surprise. Now, verse 12, what's happening? Now, when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. Here Jesus is about to enter the city of Nain, at the same time, a funeral procession is coming out of the city. Interesting. What a coincidence. Ever think of that? Here's the crowd and coming out of the city in somber morning. And here's another road coming either into the city or by, and here comes Jesus and his followers. And I'm sure what's on their mind was the excitement of the previous day. The centurion son, being healed, the servant, being raised up. And they're all going this and here's this contrast. And then all of a sudden, coincidentally, Just happened to be at this particular stage at this particular time of the day. Was it a coincidence or was it the providential hand of our God? You know, that's not an unfamiliar thought in your Old and New Testament. You read of situations that are quite familiar and quite popular. I think of Abraham Needing a substitute for Isaac as he takes them up into the mountain. And he has the knife, and he has the wood, and he has the sun, and he's ready. hand holding the knife, plunging to him, and yet there just happened to be a ram with his horns caught in the thicket at that very time Or you take this same Abraham sending a servant to find a wife for Isaac. And he travels to the place he's supposed to and he stops. And he goes for a time of prayer to ask for God's blessing. And who shows up? Just at the right time of day, here comes Rebecca. Wow, what a coincidence, you know? Who would have thought it? And yet it continues on all through life. What about Ruth, the Moabitus? He starts out in that morning to gather, to glean the leftovers in the field. And of all of the fields, and of all of the time, and of all the situations that were there, she just happens to go to a field that was owned by Boaz. To be the kinsman Redeemer, to be much more than that for her, you know. Think of the time, the intersections of time and space of all of the provisions, and God says, No Marvelous. I jumped into the New Testament, and there were those forty Jews that had bound themselves with an oath to kill Paul. But coincidentally There's a young man back there, and he's kind of listening in, and it's Paul's nephew. So just happened to be eavesdropping, or had God put him at that right place at that right time. In order that he would hear and warn Paul of this great plot and Paul to be rescued from this situation. You know, sometimes we don't necessarily see how all of these things work out in our lives. Catechism says God's works of providence are. is most holy, wise, and powerful, preserving and governing of all of his creatures and all of their actions Sometimes we look of our past and we say, boy, that just, wow. Phew, we were lucky there, you know. Boy, we just made it there. Like it just, no, it wasn't. Isn't it nice? Isn't it wonderful to see how God's hand works in our lives? The scripture replete with examples from the beginning to the end. And why can't we taste that and understand in our same situations of life how marvelous he is? He's never surprised at where we are, stage of life. Never looks upon his children and saying, What's going to happen to that young man? You know? Or to a couple and say, now they're married, but whoa man, I don't know. I I kinda helped them along so far, but you know, now that they're married You know, we kind of look at that and we really think of him wringing his hands? No. Is he alarmed by the report that we receive from the doctor? Is he overly concerned when I've lost my job? To say, oh, what am I going to do? There's so much going on. And so we say, no, he's not like that. But there are times that we act as if he is. We act as if, oh, what's going to happen? And he says, You're my child. I put these things together. It works out for my glory. We've heard and memorized, and we know that all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them that are the called according to his purpose. comes to mind, people read that to us. The psalmist says, My times are in thy hand. Wow. My times are in the hand of God. The psalmist also says, My substance is not hid from thee when I was made in secret. Nothing Kidden. Nothing that goes to the side and says, Oh, wow, how did I miss that one? How glorious it is in our life. That there are no coincidences, no accidents, no twists of faith. It's all from the gracious, providential hand of our sovereign God. So the first scene, first glimpse of this Widow of Names situation is the scene itself. We see what's going on, and we see how these pieces are coming together. Secondly, we look at the widow. Again, in verse 12. Now, when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother. She was a widow. The scene is, I think, reminiscent of those following news stories of frequent school shootings, of situations where We find the case of opiate overdoses, the cases of the doctor coming out to the waiting room, pausing with the family and giving them the news. You know, those situations that we're all too familiar with. Situations of hardship. But it goes deeper because it says he was his only son, and that she was a widow. That put her in a precarious position. She probably buried her husband. Now she's burying her son. And she had really no recourse as far as her protection, her provision, and so for the woman in Israel. And yes, the Old Testament and the New Testament economies would provide for widows and orphans. But did that always mean it happened? Did it always mean the the provision was and that was the end of the family line. This name of the son. The property that would have been theirs. Everything that was linked with that. Can you feel the weight on her? Can you sense what she's going through? Can you taste that You know, I can suggest that the situation was beyond tragic, without hope. You see in verse 12, and much people of the city were with her. family of relatives, uncles or grandparents or whatever, and the neighbors and just those who would come and mourn with her because they they felt this pity, this hardship, this angst that is boiling over within her heart But they were not sufficient to meet her suffering condition. Again, it's an all-too familiar scene at our funeral homes. Pictures of the war-torn Middle Eastern city. Come back and see the families crushed. And it's hopeless. It's forsaken. But isn't that the epitaph that are written on so many lives today? Maybe a person that you work with, or somebody in your neighborhood, maybe within your own family. You feel the crush that has been upon them It's debilitating for some. It drives some to some form of substance abuse and a temporary relief. In extreme cases, it says to some, life isn't worth living. That's the extent of how heavy these situations go. But we shouldn't spend too much time looking at the widow and her son I'd like us to jump to God's only son, the one who indeed is victory over such situations. So the third picture that we look up to scene is Jesus himself. Verse 13. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not. Interesting that this is the first mention that Luke has of Jesus being called Lord. And my thought of is that he's saying this because he's finally become himself as Lord over death He's placed himself in a position right now where he is showing his lordship who he is, his display of greatness. In all probability, I think of this mother coming out of the city, no doubt crying for a considerable amount of time. Burdened with all of these things upon her heart, her face down looking at the dusty path, and not having any idea of what's going on around her. Not knowing of the Jesus and the crowd coming, not knowing of all who are with her. She is just immersed in this woeful situation that she finds herself in. One translation says it this way: His heart was moved with pity for her. He felt her sorrow. He felt her grief. He felt what she was going through like nobody else could How many times have you heard from somebody, you don't know what I feel? You don't know what I'm going through. Have you heard that? I have. You know, pastors always we find situations like that, and they say to you, out of sincerity, you don't know what I'm going through. And yet, here's one who comes to her And he not only knows, but he's able to do something. He knows how beautiful. 19th century hymn writer Frank Graf says it all. Does Jesus care when my heart is pained too deeply for mirth or song? As the burdens press, As the cares distress, And the way grows weary and long, does Jesus care when my way is dark, with a nameless dread and fear? As the daylight fades into deep dark shades, does he care enough to be near? Does Jesus care when I've tried and failed to resist some patient temptation strong? When for my deep grief there is no relief, though my tears flow all the night long. Does Jesus care when I've said goodbye to the dearest on earth to me? And my sad heart aches till it nearly breaks. Yes, it ought to him Does he care? You know the chorus? Oh yes, he cares. I know he cares. His heart is touched with my grief. When the days are weary, the long nights dreary, I know my Savior cares. You know. Situations don't change. You know, uh lives don't always get resulted in the things that we want. But out of this, I find somebody who cares truly, and I can come to him and say, Do you know? And he says, Yes, I know. I know what you're going through. I've walked with you. I'll walk with you. I'll be there. Brother, never ever forget the compassion of Jesus. He's the only one who can say honestly, I know what you're going through, and I do care. And never forget his compassions fail not His faithfulness is tremendously great, and how marvelous he is to help us through these very things. Our text says that Jesus goes to her among the mourners that were crying and so forth and other neighbors, and he says unto this dear mother, what? What does he say? Stop crying. You know. Not in I don't think it was in a dramatic, stop woman, you know, no more crying. But I think out of his heart, he speaks to her words that caught her. Weep no more. No more tears. You know. Reached into her because he understood her situation, how delicate it was. It's evident that his sympathy was there. And it came to pass that he touched the buyer, and that the bearer who stood with him stood still, and he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. And I'd like to think he maybe spoke this a little bit more authority than before because I think he really wanted the people to hear what was going on. And he that was dead sat up and began to speak, and he was delivered to his mother. I want you to notice here, in this situation, unlike others, nobody came and asked Jesus for help. He took the initiative. Nobody said, Jesus, my wife, my son, my servant, you've got to come and you've got to help. Lord, I'm blind. Lord, heal this. You know, he took the initiative. And there are times you've got to realize that Jesus does that. He'll come to you in the knees that you've got and speak the words of kindness and be that one who is there. Maybe he had done it in other cases, but I think this one brought some great hope because there was no hope in this case. I don't think anybody thought, even if they saw it was Jesus, said, let's go to Jesus, maybe he'll raise this boy. I thought it was hopeless. But in Jesus' eyes it was not He goes to the stretcher bearers and it seems that they had already stopped, probably because mom was in front, they were behind, she stops They stop and he comes over to the lad and he says unto him, Young man, I say unto you, arise. The power of his words Just not words, far from our words, even the words we speak or read, but the words of God Himself. And he tells him Young man get up. And he that was dead sat up and he began to speak. Now, that is a powerful picture. One of the most powerful. And yet was what does Luke show next? What does he show next? Sends him back to the mother. Where's Jesus' compassion? Raising the boy, you know, that's one thing. But for the mother whose heart is broken and ripped out and crushed by life that always waiting there, he still has enough compassion and love for her, he says. Go to your mother. Go to your mother. He's reaching out to that ministering spirit that is necessary to touch her and to make her whole again. Of all of the things that were going on, and you can imagine, lack of sleep, you know, probably wasn't eating real well. He just got overwhelmed with all of this. And if there's one thing that she wants him to see, my boy's alive A lot of words, a lot of tears, a lot of stuff. But my boy's alive, and here he is. What a marvelous Savior he is for us. The Apostle Paul beautifully presents the same in spiritual terms in Ephesians 1. He says In you hath he quickened, otherwise, made alive who were dead in trespasses and sins. Made a lot, there he is, laying on that stretcher. But he says, this same God, He's quickened, He's brought to life you who are dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in times past He walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh on the children of disobedience, among whom also we had our conversation in times past, in the lust of the flesh fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and where by nature the children are after, even as others, but God Dead. Dead, dead, dead. He was dead. He was dead. He was dead. And Paul says, You were dead. But God But God, who is rich in mercy for his great love, whereas he loved us even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us, made us alive together. With Christ, by grace you're saved, and has raised us up. There's a boy. Get up out of the stretcher and go see your mother. Hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Beautiful picture that's being presented unto us here. So we've seen this scene from the providential setting of God Himself. We've seen the widow that has her spirit crushed. We've seen the blessed Jesus come in and bring this boy back to life and restore the the hope and encouragement in this mother. But there's one group left, and that's the crowd, the groups, everybody who's there. Verse 16. And there came a fear for all. And they glorified God, saying that a great prophet is risen up among us, and that God has visited his people. And this rumor of him went forth throughout all Judea and throughout all the region round about. What would that have been like to be there? You ever think about that? You ever think how it would have been to be in that situation? I know what would happen. You know, we'd have the cell phones out and this whole thing would have been filmed, you know, proving it. I was there. But I think even greater, like these people here, we would have been shocked. An event that was impossible had it not been for you there, seeing it yourself. We would have just been, he was dead and he's alive. How powerful a change in life occurs. You know that occurs quite often in the world in which we live, like Paul mentioned in Ephesians one It's not the dead body, but it's the dead person. One who's dead in trespasses and sins and he's brought back to life Even more powerful than the raising of the dead body, the newness of life that comes along. And these people stand there and they watch this mighty powerful act that they witnessed. And it says, and there came fear upon all. Then they glorified God, saying, that a great prophet is risen up among us. We saw it. Do you ever have the privilege of of allowing God to use you to sow seed in somebody's heart and have them say, I want to bring Christ into my heart? Do you ever pray with you? Do you ever see that? Isn't it exciting? Doesn't it bring great joy? And fear came up. They glorified God. The people saw this act of God's loving concern, and he says that God hath visited his people. You know, there were times in the Bible that talks about God's visitation. And sometimes it wasn't very pleasant. Sometimes it was out of judgment. But here is a case when he visited them and there was love and compassion. And this rumor of him went forth throughout all of Judea and throughout all of the region roundabout. Instead of rumor, let's talk about this report. It was a report. It wasn't a rumor. It was a report that it occurred, the time and the place and the situations, the things that they saw, without any form of media. We can zip around to the other side of the world, uh sit in my office and I get a phone call and and here is Bonnie calling me from the bush out in Kenya He says, Pastor, how are we doing? Okay, da-da-da-da-da, you know, just like that. But here, the report of what Jesus had done went about through the whole region. Without any media at all. How did it occur? I think the excitement, the truth of what the people saw, that which was not only visible of the change But the the joy that God had visited them. What's our response? What's our reaction to God visiting us? The blessings that he brings to us day after day. An answer to prayer. A rescue. a deliverance, a good report, an answer here and an answer there. You know. What's our what's our oh that's what he does. That's good, you know. It ought to bring a a tremendous excitement about us, and it ought to be that which is displayed in our conversations. In our devotions at office this past week, and I don't remember the author, but he was talking about conversation in life. And he says, when you get together, and and this was you know early 1900s, when you get together to this place or this place or this place or this place What what is your words talking? Are you talking about the sporting event? Are you talking about the stock market? Are you talking about this or that? Or are you talking about Jesus? He's saying that ought to be the conversation. In other words, even as the King James says, the conversation, my lifestyle ought to be If Jesus has really done and made such a change and a glorious blessing to us, that ought to be something that comes out of me. And maybe I need to start my day and say, Lord, help my speech to be edifying and building up, but may it be Jesus. Jesus frequent in my speech, not like some of your friends may be saying Jesus, you know how that goes, how they take his name, but in this particular case You see, this thing that was taking place was actually performing its mission in the hearts of those who took this account seriously. As they saw and as they witnessed, they took it seriously because they glorified God. And if you're here today and you take this account seriously, then it's performing its duty If Jesus did do, if he did raise, and if he did show compassion, if we did see a woman who was crushed beyond any hope other than Jesus. And if we did see that God providentially played all of these things about, then I ought to be one to say if he did it for there, he's doing it today. And I ought to be the one who is sharing it. My great high priest, my king, my soon-coming king, the prophet, all that he is, it ought to be something that I share with others. It's an event that's true because the same Jesus who cared for this widowed mother cares for me. And he cares for you and to those around you who have that same no-hope attitude as this widow. You can go to them and say, Jesus cares for you. And you're not making it up, not pious, you jibber-jabber. You can say with confidence because this was an actual occurrence, an event that took place, and it occurs again in my life. It occurs for you. And it may not do anything right then. It may be something there, but you've taken a seed of truth and you've planted it. And God's Spirit can take that. And sometime down the road, something clicks, and something happens, and something happens. It's a marvelous picture of the blessings that God has done in visiting us. His Spirit dwelling in us, and each of us having the privilege to report the message of what he wants us to report on. We are his children. Praise his name for what he has done, what he's doing now, and what he shall do. Let's pray. Father, we pause in our service now and are thankful for this reach back through the eyes of Dr. Luke. Through his pen, through the guidance of the Holy Spirit, to see a situation that is not at all uncommon in our world, even today. Even amongst those here today, at least somebody that we know and somebody that we're familiar with, who's been crushed by life's heavy load. The burdens, the tears, the hopelessness, the situation that seems that there is no way out And yet by the marvelous providential care of you, O Father, you brought Jesus into this life in order that you would, yes, raise a son, but you would minister to this dear woman. Oh Father, minister to our hearts today. And not only today, but throughout our life. May we never look upon our situations, our circumstances as being the all. It doesn't end there because great is our God and greatly to be praised. You have not forgotten us. You have visited us And we will make that testimony known amongst all our area. And we thank you in our Savior's name. Amen.