Questions that we've already presented, and we'll talk about them this morning. So in Isaiah 53, Scripture must prevail. We see the Bible lifted up in the center aisle of the church. Scripture must prevail. We read verses nine through twelve. And he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death, because he had done no violence. Neither was any deceit in his mouth Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him, he hath put him to grief, and thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed. He shall prolong his days. And the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand He shall see of the travail of the soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great And he shall divide the spoil of the strong. Because he hath poured out his soul into death, and he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors. I think it's fascinating all throughout this passage that which is referred to as the first gospel. You know, we have the gospel of Matthew, the Gospel of Mark, Luke, and John. But this in essence is the very first gospel because this is the essence of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's the truth of it. But I noticed all throughout this passage, as you read, especially in the King James Bible Everything has absolutes. Everything is bottom line. The word shall, the word surely, we see all throughout the passage is that There is no doubt, there's no way of misinterpreting this scripture and saying, well, perhaps this would happen, perhaps this would not happen. What significance does Isaiah 53 have in redemptive history? It's undeniable proof that Christ is the Messiah. He came into the world to suffer and save sinners. He is undeniably the Son of God. He is the only mediator to the throne of God And Isaiah 53 is the central theme. It's the cement, the steel girders, and the complete framework of the Old and New Testament canons. Also, we learn that redemption shall be open to Gentiles as well as the Jews. Those who have not seen Christ should believe in him and must believe in him. This also is an opportunity to be personally acquainted with the true and only heavenly Messiah. We speak of this chapter being the steel girders and the cement and the complete framework of the Old and New Testament. We have specifically in this church, in the four corners of this church, and Mike can concur with me and and and perhaps um I know Lisa. And Bob can concur. All four corners of this church have a Bible in the foundation of this church. There is a physical Bible that has been put in the foundation on all four corners of this church. As a way of showing that it's a cornerstone. It's a steel girder. It's an absolute foundational principle of this church. And so we see how Isaiah 53 Can really be summed up as a real steel girder from the whole of Scripture because it shows the absolute suffering servant of Israel, the suffering servant of Jehovah, and how Christ is the ultimate Way to heaven is the ultimate way to eternal life. But we saw how Isaiah abruptly changes his discourse from chapter 52 to go into a question. Who hath believed our report? Who will hear us? And this is the prophets whose job is to deliver and interpret the oracles of God. Isaiah answers this question, who will believe the report? Well, most won't. That's the question, is who will? But most won't. You go to John chapter 1, verses 10-11. Does anybody know why the Gospel of John was written? The Gospel of John was written to give infallible proofs that Jesus Christ is exactly who he said he was. And in verse 14, you see the very first verse showing unequivocally that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. To declare that he was the Son of God created an uproar, an absolute fury, that actually by the time you get to John chapter 10, verse 30, I and my Father are one, those six words. or what put the Jewish council over the edge according to their physical their physical understanding that that was exactly what had happened in order to go after Christ and kill him But we all know that that was a prophecy that was being fulfilled and carried out by God. John 1. 10 says, He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not Israel wasn't ready. Then the question this morning is, are we ready? Are we ready to have faith as the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen Can we trust him? Can we trust him for our personal needs? Our finances? Our spiritual work, of course. Our physical work Can we trust him that this coronavirus that's out there can be lifted by his very spoken word and that he knows every particle and everybody? Can we trust to know that he will defend the nurses and the doctors and he'll watch the hospitals that he will protect this country and he will lift it if we're faithful and we pray to him. I think that's the first step to healing is asking the Lord to deliver us. All throughout Scripture, we see deliverance through approaching Christ. Israel wasn't ready. They believed that they were the chosen ones of God and that God had empowered them, but did not want Christ as their Messiah. Then the second question that was uh that we proposed in verse eight, and who shall declare his generation Who will carry the gospel of Jesus Christ to the ends of the world? Who will relinquish the cares of the world to receive the ultimate price? And as we go into the final portion these next two weeks in Isaiah 53, I'd like to read these verses. Matthew chapter 24, verse 11 to 16. Matthew 24, 11 to 16. And many false prophets shall arise and shall deceive many. And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. But he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations. And then shall the end come. When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place, whoso readeth let him understand. Then let then let them which be in Judea flee to the mountains. So Christ says he that endures to the end shall be saved. How can we close the doors to our church? How can we shut down the artery and the blood that needs to run through the hearts of people in order to give them the scriptures and the word of God? That is of the Lord. That is for no man to to mandate. We go forward. Isaiah 53. 9 is extremely important. We see in verse 9. Break, we see here in 53, verse 9, and he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death. What does that mean? Because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. Why? If there was no deceit in his mouth, and he had done no wrong, he was not a criminal. Remember Pilate said himself, This man has done nothing He hath done nothing at all. He is guilty of nothing. Then why? What was happening here? This refers to the humiliation of Jesus Christ. What does our church constitution say about that in the Westminster Confession of Faith in question number 50? Wherein consisted Christ's humiliation after his death? Christ's the answer is, Christ's humiliation after his death, considered in his being buried and continuing in the state of the dead, and under the power of dead till the third day, which hath been otherwise expressed in these words, he descended into hell. First Corinthians 15, 3 says, For I delivered unto you first of all, which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Matthew 12, 40 says, For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Acts chapter 2 verse 31 says, he seeing this before spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell. So we see this verse broken down into two parts, which is very profound. He made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death. So there's two parts to this. With the rich wicked and the rich in his death takes on two meanings. With the wicked, he shared our curse to be entombed. Remember the edemic sin, where because of sin, death came. That's a problem I had with evolution. Go off on that for a few minutes. The problem I have with evolution and en worse is the theist the the the so called theistic evolutionists They believe that for millions of years there was death, that there was all kinds of little things going on, and the Lord used millions of years. Well, I need you to think about this very plainly. If there was death that preceded sin, there's no reason for an atonement. There is no reason for a savior. If death preceded sin, then it was not a byproduct of sin. It was not a result of sin. Then we need no cross. Christ had absolutely no obligation. He never had an obligation. He had no reason to go to the cross if death came from another source other than sin. So if it came from sin and we need a Savior, which we do, then it was requisite for Christ to come down to this earth and to live amongst us as he did to f perfectly obey and to fulfill the law and to die in his humanity as we did. That's love For him to share in what we have to go through shows how much he loves us and how much he was willing to revere and respect the dominion mandate of God. that he should be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Even when he dies, he will prosper. Because Christ Jesus our Lord, who we spoke about this morning, who had a little meeting with Saul of Tarsus on the way of Damascus and proved to Saul who the church really is. He was the only one who had the power to literally be physically carried in a bloody, mutilated state, put in a tomb And then three days get up and wake up and walk out when the sun came up. Isn't that incredible? Nobody woke him up. And he certainly has this series of the real Jesus on the movies now where they say he actually his body was mutilated, he wasn't properly buried, so the disciples got up and planted him somewhere else We've never found his body, that's why there's no resurrection. So all these theological obscurantists today can go around talking about how wonderful Christ was a teacher, but in no way was he resurrected because we still haven't found his bones His bones aren't there because he put them all back together himself. There was a point in that tomb, and I think that n none of us could even imagine what it looked like when if we were sitting in that tomb the morning he rose. There was a mutilated body that had been bloodied and almost unrecognizable where all of a sudden brainwaves started to hit. A heart started to pump. Skin started to come back. The wounds started to heal. And the healing came all the way to the point where the only thing the Lord would not heal, and that's the only thing in the world we will see in heaven or holes in his hands, in his side, and he left them there, and it shows that he was in perfect control of even how he healed himself. And when you go to heaven, you will remember this world by the holes in his hands and in his side because they're going to be there. That's how much he loves you. To keep that there, to remember that he did that for us So, that is the answer to the wicked. This wasn't and he made his grave with the wicked. He shared in the very same horror of death that we all are responsible to go through. And there were many things that were nailed on the cross that day he went to the cross. One of them that's nailed is the adamic nature of our existence. We all were there with Adam in the garden. We were there in our presence, in our being, not our physical presence, but in our sin. If you ever sinned one time in your life, you put yourself back with Adam in the garden. And you separated yourself from the obedience of God and being like Christ. And you gave up, and you absolutely, whether you like it or not, you gave up the ability to raise yourself from the dead. That's all foundational principles. That's not something that is even, you know, even questionable. So Christ here, he comes and he dies as we do He felt pain. He felt the torture when his skin was ripped open by the scourge and when he had the thorns that were embedded in his head. He felt that pain. And he did that for us So, we see here that he made his grave with the wicked, but and with the rich in his death. That's very important to understand what that means. The second part of this means that he was buried in honor. How does a criminal who has been convicted of insurrection and convicted of turning against his country and convicted of calling himself the Son of God, which made him a criminal, according to the eyes of the Jewish Council in the Roman Empire, not the Christian church, of course. We know he wasn't a criminal. How does he get a death of honor? Why? Do you know what happened to criminals that were crucified on the cross? They were displayed, as we all know, on the road. And it said the people were wagging their heads and they were laughing and mocking at Christ when he was on there hanging. When they took their bodies down, they put them in this great big ugly pauper's grave that never stopped burning. Evidently, this place called Gehana. was always smoldering with the smell of death. And they had to use every type of of like powder or whatever they could use in order to keep the smell down. As you got close, the smell of death was everywhere That's what happened to a criminal. And the reason that happened, it was a way of pronouncing, this is what happens. It's like a pagan ritual, to burn the bodies, to show that they were condemned because they were criminals So all the criminals that were murderers, they were thieves, insurrectionists, they were given this horrible condemnation of a horrible Burial and a horrible death to begin with, and then to confirm it with a very horrible burning, rotting death is what they had. So he's Christ is buried with the rich Why does he get some kind of burial like that? Alright, well, we can see that the world hated him. They knew him not. They crucified him and they put him on the cross. They mocked him. But he gets a burial because he's a king. And God had instituted that, and you can find the scriptures in the Old Testament that show not one bone on his body would be broken And that his body would be properly buried in a rich man's tomb. I think that's wonderful. Although accused of being as a common criminal, he would not be taken to a criminal's grave. But it was Joseph of Arimathea's tomb. Isn't it amazing that the rich man's tomb just happens to be working with the Pharisees as one of the rulers and how he gets saved. Talk about a transformation. With the wicked and rich also speaks volumes of those that accused him, tried him, and barbarically tortured him. This was exposed to the reproaches and insolence and lawless passions of wicked men, for on the one hand the Pharisees and the priests Rush upon him with unbridled rage and foul slander, as John Calvin comments. He says they rushed upon him with unbridled rage and foul slander, as in Matthew chapter 26, verse 65. Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy. What further need have we of witnesses? Behold, now ye have heard his blasphemy. What think ye? They answered and said, He is guilty of death. Calvin goes on to say, on the other hand, Pilate, though well aware of his innocence, condemns him in opposition to law and justice. Mark 15, 14 says, Then Pilate said unto him, Why? What evil hath ye done? And they cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify him. Calvin further says, and again, on the other hand, on the other hand, the Roman soldiers ready for every kind of barbarity, cruelly, and wickedly, execute the cruel and wicked sentence. John 19, 16 says, Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified, and they took Jesus and led him away. So why would not wh why would we not conclude that Christ was crushed and buried amidst those impious and bloody hands? And this is what that I'm sorry, that's how Calvin concludes Who would not conclude that Christ was crushed and buried amidst those impious and bloody hands? So how did he get such a honorable funeral or burial? That's because that was another prophecy that was given by the Lord in the Old Testament. His bones wouldn't be broken. He would not be sent to a pauper's grave and burned, his body being burned in a pagan ritual. These were all they were all rich and powerful men in the day who loved to use their riches and power to commit awful savagery. There were bloodthirsty men who were rich and wicked in hand to be men pleasers right down the line. Christ had done no violence. There was neither neither any deceit in his mouth at all through all of this violence. And as we spoke about this morning in the adult Sunday School class, about the very same Jewish council That went after Saul of Tarsus after he was saved. You go to you go into Acts chapter 9 and read verses 20 all the way to the end You'll see that when Saul is saved and Christ specifically speaks to him and he's referred to as Lord, what happens to Paul? Saul of Tarsus becomes Paul. Immediately the Jewish council goes after to kill him. Immediately they wanted him dead like Stephen, and like they thought they had annihilated Jesus Christ. And they were going to continue this onslaught. And this very same ruling body, they were the worst thieves, quote unquote. They were the mafia of mafia of the day. where they used all kinds of tactics in order to be very, very wicked and militant Isaiah applauds the innocence of Christ. Not just defend him from being slandered. There was no fault found him, we see. Even the thief on the cross got saved and came back and asked the Lord to save him. This man hath done nothing amiss, Luke 23, 41, as the thief said. Pilate, if you go back to Mark chapter 15, verse 14 again, Pilate said Why? What evil hath he done? And if you go into the book of John, he says, he have we I find no fault in this man at all. None. Isaiah praises the importance and our reward of Christ's death. Isaiah says that our Savior did not die for us by chance. He suffered at the decree of God. Isaiah says he did not suffer for his sake, but he stood in our place. Then he has no deceit in his mouth. 1 Peter 2, verses 21 to 23. What a wonderful. If you'd like to open to that, you mark this in your Bible. Go home and memorize it. We all need to do that. This is wonderful. Peter brings this together and he says here, for even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us. leaving us in his example that ye should follow his steps, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again when he suffered. He threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. He did all of this perfectly. He never spewed back. He never cursed back. He could have called 72,000 angels. He could have done whatever he wanted. And he did all of this as a quiet as a mouse. Going through all of this for us. And we see in verse 9, neither was any deceit in his mouth. There was not one vile word. How many vile words did the Pharisaical Council spew against Christ, calling him these names, telling him he was a liar, telling him he was a murderer, saying he was an insurrectionist? Verse 10 says, Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. Without any doubt, it pleased the Lord to bruise him. That's really hard to to imagine. It was pleasing to the first person of the Godhead to bruise his own son. The only way that I can really bring this out, I don't even have this in my notes. The only way I can really bring this out is the incident, the the event that happened with Abraham. Can you imagine, those of you here that are parents, can you imagine taking your firstborn son or taking your favorite child or whatever? Can you imagine being told by God to climb a mountain for three days? Take all of the implements for a sacrifice and take that young man and take him and and and cut him, quarter him. Bleed him out as an altar of sacrifice of obedience to God, and that is your child. Can you imagine doing that And Abraham for three days, as we talked about this on Wednesday night, it came up and it perfectly fits in here. You take the child and you take him for three days up on Mount Moriah And on three days, the whole time, what was Abraham thinking the whole time? He must have been thinking, what am I going to tell Sarah? How am I going to explain this to Isaiah when I lay him out on the altar How am I going to take a knife and I just start taking my precious little boy and cutting him into pieces? What am I going to do? He trusts the Lord all the way up the mountain and he gets up there and he lays him out And then Isaiah says, Well, but Dad, where's the sacrifice? And he said, God will provide. Don't worry about it. He'll provide one way or the other. And then he's laying there and he's all tied up. Pulls the knife back. Abraham, Abraham, take the knife out of thy hand. Take it out of your hand. You've been faithful. There's a ram in the thicket. And the little Ram, another sacrifice created being of God who atones for our sins, who atones for Isaiah, and all of this is symbolic. Of the very day that we're talking about here, when Christ is hung on the cross, there's no ram in the thicket, there's no pause button in the sacrifice, where God's own very Son, it pleased him. If you don't love God, if you never love God in your life, and this doesn't change your heart, I don't know what will. It pleased him to sacrifice the greatest he had to offer for us. How can we not worship him on the Sabbath day and open the doors to the church? It pleased him. It doesn't say it really made him angry. It says, It pleased him to put his son upon the cross. What else does it say? He hath put him to grief Let me go back to verse two, it says, For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground, he hath no form nor coming us, and when we shall see him There is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Grief. He hath put him to grief. That means he put his son through a living hell on this earth. And then you see these pictures of Jesus. I have this series. I don't even recommend you watch it on the what was it, the uh uh Smithsonian channel. These three parts, the real Jesus. Oh, they paint him up with this beautiful olive skin and these beautiful glaring blue eyes. Big mane of hair coming down, he looks like some rock star from the seventies. You know, he was he's tall and he's got broad shoulders and his He's got his robe and it's cut down to here so you can see his chest, and they've got him from some European artist, making him look like some kind of a Greek god. And it says here that there's no beauty desired of him He was an ugly man, physically. He was actually, R. C. Sprohl says, grotesque to look upon, because physically his appearance was nothing at all beautiful. The beauty, Christ didn't want his physical appearance to be looked at. He wanted the beauty that came out of his heart, felt and loved. And I think you can tell there's a lot of people in the world that may not look like some painted up botoxed movie star that is maybe not some beautiful person that you love with all your heart because of what's in their soul, in their heart. That's what Christ was like. Everything exuded out of him in a light that you couldn't miss. And so when it says the Lord it pleased the Lord to to bruise him, he was a man of sorrows, he was a man acquainted with grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed. Wait! Psalm 53, I mean Psalm 22 takes this same kind of a turn. Romans chapter 11, going to Romans chapter 12, takes the same kind of turn. Isaiah 53, wait a minute, something's happening here. All the way up to this portion of Scripture is all hard. It's all the suffering servant and the torture of Jesus Christ. Now a light comes on. What happens? This is incredible. He shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand Now we see the light of eternal life coming right in full view in our eyes in a few short words in these last three verses here. We see all of a sudden here the the propitiation now unfolds in front of our eyes. Now the God God's judgment that is requisite on people that sin against him, and we deserve to be the ones up on that cross. is now satisfied by the one that loves us, and it pleased the Lord to do that for us. He dies on the cross to save us from our sins. And he satisfied the propitiation. What is that? That means the judgment that the Lord requires for every one of us to enter into his kingdom perfect. And you can't do it on your own. Believe you me, there is no dove, there is no bar of soap, there is no sanitizer, there is no cleanser on the face of this earth that can clean you up enough to smell good to get into heaven. It can't happen. That's not possible. And so here we see very plainly that there had to be a propitiation. God's judgment on us must be remedied. and it's most dreadful, and can in no wise be satisfied by sacrificial accomplishment from the whims of men. We must understand that. So there had to be a substitute One that could satisfy the judgment of God, one that could free us from the curse of the law. Galatians chapter 3, verse 13, we read, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, be made a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. That's detail. He hung on a tree. The cross was a tree. By the way, that cross was a tree that God created. That was a tree that had life. It had roots. That tree had petals on it. It made it have flowers. It had leaves, and it was a beautiful tree. And the tree had to be cut down and it had to be honed and it had to be cut into the form of a cross. And Christ was hung on the very tree. that he had instituted at creation. This beautiful world that he created. Sanctuary. Kind of a playground from God that he gave it to his son on this earth to love. He loved all of his beings You don't think he loves his creation? Well, you're not reading scripture. Read Job 37. Go ahead and read Jonah chapter 3 And you'll see how many times his creation is talked about and how the Lord loves and honors his creation. He had to kill Endless animals in the Old Testament as as as a symbolic propitiation for our sins. He had to strike down one of his trees. Strike down animals in order to clothe Abraham and E I mean I Adam and Eve. And then he strikes down his own son. When did the Lord God Almighty stop sacrificing for us? When? He's never stopped. He shall prolong his days and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Well, 1 Corinthians 5. 7 says, Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened, for even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. You're now free. You're free to live. Because of this, you are now free to do anything in your life. You are free to be free that no matter what happens to you, Christ has overcome the world. What happens if God had not prolonged the days of his son? Well, that would mean there is no deity. God is a liar. Christ is never resurrected, and we are all condemned to hell. So if he prolongs the days of Jesus Christ, the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. That is eternal life. This eliminates the error that Christ's atonement provides present-day physical healing for those who pray in faith. See, today people take Jesus in. They think they're praying in faith. They think they can pray in his name and heal people. They believe that they can get a new Mercedes, they can get a new house, they can name it and claim it and use the powers of God for their own personal worldly benefits But his death was an atonement for sin, not sickness. Ultimately it was for the sickness of the sin and the filth in our lives. The Lord can heal But today people take what Christ could do as a worldly gain for themselves, but it's ultimately for our eternal well being. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his ministry. Or another way of saying this last phrase from Scripture Is the will of Jehovah shall flourish in Christ's ministry? His ministry, and we saw David spoke about his ministry many times throughout his writings. He shall see his seed. This refers to his followers, his sheep, those who came and those to Christ said in the end of Book of John that God would give into his hands. Now you're reading about you You love Christ. You are his seed. And look what it says here once again. Let me read that once again. He shall prolong, he shall see of the trail. I'm sorry Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him, he hath put him to grief, when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days. That means all the way back here, Christ has been able to see his seed all the way since before creation. So what that means is you all were in perfectly chiefly in view in the eyes of the Lord before this earth was ever created. You're a chosen vessel. He shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. It's a pleasure for him to have the Lord God Almighty crucify Christ, have him resurrected, and he shall see a seed. And it's no wonder in the di in the consolatory discourse that Christ gives He says, I don't just pray for those that are here, but for those that thou hast given into my hand. That means he knew about you and me. I think that's wonderful. That's awesome. He shall see his seed. This refers to his followers, his sheep, those who come to life through Christ's death. John 12, 24 says, Verily, verily I say unto you. Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. That's by the watering of Jesus Christ. He shall prolong his days. Christ's death is quite different from ours. When we died, we are cut off from our families and children who are left for a season When our Lord dies, being immortal, he rose to glory, being immediately reunited with the Father and his seed, the church. He sees all in heaven. He's omnipresent, and he sees all his flock. here on earth and sees all who will ever be his flock. He went through grief on this earth, but he immediately went into glory. And that's a wonderful, wonderful belief and a faith and a truth that we hold. How would you like to be one that believes in reincarnation? Did you ever think about what that really means? What it means to be reincarnated Alright, so you die. You come back as a grasshopper. Isn't it going to be really hard to go have some kind of a relationship with your children or to see your great-grandmother? Or to see your great-great-great-grandfather that was saved, you're a grasshopper. What happens if somebody steps on you? Yeah. There's a lot of problems with reincarnation. There are think of all the religions that are out there that they do not offer a reunion with your loved ones. You know, really in essence the only thing you can take here from this earth with you when you leave this earth is your family. So why not beg them to come and be with you? I love the Wednesday night prayer meeting because there's such a small amount of people. I can't tell you how many times I've seen the prayer request, pray for unsaved loved ones, pray for unsaved family members That's so important. Prayer should be like breathing and praying for them. You want them with you. You want to see them and you want them to spend eternity. How could you think for one minute for one of your precious children or or family members that you love. And this is where it gets hard. Even the ones that you might hate, how could you want them to burn in hell forever? There may be people that you just detest because they're nasty or something. You gotta pray for them. Pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. The will of Jehovah shall flourish in Christ's ministry. His kindness The views of his kindness are held up for our admiration in this passage. He spared not his only begotten son. Delivered him for us that he might deliver us from death. He does not suffer his death to be useless and unprofitable, but causes it to yield very abundant fruit, for the death of Christ would be of no avail If it was not fruitful, if we did not experience its fruit and its efficacy. To sum this all up, we see one of Jesus Christ's hard sayings. And we see in Matthew 5. 20 says, For I say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. Ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Let me read that again, and I want to ask you a question. We'll finish here and we'll pick up a verse 11 next week. For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Boy, that verse bothered me and bothered me and bothered me. Because I thought about what the Pharisees were able to do better than me, physically. They did a lot of good things. Oh, they, every last prop piece of profit they had from the principle of their hard work, they tithed unscrupulously. If they got a bumper crop, they gave at least 10% of that to the church. They traveled over land and sea for one convert to their to their false religion. They tried to keep the law perfectly, so perfectly that they wrote up 611 more laws called the Torah, and if anybody ever kept them perfectly for one day, that they said the Messiah would return I know it was all works oriented. I know that it seemed very wicked in our eyes, but think about that. They dedicated their whole lives to the service of God, but they missed something. They missed the fact that they were the only ones that could atone for themselves through their works And that's substantive because today there are endless amounts of religions, if you want to call them that, that believe that their works can supersede the blood of cross the Christ the blood of Christ on the cross. That in and of itself, that is a condemnation. He that believeth is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, for he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. That is in John 3, verse 18. That condemnation means this with this verse. I believe this verse is a parable. And I believe it might be a little bit of a it might be a little bit of a brain teaser And if you really want to know how to free yourself from this verse, it's all Christ. Because your righteousness could not even exceed The righteousness or the unrighteousness of a convicted criminal or the nicest person you ever met in your life. It can't exceed anything except for the blood of Christ. The blood atones for your sins. You are now perfect in the eyes of God. That is where you can exceed that of the scribes and the Pharisees. But Christ is saying in essence, if you think you can do this on your own without me, you're no better than them. And you can't exceed their righteousness. They didn't have any righteousness, neither do you. So there's no real game here. You've all lost But if you remember me and what I did on the cross and you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved. And this is what I love. The verse doesn't stop there in Acts chapter 16. And all thy house. So I say to this morning that we commit our ways unto the Lord. And we be so thankful for these verses and what the Lord did for us. that we can't stop telling others about it and begging people to come to Christ and to love what he did It's a wonderful, wonderful way to live. These lessons apply today. We have no righteousness outside of the blood of Christ. We'll see what it means next week that he shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. There's nothing better than God's wrath being satisfied. So y it's it's we can't even begin to imagine how far God's wrath can go. You take this pandemic virus now and everybody on the face of this earth is dead, that doesn't even begin to even start to show how bad wreck God's wrath could be. And look how merciful the Lord's been. There are now possible vaccines, there's possible remedies, there's all kinds of ways that the Lord has given those in the medical professional field. And they're all wonderful, but they need Christ first. And so this is what we need to be praying about. Let's finish this morning. Our Heavenly Father We thank thee and praise thee, Lord, that he shall see his sea, shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Thy pleasure of Thy son being crucified on the cross and rising on the third day, Lord, thou gave an atonement for us. Thou gave us a way, a truth, a life. No man cometh unto the Father but by thee. And we thank thee and praise thee that thou art the only way. Once again we remember the words of Pastor Steve Lawson. As he said, many people think there are many ways to heaven. There's only one way to heaven, but he said there are many ways to hell. And I ask, Lord, that everyone here will just love thee. Lord, open the door to the churches. Whether it be lifting the virus today or whether it's just making the pastors um in their hearts being convicted, I pray, Lord, that the churches would be open. There are many people on the streets that are that are hurting. They're suffering, and many like to just walk in and during the week in a church or call somebody and sit and pray with them and talk with them. And I ask, Lord, that thou would open the doors of the churches, and I pray that they would never ever be shut. I ask Lord that thou would bless us this week, keep us all safe from this virus or flu or whatever it is that's going on out there. There's so many ways that they're describing it. And I pray that thou keep us healthy, be able to take care of our families, to be able to work together, and come back here on Wednesday evening to fellowship with thee. And all these things we ask in the name of Jesus Christ, we thank thee and praise thee that thou art our God. Amen.