This week are leading into my message. And what has our president been doing this week? Anybody tell me? Of course there's a few different things, but one thing in particular that's in the news a lot. is he sent the National Guard into a couple of cities because of the really bad crime. And you know that's interesting. What kind of uh political government do they have in these big cities? Well, we've got the Liberal Democrats are firmly in control of the big cities. And is it any wonder that those cities have big problems with crime? And they believe in coddling criminals. They believe that uh you shouldn't have the death penalty, you shouldn't have uh big penalties for crime that you should uh just kind of uh work with the criminals and not worry about them and whatever and so the big cities have really bad crime Because people do things, do crimes with impunity. And so today's message is about the wisdom of this world versus the wisdom of God. And we're starting now, we've done one message already, and we're starting now on our messages on 1 Corinthians. We have one more message to go on 2 Kings, and we'll finish that up. And now we're going to switch back to the New Testament, alternating Old Testament, New Testament. We had Revelation. We went back to 2 Kings, and now we're coming up to 1 Corinthians And here we have 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved. It is the power of God. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that Thou would bless. As we study Thy word this morning, we pray that Thou would open it up to us Help us to learn much from it. Help us to behold wondrous things out of thy law. In Jesus' name. Amen. And so we have the foolishness of preaching. That's what it says here. That's what God has ordained to save people. That's how you got saved. That's how I got saved. If somebody gave out the gospel. They gave out the gospel through preaching, giving out the gospel in different ways. And that's God's means. God could have just automatically saved the elect You know, there could have been just uh light in your heart that went off and just all of a sudden with with nothing around you and you become a Christian. But that's not how it is. God has set it up that Christians give the gospel to other people and they become Christians. The foolishness of preaching. The elect are saved, and the elect are the ones that are going to respond to the foolishness of preaching. We go out in the tract ministry and we go out and give out tracts, just indiscriminately around the neighborhoods And we are looking to get those tracks to the elect. And there's a few of the elect out there And they need God's word. And of course the people that aren't elect need God's word as well. And it makes them accountable and gives them a little bit of light with it. But anyway, it's the foolishness of preaching here And then we go on to verse 19. For it is written: I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. And of course, the wisdom of this world says that the death penalty is not effective Going back to crime. And they say that it doesn't do any good to punish crime. But God's word, the wisdom of God, says that we should punish crime And it says that if man's blood is shed by man, his blood should also be shed, the person that does it And it says that if the penalty is not executed upon the wicked soon, their heart is set to their wicked ways. And so we have that illustrated right around us. We can see that the wisdom of this world doesn't work. It just doesn't work. With human nature, with how God has set up this world, and coddling criminals does not work. But you know in in the U. S. and years gone by they didn't coddle criminals criminals. They they executed judgment upon criminals. There was no impunity for criminals And things were much, much better. You know, they tell about stories of the past and we remember a little bit of that ourselves, that that, you know, there was no crime. People didn't lock their doors. I mean very little crime And that was because of following God's Word. Then we go on to verse 20. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? And one of the greatest Errors of the wisdom of this world is psychology. Psychology. And psychology, people look to psychology for the answers. That's the wisdom of this world. But you know, psychology is not a science. It's not really a science. Because every psychologist says something different. And half of them contradict the other half. And there's no science to it. But people want to follow that. And they follow it with the treatment of criminals. They follow it with the treatment of children that we're going to go over later. And with many other things. The wisdom of this world, we need to just go back to the Bible and get the wisdom of God. And that will straighten out our society and straighten out us. And then we go on to verse 21. For remember there verse 20, God hath made foolish the wisdom of this world. Made it foolish Then verse 21: For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God again by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom. And so even today, of course, back in the time of Jesus and back in the time of Corinthians There were the Jews and there were the Gentiles. And those were the two groups, and of course there still are those two groups today. But anyway, they were very much evident here in the Bible. And the Jews, they were looking for signs They wanted signs. They wanted miracles. Do people want that today? Oh, they definitely want miracles today. I mean, they got uh we're gonna have a miracle service on Tuesday at our church, and we're gonna have some miracles. In fact, uh church in Smyrna used to have that on their sign. I don't know if they have that anymore. But anyway, in uh in Brazil, that is really everywhere with the Pentecostals and charismatics is that They all want miracles. The Jews require a sign. They want to show the miracles You know, in Brazil, they called their church services the show of faith. show SHOW as uh Hollywood show show of faith and we're gonna put on the miracles here and show you the show of faith Well, what did Jesus say? When they came looking for a sign from Jesus, did he say, okay, I'll show you a miracle here? No, he didn't do that. He said that no sign would be given unto them than the prophet other than the prophet Jonas's sign That he would be three days and three nights in the grave, and after that he would rise from the dead. And so Jesus didn't put on a show of faith. He did miracles, but he didn't do it as a show. And uh to put on a performance. No, and when they wanted a performance, he said no And then we go on to verse 23. Remember Herod, he wanted a miracle too from Jesus at the trial. And Jesus wasn't going to do it. And then verse 23, but we preach Christ crucified. Unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. Of course, the Jews they were looking for the Messiah. They wanted the Messiah. And they wanted the Messiah so bad to come and save them from the Romans. And free them from the Romans. And so when Jesus came, they were looking for that glorious Messiah that would free them from the Romans, that would set up his kingdom. And when Jesus came the first time, it wasn't that. And as it says right here, to the Jews foolishness, or what did it say? But the Jews a stumbling block. A stumbling block And so it was a stumbling block to them because they were looking for a Christ coming in power. Of course, they got things mixed up in the Bible. They had Jesus, the son of Joseph, and Jesus the son of David. And they had these two different pictures of the Messiah from the Old Testament, of a suffering Messiah and a reigning Messiah. And they got this all mixed together, and they wanted the reigning Messiah, but Jesus was coming at that time. To be the suffering Messiah. And it was a stumbling block to them. And then we go on here, the Greeks find it foolishness. How can somebody die on the cross and pay for sin Well, the logic of this world can't go through that very well, and they call that foolishness. But it's the wisdom of God, the wisdom of God. And then we go on here to verse 24. But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ. The power of God and the wisdom of God. So it says unto them which are called, this is talking about here the effectually called. You know, in Calvinism they talk about effectual calling. And when you're effectually called, that's when God opens up your heart and you become a Christian. Effectually called. And then there's also the call of the gospel, the free offer of the gospel. But this is an effectual calling right here. Calling of the Christians to be Christians, and giving them the power to become the sons of God. And unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks. And again, he goes through Jews and Greeks. And the problem was, as I've said many times probably already here, is that that was the big big problem here back in the time of the New Testament, is that the Jews didn't want to accept the Gentiles And so that's why it uses all, all, all through the scriptures, God is not winning that any should perish, but that all of the elect, all different types of people, should be saved, Jews and Gentiles. Jews and Greeks. Then we go on to verse 25. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. And there are so many things you can go through that the wisdom of this world goes contrary to the wisdom of God. And so we need to get it in our minds and clear that the wisdom that's all around us in the world. is different than the wisdom of God that we have here in the Bible. It's different. It's opposed to each other And today we are so bombarded with the world. So bombarded. The world is just all pervasive. People are connected every second. Every second. And the uh the the great goal of all the technological advancements is so you can be always connected And you're connected to the web. You know, there was one guy who used to call it the spider web. That's what it is, the spider web. You know, the web has some good things And all those things have some good, but it's mostly bad. And mostly we're getting the pervasive viewpoint of the world. And you know, we don't even know that we're getting the viewpoint of the world. We don't even know it. We don't even realize it. And we start to assume the viewpoints of the world. And that's different than the viewpoints of God, the wisdom of this world. and the wisdom of God. Let me go on to some verses, new verses here, verse 26. For you see your calling, brethren, How that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world To confound the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And thing and base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught things that are. that no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. And so God has chosen the weak things of this world. How many high and important people do we have in our congregation today? Not very many Of course I just got elected to council, but you know, that's the very lowest elected office there is. There is none lower than that. But anyway, you know, how many doctors, lawyers, and Indian chiefs do we have? We don't have any. You know, very few. When you go to the good churches, you don't see very many of these elites around, CEOs and things like that. You don't see them Why is that? Why is it, you know, I thought about it, why is it that every CEO is a liberal, practically? Why is it that all the high-ups are liberals and the universities and so many different places? Why are they mostly all liberals? Well, it's because they have the wisdom in this world, and that's God has said he puts base people in high places. That's what he does, and those are the people that are controlling this world. Those liberals and people that are that are immersed in the wisdom of this world. And of course, they like the liberal viewpoint. The elites do. Why? Because it gives them more power over people. They want more and more power, and so they want more government control, more things like that, more control over the people's thoughts and actions and whatever Is the elites like all that? And so not many mighty, not many noble are called. Why is it that uh CEO of Cracker Barrel wanted to change things around From the old-fashioned ways. Well, you know, it's just in with all this wisdom of the world. Of course she didn't get away with it. There was an outcry. But anyway, the thing is, is the elites, not many mighty are called, not many noble are called. Because they aren't interested in the wisdom of God. They like the wisdom of this world. May they like man's logic. Uh Tim mentioned logic this morning. People exalt logic. Of course, logic is good in a way, you know, in its place. But they want to have that govern everything. And of course, really, the world is not even logical. How can they believe in evolution? You know, you talk about foolishness. That's complete foolishness. Then they talk about following the science. You've got to follow the science, don't you know? And you've got to follow the science with the evolution. And you go to the museums and you see these nature videos and all that, and they're always Pushing evolution. Millions of years ago, and these are the scientists, these are the high-ups in the science realm And these are people that have studied and studied, and they want to push this complete foolishness of evolution. You know, if evolution would was true, we would see it going on in front of our eyes in different levels. We would see missing links walking around. We would see half men and half apes walking around. I mean it it's it's completely foolish That uh certain apes in the revolution got the ape and then they quit. But then other ones decided to go on to become men. And and you know it's it it's completely foolish And then the evolution way of dating is you date the strata by the fossils, and then you date the fossils by the strata. And so it's completely circular. It's foolishness. That's the foolishness of man. And yet they teach you this truth. It's in the textbooks. It's taught in the schools. Everywhere And follow the science. Well, the follow the science is no good. And uh, you know, there's so many th examples of that we can give, of the wisdom of this world and the wisdom of God. Of course, uh a big example is is with abortion. You know, the thing is the scientists And the great doctors, they tell us that the unborn baby is really not human. Can you imagine that? It's just a fetus It's just a fetus. And we can abort that that that fetus and we can do what we want with, because it's really not a person yet. And yet they could have operations on the babies in the womb, they could save them very young and all those things, and yet they f believe in the foolishness of the fetus Complete foolishness. And uh, you know, then the then the deal with the uh climate Complete foolishness of the uh, you know, that uh we got got the world gonna warm up and all that and we got this climate catastrophe and things And it's all a thing for more government control. The elites like it. They like all that. Al Gore and all of them. They love it And and of course how foolish it is, they make a big thing about cattle f flatulence. And they say that that the c cattle letting out gas is a big problem with global warming Can you imagine that? But that's the foolishness of this world. The foolishness of this world. And of course, climate is always changing. But it's not because of man. It's not and that the solution for it isn't uh more government controls over everything. But that's their their answer to everything. So they they They raise these straw men, the foolishness of the world, and then they give more government control and more power for them to solve that straw ban that they've raised up. And then we have DEI. We got uh where we promote people by their race and by their sex, but not by merit. And what do we have? We have pilots up there that are unqualified. Why are we having so many accidents recently? We got pilots that aren't qualified, we got mechanics that aren't qualified And we got all this out there. And is it any wonder that we have all these accidents and problems? And uh a promotion should be by merit, but it's a foolishness of the world. That you promote them by what color they are or what uh sex they are. And then they say that then the foolishness of the world is that that people can change their sex That they can decide all of a sudden, well, I don't like being a boy anymore, I want to be a girl. Or I don't like being a girl, I want to be a boy. And they and they facilitate that, and it's the foolishness of those completely foolish. But it's the foolishness of the world. And that's all through the internet, all through those things. And you know, when you're listening to the internet all the time and the and the world's media all the time, I mean, most of it isn't outright sin It's not outright sin, but it's the viewpoint of the world being brought in. Like the greatest goal in life is to get a lot of money and treasure That's always promoted in the movies and other places like that, and they're always talking about the rich and famous. And so it's the viewpoint of the world. Well, right in our own family, we're having a little problem with that right now. Let's go back to Proverbs chapter 23. Proverbs chapter 23. Proverbs chapter 23 and verse 13. Proverbs 23 and verse 13 So there's a member of my family. I won't give the name or where they are in my family, but This person has come up with the idea. I mean, of course they've they've held to the fact for many years that they really shouldn't be spanking their children. They really shouldn't be using corporal punishment. But now that person Has come to the conclusion that they need to not spank retroactively And so what they're do what that person is doing is apologizing to their children for any spanking they did in the past. And uh it's uh it that's the wisdom of this world. The psychology of this world says the children are going to be warped. And of course even some of you sitting here today Well, you know, kind of raise your eyebrows of talking about spanking, because it's so accepted in the world, in the church today. It's accepted everywhere that spanking's no good, basically. Well anyway, you go to Proverbs chapter 23 and verse 13. Withhold not correction from the child, for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die. Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell. Okay, I've quoted that verse before, that second one before, about delivering the soul from hell, because you're giving the child humility. But anyway, discussing with this member of my family, this number of my family says, well, Rod really doesn't mean Rod there. Don't you know? Rod really doesn't mean rod, and beat really doesn't mean beat And not only that, uh someone chimed in and says, and don't you know the child really isn't child? The child is actually a teenager. But of course it's it's it's kind of completely weird weird. They they bring it into teenager and then what are you supposed to do? Start paddling your children when they're teenagers or whatever. But anyway. They don't want to take what the Bible says and just accept it. And that's what we need to do. We need to take what the Bible says and accept it. We need to try to have the wisdom of God, and the wisdom of God is right here in the Bible. And of course, as I said before, the wisdom of God is what works. What's going to work for crime? Well, it's going to be punishment for crime. In the past, I think I've mentioned Delaware used to have the whipping post They used to hang people in the square there. I knew a lady used to go out and witness the hangings when she was a child down in Milford, Delaware And you know the thing is, there wasn't all this crime. It worked. Those things worked. And you know, in the past, people used to spank their children. They want children like we got today. They're completely out of control. And what's the funny thing is, this number of my child family that's arguing That member of my family, their child is going to therapy because he's out of control. But they don't get the message. What works? The wisdom of God or the wisdom of this world. They just don't get it. And so, you know, but but why do people want to believe the foolishness of this world? Why do the people want to believe in evolution? Why do they want to believe that it's just a fetus? Why do they want to believe in all these things? Well, because it's what they want. And they want a rationalization for what they want. They don't want the baby, so they want a rationalization for why they can abort it. They don't want God creating the world. If they accepted that God created the world, they'd have to worship God. And they can't have that. And so they come up with evolution, all the foolishness of that. And they don't want to discipline their child, and so they come up with all kinds of rationalizations for that. And it's that's what we have in this world today. We got the wisdom of this world against the wisdom of God. Well, as we come to communion today, Let's look at our hearts. Let's see how much of the wisdom of this world that we're accepting that's against God's word. We just need to accept what the Bible says. You know, the old saying is God said it, I guess it's an old song, God said it, and I believe it, and that settles it for me. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that Thou would just help us to have the wisdom of God in our hearts and our lives and our thoughts and help us to be the Christians thou would have us to be. Help us to be able to recognize the wisdom of this world for what it is. In Jesus' name. Amen.