Talk about biblical terms um and uh we're gonna look here in romans chapter two so have we actually we went through romans chapter one verse by verse So now we're going to look here into Romans chapter 2, and starting on the very first verse in Romans chapter 2, that is to say, Romans chapter 2 and verse number 1. Um now chapter two, or excuse me, uh Romans chapter two verse chapter two, what I'm trying to say here, is comprised of 697 words in chapter 2. And of course we know that the book of Romans is divided into 16 chapters. And today we're going to be looking in verse 1, which is comprised of 27 English words, but it comes from 22 Greek words Usually the Greek text is a little shorter than the English because they they put words together in in um in just one word. They couple have a couple thoughts and with just one word. So that's why you'll you have actually a little bit less writing if you're looking at the Greek as compared compared to the English. So as we look here in into chapter two and looking in verse one, now we did notice in verse In chapter one, we saw part of Paul's testimony, his commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ, and um going on basically it was talking primarily about his relationship with the Lord and that of Israel. So that's the general context of what we have coming here to chapter 2. You see in verse 1 it declares, Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever you are. That judges, for wherein you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you that judge does the same thing. Well you can see the word there it's we're going to see over and over is the word judge. It's there three times in that one short verse. So it's a Thought right there. However, because we're talking from the inspired, infallible, and errant word of God, let's pray over this before we actually try to explain it. Out of your grace and mercy and your power you saved us. You took us from heading for hell, deserving hell, and set us upon the solid rock of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're here to give you praise, give you thanks, to learn of you. And I ask for help today that you would help me to present accuracy from your word of labeled Romans two chapter two verse one. And then whatever we learn in terms of facts help us to turn that into energy, turn it into activity. So that we do not just only consume the Word of God, but actually live it. Help us to love one another, help us to forgive one another. Help us to be bold with the Word of God and give us understanding to it Now, Lord, help me through this, that my presentation will be accurate and a blessing to this wonderful church. Guide us we pray through Christ our Lord. Amen. Well, as we look here in chapter two, verse one, first of all, I want to start off with four statements, which will then sort of give us the format of what we're going to be looking into. Statement number one is this In order to understand chapter 2, we must review some theological concepts of chapter 1, because these are all connected. So if we're going to understand to you, I'm I'm going to assume now you're somewhat familiar with Chapter 1 because these things are coming together Second thought I want to give to you before you actually get into it, bear in mind individual man is guilty before a holy God. We understand that, don't you? That mankind Is guilty before God. And why is that? Because God's standards are is perfection. That's why Jesus had to go to the cross. None of us are going to be perfect. He had to rescue us If Jesus did not go to the cross, none of us we'd all perish in hell. And so we understand that all men by nature are guilty before God. And not only then are we born once from our mother, but then we have to be born again that we can have eternal life in heaven. And being born again is what? Believing in Christ Repenting, and what does repent mean coming from the word metineo? To change your mind. If you are not a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, you need to change your mind. You may be an agnostic, an atheist, whatever it is, or a religious, but you're not trusting Christ. Your mind has to be changed to receiving the Lord Jesus as he's presented in God's Word. What's the Bible tell you? For by grace are you saved through faith. Not of yourself, it's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. That word faith, phistos, means to trust in, adhere to, to rely upon. That's what he calls us to do. The third principle I want to share with you before I actually get into this, we must realize that Israel, the nation of Israel, is guilty before God as a nation And also, we need to know that there are two Israels in the Bible. There is the Israel over there in the Middle East But there's also what the scripture refers to as spiritual Israel. You and I are spiritual Israel. You find this in Galatians chapter 6, verse 16. where it makes the reference of referring to God as the God uh the God the Israel I use the phrase the Israel the Israel of God you'll see that Galatians chapter six and verse sixteen referring to spiritual Israel When someone comes to Christ, they are part of spiritual Israel. And so as we're looking in scripture and we see that word Israel, you want to ask, is it talking about spiritual Israel? Is it talking about national Israel. And then my last principle I want to give to you before we actually get into these verses is that there are issues of predestination and they play a major role in the history of redemption. And you must realize that there are two results of God's predestination. Number one, there is a doctrine of predestination unto salvation which is lab which is labeled the doctrine of election. Now you're all familiar with the word election. And that's all about salvation. It's about The Lord calling you you were called out by the Lord before the foundation of the world Now you experience this in life. There's a time when we come to Christ. Some of you came to the Lord as a young child. Maybe some of you came to Christ as an adult, according to God's plan for you The second thing we need to know, and that is that there is also the doctrine of predestination unto damation. Which is called the doctrine of reprobation. And that's our topic today, reprobation or the reprobate. Now this is something it's not fun to preach on or to talk about. We'd like to talk about the abundant life. Right? I came, what Jesus said, what? I'm come that you might have life, that you might have it more abundantly. What's that? John 10, 10, I believe. And we like to talk about the abundant life, forgiveness of sins Having the Holy Spirit living in us, having the wisdom of God's Word and the fellowship of Christians. And that's fun to talk about, enjoyable But there's also some nasty things in God's Word to talk about as well if we're going to be loyal to not part of the Word of God, the whole Word of God. And quite frankly, that's why when I'm Preach anymore, I just take it verse by verse. Because otherwise I would never on the verse I'm going to share with you today, I would never preach on this verse. Because it's That's not a nice thing to think about. But that's my concern today. So when you go home and somebody says, well, I bet you didn't listen to the pastor today, you bet you don't even know what he talked about. Yes he did. The reprobate. Okay, so we're talking about the reprobate Okay, so having said that, what's the definition of the reprobate? The reprobate is a term referring to the sinner Who has not, underline the word not, we're talking about the sinner who has not been called Been elected or predestined unto eternal life. In short, God did not interfere with their sinning Their perverted thinking, their depraved activities, and hence the Lord permitted them to continue on in their reprobation. That's the reprobate Now, you don't know who the reprobate is. You won't know. The only way you will know who a reprobate is if a person dies in unbelief. That person was the reprobate. A person when someone comes to Christ, then obviously he's not a reprobate. But so you don't really know who the person is, but it's a doctrine you need to be concerned about. There are reprobate walking in the street. In fact, most. Most of the human race. If you look historically, most of the human race is comprised of reprobates. So it is a serious doctrine to think about. We don't like to think about it, we don't like to preach about it. But it's the word reprobate, by the way, is in the scripture six times. So it's not there in every page, but it's a significant understanding in God's word. Excuse me for an whatever reason my sword's been acting up since I came here. I don't must be something in the air or something I've had no problem except since I walked in the building, so maybe the devil's fighting or whatever but whatever. Excuse me there. But that'll solve it. Thank you for that. Boy, I'm telling you what, not only do I get water, I get ice water. This is good. I could go on for another hour with it, so maybe maybe we can do that Alright, so so um the Lord interfered with uh with with with us And we're not the reprobate. He brought us to the saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. He saved us. So here's another thought about the reprobate. And we're going to see him here in our context in chapter 2 and verse 1. You see, and actually we see this word first given in verse 28. See ob obviously chapter two is a continuation of chapter one and we begin to see these terms in chapter one and elaborated on in chapter two But actually if you look back in chapter one verse twenty-eight, we find here that God gave mankind over to a repres referred to as a reprobate mind. Now think about that. God allowed the human race. They didn't want anything to do with him. He took his hand off them and gave them over to a reprobate mind. That's someone, obviously, who's not saved And really is an altogether different creature than one who is born again. The result of reprobation is given to you in chapter 1, verse 29-31. Define all these depraved acts done by the reprobate. Understand that the reprobate takes pleasure in his sins. Verse 32. So not only you see when we sin, and we do sin, we're not perfect, and sometimes we fall into deep sin. Any of us are capable of falling into deep sin. By the grace of God, we don't, we won't, but you're capable of doing this But when that happens to you or to me, we hate this. We don't want that. We're disturbed to confess our sin to the Lord and try to deal with the issue. But the reprobate doesn't. The reprobate rejoices in his sin. To him it's funny, to him it's glorious That's the reprobate. He doesn't know any better. He is a slave to his depraved fallen nature. And again, the only difference between the reprobate and the saint saint. When I say saint, I mean you. Me, believers are saints. But the only difference between the reprobate and the saint is God's election of grace. upon the undeserving sinner. We deserve hell. We've earned hell. We deserved hell, but we're not getting hell. By the grace, God looked upon us with the eyes of his grace and mercy. Isn't that amazing? Because there's many people, he doesn't. And yet, and I look at myself I'm not trying to be just Tom Bomb serious. Do I really deserve to be saved? I really don't. I know that I know that is pure grace. But you know what? The same thing is true for you as well. You don't deserve to be saved. You deserve hell and damnation. But you're getting heaven. You're getting forgiveness. You're getting the joy of the Christian life. Why? G-R-A-C-E. God's riches at Christ's command here at Christ's expense. God's riches at Christ's expense. G-R-A-C-E. And that's what we receive. Now we find here that having proved that none are just before God in Romans chapter 1 Okay, we're we're starting chapter two, but what what was Romans chapter one about? Well much of it was about making the point that none are just before a holy God. See, that's a problem. God is holy None of us are holy, or at least holy enough to go to heaven, because the holiness needed for heaven is perfection. That's why Jesus had to go to the cross, because none of us are perfect. So Romans chapter 1 feels a lot about the perfection needed for heaven. As we go into chapter 2, Paul then goes on to connect The next thought by the use of the word therefore. The very first word in Romans chapter 2, verse 1 is the word therefore. Now that's a connecting word, by the way, in Scripture When you see the word therefore, you want to ask yourself the question, why is it therefore? Think about that. If you see therefore, Why is it there for? Why that because it's bringing two thoughts. Like like this represents a thought, this represents a thought. And how do you connect them so it's easy to follow? Therefore, the word therefore brings these things together and we we can follow them. And by the way, um The word therefore is in in in God's word 1220 times. So it's an important connector to be aware of. And that and what I just shared with you there is a little bit of what we call hermeneutics. You know what hermeneutics is? That's a term you don't hear too often. But hermeneutics is a study of the interpretation of the how do you interpret the Bible? Just don't let me see. I think it means this, I think it means that. But there are certain strategies and approaches to God's Word which will help you to know how to interpret. God's Word. That's what hermeneutics is. You have a class called hermeneutics and you analyze how to understand God's Word. And Uh the the the the thing about um therefore was a little hermeneutical thing there you may read about in a hermeneutical book. So uh All right, so moving on here, the word reprobate, talking about the reprobate, is one that cannot change his condition. On his own. He can't change it. He may want to. In fact, I'm sure you probably know people who are not happy with themselves. They're angry. And they they go from one mess to another, to another. You know why? Because they can't change themselves And as I think about this, I think about a dog I used to have, maybe I was went back to grade school, and we had this dog called Hokie, P-O-K-E-Y It was actually a very appropriate name. Pokey was a an English Springer Spaniel. Now they're pretty nice, gentle, nice little dog. But this dog was a glutton. This was a glutton like you had never seen before I would get its food. Now back and by the way, dog food has changed over the years. Back then, you know, it was in the can. And you had to grind the can and you know what? When you open that can up That dog food smelled so good. I I took it as one of the pretty good stuff that thought's getting. And I'm trying to think what was the name of that dog food? It had the nice the hunt the smell made you hungry. And and so once in a while I sort of nipped the dog food. But uh so I I put the dog food down and Toki would His face would go into that bowl and not come up till the whole thing was flicked clean. So he goes. And finally it's all clean and and uh um needless to say it was s sort of a uh he put the weight on a lot 'cause he really, you know, could really put it away, but that that's my dog Pokey and So, um why am I telling you about Pokey? Because um the reprobate. A reprobate can't change himself. Pokey could not change himself. He was a glutton, that's just who he was and that's but you know what the reprobate is the same thing. The reprobate cannot change his condition. And you know there's a verse in Scripture, Jeremiah 13. Anybody here have this verse memorized? If you have this memorized, you get the prize of the day. And that is Jeremiah 13, 23 Does that bring about anybody? No, okay. I don't think it would. But it simply says, Can an Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his thoughts? And of course the thought is he can't change it. The things can't be changed, the things that don't change. And that's what Pokey was like. He could try to teach Pokey to eat and you know not that gorge yourself at every opportunity, but he would do it. But mankind's that way as well Sinners are that that's the way we are with sin. We just just we'll devour ourselves unless the Lord rescues us The reprobate's depraved mind. One who is a reprobate, one who is not going to get saved, he's going to go to hell. And why am I bringing this up? I don't like to talk about this. Why? Because the scripture has it And as a preacher of God's word, I am obligated to preach what's here. I don't determine what is here, I just elaborate on it as much as I can. The depro the reprobates depraved mind. chooses to live in denial. He's overwhelmed by his own lust for sin. And he has no desire to be converted to God's salvation He doesn't want this out. He don't want the gospel. And you may look at him and you feel, oh, I feel sorry for this man because he wants nothing to do with the gospel. He wants nothing to do with Christ. And if you try to witness to him, he'll laugh at you. He'll fight you. He'll resist you. Unless God in his mercy intervenes. And that's the point. We don't know who the who the Lord is going to call to be saved. That's why we have to be bold to preach the word to everybody. Give tra give out tracts to everybody. Witness to everybody. Try to bring them bring them to church. Do many things you can. Because we don't know who who the Lord's elect is. We don't know who the reprobate is. Therefore we must be loyal with God's Word. Luke 1910 tells us what? Probably somebody has that memorized here. Let's see what's good. Maybe we need to have memorized. Maybe we should talk about Not only memorizing scripture, but also how to memorize scripture. Now there's ways to memorize which can help you, you know, like Now we'll have a diff if you've got to analyze yourself and see how you think and what you do. What helps me to memorize scripture is to draw a picture of it. So I'll just get a piece of if I'm working on the verse, I'll just draw what I see with with that verse. And then you can memorize a picture. It's easy to, you know, see see the picture. And then just sort of recite the picture. And then after a while you do that number of times You get the verse. Memorite. Luke 1910. The Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. That's why our Lord came to seek, to seek, and to save those who were lost. And of course, the reprobate. But the reprobate is one who's not going to w respond to the gospel. He'll hear it But his heart is hardened against it to the point he will not. Now this brings up another problem though, because we know We would be a reprobate if God did not soften up our hearts to the and give us faith to trust in Christ. If He did not do that, we would be the reprobate. But now we have a problem. Why does God allow man to remain in his reprobation and then to plunge into hell? Now I shouldn't have brought that up because I don't have time to address it now, but that's something we should address. And it's a good theological and a natural question that comes to your mind. This preacher, this reprobate, why does God permit it? Why got why doesn't God save that reprobate like he saved you and me? And again, that's another issue we can get into and discuss Uh and it's a good question to ask, but I better get some more water because uh for whatever reason I'm losing my voice and I haven't had any problem with it yet until today, so I don't know what the problem is. We know this. At salvation the Holy Spirit gives the reprobate, a desire and power. to reject and to depart from his former life of dominating sin. The reprobate. Again, before we're all saved, we're we're We are foreign to the Lord, but the reprobate is the one who will not get saved. The Lord has no plans of saving him. And again you ask the question why? I don't know why. I can't answer that question I'm sure there's a purpose to it. And the only thing I can say is, by the grace of God, I'm not one of them. And the only thing you can say with authority is by the grace of God, you're not one of them. God did not leave you in reprobation But he rescued you and pulled you out of the muck and the mire of sin and placed you upon the solid rock of the Lord Jesus Christ. Again, another solution, as we all know, for God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten son, you know this, right? That whosoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Now we also know from other parts of God's word, it is the reprobate that won't believe it. And Scripture tells us the majority, the majority of people that have lived on this planet won't be in heaven. You realize that Relatively speaking, it's a minority of number of people who will be in heaven. These are difficult facts. I know I'm telling you these, but that's what's written here. I'm obligated just to Just to share it, do I like it? No. But I don't preach what I like. I just pre I preach what's here and then let God take care of the rest of it. Realize this? We what you know what we have in common, we were rescued We were rescued from being a reprobate. We were rescued, and therefore we believe and follow in the Lord Jesus. That's why we're here today. And so we're saved here by the mercy and grace of God. Hence we receive what the Lord did for us on Calvary. Now, for more understanding of this thought of reprobation and uh predestination and all that I want to recommend a book to you. A book which really let me tell you how I came across this book. It's amazing. So uh I went to a conference. Uh this is when I was living in Florida. I went to a conference. Um at at uh Coral Ridge Presbyterian Church where D. James Kennedy is there. So now okay, so there must have been maybe, I don't I don't know, maybe 1500, 2,000 pastors there Okay, so it's break time. So you know you get a glass of water, walk around. And wouldn't you ha wouldn't you know? I turn around Near Dr. Kennedy standing right next to me. Now I wanted to talk to him, but I thought I'm not even going to try and get near him because he always has a crowd around him. So we're just standing the whole one looking. He's right there, looking at me. Okay. So yeah, I began to ask now at that time by the way, at that time I was like see I started out in ministry as a as a um Arminian over the years as a result of studying God's Word. I moved from Arminianism to a Calvinistic thought. So anyway, I've uh so at this point in my life I was sort of like in the middle when I was talking to to to Kennedy about theology, actually And he said, you know what, you have good questions. Let me get you something that'll be a help. Come with me. So I'm following him. So we're going to the goes to his office and he gives me this book. He said, here, take this book. It's going to answer your questions Well thank you. And so um the the title of the book is The Reformed Doctrine of Predestination by Lorraine Bottner. Now you hear the name Lorraine. Okay, you want to think obviously Lorraine Woman. That's an interesting, interesting book by a woman. But no, it's a man. I thought, wait a minute, Lorraine Bottner is a man. That means that his parents must have held him as a baby. What should we call our baby? Oh let's call him Lorraine. Oh, okay. A little weird, but Anyway, um but but getting back to the book, The Doctrine of Predestination by Lorraine Bottner, it's it's simple to follow, but it's deep. It's very good. One of the best books I ever read on theology, which will help you to understand you know, understand these things. And um so wanted to share that with you here. We know that faith, belief, reception of Christ is something which comes upon the unworthy sinner. You realize that? For us to believe in Christ, faith Saving faith is something given to you by God the Father. He didn't muster it up. It's not, oh look how holy I am. I believe in Christ. But the truth is, now that's the way it appears on earth as we look at each other and minister to one another. But the truth is, see, theology, the Word of God tells us what happens behind the scenes, so to speak And you came to Christ because you were called of God before the foundation of the world to call come to Christ. And we know this: whosoever the Lord calls, they will come. There's no there's no situ well the Lord came but he wouldn't come. No. The Lord calls you, you will come, and you'll love the Lord Jesus. And again, it's look at the mystery. Look at us here. What a mystery. Why would the Lord select us? I don't know why. I but I know this. It wasn't because there's something good in you that he saw that he didn't see in somebody else. Actually probably in spite of all of us, but yet Yeah, that's what our that's what the Word of God shows us. So again, I think that salvation, faith, believing in Christ is something that comes upon, you know what's like? It's like a yawn Think about when you yawn. Now if I say the word yawn, you're gonna want to yawn. Then you think about don't ya whatever you do, don't yawn. I can't help it now. You know hey, excuse me a second Saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is something Which this verse and in particular this phrase, he says that the natural man could not offer any defense for their conduct. Because the natural man, that's the man who's not saved, and he cannot give a a a proper explanation for his depravity. That's just his nature, and that's Oh that that's what it says. The text goes on to say what? Thou art inexcusable. Well let's talk about that word inexcusable here, which means that the fallen man has no excuse for his unbelief. He's not going to be able to stand before God and smug, that's what he thinks. He thinks, if he believes in God, he thinks he's going to stand before God and just smug what, I don't believe in you because I didn't see you, or some crazy thing he'll say, such as this But actually the truth is the fallen man, the unsaved man, has no excuse for his unbelief. God has given him all kinds of evidence. And as you look in scripture, perhaps the greatest evidence for the existence of God is creation. I mean think about creation. Think about what this thing is. And not only if you just look on the earth, I mean that'll blow your mind as you look at nature. And animal world, vegetable world, human life. But go out into space. Check that baby out. Way, way out there, hundreds and millions of miles out. There's stuff there And all that this shows, you know what this shows? This shows this shows power in creation. It shows intelligence. Whereas the atheist wants to tell us we're just here by chance, we don't know how we got here, and we don't know what's going to happen to us, and so they just make up. you know, whatever how whatever they want to do it. But the Word of God tells us that God created this and brought it in here, spoke the universe into creation. Okay, looking at the phrase, let's take this word this verse apart again, looking here in Romans chapter 2, verse 1. Therefore, you were inexcusable, O man. Whosoever you are. Let's look at that phrase right there. Whosoever you are. There are no excuses. All are guilty before God. Whoever you are, he's making this point. Whosoever you are, you're guilty before God. Whether you be a Jew or a Gentile Whether you be black or white, whether you be educated or ignorant, whether you be male or female, Whether you be a homosexual or straight, whether you be rich or poor, you're guilty before God. And you need to be saved. You need a Savior. All mankind is guilty before a holy God. And of course, that's why there is hell for the unsaved. But yet we know this, as I mentioned earlier, God rescues some of the guilty from hell and from damnation. And of course that's also in in as you look, I think you'll find it in the in the book that I recommended to you, the Reform Document of Predestination And uh as we get into this to hold discussion, that leads you to the discussion of the extent of the atonement. Have you ever thought about that? What is the extent of atonement? Did Christ die for every person that ever lived Or did he die for a group of people who lived? And again, as you you gotta go through scripture and study your theology and all this, but you will find Jesus Christ on the cross did not die for every person that ever lived. Otherwise, his death on the cross would not be effectual. And as you look at the language in Scripture, that becomes clearer. Read what our Lord says about the extent of the gospel. And again, but the most amazing thing what amazes me is, okay, we know that you know these things are true, and yet for whatever reason God in his absolute mercy included me in this group of people of unworthy. This group of unworthy sinners, for whatever reason, he let me in it. He let me in Uh I know for sure I'm not worthy. You're probably thinking that about yourself. You're not worthy. Because you know what your sins are, you know what your thoughts are. More than anybody else does. Unless you're living in some kind of denial. You know you don't deserve heaven. But you you get it Why? By the grace and power of the Lord Jesus Christ. And nothing will stop that. The devil won't interfere. Your unbelief won't interfere. The world won't interfere. The Lord places eternal love on you. You will be saved. Now you may get saved as a child. You may get saved late in life. You may be saved on your deathbed, but you will get saved. If the Lord has placed his eternal abundance and love and love upon you. As we move on in our text here, I'm getting long-winded here, so I'll try to bring this thing to some kind of a real closing here. Our text goes on as an accusation by God aimed at mankind, the next phrase, because it says, you are inexcusable. You see that phrase there? Dia anapalautos eo anathrote. You are inexcusable. Of course, we looked at that and made that clear we have no excuse before a holy God. As we move on, then you see that word crino. And that means judges, you that you that judge. And so we find here, therefore, you are inexcusable, O man, whosoever you are. That judges, let's talk about that phrase judges, again coming from the word crino. Notice the offense in this verse. Talking about the unsaved, notice that all things brought up is not murder, adultery, fevery, blasphemy, apostasy. It's none of these things The offense is judging. Now think about that. That's I bet every I know I have, every one of you have judged from time to time wrongly someone, because that's in our nature. It's hard not to do that Then we know we ought not to do it, but we do this from time to time. But this is listed along with many of the other more, shall we say, more serious sins, but this sin of judging is deadly Think about that for a minute. Think if you are married to a man who judges, judges, who is judgmental, or you're married to a woman who's judgmental. And everything you do is getting judged. You you y you're afraid to go over here and say, Oh you shouldn't live you know I don't have to go in the talk about it, you know know what I'm talking about But being one of judgmentalness is something that's can destroy relationships, it it ruins people, and that's what we're talking about here of all the sins that could be listed here, here we're talking about the sin of being judgmental. And it is a destructive habit with deadly consequences and I tell you a lot of my counseling hours talking with uh men, you know, married couples And a lot of it is that. The husband's judgmental the wife or vice versa. So therefore they're always you know and you do that for a long period of time, you're ruining A a person you're ruining a relationship. And it's hard to get that back. Judging. And be careful. You're not a judge. Be very careful you don't judge one another. If it of course we we we think, we come to conclusions and you have to work things out sometimes. You don't know why He did this or she did that, so you attempt to work it out and realize they see a different world than you do, you're different. But do not allow judgmentalness to come into your life into your relationships. Do not have it. And if you sense it coming, get on your knees and pray for God to take that out of your life. I've seen this ruin relationships being simply judgment. And it is interesting scripture talking about this. The word judge, by the way, crino, as I say, coming from the word crino, now it has a long definition. If you go into your lexicon, look up the word crino. And here are some of the definitions to distinguish, to pick out, to select, to make an assessment, to reject. to approve, to esteem, and to be of the opinion. So you actually the words of your sentence is going to really give you the definition of that word crino, that word judge. Here in this in Romans chapter 2 verse 1, Paul repeats himself to underline this point. Again, he uses the word judging. He says, you judge another. He's rebuking them Believers there in Rome. You believe you're judging one another. You judge one another. And so this, as we know, this is Paul's teaching method. He repeats that he'll say it over and over and over and Probably people uh Paul, we know what you're gonna say. You're gonna say this because you say it every time, blah blah blah. But that's that's how you get something across to someone. You have to repeat it over and over and over. And you know what really But you know when you when you are I remember when when I was playing football, you had to run the same play over And over and over and over. And it was so boring. But and it's hard to do that because you Either hit or get hit one to two and you do it over and over and over and you're gonna get injuries. Like I still have injuries from doing that today. I still got things that aren't working right in the head and other places But we're going to find here that uh sound doctrine is is repeating, repetition, and we see that in this verse. We see the word judges used three times. Why? Because God's trying to get a message. To us thick-headed people sometimes, and you have to need it over and over. Because now someone has said repetition is theological mucilage You know what musilage is? Musilage is glue. Repetition is theological music. Dr. Cameron used to say that all the time in our class. And I d I didn't know what he's talking about now got right now. And I began to look it up. But he would say that oh now students, repetition is theological musilage and then go on but because you have to repeat things over and over before it sticks. I mean that that's Me, yet that's how I learned these things. You have to and you find here in this one verse, in this verse of twenty-seven words three times he's using the word judge. What do you think he's trying to get across? Judgment. Judgmental. Don't be judgmental. And he's accusing them of this. And so we find this word being repeated over and over. If we continue on with the verse, I know I need to finish up here. I can see you're getting tired and I'm getting confused. But we see here he continues on and and he's talking about when we condemn others, we condemn our there's that word again, we condemn ourselves When you condemn other people, scripture is saying what? You're actually condemning yourself. You say something nasty about that guy or that woman over there, and if you look closely, you know what? You're saying something about yourself when you do that. Why he's blah blah blah. I'm telling you something about me. And it's not good. And that's what the scripture is trying to tell you here. Many times the complainer is guilty of the very thing he complains about. And so scripture is telling us to be very careful about this kind of thing. And you know, to a point, if we look at this more closely, to a point, Scripture makes it clear that every one of us, from time to time, without an exception, were hypocrites Me, I'll come back here. Oh no, we shouldn't judge, blah blah. But you know what? Stay with me for a half hour and I'm judging somebody. We're hypocrites by nature. That's why we need to have the Holy Spirit in us to empower us to live the Christian life, right? Because you can't live the Christian life on your own power. This is the supernatural thing. This is the Spirit of God giving us power and desire to follow the Lord Jesus Christ So and then we are looking at the next verse, hammering home the point, you see that phrase again. For you that judges. He's sticking to the point. And as I've already pointed out, within the twenty-seven words of this verse, the word judge is used three times. Just trying to get a point across. So remember this when you tend to be critical of someone else. Probably the very thing you complain about, you complain about your wife. Well you know what, she doesn't do this or she didn't do that Look yourself over. Probably you do this, you probably don't do it either. She do she don't clean this up. Well neither do you. You you left a mess. The very things we complain about, many times we do the same thing So be very careful. If words of criticis criticism are coming out of your mouth, be very careful. Because the chances are you do it either in actuality or at least in theory. And so you need to watch yourself And of course you're also giving others reason to become angry and if you become angry with you, you don't want this to happen. Alright, so let's I'm gonna co conclude this here. And um So you want to be careful that we're not caught in judging because what's the scripture say you d look at the last phrase here of this verse. For you that judge, do the same thing. So now you want to think back in your own life. When was the last time you made a judgment about somebody else right here in the church? It doesn't have to be in your own family. Pray to God it's not. But you know, and this happens in church sometimes. Well, he doesn't do this right, he doesn't do that, but and you know, you know what that can do. Don't ever let that be said in the church You can't do that. If you want to build a strong congregation, you can't be critical of one another. Now if there's a serious fault, you want to bring somebody aside, talk to them. Gently, lovingly, to try to deal with an issue. But man, do not talk about other people among the congregation. Well, that'll not that'll that's like throwing cold water on the congregation So what do we learn today? Here we're done with this verse, right? We did twenty-seven words of this verse, so we're concluded with it. So what do we learn today? Well we learn a little bit of theology in a way about Um about judging and there's many verses in scripture. I'm just we just I just picked this one out here, but there's many verses that say, you know, do not judge because with what you will be judged, w with what you judge, you'll get judged with the same thing. You know that? If you tend to be a judgmental person, people will judge you. It's just the way it happens. And so you want to be very careful about this kind of thing. In in terms of the marriage, it you know I and and who knows, I d you know, I don't know the relationship between husband and wife. I'm sure some maybe all of you are very well you know together in Serving the Lord and happiness and joy, but maybe maybe somebody is not. And if there's you know some friction there, what do you have to do? You have to learn to forgive one another. You gotta learn to first of all talk And respect one to another, lay it out, talk about it, and then you know the best thing to do after you do that? Both of you get on your knees and pray. Pray for the other person. Lord help my wife to Oh, I shouldn't say talk my wife. I'm gonna start to cry if I start talking about my wife, so I gotta stop that. But you know, pray for your wife. Husbands, pray for your wives. Wives, pray for your husbands. And um To help you that that if if this area of judgmentalness is an issue. It is an issue. It's a very common issue within families. Don't do it. Don't let it happen. And you know who I would talk to, first of all? The men, the men in the family are to give leadership in the home. And if the men are not given godly leadership in the home, then these things are going to crash, crash and burn. And if our men don't take godly, I mean godly leadership, not just I'm a man, I don't mean that, but I mean in love, in tenderness, giving leadership. And I think you'll find this men, if you're given good, honest, godly leadership, the family will come along. But if you're like I'm a tyrant, I'm the leader here, the God said I'm a tyrant, live it, or I'm the leader here, you then you become a tyrant and nobody wants anything to do with you So you really have to watch that. Okay, let's pray together. Our Father, we want to say thank you for bringing us together today. Thank you for this the beautiful Lord's Day. Isn't that wonderful? It's the Lord's Day And every one of us here said no to the world, the flesh, and the devil, and we came here to worship you today. And is it any wonder? You've been gentle with us, you've been merciful to us You have forgiven us of our sins. You've given us the power to overcome our sin. You are making a place in heaven for us as we are here today. I can't wait to get in to see mine, but right now I'm here I would love it if you want to take me home, I would like that. But as long as I'm here, then I want to serve you with what I've got But I can't imagine what what a what a wonderful thing we'll have in heaven. Every one of us waiting for our wonderful home in heaven. But Lord, while we're here Keep us faithful. Keep us in the battle. Do not let us get discouraged. Do not let us get distracted. Give love and forgiveness to our husbands and wives. Help us to go the extra mile for our husbands and our wives. Help us to love as you have loved. Thank you for bringing us here today. To God be the glory. We pray through Christ our Lord. Amen.