They ask you to open your Bibles, our scripture reading, as was mentioned earlier, Gospel of Luke in chapter 1. This is the song of Zacharias, who is the father of John the Baptist. particular passage talking about the coming of the Christ child. Luke chapter 1, follow along if you would I'll read from verse 68 through 79. Blessed be the God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his people. And hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spake by the mouth of the holy prophets. which have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all that hate us. To perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to our father Abraham. that he would grant unto us that being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, we serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the highest. For thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of sins through the tender mercies of our God Whereby the day spring from on high hath visited us to give light to them that sit in darkness. and in the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. Bless, O Lord, these your words to our hearts today. Let us pray. Father, we're thankful that your word stands out as a pillar of truth And one that cannot topple, one upon which we may build our our lives. And we ask even at this time that we'll have our hearts purposed to um feed from these things, hiding your servant and allowing your spirit to be our our speaker, allowing these words to be settled upon our hearts in good soil in order to produce an abundant fruit. We're thankful for this in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we've been on what I trust has been a profitable journey through Psalm 23, at least to this point. You may not agree after, but uh at least to this point I think we've seen a number of good things. Uh from the beginning of the psalm we saw were David speaks with great thankfulness and praise to God for the relationship he has with this shepherd, is trusting him and believing in him for all that he would do, that he owned him. He was perfectly cared for by this shepherd. He says, I shall not want. Not going to have any needs. The life that you have provided for me. All that was needful in life was provided, and that he could rest under the care of the shepherd, meeting all his provisions, the green pastures and the still waters, providing that which was necessary. We talked about how he restores our souls, restoring us through the struggles of life, and then last Lord's day following his leadership provides with righteous paths. If we So go that way. Doesn't mean we do, but they're there. So everything that David talked about is his own experience, and he's writing as he's looking back, and his heart is moved to such But we can relate to those because of our relationship with Christ, which makes it just a tremendous blessing for us. Today's verse, however, starts seem to be a little bit different shift. Verse 4 starts out with a very familiar word, yeah, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. For as often as that psalm is used in funeral services, I think this particular portion of it seems to be uh stand seems to stand out It's for the believer a picture of the transition from life and going into eternal life, but there's a doorway there, and that doorway is death. And it continues on through that The picture of the shadow of death is mentioned elsewhere in Scripture, but not always so optimistically as David does here. Um Job, you find it nine times, the shadow of death. Not always the valley, but the shadow of death. And if you know the book of Job, you know how hard and difficult Job's life was. So for him that shadow of death always hung over. And there are kind of darker, more gloomy pictures that he draws. In our responsive reading, did you pick out the shadow of death? G do this. Yes, I did it, of course. Twice it was in there. And uh again talking about Israel time past, what God had done for them And then there was one, Jeremiah 2. 6, and let me read that for you. The prophet says, the Lord that brought us out of the land of Egypt, okay, a rehearsing of history, somewhat like the Psalms. That led us through the wilderness, through the land of deserts and of pits, through the land of drought, and of the shadow of death. Through a land that no man passed through. So he says, hey, you remember your history. God brought us through, and that wilderness, that wasn't a very pleasant place. He rehearses this for them, for them to understand that those 40 years lacked everything for life. Food and water and just everything except for what God gave them. If they were on their own, There was no that's why he says at the end, uh through a land that no man passed through. In other words, you can't live out there. You can't have that, except for Jehovah God bringing them through And so the shadow of death was always around them. And for the disobedient generation who's carcasses were left out in the wilderness, they never did pass through. It was only for those who were uh was under twenty and they lived through that wilderness journey. The Prophet says these things in order to rehearse it, and I think in our own minds, it's an important picture. I'd like to suggest to you this morning that although the picture is often alluded to, the Valley of the Shadow of Death, as as in, and I've read a a lot of A lot of texts where they talk about somebody's final days, you know, they're in their deathbed, and they talk to this is the valley of the shadow of death. I'd like to to suggest that it's far more than that. It's life itself. The valley of the shadow of death is is that which is our life. It's all about us. I recall not too long ago reading about those who were aboard the Mayflower. 102 passengers, 32 of children and little ones, 30 crew members. And this was not a vacation, loading up the minivan with the dog and the kids and and the mother-in-law and heading out to some place for an enjoyable time It was uh a time of great turmoil and difficulty for 66 days on their way to the Americas. Small, smelly places to live in, surviving with little food and little fresh water. And only a portion of the valley of the shadow of death as they were passing through this at this particular time. The weather as they finally arrived within the Americas was colder than they had expected. That first winter was devastating. Of the 45 who died by starvation, and others dying because of what they referred to as the great sickness, that first winter of 1620 and 21. The valley of the shadow of death continued. Not only upon that ship, but their life there. Can you imagine what that experience was like? Leaving your home and everything behind, with just a handful of your own personal possessions Never probably ever except for the seamen, but not sea for at anything. And to be on a ship for that long a time and to be out there in storms and such and and really going to a place that you have never been. Can you imagine the doubt or concerns or whatever that may have existed within their hearts and minds? Conditions on the ship, day-to-day life in general, to say nothing about your diet, your sanitary conditions, the illness that was so prevalent for so many. It's rough. And you're not just going to go down to the emergency room or the uh uh what care center or whatever, you know, and get taken care of. It's it's it's it The harshness of those things. Then, after the journey, arriving in a strange land, with few earthly goods, a harsh winter ahead. As an adult, what do you tell your children? Children's minds are often wandering as far as life is concerned, or what's taking place. Well, what do you tell them as they watch the people die? is they see what little food is there and they see the coldness. You have to build the buildings. Uh they stayed in a few that they had built for that first winter How do you express to them in the situation that was an ongoing situation? Recognizing that there was no boat of rescue, supplies coming? Relatives, none to meet you at the shore and saying, come on over, get a warm shower and a hot meal, lay down in this feathered bed, you'll be just just relax. That was a rough journey, but just relax. Nothing like that. Nothing like that. I point this out because we can't comprehend what life was like in sixteen twenty. Not in the least. You may have served in the military. You may have gone on vacation for a couple of weeks in a tent. You may have been inconvenienced through one of our wonderful storms that will come someday here. Don't worry Uh and it'll knock our electricity out for forty-eight hours. You know. But we always have a backup plan. We can always go someplace else. We can always do something different. For these, the value of the shadow of death walked with them. And as they stayed there, as they lived, as they watched the things that went on, What were they thinking? What would another day bring? What will I eat next week? Will I get sick and die like Moses Fletcher, Sarah Eaton, or four-year-old Mary Moore? We're not talking about 54 vaping deaths across the United States. We're talking about 45 people who died and you knew them. Because you were in a tiny ship for 66 days with them, and you spent that winter with them. Just think of yourselves in that type of situation, and you watched them die. And you wonder, when will this end? The valley of the shadow of death. It is really remarkable. Psalm 23, 4 begins, Ye though I walk through the valley of shadow of death. I think the experience in life is walking through the valley of the shadow of death. It's what those pilgrims experience. Obviously leaving England was important to them, for there was fear, persecution, and such, but it seemed like every step of the journey continued to go on. What is the valley of the shadow of death? What did David have in mind as he's speaking this, as he writes this down? Obviously as a shepherd, he saw valleys. And he as he watched his sheep, he knew the dangers that existed as he went in through these valleys with his flock. Commentator Adam Clark writes, walking through the most dismal valley in the dead of night, exposed to pitfalls, precipices, and devouring beasts. David understood all of those things and in his own shepherding aspects, but also in his own life. And you think of the valleys that he had gone through, being chased by Saul, being hunted down as a wild animal, through all of the struggles of life that he experienced? The valley, as you think about it, the higher the walls, the deeper the shadow is cast. uh some valleys that are narrow and then come up we there's a place that uh Millie and I have been up to up in New York and and uh the huge mountain creates a valley on one side here and although we're we're probably hour and a half into sunrise, the sun hasn't even peaked over the top You know, it it takes a while for that to reach up a and that valley is still cold and damp and and and foreboding because the sun hasn't peaked over the top of the edge yet Can life be like that? Can life be the valley of the shadow of death? The Christian church history is filled with an abundance of persecutions. Fox's Book of Martyrs, have any of you have ever pick picked that up to read it? Uh I'll recommend it. If you go online, you can read through the various levels. It goes starts in the Apostles and goes all the way back to the to the uh early part of the nineteenth century and it talks about persecution. It talks about how men and women and children were tortured and killed for being what we are or what we experience And I s merely say that because for for the valley of the shadow of death, for being a Christian, that has been part of life. And although we are recipients of tremendous blessings and not afraid that our doors will be busted down here and we'll be arrested, the reality of those things are ever before us. But the valley of the shadow of death doesn't necessarily have to be in a previous century or in a foreign land. It doesn't have to be distant. The value of the shadow of death can enter your life with a chest pain or a mammogram, an unusual skin lesion. A telephone call from the police or from the doctor or from a lawyer. The reality of the shadow of death can be found in the drunk driver as he crosses the highway into your lane. Or tornado, or an electric short in your furnace as you're sleeping that night. The value of the shadow of death, you just turn Well I would say open a newspaper, hardly any newspapers anymore, turn on the news. Go through uh news on your on your pad or on your phone or whatever and see each night The various things that occur. I have a little app on my phone that shows all of the police activity in the city of Philadelphia and it shows according to the color, according to what is and you tap on it. uh arrest uh uh gun showing a knifing uh you know all these other things. It doesn't have to be anything, but it's just part of life And it can be just having a child, having a s mom and dad, having a becoming a senior citizen, just whatever. It is the valley of the shadow of death that is all around us. And it could occur in those very darkening terms. It's an equal opportunity reality check for babies, for school children, for entire families, for senior citizens For Americans, for Filipinos, for Peruvians, for Iranians, for Iraqis, for Russians, for Egyptians, for South Africans. It doesn't limit. It's all around us. The valley casts its shadow at night. The valley casts its shadow in the day. It's life. And we're not exempt because it is life. And I think what David is trying to present here is to say that the valley is what we go through. And actually, that's what he presents here. David says, yea, though I walked through the valley of the shadow of death. I'm walking through. Be reminded here, he doesn't say it's a dead-end street. It's not some cul de sac that we're trapped in. But he says, I recognize that my life I'm walking through this valley. You see, but my own experience, that kind of makes me a little bit afraid. I'm a little concerned about that. What if can it ever happen? What about tomorrow or next year or five years from now? Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil for what? Thou art with me, because in life I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, because all that is around us, as human beings, as children of Adam. Of being in this corrupted, sin-cursed world, we live in the shadow of death. At least as far as this body is concerned, you know. of all that it takes place. Had the had the uh doctor visit with the dermatologist this past week and got a clean bill of health, you know. I says, Doc What are all these, you know, my skin turns and he says, you're getting old, that's what's happening. Your body's changing. I was like, you know. It happens The value of the shadow of death. And the older we get, sometimes those mountains go up, and you say, So, but I can walk through it, as David says, because you were with me. Because you're with me. And please don't be offended if you've done this before, but I kind of wonder people say, they sometimes will go to prayer and say, Lord be with us. Where is He? If he's not with his children, where is he? The prophet says, you know, to the to the prophets of Baal, call on him a little bit louder. Maybe he's sleeping, maybe he's on vacation or whatever, you know. And when he turns to the Lord, you know, boom, the the the altar and the sacrifice and all the water is too consumed. He doesn't leave us He doesn't wander. He doesn't distance himself from his children. Because thou art with me. As a boy, we moved from the city of Buffalo out probably um half hour's ride out into the country. And my dad built a house and we had uh uh two bedrooms up in the in the peak and mine was up there. Mom and dad slept downstairs and they were just open fields all around. And when thunderstorms came by as a little guy I was not really too excited about those, you know. It shook me to my core, you know. I hated the thunder. I I love it now, you know. I can watch it and enjoy it, but as a little guy Uh it just frightened me to pieces. But I loved it when I heard the footsteps coming up the stairs and mom or dad coming in and saying, Are you okay? How you doing? And they would sit with me, talk with me, and quiet me down. What a picture of what God is to us And the access we have as we face various valleys, various thunderstorms, things that we'd be afraid of naturally, because that's who we are. We're weak. We're afraid. We're concerned about all that goes on around us. Yes, death may be a portion of our journey through this valley, but it's not the end. Death is a door opening to eternity in our delight with God. What a joy and a privilege it is. Let me read to you our scripture reading, and again think about what Zechariah he's talking about his son and about that which is to come. And thou child, John. Shall be called a prophet of the highest, for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. Remember, John's going to be the one to do that, prepare the way for the Lord To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of sins. Brandu offered. through the tender mercy of our God, in other words, not giving me what I deserve, whereby the day spring, the dawn from on high, visited us, the day spring. You ever see that? Black in the night, the skies are clear, and then all of a sudden that sun comes up, it just peaks up the day spring, brand new and fresh. You see, the day is upon us. And you think of the darkness of the world that is there, the valley of the shadow of death. And the day spring arises and it lightens that darkness. Of everything that is fearful and darkening of the world, of the illness, of the hate, of the sin that just destroys all that we love and and come to know. The day spring comes upon us. From on high it hath visited us to what? To give light To them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet in the way of peace. Not a flashlight, but he says the mercy of God brings salvation to bring light to these dark souls. We wonder sometimes as we hear the news and we see this and we see this. He said, how could those people do that? You know? How could that have taken place? Why would they have done that? You know, all this kind of just makes you crazy and sometimes. some of these programs they just delight in presenting them again and again, you know. Why? And he says to that darkness He says light is brought into it. And it helps me understand why they do it, because it's their heart. A heart change changes it all. You can take all of the guns away from them, but then they're going to use their knives. You take all the knives away from them, then they're going to use a hammer or a baseball bat or a stone. Take all of those things. You can't. It's got to begin within the heart And so Zachariah says, you, son, are going to bring an announcement of one who is coming, the day's bring, a light into this world. And he's going to bring light to them that sit in darkness and the shadow of death to guide our feet in the way of peace. The first ten months at Plymouth, they had erected seven houses, a common meeting building, three storehouses for food and clothing and supplies. After going through all of that, that that valley trip and and uh the struggles with on the ship and meeting in that land Let me read to you a piece of Governor Bradford's Thanksgiving Message in 1621 They began now to gather in small harvests they had, and to fit their houses and dwelling against winter being all well recovered in health and strength, and had all things in good plenty, for some were thus employed in affairs abroad, others were exercised in fishing, about cod and bass and other fish, of which they took good store of which every family had their portion. All summer there was no want, and now began to come in some store foul as winter approached of which this did abound when they came first, and afterward decreased by degrees. And besides waterfowl, there was great store of wild turkeys of which they took s took many, besides venison and so forth. Besides they had about a peck of meal, a week per person, And now since harvest Indian corn to proportion. Now listen to this. And thus they found the Lord to be with them in all their ways and to bless their goings out and comings in. By that which was evident by the light of the gospel of truth, they were going through this valley and they could see that God had brought them through. Sometimes the valleys, we kind of say, I'm ready to get out of this particular one, you know? I'm weary of it, I'm tired of it. But as they had gotten through, he says, because of that which God had blessed them, they found the Lord to be with them. He'd always been with them. He was always there. But the evidence, it took a while, but the evidence came out that that was there. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, walking through, I will fear no evil. Evil is present. Evil is present in all ways, because we are, by our very nature, that. I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. One man said, nothing stimulates our faith more than looking back and seeing God's faithfulness to us. Nothing stimulates the fact of going through the valley of going through life than looking back and seeing how good God has been. It's not wrong to rehearse that. We could say, well, I got a lot of these things, you know, but you say, well, yeah, but I've got a lot of this, you know It's it's of s of grave importance to see that. To see how kind and how gracious and how merciful that he has been. And although I don't have what I think I want, he says, you have what I know that you need. Remember? uh because you're with me, uh I'm not going to be in need. Well, I'd like some of this, you know. I'd like the ravens to sorry. I didn't mean that. I'd like this and that, but it doesn't happen all the time. But he says after we've gone through it, Wow, you've been good. You provided, O Lord. Over and over again, he does that. In all of our spiritual and mentally and physical, emotional valleys of adversities, our hearts can be calm because we know that He is with us. The Valley does sometimes become a mind game. Sometimes it is a heart game. Sometimes it's physical. Each of us have have gone through those particular ones. I mean if we take it all as a valley, but sometimes the walls are a lot higher and and I'm particularly punched by this or that But we take heart to know that He is with us. And only the Christian can express this with confidence, a testimony to others who are struggling in the valley experience. So you go through this valley of the shadow of death, and if we'll presume it to be life itself, you know everybody else out there is going through that same thing. But you have what they don't. You have a confidence that the one who has created you and allowed you, given you permission to walk through this valley, they don't know that. And what a joy it is for them to come to you and say, what's the difference? Why are you calm when you should be going off the wall? Why are you joyous when there should be tears? Why are you like this when I am going through this? What a door of opportunity, what a privilege to say, you know, I didn't deserve this, but God not only redeemed me, made me his own provided for me, but he's taking me through this valley, through this time of my life, and it has brought me great joy It brought me great comfort to know that he is there. And only the Christian can do that. And I guess the basic question is whether or not, or how many of these valleys we go through but how do we react to them and how do I handle the can calamities? If life is valley experience. It doesn't mean, am I in it now? Am I going to get through it? No, we all will. But how do I react when I'm in it? What do I do? How do I experience this? Do I find that his word has granted me? Do I find the fellowship of the saints as being sweet? Do I find the privilege of coming to him upon my knees at any time of the night or day, knowing he says, he does hear me? He hears his shepherd. I will not leave you. I won't forsake you. You are my shepherd. You are there with me. And that he can not only do deal with the situation, he has the power, but he delights in the fact that his child is coming to him saying, Lord, I need you to help me through this. is how I react in these particular situations. With Christ I can calmly face them With His gracious Spirit to guide me, I can face them without fear, because He is with me. We are we are people of verbiage and we often find that we respond with words, yeah the Lord's with me. But in reality my heart often goes off the wall again. What does that mean? Does it mean that I won't suffer? No. It doesn't mean I won't I'll go through life without pain, without tears, without observing hate and hatred and pain and no, it doesn't mean that. But it does mean that he is with me the comfort of the spirit, the one who walks beside is there. Yesterday I had one of the signs of spring, and I know there was only in a a slight indication of 65 degrees. But we had the people walking down our street, two ladies on the other side, two men on my side. Hello, sir. Let me ask you Do you know what the times are that we're living in? Can we show you a passage from the book of Revelation? What do you know? I says, what are you guys here for? Which I knew, you know. Uh and and and the further we talked, the less hope they had, the less help they could offer. I says, I'm redeemed by the blood of Christ, and I am of assurance of eternity. Yeah, but we have people around here who don't read their Bibles, and apparently you do, but I said, well, yeah, that's true. But This is the way it is, which they don't have. That's what we live in. That's the valleys that we face in. Those are the things that were there. David gives with tremendous assurance, yea, in other words, for sure, I do walk through the valley of the shadow of death. And some of David's experiences were really gut-wrenching. I will fear no evil, even though the evil was surrounding him, because his shepherd was with him If you are in Christ, He is with you. Never to leave you, never to abandon you, to walk you through this. And one day, we're going to open our eyes and we'll be in glory. And what a joy, what a tremendous blessing, what an ease. But until that time, we walk with great confidence and comfort in him. Shall we pray? Father, for just a brief moment, we ask you to seal our hearts with the picture of our Lord Jesus Christ and all that He has done for us as our great shepherd. We hear his voice and we follow him. He has not abandoned us to some other who would not care. He leads us to green pastures. He leads us beside the still waters. He allows us to rest and have our souls r recovered from the struggles of life and even from the uh uh the the the pains that we go through. And he walks us through this valley. And we can see him, we can hear his words, and we can respond to them Thank you, Father, for your presence. Thank you for your guiding spirit. Thank you for the love that you shine upon us through individuals and through life itself. Lord, cause us not to be selfish, not to be greedy about this, but may we respond to those who are in evident darkness around us. with a love that can bring the light of the redemption of Jesus Christ, the day spring, the day star, the one who that shines truth into their dark souls, and we'll give you the praise and the glory because you will do it through your weakened vessels. In Jesus' name, amen.