Again, no surprise. Let's turn in our Bibles to Second Timothy chapter two. It almost opens up naturally, doesn't it? Almost. Maybe. Second Timothy two. And my reading this morning for a scripture is verses fourteen through eighteen. Again, the apostle continuing on his charge to young Timothy. Verse 14, of these things, put them in remembrance. Charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers. Study to show thyself approved unto God a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. But shun profane and vain babblings for they will increase unto more ungodliness. And their word will eat as doth a canker, of whom is hymenious and phalitus. Who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already, and overthrow the faith of some. Stop here at our reading and pray God bless these words to our hearts. Let's pray. Father, we're thankful the privilege that we as your children have to approach your throne. Nothing in us is worthy that we may have such an audience save in our Savior Jesus Christ. So as our great high priest stands for us. We humbly approach you, Father, to grant us access to these truths that your word has given unto To Paul, to Timothy, and to those who followed in his step. May they provide us with spiritual nourishment even this day. Asking Lord that you'll keep our hearts focused on your word, that we might profit thereby and give you the praise in Christ. Well, I'm not sure how long we were inundated with political ads in all forms of media, but as far as I'm concerned, it was far too long. I wearied at the repetition of words, wearing me down, but more so I wearied at the content. The words that were painful, the words that were hard to hear, the verbiage, the words. Remember that children's rhyme, sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me. Not true, is it? It doesn't quite go that way. Not very accurate. I would almost guarantee that in your lifetime you've experienced pain from words. He did exchanges from one to another. within the family, co-workers, even folks who really didn't even know. And especially painful and difficult were the exchange of words within the context of a church. I remember our time in the Philippines. I recall when some members of a local congregation related related to Millie and I an instance when they said goodbye to a an American missionary who had been working there for years and he was on his way back to the States. They expected a sermon of of encouragement and and positivity. uh and what they got was a chewing out and a blasting. And they said, we recall that scolding and it hurt. And it was an incident that was hard for them to forget, even years later. They were just words. But there is no s such thing as just words, are there? Words. We toss them around. Please look in your scripture, as I know you've got your Bibles open to 2 Timothy 2. And we're going to look at these words, beginning at verse 14. Again, the apostle says, Of these things, put them in remembrance, charging them before the Lord, that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers. We're going to break up this particular verse in sections to help us in our study. But let me begin by saying when it comes to your own personal time, in God's Word, take time to assess what you're reading. Sometimes we get to a passage if you have devotions or when it's in you I've heard that before and we can read through very nicely Um we can pass over skimming the words, and yet the prophet is totally missed. What these words are are just not words as we would a textbook or trying to glean something from a novel or a history book, you know, picking out pieces. Every word has been given by God for our prophet. And so as we sit and read, sometimes we have to just go down into a low gear and go through it. Because it's all there for us. They are not just words. Take time to break it up the verse if it is needed. And ask yourself what these words are saying. For example, the verse 14 begins, of these things. And you have to ask yourself, what things? You know? You can go by it and say, well, okay, you have these things, you know, and you know let's look for something more exciting, something that you know speaks to my heart. But these words are here. What things? What's Paul referring to Well, the things that he taught Timothy, right? Obviously, the things that were all the way from the beginning of the book, but in specifics from verse 3 of this chapter on. Uh remember the metaphors we talked about? Metaphors. Oh yeah, there was that message about that. Remember? The soldier, the the the farmer, and then the uh the athlete Those were metaphors that Paul gave to Timothy to give on to others. Then they talked about the death of Christ, his resurrection, real important things. So he says These things, these things, he says, I want you to do what? Of these things, put them in remembrance, or more literally, keep reminding them The necessity of bringing things up again and again. Let me just say here: don't ever be discouraged or be tired of the repetition of truth. Pastor, you've talked about that again. You know? You've talked about that doctrine. We've gone through that again. Don't ever look upon the passage, especially the truth from God's Word, and say, oh, we've all I've already known that. That's easy. But the repetition of truth is profitable because it was necessary for Paul to bring it up to Timothy's attention, it's necessary for us to grow thereby. The valuable, the weighty words of the Bible. And so far this epistle Paul mentions remembering to Timothy a number of times. He says, Timothy, remember these things. These are important in your life and they are important for us. And I don't ever think Timothy came around and said, Paul, you've already talked about this. I know this And so for us it's necessary. I think we have a tendency to forget sometimes if it's not repeated and repeated again. Those of you who like in cooking come across a certain recipe and you've got that recipe down and you don't have to go back to the book. I know it. I've done this many times, and everybody likes it the way that I make it. And so these particular ingredients go into it, and I don't have to look. I just know it So when it comes to God's Word, the great doctrines of the faith, the very practical day-to-day aspects of it. The more we read it, the more we go over it, the more we use it, the more it becomes a part of us. Easy to pick up and say, you know, God's Word has something to say about this particular issue or this situation or this person or this need. And if it's not brought up again, and again, I I I have to go back to the cookbook and I have to start looking it up again That's why the repetition of God's word, sometimes fresh, sometimes new, other times things that are repeated. And when we do that, these words become a blessing to ourselves. They become a blessing to others. And it's not the discouragement, but it is an encouragement. So what does he say? Of these things, put them in remembrance. Now I have to ask, as I'm looking at that, who is Timothy to remind? Who is he just you you have to put them in remembrance of these people? Well, if you went back to verse 2 and he says And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men So Timothy, those pastors or men who are capable leaders and who will pass on to further generations, he says, I want you to put those things in their remembrance. Bring it up before their hearts that they might know. Keep reminding of that, of the things that thou hast put them in remembrance. And then he says, charging them before the Lord, that they strive not about words of no prophet, but to the subverting of the hearers. Break this part up again. Here's when Paul takes up his laptop and he pushes the button at his bold print underline He says, here Timothy, charging them before the Lord that they strive not, charging them before the Lord. He says, Timothy, you make sure they understand that God is their witness to this. They're not doing it on their own. There is God is in the audience of this particular thing That they are serving the Lord God. It's just not a casual occurrence, a casual piece of ministry. But he says, keep them before this idea that they are serving the Lord God In what is the particular that he's talking about? Striving not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of hearers. He says, don't be wasting time arguing, fighting, striving over worthless word battles. Just throwing words around worthless things to argue about that really have nothing at all to do with anything. Because the result is what? Those who are hearing, not the people within the word battles, but those who are sitting on the periphery, he says they become subverted. Greek word for this is catastrophe. We throw our emphasis a little bit differently. It's catastrophe In other words, people sitting out and they're listening to these battles that are going on within the church that really have nothing to do about anything, empty word battles, and he says the casualties are those who are on the outside. uh catastrophe, uh tipping over like a boat on the waves and it's being tossed into back and forth. I ask myself, what's going on here that something within this Ephesian church or churches, believers in this area, what's taking place within their lives? I want you to listen. I want to read from the letter that Paul first wrote to Timothy, 1 Timothy 6. And he gives us an idea of the character of the people within the church. Why is he talking about word battles? Why is he talking about these issues? He says, if any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, Even the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine that it is according to godliness He is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil summarizings, perverse disputings, men of corrupt minds, destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness from such withdrawal. A lot of words I threw out there. But what Paul was telling him in this first letter, he said, there's some men in the church who all of a sudden they don't hold to the wholesome words, the sound words of the Bible. They don't hold to the words of Jesus Christ. Even the words of Christ himself, they're not holding to that. But instead, they have their own thoughts, their own principles. And I guess we would call them false teachers. There are false teachers within the church that were leading people astray. And Paul says, of these who don't even come in accord with Jesus' teaching, he says, get away from them. Get away from them. Don't sit there and argue with them, but just get away from them. Keep away from these people. I think the problem, though, that Paul saw that he wrote about in 1 Timothy apparently continued, that they didn't deal with these men, that false teaching remained within the church. And as false teaching remained, Paul comes back and he says, I've got to speak to you a little bit stronger, Timothy. These men really don't hold to the gospel. And you're allowing them to be within the group and sit there and argue back and forth, and the casualties, they're all around. The spiritual casualties are everywhere. You know, it's not a bad thing for people to understand what correct doctrine and good teaching is. And I think we always expect that out of church leadership. Paul tells Timothy, make sure those men who are your training, and you yourself, Timothy, know what's good and right, what's good sound teaching, what's right and profitable. And we expect church leadership to do that. But I propose today that I think all believers ought to strive for those very same things in their own heart and in their own life. Very memorable passage describing the church in Acts 17, the Bereans. It says that they received the word with all readiness of mind. and search the scriptures daily whether those things were so. False teachers didn't have a leg to stand on in the Borean church He said, they listen to him, readiness of mind, tell me what you're teaching. But then they open up their Bibles and they say, that's not according to what God's Word says. I think every believer ought to hold to that principle. I think that there's a truth that pilgrims ought to be able to say is that, we'll listen. But I'm not going to accept it simply because you said it. I want to find it in God's Word. I want to see these truths that are there. I'm going to search the scriptures to see whether those things are true. And when we do that We are able to say, I'm just not a follower of this person, or I like what he teaches, or I like those things, but he says, this is God's word, and it's something that I need to follow and feed from on a regular basis. Takes us then to verse 15. He says, Study to show thyselves approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Study. It's not the word that we would almost think of studying. A Greek understanding of this word means you're putting in a great effort to do something uh literally it means to uh to work upon, give a heavy effort to, uh striving your utmost diligence to it. Uh I remember with our boys uh going up through school. And they said, boy, you you better study because you have an exam tomorrow. And and therefore they gave their utmost diligence to do it So here he tells Timothy to give your utmost, your your diligence to do what? What does he say? Study to what? Show yourself approved unto God. The whole principle of life in the believer's walk Is that there's an approval before God? Obviously the man of God, the pastor, the teacher of the word, is there But this is for all. Dr. R. A. Tory once said, the first task of biblical interpretation and exposition, in other words, good preaching, is that the pastor be right with God first. That his heart is right with the Lord first. How can he approach God's people with God's word if his heart isn't right with the Lord at all? And again, that's not a bad thought for every child of God. I think any time we approach the Word of God, whether it's in our private devotions or in a corporate gathering, we ought to seek to see that our hearts are right. Am I right to come before this word, come before the living word, come before these truths that God has provided me, and that I may learn from it, is my heart right? Which means coming before the Word, if there's sin in my life, there's sin that's keeping me, keeping the Spirit of God from being my teacher, I've got to confess it. I have to be able to say, Lord, help me beforehand to get rid of the distractions, all of the things that that all of a sudden kind of just flow in my mind. Thankfully in this particular building the the the the smells from the kitchen don't waft up inside. If you go in the vestibule back there, you can do that. But you know we can be talking about God's word and then you smell some Some meatballs or some Stroganoff, you know, and all of a sudden your mind starts to go. Or the events of the past week, or the things that you've got coming In those truths that God's Word has to propose before our own hearts, my mind starts to go, I'm worried about a doctor's appointment. How am I going to pay that bill? What's going to happen here or there? Lord, put a hedge about it that I might be able to handle that. Beforehand, do what's necessary so you can confidently approach Him through the Word and by His Spirit with your whole heart's attention. And I think that begins for the most part even Saturday, Saturday night. You know, how do I approach Sunday, the Lord's Day, when I'm out till one or two o'clock Not that I really see most any of you out till one or two o'clock, but the principle is there. How do I have uh how do I have myself prepared physically, uh enough sleep, uh making myself ready, say, Lord, prepare me for for the next day That I do that ahead of time, not that I just come in the church and all of a sudden sit down and expect to be fed and nourished. For the preacher, his approval before God comes for the fact that he is a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. Because he does what? He says he rightly divides the word. He says he rightly dividing the word of truth, rightly dividing is like to cut it straight. In this particular time the the the stonemason would go out to the quarry and and he'd use his chisel and he'd use his hammer to cut into that stone a straight cut so when he's finished He has a block that is exactly the way it's to fit. Or the uh like Paul himself, uh tent maker. Paul could go and cut a piece of leather in order to fit for a particular tent The farmer behind this plow and he plows a furrow that it's nice and straight that it ought to be. So when it comes to the Word of God that we handle it properly. That we handle it as it's supposed to be, just not using a passage to throw it out in order to tickle the ears of people Our world is full of spiritual charlatans, men and women, taking positions of leadership and responsibility to lead the flock. And all along all they've done is fleece the flock. Robbed them of their money and their spiritual anch anchor, which was no anchor at all. It was something that they've found drifting in as a deplorable situation. Like those they read about in 1 Timothy 6, false teachers who would not even hold the words of the Lord Jesus Christ and the doctrines which are according to godliness. Today, entire denominations reject the things that we hold true and dear. The sanctity of marriage with one man and one woman, the sanctity of life The bodily resurrection of the Lord Jesus, his virgin birth, the infallibility of the Word of God, its inerrancy. Those things, no, we those are just those we spiritualize them away. Clergy having no idea what constitutes a makeup of a man or a woman The reality of an eternity in hell, the fact that they will one day have to stand in his presence and give an account to a holy God for themselves, ultimately. being ashamed is that they were not able to handle the word rightly, divide it rightly. They were swayed by their own flesh. Look back in our text, again in verse 16. But shun profane and vain babblings. For they will increase unto more ungodliness. And their word will eat as doth a canker or cancer. Of whom Hamenius and Philetus, who concerning the truth, have erred, saying that the resurrection is passed already, and overthrown the faith of some. Expositor's commentary translates verse 16 this way. He says, avoid godless chatter. Because those who indulge in it, godless chatter, it will become more and more ungodly. Not only those who engage in it, but the but the worthless speech, the cancerous speech that goes on and it builds and it builds and it builds and it builds. There's a place that we have placed within our hearts for God's word. And he says, avoid those things that are out there. Then he gives this example of these two, Hermenius and Philetus, and they said the resurrection is already passed. How do you think that made believers feel? Totally shipwrecked, tragic consequences. How horrible. Handling the word with preciousness. I want to remind you of our message last Lord's Day, the admonition to re-evaluate our relationship with the Word of God as it stands before us. We talked about how Paul confirmed to Timothy the fact that the Word of God could not be bound, even though Paul sat in prison bound. We also took that truth that God's word cannot be bound and applied it to the Protestant Reformation. And saw how it brought great freedom within the hearts and lives of the people, evidenced The Bible being put into the hands of the people, translated into various translations of the people who lived around in those days. Fast as they could roll them off the printing press, they were snatched up And I'd say a hasty look at church history and world history, you kind of conclude that probably things were all of a sudden turned great. Those 95 theses of Luther sparked the zeal to proclaim a true gospel of salvation by faith alone. Not by the works of the Roman Catholic Church, not by the obedience to the seven sacraments, a zeal that translated Old and New Testament and other Christian literature into the nations of of the Netherlands and France and Germany and Switzerland and England and other European countries. And I think with all that said, we could assume that at that time we could look at that corner of history and say, uh, there's victory. The battle's over. Good has finally triumphed over evil. But that was hardly the case. The fight wasn't over. Actually, this was just the beginning of one battle as you look at the history of the world To look at it one way, there was actual fighting. There was a series of 130 years of war between the Catholics and the Protestants. um fighting with soldiers and horsemen and spears and swords. The wars finally came to an end in 1648 with the Treaty of Westphalia although conflicts continued on smaller in a sense. However, a much greater battle existed. One that was not planned on military maps of strategy to move troops around to conquer this land and these peoples But it occurred within the homes and communities, the villages and cities, for as powerful as it was to get the Bibles translated into the hands of the people, get the Word of God into the people. It did nothing unless the people read and used those Bibles. It provided them no profit whatsoever. One of the great pillars of the Reformation, sola scriptura. The scriptures are the only infallible source of saving knowledge and true wisdom. That's where you and I are today. We're recipients of those things. Yet I ask again, what's your relationship to the book? Are they just words to you? Are they simply phrases that we're familiar with? Or do these words have meaning and truth? Do these words have impact in your life that you search them out and have found them to be pillars and strengthening stones to use in the life that we live? Or are they simply in a folder attached religion in your heart and mind? Whatever took place within Paul's interchange with Timothy here, he was laying before those men through Timothy. and on through us, that the word of God is powerful. Later on he will get into that particular passage And if they didn't apply it, and there are cases where they didn't, the church went astray. And it goes on to today with all of the evidence of those who do not rightly divide the word of truth led astray by false teachings and false teachers. And so they in essence have failed as to what Paul lays down here, and they have failed within the premise of what the Reformation laid out. And we fail unless we actively provide ourselves with a source of spiritual nourishment regularly from God's Word. What happens to it if we don't? I'd like to just read a story for you here. True story of Captain James E. Ray, United States Air Force. And he learned how important that word was as he spent time in the Hanoi Hilton In his memoirs, The Secret of Our Survival, a former Vietnam POW story of faith, he recounts the clandestine conversion, but he had other prisoners within his cell. One day he was asked, Do you know any Bible verses? Well, the Lord's Prayer, I answered. Everybody knows that. How about the 23rd Psalm? Only a little. He says, I began whispering it. He'd repeat each line after me. A little later he whispered the entire psalm back to me. Other prisoners joined in, sharing verses they knew. Through these contacts, a fellowship grew among us. I didn't feel very alone anymore. Our common denominators were the Bible and Jesus Christ, and we were able to share and write down a great deal of scripture. For by now it had become vital to our daily existence, only wrecked by dysentery, weakened by the diet of rice and thin cabbage and pumpkin soup. Our physical bodies had shrunk within the prison walls. We spent 20 hours a day locked in our cells. And those Bible verses became rays of light, constant assurances of his love and care. Since the guards forbade communication between prisoners, they found creative ways of sharing the verses with each other. The urge to share these verses with others developed incentives. One night I lay with my ear pressed against the rough wooden wall of my cell to hear thump. Thumpity thump thump. If someone on the wall sells away a fellow POW tapped out in Morris Code I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. He tapped out his name, Rusty Templar. And passed it on seven other verses in that psalm, which I scratched out on the concrete floor with a piece of broken tile. My help cometh from the Lord The psalm assured me. And with that assurance came his presence, soothing us, telling us not to fear. From that we learned a most important lesson. Bible verses on paper aren't one iota as useful as scripture burned into your mind and heart where you can draw on them for guidance and comfort. Remember we talked about feeding from it regularly as it is important. By the end of several months, Captain Ray and his fellow prisoners were able to memorize collectively the Sermon on the Mount, Romans 12, 1 Corinthians 13, and many of the Psalms. He said, now we had our own living Bible walking around in the room. God forbid that something happens and not all our Bibles are collected. You know. Could we how much could we collectively sit together and put for memory, God's word. Not because it's just words that go around our mind, because that's just how the world looks at those words Because it is God's word. And it affects our hearts and minds, our lives. We can, it's just it's just not just not uh Fancy talk, he says that they were encouraged and and and found hope and such in the words like you know some poetry or whatever. It's God's word. And for us to be able to go on day after day, we have to be able to find those things, allow the Spirit of God to take what we read and what we study Rightly dividing it, not just taking and putting it to some use because it sounds good and it fits in my situation, but as it's supposed to mean and allowing that word to attach to my heart. And direct me as God's Spirit directs me. And then I look back and say, wow, let me go to the next level. You know, let me take the next step. That cookbook. I don't need it because I've walked through it, I've done the recipe many, many times, and there'll be verses, and you've got some of them already. You've experienced some of those verses in life. Boy, that verse has been great to me. That's an encouragement to me. Or that one really stopped the enemy there, you know. You've got some of them. But there's scabs of them. Learning about the character and the personality of Jesus Christ. How we interacted horizontally between people How our Heavenly Father has granted us access to Him, a holy God, through Christ. The word talks about that We have no need to fear death. But we're here for a brief pause, and then one day we're in glory. So all of those things are there, but they are a bound book if I don't feed upon it, and if I don't prepare myself before I feed upon it. The necessity of the the whole process. Getting together on on on Sunday morning, reading the scripture and having a message. That's great collectively. But it means nothing if all of a sudden we have a benediction and it's like the guy comes up, you know, you're all hypnotized, you know. And the minute you hear the benediction, you will forget everything that you heard, you know? What was that all about? You know? The seed sown and then it goes out and the birds come along and they snatch it up and it's gone. It's got to find deep root in good soil in order for it to produce fruit, some 30, some 60, some hundredfold. And you'll know the difference. You've experienced it already in some ways. But the fruit that it produces will continue to produce throughout your life, and it will benefit those around you. Why is he not afraid? Why are they so confident? Why are they so happy? Because of what God has done in our life not only redeeming us, but giving us the principles of the truth of his word, feeding from it. This is what Paul in in his Locked up, cold, dank jail cell, tells Timothy, Timothy, my time's done. I've walked this, I've tasted it, it's real. Timothy, you take the same thing, pass it on to those others, that they too will understand. Avoid those other people, you know. Don't let them don't just sit around and word battle for them. You've got you've got real truth. Stay with that and walk with it. And it'll make a difference in your life and the difference of the life of those Ephesians. And it makes a difference in our life too, doesn't it? It truly does. Let's pray. Father, we'll uh pause as we close up this portion of our service and your word. And we're thankful that something written so long ago has powerful truth for us today. And it's not because it's magical, not because it's mystical, but because it is the Word of God. And how many have given their life in order to have it written and translated and preserved in order that we can study it and feed from it, and let it be a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. May Father it find a deep root in our hearts, not just what we share here today, but throughout the week, throughout our life. that the fruit will bring forth an abundance of harvest to your glory in Christ's name. Amen.