To be back with you again this morning. And we are continuing in our study of Revelation. And you know we had a good discussion in Sunday school this morning about God and Caesar, and that's a big question today with all the things going on with the government. And uh with the government assuming all their new powers today with the COVID emergency. Well the thing is, is that in my Newspaper that I put it out to Brazil just a week or two ago. I put as my covered article, God, not Caesar, is the head of the church. And that's something we need to remember. And that Caesar doesn't have the right to govern in the church. And we were talking to somebody yesterday and they told us, well, you know, that's the law, that's what the government tells us. Well, you know, the government doesn't have any right to be telling us things in the church. That's not their sphere of authority. Let's go to our Bibles to Revelation chapter 16 Revelation chapter 16. We read the responsive reading there. And we are continuing through the tribulation period. We're coming to the end of the tribulation period in 16. This is the very end here. We've had the seven seal judgments. We've had the seven trumpet judgments. And you know, we can see things. winding down in the world around us, winding down toward the end. And people have said to me, well, you know, things have been bad before four and you know things uh you know you really can't tell that things are winding down. Uh well I think you can somewhat and you know you gotta be careful about saying things like that Because in Peter it says, scoffers say things have continued on as they have since the beginning of the world, and there's not going to be any end of the world and all that We have to be ready for the imminent return of Christ. And that's what's talking about in our passage here in Revelation sixteen today And so here we have the end of the tribulation period. We've had the seven seals, we've had the seven trumpets, and now we're going to have the seven vials, where the concentrated judgment of God falls upon the earth in these vials. It's concentrated. It's very concentrated, the wrath of God. We have that in verse 1. I heard a voice out of the temple. Saying to the seven angels, Go your ways and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth. And these things are really going to happen in the not too distant future. The wrath of God upon the earth. Of course, we don't know. It might be a couple hundred years yet. We don't know. But we can see things winding down. And it might be tomorrow. And then verse two and the first ain't first went and poured out his vial upon the earth. And there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which Had the mark of the beasts and upon them which worshipped his image. Now we're going to see with these vials that they parallel the plagues upon Egypt. Remember Moses and the plagues upon Egypt. All these things happen in Egypt. And here the first plague, the first vial here is sores upon men. Well, sores. Just like the plague in Egypt of boils upon the people. Were those literal boils that they had in Egypt? Yeah, they definitely were literal boils, literal judgments that fell down upon the earth, just a little bit of what we have here in Revelation. In Revelation, there is much bigger All over the face of the earth, not just in Egypt, but they're the same type of judgments, the literal judgments. And people like to spiritualize the book of Revelation. They like to say, oh, well, these are just pictures of judgment, and you know, you can't take them literally, you've got to take them spiritually. But that's not what we do with Moses. And the plagues in Egypt, and that's what we shouldn't do here. We should take them literally. And so there are sores that come down upon the people. So here the people are directly judged And especially all those that have the mark of the beast. So they got the mark of the beast so that they could buy and sell and live, but they also are going to suffer because they got the mark of the beast. Then we have verse 3. We have the second angel. He pours out his vial upon the sea, and it became as the blood of a dead man. Well, what did you have in Egypt? Same thing. We had the Nile and the waters of Egypt became blood, and that's what we have here. We have the second vial. All the sea becomes blood. This is a huge miracle here. You talk about the oceans. And, you know, I don't know what it is, three-fourths or two-thirds of the world is ocean. And that's a huge amount there. And then it says that every creature which is in the sea died And there's a lot of creatures in the sea. They don't even, they haven't even discovered some of the creatures that are in the sea yet. They're still discovering them. And so this was a huge judgment that God sent down upon the earth. See, God's wrapping things up. And remember, we had our scripture reading at the beginning here, our call to worship, and it was that all things are under Christ's feet, but not yet. That's what it says there in Hebrews. And so here in Revelation has come the time when everything will be completely put under Christ's feet. And, you know, the post-millennialist, he says that everything's under Christ's feet, and we can subdue the earth right now and make it all Christian. Well, that's not true because it just says, not yet. Not yet is everything under his feet. And all these huge judgments have to happen first before everything is under his feet And so then we have the third angel, verse 4. He pours out his vial upon the rivers and the fountains of water. So we had the salt, water became blood. And now we have the fresh water becomes blood, just like in Egypt. Remember in Egypt they had to dig down and get their water? It was all blood trying to find water to drink. And it's going to be the same thing here at the time of the end, exactly the same. As in Egypt. But here is an interesting commentary given here. The angel of the waters says, verse 5, I guess that's the angel that pours out his vial there. He says, Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art and wast and shall be, for thou hast judged us. Verse 6: For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink, for they are worthy. That's interesting. They are worthy to drink blood. They deserve to drink blood because they've shed the blood of saints and prophets. Especially always the prophets, because the prophets always told them what they didn't want to hear. And so they have shed all of this blood, and God gives them blood to drink. They are worthy. A fitting judgment upon them. And you know, that's very often what God does. He sends fitting judgments upon people And uh and that's what we have. We see AIDS, a fitting judgment upon homosexualism. Of course, now is spread beyond that sum. But here they are worthy. Usually you think of that language as worthy of great reward, worthy of being blessed, but here it is worthy of being punished. Worthy of God's judgment. And you know, all these things are not very nice to read, not very nice to study about, just like as we had earlier in the book of Revelation. It was sweet in the mouth, but bitter in the belly. It's sweet that God's going to take control and he's going to judge sin, but it's kind of fearsome all these things that are going to happen and terrible to think of. They are worthy to drink blood. And we're going to look a little later about what Christians are worthy of. But anyway, true and righteous are thy judgments. And then verse 8, we come to the fourth angel, the fourth vial. He pours out his vial upon the sun. And the sun gets really hot and scorches people. And what is the reaction of people when they're scorched by the sun? Do they come to God and realize their sin? No. They blaspheme God. They blaspheme the name of God, verse 9 there. And they repented not to give him glory. They blaspheme and repent not. It's interesting here. They blaspheme God. Evidently, it seems that they have some idea that God has something to do with what's going on. They get that idea. And uh they should get that idea. You know, today people should get the idea that uh that God is trying to say something through disease, even through this Chinese flu that we have And you know, this is the latest variety of the flu, but it is a little worse than the usual variety of the flu. And God is speaking a little bit through that. And but nobody listens to them. They don't repent. They blaspheme God and just find it as an opportunity to bring their plans to pass and oppress the people So here we have, they repent not to give him glory. Then verse 10. We'll go on here. The fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast. What is the seed of the beast? Well, that's his headquarters. His headquarters. I've just been reading about the Civil War recently. And uh the uh thing is there was this general Pope of the Union Army and he bragged that his headquarters was in his saddle and when he was in the saddle of his horse and that he was on the move. And then they joked that he had his headquarters where his hindquarters should be. But anyway, here we have the headquarters of the beast, the seat of the beast. And here this vial is poured out, and there's darkness. Well, one of the plagues in Egypt was darkness. Darkness. And they gnawed their tongues for pain. Evidently there were some sores, goes on and talks about sores in the next verse. They're sores. It seems like their sores uh were from this plague or maybe left over from the first plague, first vial. But uh they gnaw their tongues for pain, and they say that's what people do when they're very much in pain, in terrible pain, they tend to bite their tongue. And gnaw their tongues. And that's a sign of great pain. But they have all this pain. They have an idea that it comes from God. But do they repent? No. And they blaspheme God. Of course, this is one more proof That without the Spirit of God working in our hearts, we're never going to come to the Lord. God has to work in our hearts first, for us dead people to come unto the Lord. You hath He quickened, which were dead in trespasses and sins. And all these people are dead. And they have free will. They have free will to do everything a dead person can do. And they can't come unto the Lord without the Spirit of God. And they repent not, and they blaspheme. Now let's go on to verse 12. And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates. And the water thereof was dried up that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared. And I saw three unclean spirits. Like frogs, come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet. For they are the spirits of devils working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world To gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty. Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked and they see his shame And he gathered them together under a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon. So here we have the sixth vial, and the sixth vial is Armageddon. And everybody's being gathered together. The armies all come together to Armageddon. Armageddon is the valley of Megiddo, there in Israel. It's been the scene of many, many battles over the centuries. And that was where Josiah was killed when he went out to battle, the good last king of Israel. And so here we have. this gathering of the nations together. And to begin with, the Euphrates River is dried up to prepare their way. You know the Euphrates has been a key river through the whole history of the world. The Tigris and Euphrates. They were the the cradle of civilization at the beginning, and they've been ever since a hot spot. They've been a hot spot recently, that's in Iraq. You have Iraq as the Tigris and Euphrates. They had the big battle for Mosul. That was on the Tigris River. And then we have Euphrates, goes right by Baghdad. And so here we have the Euphrates. Always been an important river. And sometimes in the Bible, I think it's called the River. But anyway, we have the Euphrase. It's dried up. The way of the kings of the East is prepared. Evidently, the kings of the East, probably Communist China. Probably out there China and Russia, uh their armies come toward Israel to battle against God, and they're gathered together by the Antichrist, by these demons here They gather together all the forces together. Again, in the Civil War, Lincoln used to complain that the the Union Army fought piecemeal. It didn't gather everybody together at one time. And but here at Armageddon, they're not going to make that mistake. They're going to get everybody together to battle against God. And God is there protecting the 144,000 in Israel. in the wilderness. And so these kings of the East come with huge armies, and we have the Euphrates dried up, and these spirits like frauds. Come out of the mouth of the dragon, beast, and false prophet. Well, one of the plagues in Egypt was frogs. We have a little bit of that frogs here. My daughter had a plague of frogs recently herself. She has a piece of property in Delaware there and it has a problem with getting all flooded in the backyard. And so one day It got all flooded and all these hundreds and hundreds of frogs came together there and they were breeding in the backyard, piles of them. And it just reminded you of Egypt. And here we got the frogs here. That's a description of these unclean spirits, of the demons. And the demons come out. Are there demons in the world today? Yeah, there's definitely demons, and there are demons here at the time of the end. They are the fallen angels that follow Satan. And they're working in this world. And here they have them working to gather the nations together. And these, the satanic trinity here, they're energized by demons. And you have the dragon, the Antichrist, the Beast. Well the dragon, no, the dragon is Satan. The beast is Antichrist, and then the false prophet. So you have that satanic trinity. And they have demons come out. And then when these demons come out, what do they do? They work miracles. We have that in verse 14. So it's clear here once again that all miracles do not come from God. Some miracles come from Satan and from his demons. And the charismatics, they like to talk about their miracles and about their spirits, but I'm I think that they have some bad spirits working in with them. with these miracles that they have. And they don't know it. And they use the name of God, but uh still they're they're being deceived. many times. And uh, you know, these are real miracles let's talk about your real miracles. They're working miracles And they go forth, working miracles, gather all the kings together to arm a Geddon. Then it tells them verse 15: I come as a thief. I come as a thief. That's mentioned other times in the Bible. How does a thief come? Well, he comes when you don't know. Why do you got to have the cameras on 24 hours a day? Because you don't know when the thieves are gonna come. You gotta be ready all the time. Why do we all have to be checked out by TSA on the planes? Because you never know when the terrorists are going to come. And so that's how it's going to be when God comes back. Is you're not going to know the day or the hour. People have tried to predict the day and the hour. They've predicted 1994. Harold Campy wrote a huge book about it. But we can't predict it. He comes as a thief. We know he's coming. We've got to be ready. It says, blessed is he that watcheth. We've got to be watching. What does that mean? That means we've got to be serving the Lord at all times. And we want to be doing things at all times that we would want the Lord finding us doing when He comes back. And so we want to be watching, doing for the Lord at all times. I come as a thief, the imminent coming of the Lord. And the coming of the Lord has always been imminent. But you know, uh, you know, back in the uh uh in the New Testament it talks about the end of all things is at hand. It talks about that in Peter and other places. You know the thing is Even at the time when the New Testament was written, they were believing in the imminent coming of the Lord. And we today are still believing that. But you know, as we look back, we can see that no, he wouldn't have come back back then. But we know that now, but they didn't know that then. And uh we get clearer and clearer vision as time goes on. And but we've always had the imminent return of the Lord. We always got to be watching. He's always going to come as a thief in the night. And he gathered them, verse 16, to a place called Armageddon. Now we go on. Verse 17. And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air. And there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven from the throne, saying, It is done. And there were voices and thunders and lightnings, and there was a great earthquake such as what was not since men were upon the earth so mighty an earthquake and so great? And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell And great Babylon came in remembrance before God to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath. And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found, and there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven Every stone about the weight of a talent, and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail, for the plague thereof was exceeding great And so here we're at the end of the end. We got all the judgments are coming to an end. The Battle of Armageddon comes in chapter 19. We have the only thing that really needs to happen after this is the judgment of Babylon the Great Which is encompassed talked about right here in the seventh vial. And so all is coming together, the kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ You know, those are the words from the hallelujah chorus. Hallelujah, hallelujah. The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of the Lord and of his Christ. And that's what it says here, verse 17: it is done. Remember, Jesus said from the cross, it is finished. Here, it is done with all these huge judgments. And there were thunders and lightnings and a great earthquake, the biggest earthquake since the beginning of time. And the great city was divided into three parts. What great city is this? Well, I think it's Jerusalem here. That's the city that it likes to refer to all the time. The great city was divided into three parts. The cities of the nations fell, and then Great Babylon comes in remembrance. Great Babylon. We're going to have a lot of space devoted to Babylon, chapters 17 and 18. And I will come to about that soon, Lord willing. And we will see in 17 and 18 that if we're talking about the world in which we live today, only the United States would fit chapters 17 and 18. Great Babylon came in remembrance before God To give unto her the cup of the wine of the wrath of his wrath. And the cup of iniquity is full here. God's judgment is falling And the mystery of iniquity is finishing. How can a good God up in heaven allow so much evil on this earth? That mystery will be finished. And then we have verse 20. Every island fled away. The mountains were not found. We had this before with the seals, and we got islands being moved. We got mountains being moved. Huge cataclysms. As the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of God. And then verse 21. We have there falls upon men a great hail, another plague from Egypt. So we got five of the plagues of Egypt paralleled here with these plagues of the vile judgments. And they were literal in Egypt. They're literal here at the time of the end. And there falls a great hail. The only thing is there's a lot worse hail. You know, when you have hail the size of golf balls, you have a tremendous amount of damage. Because those things are falling all the way from the heavens and they are really coming down with a lot of force. And they have cars being dented, the windshields broken and all that. And you know, it even those little pieces, it really goes bang, bang, bang, bang on the roof. But these, this hail, each one is about the weight of a talent. And that's an old measure of weight, and that's a hundred pounds. A hundred pound hailstones, well that would do some real damage. It'd come right down through the roof here and go down into the ground. And uh if you were in the way of that, you'd be no more. And you know, it's humongous hail falling. And so what did they was the reaction to that? Once again Men blasphemed God because of the plague of hail, for the plague thereof was exceeding great. Exceeding great And that's what it was. And so here we are, this is like the great calm uh climax, the grand finale You know when you have your 4th of July fireworks, you put up our fireworks for a while, and then you have the grand finale. And here we have the grand finale of God's judgments here in Revelation 16 with the vile judgments. That fall upon the earth. Well, here we have, we've got to be watching at all times. We've got to be ready for the Lord to come back. But it's interesting to hear about being worthy. Let's go back to Hebrews chapter 12. These people, at the time of the end, they are worthy of judgment. But we got somebody else that's worthy, and that's us, the Christians. And we have Hebrews chapter 12. What are we worthy of? Well, we're children of God if we're Christians. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 5. And ye have forgotten. The exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. Hebrews 12, 5. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord. Nor faint when thou art rebuked of him, for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. And we don't want to forget this. It says, ye have forgotten here. You know, we're children of God, and as God's children, we are worthy of God's chastening. We're worthy, just like they were worthy at the time of the end. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. We're worthy of chastening because we sin. And we all need to be corrected by the Lord. And we need to be thankful for that correction that the Lord gives us. Because we're worthy of it as God's children. And we sin. Don't despise the chastening of the Lord. And so how can you react to chastening? Well, the people in Revelation 16, they react blaspheming God. And repenting not. How should we react to God's chastening? Well, we should have a teachable heart toward God. We should be willing to receive lessons from Him, have a tender heart to receive the chastening of the Lord. But the problem is in Revelation they come back with bitterness. They're bitter, they're hard-hearted. And Christians, we don't need to be like that. We don't want to be like that, hard and bitter when the chastening of God comes. And then we go on here, verse 7. For if ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. So we're not the sons of God if we don't have that chastening. But if we're sons of God, we deserve chastening and we'll get it. God won't let us go. And you know, uh it's the old saying is spare the rod, spoil the child. Well, God never spoils the child. He makes sure we go on in the right way. With our ch with his chastening. And uh, you know, I remember a Christian leader in the past And they used to say, oh, that Christian leader is so good, and you can tell because nothing bad ever happens to him. Well, you know, I don't know. That might say good, might say bad, because he might uh not have the chastening of God and he was doing bad things. And uh so you know uh what son is he whom the father chasteneth not? Then verse nine. Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us. And we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be s in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure, but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness. So here it points out to parents. Parents should be chastening their children. That's a big problem in this world around us. People don't get chastened. The sons don't get chastened, the kids don't get dussi disciplined. Uh the big tool in the Bible of raising children is the rod. And people don't like to hear that today and they uh uh you know it's a practically against the law today. But you know the thing is that's what the Bible says. Of course nobody wants to hear what the Bible says And of course here's a bumper sticker that somebody put out there, God's law or chaos. Well, if you don't follow God's law, what do you got? Chaos. If you don't discipline your children, what do you got? Chaos. And I've seen plenty of that chaos in families. And so God doesn't have that chaos. And He chastens us. You notice it talks about fathers, we give them reverence. We give God reverence. That's what we need to have in our worship is reverence for God. Not jumping around and God is our buddy and our bosom pal and just like us. No, we give him reverence. He is our friend. That's true. But he's not like on our level. And that's the problem with fathers today in families. Hollywood wants to put the fathers down on the same level as the children. And the children should have as much authority as the fathers. But that shouldn't be the way it is. Here it says we gave them reverence. At least in the past people gave their parents reverence. They don't do too much today. Then we go on to verse 11. Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto those which are exercised thereby. And so when you're having chastening, when you're being paddled, it doesn't feel very good. It's grievous, not joyous But afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness. It talks about the Father. The Father sometimes is wrong in his discipline. The earthly father sometimes is wrong. That's true. And of course you always chalk it down to the fact, well, if he disciplined when he shouldn't have, there's a lot of times when he should have disciplined and he didn't. But, you know, God is never wrong. He's always working things together for our good. And so we need to be receptive to God's chastening. So how does God chasten us? How exactly does he chasten us? Well, he makes bad things happen in our lives. Bad things of various types. And the big one is sickness. God can give us sickness to bring us around. God uses sickness so greatly in the world. That's one of his tools that he uses. And he's using it. He gets our attention with our sickness. We're going our sec our merry way, and then God makes us sick. And we can't do that anymore. And God gets our attention. And so that's a chastening God brings. God can bring all kinds of problems in our lives, problems in our family, problems in all of our things. Now I don't know if I mentioned it to you before sometime I may have, but but one striking example of it was uh when I was uh younger, I used to like to listen to rock and roll music And I had a tape old eight-track plate tape player under the seat of my car, my old Barracuda. And so I was playing my rock and roll there and all of a sudden the the tape layer caught on fire and I had a fire underneath the seat of my car. And uh so I had to go put that out. But anyway I was kind of striking as to I shouldn't be doing that. And you know, the thing is, is that God can make all kinds of things happen to get our attention. There's no end to the things that can happen that He can get our attention with. And uh so it's not gr it's not happy when those things happen, but God's bringing us around. We need to we need to look at when things happen in our lives, when we're sick, when we have something happen It may or may not be because of God's chasing. Not necessarily, but very possibly And so we need to look at our lives and see if there might be something God is trying to tell us. We want to be teachable, teachable before the Lord. It wields the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Then verse 12, wherefore lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knees and Make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be carried out of the way, but let it rather be healed. Make straight paths. You know, we're fundamentalists. The name of my paper in Brazil is the fundamentalist. And a fundamentalist is somebody who tries to stick to the straight and narrow. They're always called too narrow. But a fundamentalist needs to be narrow. He doesn't want to deviate to the right deviate to the left, deviate a little bit to the right, a little bit to the left. He tries not to do that. The normal evangelical, he thinks a little bit of deviation isn't too bad. You know, a little bit, no problem. But the fundamentalist wants to be narrow. He wants to be in the right way. What's from the Lord. Of course it's possible to be legalistic trying to be in the right way of things that really aren't taught in God's Word But as long as it's taught in God's Word, we want to be on the straight and narrow. And so what does it say right here in Hebrews? It says, make straight paths for your feet. Straight paths. And so that's what we need to do today. We need to be watching for the Lord's coming back, even today. He's going to come back as a thief in the night. And then we need to make straight paths for our feet and be teachable before the Lord because we know we don't want to forget that we are worthy of God's chastening, at least from time to time. And we need to be receptive to that chastening to bring us back to the right straight path. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we just thank thee for the things that we see out of thy word. And O Lord, help us to be teachable before Thee. And help us to be always ready in Jesus' name. Amen.