In Revelation, this is just in the order we've been doing every time I've been speaking here. And last time I was here, we did the message to the church in Sardis, and now we're doing the message to the church in Philadelphia. And so let's turn our Bibles to Revelation chapter 3. Revelation chapter 3. And starting with verse seven. Revelation chapter 3, and starting with verse 7. The message to the church in Philadelphia. This is one of the only two positive messages in the seven messages. There's positive messages to Smyrna and to Philadelphia. And here we have Philadelphia, verse 7. And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write, These things saith he that is holy. He that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth and no man shutteth, and shutteth and no man openeth. I know thy works. Behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it, for thou hast a little strength And hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name. Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie. Behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience. I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just pray that Thou would remove from our minds thoughts of worldly employments and recreations. Help us to concentrate fully upon the things of thee and upon the message to Philadelphia this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have the message of the church in Philadelphia. And of course, uh Americans have had the Bible heritage that we have, and we have named our cities after the good uh cities of the seven churches. And so we have the town of Smyrna, where we live in Delaware And the town of Philadelphia City. Well, you know, Philadelphia had a great history back in Bible times. And the city of Philadelphia was there in modern day Turkey, just as all the Southern Churches, Southern Churches of Asia, Asia was that province there in Turkey that we have today And Philadelphia was a city that was on the trade route there. It was a center of Greek culture. It sent out Greek culture to the country around. And it was a center of Christianity. And you know, uh through the Middle Ages, the Muslims came in like a flood, and the Turks. And they came in and overwhelmed that area. But Philadelphia was one of the last Christian cities standing against the Turks. And great Turkish armies came against Philadelphia a couple times And they weren't able to take Philadelphia, even though Philadelphia really was not a very big city, as big cities go. It was a uh moderate-sized city, but it was able to withstand the sieges of great armies And it only fell finally when the Turks were able to combine with Constantinople and the Byzantines. And the Byzantines in Constantinople, they were Christian, but the problem was they were jealous of Philadelphia. And Philadelphia had gotten their independence from Constantinople. They were jealous of Philadelphia, so they united with the Turks and they came with a huge army against Philadelphia and finally conquered it. But even after Philadelphia was conquered by the Muslims there Still, it was a beacon of Christianity and Christian center, even in the middle of a Muslim area. And so that's some of the history of Philadelphia. We're going to see more of it as we go through this message There are parallels and things referred to of the history of Philadelphia in this message. But here we have verse 7. These things saith he that is holy. And of course, we always have the speaker in all of these seven messages, and that's Christ. He that is holy, he's set apart. Set apart from sin, set apart from defilement, and that's why we are great believers in the Bible Presbyterian Church of separation being set apart. From unbelief and apostasy. He that is holy, he that is true. And there is such a thing as objective truth. Today, people like to say that everything is relative. And truth is what you say it is, and what you think it is. But the Bible has objective truth. Things that are really true and things that are really false for everyone all the time. And Christ is true, he that is true, he that has the key of David, the authority of David, the descendant of David. And he opens and no man shuts and shuts and no man opens. Christ is all-powerful. He's one of the Godhead of it. We have the triune God He's the second person of the Trinity. And he opens and no man shuts. Well, we go on and tell some commendation of the church there in Philadelphia. In verse 8, all of the messages pretty well have commendation at the beginning. And it says here, I know thy works. I know thy works. The church of Philadelphia had worked for the Lord. They had done works for the Lord. Today I have here people demeaning in the church works for the Lord. And they say, Oh, hey, we don't work our way to heaven and we don't have to do works for the Lord and and you know, we're just enjoying the grace of God. But you know The Bible emphasizes that we are supposed to be working for the Lord. He didn't save us just to sit back on our hands. And these churches, the seven churches, are many times complimented on the fact that they did works for the Lord. I know thy works. The works don't save us. We're saved when we pray and ask for forgiveness of our sins and we give our life to the Lord, but We want to do works after we're saved. I know thy works. And I have set before thee an open door, and you have a little strength. They had a little strength. They were small. The church of Philadelphia was small. They had a little strength. And the church of Philadelphia is very much like our Bible Presbyterian church. And you know, today the uh church here has fewer people than usual here. And actually it's more like the rest of the Bible Presbyterian churches now of our Presbytery. And we have just a little bit of strength as a Bible Presbyterian church. Little. But yet God can use us. And it says here, you have an open door before you. Open door. An open door for ministry. An open door to do missionary work. And the Church of Philadelphia was on the trade route there as the road went off to the east, and they were well placed to do missionary work there on that road. And we are well placed here to do missionary work right here in Baltimore, right near the capital of the United States And we're well placed in the Bible Presbyterian Church. We have a little strength, but we have an open door set before us, just as the church in Philadelphia had And so there's one thing that was parallel with the history of the city: that the city was a relatively small city. They had a little strength, just like the church had a little strength. And then they are told that they kept my word and hast not denied my name. In the history of the city of Philadelphia, they had stood like a pillar there When the Muslims came in like a flood. And that's what we need to do in the Bible Presbyterian Church. We have to keep God's word. and not denied the name of Christ. And we don't want to deny the name of Christ. Kept my word. That's the important thing to keep, is God's Word. How do we know who's true and who's false, what's good and what's bad? Is by the Word of God. And if people go according to God's word And the church of Philadelphia had kept my word. The Bible tells us back in Jeremiah, it says, Is not my word like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces? And then it compares the Word of God to dreams. Today people like to talk about dreams a lot and visions. But it says that what's the chaff to the wheat? The dreams of chaff, the word, is the wheat, the really solid stuff. And hast not denied my name. And in this passage, it's very important the name of God. God's name is important. Names are very important. I hope we heard down in Brazil quite often people talking about names are not important. We were just coming here on the way to church this morning. And there was a church as we went by, and I believe they've changed their name recently since we've been going by here. And it's now called New Covenant something. And it was, did have another name. I thought it was Baptist Church or something like that in the past. And people always want to change the names today. And on the one hand they say names are not important. On the other hand, they want to always be changing them. And you know, names are important. What's the difference between the name of George Washington and Benedict Arnold? There's some difference in the name. If we switch the names around, does it make any difference? Well, the thing is it does make a difference, and the thing is that names are important. And you can tell a lot about a church by its name. And we have a church there in Delaware called The Town. And uh, you know, you don't know if it's a nightclub or a church. And it's right in the middle of a shopping center But anyway, the thing is, is that names are important. And they were told here in Philadelphia, you have not denied my name. And you know that's the whole point when people are persecuted for their faith. They want them to deny the name of Christ. And they refuse to deny the name of Christ, and they're persecuted and killed Then we go on to verse 9 here. Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews and are not, but to lie. Behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee. Well, the people in Philadelphia, the Christians of Philadelphia, had a lot of trouble with the Jews. And as you go through the New Testament, that's The source of trouble most of the time for the Christians were the Jews. The Jews followed them around trying to stir up trouble against the Christians. And here that was the way it was in Philadelphia. And they said they were Jews. They said that they were the people of God, that they were the chosen people And they said that the church in Philadelphia, the Christians were apostates, people that had gone away from God, and they were the true Jews. And they persecuted the Christians. Well, you know, people, those Jews and others with them, they got confused who was right. and who was wrong. And that's always a problem in Christianity and in the world around us getting confused who is right and who is wrong. And you have the liars. And here we have the Jews. They say they are Jews, but they do lie. And you know, there's all kinds of lies out there. And just because somebody says something doesn't mean it's true. And so these Jews, they were liars, they were not the true people of God. They were not true spiritual Jews. And finally, they would come to know the truth. And they would come and worship before the feet of the true Christians in Philadelphia. Let's go back to Numbers chapter 16 for a minute. Keep your finger there in Revelation chapter 3, but we have Numbers chapter 16, and we read the responsive reading earlier And this passage I think is really good about knowing who's the the right side and who's the wrong side, who's the right and who's wrong. And we read in the responsive reading, Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, they and 250 elders. A very sizable group, the majority there. They gathered themselves against Moses and against Aaron. And verse 3, they said to Moses and Aaron, You take too much upon you, setting yourselves up as the leaders here. We're all holy. We all ought to be the leaders. Don't you know? And then Moses said God would show who was right and who was wrong. Now let's go down to verse 28, verse 28 of number 16. And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that the Lord hath sent me to do all these works, for I have not done them of mine own mind. If these men die the common death of all men, or if they be visited after the visitation of all men, then the Lord hath not sent me. But if the Lord make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they go down quick into the pit Then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the Lord. And it came to pass As he had made an end of speaking all these words that the ground clave asunder there was under them And the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them up in their houses and all the men that appertained unto Korah and all their goods. They and all that appertained to them went down alive into the pit, and the earth closed up upon them, and they perished from among the congregation. Now, you think that's pretty clear as to who's right and who's wrong, and who the Lord has chosen and who the Lord has not chosen? Moses said that it would happen, and it happened, swallowed up all these men. And yet, after all that, you go down to verse 41. But on the morrow, all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed the people of the Lord. Can you imagine how they got things so turned around? Even after all this happened, even after the earth opened up her mouth, swallowed them up, closed up around them. They still thought they were the people of the Lord that got swallowed up. And they thought that Moses and Aaron weren't the true people of the Lord. And it's just the same with Judas. Judas was there among the twelve apostles, and nobody could figure out that he was not a good guy. And when Jesus was saying one of you will betray me, they couldn't figure out for the life of them that it was Judas. And So, that was the way it was back here in Revelation chapter 3 with the Jews there. They thought that they were the true people of God. And yet the true people of God were were the people of the church there. But God would show who was right and who was wrong. And of course we need an See who's right and who's wrong, we judge by the word of God. If people live and act according to God's word, if they do the things of God's word, then we can trust that they are right But if they go against the things of God's word, then it's the other way around. And so here God was going to show these Jews. They were going to come and worship before the feet of the church there in Philadelphia. And that's what we always have with worship in the Bible, falling down before the feet, falling down and worshiping. They don't jump around and celebrate. The new tendency in the church is to have celebration services instead of worship services, and that's not the same thing Worship. They fell down. They were going to worship before their feet. And to know that I have loved thee. That's something when God loves us. And God was going to show that he loved the child children of God there in the church at Philadelphia. That I have loved thee. Remember the rich young ruler That it said that he had kept all the commandments, and then Jesus said that uh you have one thing more you need to do, and that's to go out and sell all that you have and give to the poor. Well, uh some people think from that that uh he was not a Christian, or wasn't uh one uh one of God's own, but we're told that Jesus looked upon him and loved him. That's what we're told. And so I think that man probably later did sell his things, did follow the Lord, but he had a hard time with that. And he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. But anyway, God looked upon him and loved him. God looked upon the church in Philadelphia and loved it. And God looks upon all Christians and loves them. And that's a great thing to be loved of the Lord. Then we go on to verse 10. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of Temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth. They had kept the word of God's patience They had kept the word for years and years. You know, Christianity is something for the long haul. It's not a we're not supposed to be flashes in the pan for a little while. It's for the long haul. And they had kept the word of my patience. And so then the Lord says he would keep them from the hour of temptation or testing that would come upon all the world. This could be nothing other than, I think, the great tribulation, the hour of testing that will come upon all the world. And of course they were kept from that. And at this point we are still being kept from that. And I believe all Faithful small churches like Philadelphia will be kept. And each one of these messages to the seven churches is an example of a type of church. Smyrna is a persecuted church. And Philadelphia is a small, faithful church And God is going to keep the small faithful churches from the Great Tribulation. Here's one other proof, I believe, in the Bible of the pre-trib rapture of believers. Now there's different views on that, and we can appreciate that. But Here it would seem to indicate before the tribulation rapture because they would be kept from the hour of testing or temptation. But you know, this paralleled the history of the town of Philadelphia, the city of Philadelphia, in that the city of Philadelphia had been hit by a very great earthquake in 17 A. D. And there was a huge earthquake. The city was destroyed. The people were killed. And it was a terrible earthquake. And the people in Philadelphia always were remembering that earthquake. And there were lots and lots of aftershocks after that. And the people were fearing for their lives uh all the time that the that uh they would have another one of these great earthquakes. And so they had actually gone to the so far as to go out and move out of the city into the countryside and live out there, most uh many of them. And of course, when you're out in the countryside, there's nothing to fall on you. But anyway, they had this great problem of the earthquake, this hour of testing that they had already had. And they were going to be kept from the hour of testing that would come in the future. Then let's go on in our passage, verse 11. Behold, I come quickly. Hold that fast, which thou hast, that no man take thy crown Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out. And I will write upon him the name of my God. In the name of the city of my God, which is New Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God, and I will write upon him my new name. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Well, going back to verse 11, behold, I come quickly. How could Jesus have said this to the church back here in the first century? Behold, I come quickly. Well, one thing we know a ye a day with the Lord is as a thousand years and a thousand years as a day Now that doesn't mean that God doesn't have anything to do with time. I've heard some preachers say that God is timeless and God is outside of time, but I don't believe that for a second It said, when Jesus was sent to be born of a woman, when the fullness of the time was come. And what is time? Time is a progression of events. And there are is a progression of events with God. There is time with God. But he's eternal And so a day, a literal day, is as a literal thousand years. And a thousand years is as a day. And so, behold, I come quickly. And you know, I believe that the uh coming of Christ has always been held to be imminent. Coming could come any day by all the church down through the years. And the thing is Now, today, 2,000 years later, we can see back where we could see, well, maybe wouldn't have come back then, maybe Israel wasn't a nation back then or different things But at that time, at this time here or all through history, people with the knowledge that they have at that time and the vision that they have at that time is that God Christ's coming is imminent. And that's how it shouldn't be, that we should be always looking for him to come back. And it's the same way it is today. He might delay a while today. It seems like it's getting much closer today But you know, behold, I come quickly. Hold that fast which thou hast. Hold that fast that you have. That no man take thy crown. Now pause for a second with that. Hold fast what you have Now, what you have or what we have is what we already have. We already have that. It's the past. Hold fast to that thing. And don't be going and looking for new things Hold fast what you already have. And everybody likes to look for new things. New things. And that's what people look for today, always something new. We talked about the new names for the churches, the new things in the churches rebranding the churches. And of course, uh just like with the products in the world around us, they always have to have new products, new things. And but it says here, hold fast what you have. And what we have has been tested by history. It's been tested down through the centuries. And we need to hold it fast. And isn't it an accident, what we call traditional worship and traditional hymns and things like that? It's not an accident. It's been proved through history. Hold that fast, which thou hast. It's not just that, but many other things, the doctrines of the Bible. But hold it fast, that no man takes our crown. Is it good to get crowns in heaven? Is it good to get rewards in heaven? It's definitely good. I've heard people say, well, you know, I don't want to be selfish. I don't look for having any rewards and crowns in heaven. You know that's not what I'm looking for. Well, the Bible says we're supposed to look for that. That no man take thy crown. That's something good to get a crown, to get rewards from the Lord And we want to be serving the Lord, laying up treasure in heaven, is what we're told. Then we go on to verse 12. Verse 12. And it says, Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out. Well, there's another thing that's a parallel with the city of Philadelphia. The people had gone out of the city because they were afraid of the earthquake coming again. And here it says that a reward to the overcomer would be that he would go no more out. He would be a pillar, he would be steadfast, stable. And that's a reward for those that are overcoming. Overcoming the world, the flesh, and the devil. And he shall go no more out, and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, and then farther further down, and I will write upon him my new name. Well there are three times it mentions name in this verse. And names, once again, are important. And the name of my God, the name of the city of my God, and my new name, those are all very important. God's name, Christ's name, the name of the church, the New Jerusalem, those are all very important. to God. And names ought to be important to us. And here they have those names. And so here we have another parallel with the city of Philadelphia in that the city of Philadelphia at one point it changed its name. When I wanted to be in tight with Caesar, uh Tim mentioned about having a stone with Caesar's emblem on it at the city. Well That's what they did in the city of Philadelphia. They changed the name of the city to Neochaisaria, which is the new city of Caesar. And so they changed their name to that city, name. But then later on, they decided that wasn't so great, so then they changed the name back to Philadelphia. And so they had this name change going back and forth in Philadelphia. But here, here in the message to Philadelphia, they would be stable. And they would have God's name and Christ's name and the name of the New Jerusalem. And then finally we have our Admonition at the end of every one of the seven messages to the seven churches. He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. And once again, that shows that these messages are important. Therefore, the church today, for the church in all time, we need to lessen what's said in these messages. And these messages are all the different types of churches. Churches that are compromising, churches that have left their first love, churches that are lukewarm, as we'll have in the next message. And it's here we have the small church that is faithful. Thou hast a little strength Well, why is it that God likes to use little groups? All through history, God has used little groups. God used a little group with Gideon. Remember Gideon had like 22,000 soldiers with him, even though that was still small compared to the Midianite army. But he had these thousands of soldiers, and God said that was too many soldiers, and he ended up with 300 at the end. And that was a small group. And then you remember with Elijah and the prophets of Baal. And the prophets of Baal had 450 prophets of Baal and one prophet of God. Elijah. One against 450. Well, why did God do that? Have just one guy there. Just 300 there. And just had this little church here of Philadelphia, little strength. Well, it's to show that the strength it comes from God. That the victory comes from God. That God has to have all the credit. If we have a big group, well we'll think we did it. We did it of our own power and strength But if we're small, despised, and uh little strength, well, the pa the power has to come from God, and we have to see that. Then just one other note. You know, we can be smaller for various reasons, but you remember with the history of the church in the book of Acts. And in the book of Acts, at the very beginning, they were all united there in Jerusalem. All the Christians were there united. But then persecution rose up against the church there in Jerusalem. And the disciples were scattered all over. Now, persecution was not good at that point. They didn't like it. But the persecution did have a very good effect. And it scattered the church out. I mean, we want to have unity. They had unity in Jerusalem, but there was a good thing in being scattered abroad. And the scattering abroad spread out the influence of the church to all different areas, all different ministries in different places. And uh when sometimes our church might be scattered abroad uh through splits and things, uh that's not a good thing that we like. But God can bring good out of it. And God can uh bring good out of it in that The church is scattered out into different areas and have have wider ministry. In Cameroon, they had a split over in the church in Cameroon. And uh of course I was a missionary over there for years and they had a big split, the whole church split in about half or pretty close. And you know, the thing is, is I would go and visit the one side and I would visit the other side and they would tell me about all the things that they were doing on each side. And you know, they were doing more things than what they had done in the past because they were doing, or one reason was because they were doing more things to show that they were sort of in the Lord, each group And so that the gospel was going out and and uh the work of God was going out and progressing in different areas. Although later on I was encouraging them to get back together, and later on they did get back together And praise the Lord for that recently. But you know God can bring good out of uh all things. We know all things work together for good to them that love the Lord and are called to according to his purpose. And so, praise the Lord, even though we have a little strength. And it's interesting that we come to that message just in our order of messages today. as we've been going through the seven churches. As we come to the little church with a little strength, but they had an open door before them to serve the Lord. And let's take advantage of the open doors that we have today. Let us go out and serve the Lord. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we thank Thee for Thy goodness unto us. We thank Thee for Thy Word. We thank Thee for the open door that we have. And O Lord, help us to take advantage of it, help the gospel to go out, and help us to be busy for Thee. And we thank Thee for thy grace that is given unto us. In Jesus' name. Amen.