So let's go ahead and begin. We're going to start with Matthew twenty-three. I'm going to read the first ten verses. Matthew 23, beginning with verse 1. Then spake Jesus to the multitude and to his disciples, saying, The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. All therefore whatsoever ye bid, they bid you observe, thus observe and do But do not ye after their works, for they say, and do not, for they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne, and lay them on men's shoulders But they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers, but all their works they do for to be seen of men. They make broad their phylactrophies, and enlarged the borders of their garments, and loved the uppermost rooms at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues. and greetings in the markets, and to be called of men, rabbi, rabbi. But do ye do not ye be called rabbi, for one is your master, even Christ And all ye are brethren, and call no man your father upon earth, for one is your father which is in heaven, neither be ye called masters. For one is your master, even Christ. But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant. And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased. And he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. Let's pray. Our Father and our God, it's with joy that we come before Thee this morning. We come before Thee in fear and trembling, for thou art a holy God, and thou art He who knows every thought in our mind at this time and in our hearts. Thou art he who knows the end from the beginning, thou art he who knows what we will face this day. We don't know that. All we know is we need you. So we ask that you would Bless us and meet our needs for this day which is upon us. And the days following, Lord, but this is the day that you have made We ask that we might rejoice and be glad in it. And we ask it in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. Each of us is familiar with this passage. The scribes sit in the place where Moses sat. Now, that's not the physical location. Moses was in the desert, but the scribes and Pharisees were at or near the temple in Jerusalem. Thus, their seat was a theological seat. And they were at the apex, the top of the Jewish religion. And all other people were arranged under them. All other Jews were arranged. The scribes and Pharisees loved to lord it over the common people. They wanted their clothing had to be different. And here's why. They wanted men and women to see their exalted state. So that the commoner could spot them at a glance. And that way they could bask in their own superficial, error-prone glory. And it was superficial, and it was wrong, as Christ would point out to them. In that day among these people Hypocrisy abounded. As the scribes and Pharisees turned hypocrisy into an art form. Whether or not the commoners saw it, they didn't care. Didn't bother them at all. Their position at the apex of Judaism was certain, safe, and sure. They thought they had nothing to fear. Then along came Jesus. And everywhere he went, he often muddied the waters to make clear what was wrong with the Jewish leaders. John Gill wrote that the common people, upon seeing the ignorance and errors of the scribes and Pharisees, would conclude that there was nothing in the Jewish religion. They failed to see the truth of the Jewish religion. Moses was the legislator for the Jews. By him the law was given, and the office of explaining that law rested on the scribes and the Pharisees. They expounded the law. They even stood when they read the law. And by their sitting In the seat of Moses, we understand that they had authority to teach the law, or as Moses taught the nation by giving the law. The scribes and Pharisees taught the nation by explaining the law. Thus, the common people were being taught by hypocritical, proud, era-prone religious people. The people were in a bad shape because their leaders were in a worse shape. The leaders lived and breathed hypocrisy, and hypocrisy was their stock in trade on The day that Christ spoke the words in Matthew 23. It's evident that Christ was speaking to the religious leaders. as well as to the people in the pews, the and and and the uh the disciples Note verse 13. We didn't read that a while ago. Matthew 23, verse 13. Christ said, But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites He's not woke. He's not politically correct. Whoa, when do you describe he's truthful That's what he is. Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees as ye uh hypocrites, for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven. Against men, for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in. Matthew 23, verse 13. Christ spoke to the scribes and Pharisees as he spoke to his disciples. The scribes and Pharisees had voided God's law, and Christ was beginning his work to right that wrong. Actually, he began his visible work at the incarnation. And his audible work was scattered throughout his ministry. And he would continue his visible work Till the day he would be received up into heaven. He's there now, still working for you and me. He's our advocate, our lawyer. He's our defender today. He keeps us in his hands, and no one can take us out. And I thank God for that truth. On that day, our Lord knew exactly what he was doing. There was no error in his words or in his deeds, and the words of Matthew 23 were necessary for the redemption of mankind. Otherwise, he would not have spoken them. That day. Sometimes we gloss over the text of Matthew 23, and we miss what Christ has to say here. It was true for almost the first 1,500 years of Christian history, of New Testament Christianity. as the saints didn't understand what their leaders were saying and doing. But when that printing press arrived in the fifteenth century, I think it was somewhere between 1450 And 1475 or so, uh, when that printing press arrived, things began to change. And oh my did they change. Suddenly, Luther, Calvin, Zwingli, and others popped up all over the place And a much-needed split occurred in that superficial error-prone church. The common people saw that split and there was no going back. There was no going back. However, that discredited established church tried to It's best to continue on in apostasy. The Counter Reform the Counter Reformation and the Councils of Trent, Numbers 1 and 2 Lured many back into that apostasy. So that I think the church needs another reformation. God knows that, and I believe it's going to happen. Now, one of the many good things about that Protestant Reformation was Or is that there was another split hardly discussed since those days. It was the split that occurred between the church and the state. Today, it's only in certain lands, certain small lands, that the church and the state are one and the same. Now I want to state it clear that the church and state are separate entities today. But I see there is that I say that there is no permanent Barrier between the church and the state. Now, before you get all heart and hot and bothered and run me out of here, listen carefully. Some want a permanent barrier there so that the government can meddle in the affairs of the church and not the other way around. But church and state separation is designed to keep the state out of the church. And not vice versa. In fact, Christians must be allowed to practice their religion without governmental interference. Further, the church must be allowed to walk the halls of Congress and to sit in the seat of government. And all the while knowing who the true leader is. Jesus Christ is the director of the church and of the state. Now, the Jews in the time of Christ, as far as the Romans allowed them, were a theocracy. In other words, the scribes and Pharisees ruled the Jewish people. That was their government. That theocracy had a long history. It was true in the days of Moses. It was good. It was true in the day of Moses. Often it was evident, often it was hidden, as it was in the days of Babylon and the days of Rome, and to a large extent today. Now, regarding the state, it's evident that our governmental leaders love their place. They love their place, they love what they're doing. They're not a theocracy, but they love their place and power, so don't you mess with it. They want to protect their position in government regardless of the cost. And if things continue as they are, our leaders will never bear the cost of their hypocrisy. Not in this life. Now look at Matthew 23, verse 4. We read that a while ago. Matthew 23, verse 4. For they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be born, and lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves will not move them with one Of their fingers. Being the cantanus curmudgeon that I am I say that certain leaders in America helped bring COVID-19 to America. I believe that. Those leaders wanted to shut the nation down to prevent our learning what they were doing. They were amassing great political power to allow them to get away with personal corruption. And what they did was that they put heavy burdens on our shoulders. While at the same time, they refuse to lighten our load by lifting one little finger to help out the people of America. That's not universally so, but it's close enough that it may as well be universal in certain states. There are good people in government. There are good people in government. I know of them. I haven't talked to them, but I know of them. But those good people are in the minority, and the havoc of the majority is the havoc the majority is raising aids what the minority does. It makes it and is made worse by left-leaning media personnel. They're complicit in the construct corruption. As you already know, in fact, the media allows our leaders to get away with corruption so that our leaders can get away with padding their personal bank accounts and their wallets. That's what they're doing right now. They love Places of honor in the halls of Congress. They love to be in the honored place wherever they are And they'll keep those honored places as long as they keep you and me and others blind to what they're doing. But as our great God knew what the scribes and Pharisees were doing, he knows what these government hypocrites are doing. Those hypocritical people want to be called master, but there's only one master. That's Jesus Christ, the hope of every saint. And he it has and as he changed things back in those days, then he can change things now. For Jesus Christ is the sovereign Lord of the universe, and he is unstoppable One of these days, the Lord Jesus, like he said a while ago, one of these days, it may be today. One of these days the Lord Jesus will set foot on earth again. And it will be a slap in the face of all those who oppose him and his people. He will be a blinding light to those who don't know him. Let's begin in verse 8. Matthew 23, 8 through 10. Matthew 23, 8 through 10. But be ye not called masters. So what is your master? Even Christ, and all ye are brethren And call no man your father upon earth, for one is your father which is in heaven. Neither be ye called masters. For one is your master, even Christ Christ forbade his disciples from seeking titles of distinction because he was himself their master and their teacher. He thought that they were on his level, making him making them equal in authority with him. But believers are brethren. That's what we are. We're brethren. And we're not, we're never to covet or receive a title that would imply an elevation. Of one above another in the church. Titles infringe on the absolute right of the Savior to be their only teacher and master. This is an express command given to his disciples not to receive such a title of distinction. Here's a personal example. In my early life as a Christian, I remember those days. In my early life, 29 when I got saved. Some of you were saved at five four or five, whatever. Count yourself fortunate. This is the command given to his disciples to not receive such. And here's my personal example. In my early life as a Christian, I never wanted to be a preacher or a pastor. I did not. It was an office too high for me. So I ran from it. I did. Not like Jonah ran, but still I ran. However, God has his way. He had me stay in the Bible and in the church And God continued to work on me. He showed me this verse, the other verse, and that verse, but the verse that got my attention was Luke 6. Luke Luke 46, Luke 6, 46, and why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say? These are the things which I say. If you're running from God, and if you hear that verse, it will stop you dead in your tracks. God has his ways. But then all of a sudden, I'd say to myself, I can't do that. I'm just a little old me. I'm nobody else. I'm not a preacher. And all of a sudden it was like I'd hear he, like I. It was like he'd say, and why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? And all of a sudden it was like that. And all of a sudden he'd say that. I think of another reason. Yes, I did. I think of another. Maybe it was like Aaron or Moses who said, I can't speak. You know me. I I'm not Moses. I'm not Moses at all. I'm not trying to compare myself to him. But I'd think of another reason for not my not preaching. And he'd say, And why call ye me Lord, Lord And do not the things which I say. Do you realize he still uses that verse on me today? Yes he does. I'd say, Lord, it's Old, not cold, but Lord, it's old out So old that it's hard to get up and go. And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? I'd I'd know better. I I well you'd think that I'd know better now not to give him another chance to say Why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say? But I still do that. Here's another verse, and it explains the entire situation. Matthew twenty six, verse forty one. Matthew twenty-six verse forty one Watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. When I was young, I paid little attention to that verse. But now that verse is paying attention to me daily. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. You young people, where is he? I can't see for a distance here. Noah, where are you? There he is. Noah, Rachel, and Allison. And there's a boy here, I didn't get your names. We're gonna leave Tim out. You young people don't know that verse yet. But if you live long enough, God will drive that verse home to you. For indeed the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Now, let's get back to our text. The saints were not to covet such titles. They were not to seek them, and not to do anything that implied a wish or a willingness that such titles be added to their names. Everything that would tend to make a distinction among the people or destroy their equality before God. We're all equal before God. The preacher's not above the same. He's one of you. Anything that would lead the world to suppose that there are ranks and grades that there were ranks and grades among Christians, they were to avoid those titles. Listen, we have one high priest and one mediator between God and man. He is one, he fills both office, and his name is Jesus Christ. None other We are under him. He is our authority. Not the government. Jesus Christ is our authority. His words, or excuse me, my words, as long as they agree with Scripture, are authoritative, as long as they agree with Scripture. Since what I preach is to be Bible truth. And you're to study the word to make sure that I preach Bible truth. And when I preach here, you let me know. What I preach is to be Bible truth. I can give illustrations. And examples and back up Bible truth, but know this: no man on earth is infallible today, not one. The Pope is not infallible, not even when he speaks ex casedra. And that little Latin couplet means from the chair. It refers to the chair of Peter, surnamed by that apostate church. Christians are not to seek titles of authority. Note Christ's words that Christ's word that they were not to receive the title, be not ye called rabbi. What does rabbi mean? Teacher or master. Master. That's what they wanted. Christ didn't forbid their giving a title to others when it was customary or proper. But the saints were not to receive exalted titles. Note that honor was not to be among the saints. Now The word pastor or elder or deacon is known among us and we use them Note Paul in Acts 26, Acts 26, verse 25, he says, but he said, I'm not man, most noble Festus. But speak forth the words of truth and soberness. There Paul is defending himself before Festus and King Agrippa. He gave Festus a noble title. It was like our calling Queen Elizabeth Your Majesty. It's accepted, accepted, and common. That's what she is as a queen, our addressing her that way is acceptable. Another example is My PDJT, my president is President Donald J. Trump. He's though he's not in office now. It's standard practice to address him as president or even Mr. President, but he's not our master. I hope he's Christian. There's evidence that he is. But Paul is calling Festus most noble. was speaking in a certain expected was speaking in a custom expected but our calling religious leaders master is not to be is not for us to do We, since we already have a master, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. And this is a part that I just added here, sitting here just a few minutes ago. And however established an ecclesiastical body may be, that body is not to call one master or pope or whatever. Paul discouraged schisms in the church. this way in First Corinthians three, four through seven. First Corinthians three four through seven For while one saith, I am of Apol, and another, I'm of Apollos, are you not carnal? Who then is Paul and who is Apollos, but ministers whom ye believed? Even as the Lord gave to every man. I have planted, Apollos watered But God gave the increase. So then, neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God giveth the increase. Those words don't even hinder the slightest, in the slightest degree, an established worldwide church. From saying, I am of Peter. They're proud of that They're proud of their disobedience. Jesus Christ is master to all who are in him. And I'm glad that we are in Christ, our Lord and Master. And that's why it's a pleasure to come to this church. It's a pleasure to be with the saints of God. The people in the pew and the people at the piano or the organ. Did you hear that organ the other day? That was tremendous. I like the piano. I like both of them. Jesus Christ is the master of all who are in him. And that suits us to a T. Let's pray. Our Father and our God, we come to thee again. Because our need is evident to thee. You know our need more than we know our need. So we bow before you and we place ourselves in your hands and ask, O God. That you would have mercy on us this day. We don't deserve mercy, but we ask for it. Bless this church. Mightily protect this church, its people, its leaders. May they have your wisdom May they have your protection, undergird them, and increase this ministry according to your own will and power. We pray in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. I don't know what assist