Democratic National Convention this week, giving out free abortions. So the lines are really drawn. If anybody ever wondered what the Democrats were for, That's what they're for right there. Very clear as they. They had a Holocaust ban right in front of the convention. So if you were wondering about going door to door this Saturday, let's turn our Bibles to 2 Kings chapter 19. Second Kings chapter nineteen and verse six And Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say to your master, Thus saith the Lord, be not afraid of the words which thou hast heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me. Let's bow in prayer, O Lord. We pray that thou bless thy word to our hearts this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have our continuing story here of when the Assyrians attacked Judah, the southern kingdom of Israel. And as I said before, this is a true story. There are actually historical records of this battle of what went on here from the Assyrians The stone carvings are in the British Museum today of this battle with Sennacherib and the Assyrians against Israel. And in the Bible Museum in Washington, there are the slingstones, the actual slingstones found at Lachish Which is mentioned in verse 8. But anyway, the actual slingstones from the battle are there in the museum right nearby here in Washington. And so this story here of this siege of Jerusalem and of the Assyrian attack on Israel is very important. God wants us to pay special attention to this. And how do we know God wants us to pay special attention to this? Well, this whole story of two chapters long is repeated three times in the Bible The whole chapters are repeated in Toto three times. They're here in 2 Kings, they're in 2 Chronicles, and they are in Isaiah. And why does God have things repeated in the Bible? For emphasis, to show they are important And that's how we can tell, you know, everything in the Bible is important. There's not some things that are not important and other things that are important, but there are some things that are more important. Than other things. And we can tell the things that are more important by the fact that they're repeated many times or multiple times. You know, something might be given in the Bible just once, and it's still important, but it's not as important as those things that are repeated. And so here we have this battle, and we have this siege of Jerusalem, and the armies of the Assyrians are all gathered around Jerusalem. And they have already taken the other cities of Judah. They've taken Lachish and probably taken Libna it talks about. And they've taken all the other cities And they're right there in Jerusalem, the capital city, and they're encamped around it, and things look really bad. Look really bad. They have hundreds of thousands of troops out there. And they are the Assyrians are like a steamroller rolling through the known world of that time They've taken this kingdom and that kingdom and the other kingdom and the steamrollers coming up here to Jerusalem. And it looks bad. And the Assyrians have tried psychological warfare. And this is our third message, actually, on this passage here, emphasizing its importance. And the messages have been entitled Trust Number One, Trust Number Two, and Trust Number Three And the big lesson here is to trust in the Lord. And God wants to get that across to us. And so, what does Isaiah say here in verse 6? He says, be not afraid. Be not afraid of the words which thou hast heard. You know, we have all kinds of problems in our lives. We have calamities that happen to us. And what should we do when we have those problems, when we have the calamities, when things look bad? We need to trust in the Lord and go to Him. That's the lesson from right here. And the question is there on trust. Who should we trust? When we have troubles. Who should we trust? Should we trust ourselves? No. Even though Madeline Murray O'Hare in Sunday school this morning was talking about Oh, man needs to trust himself and not look to anything else. But you know, man is weak, really weak And we're really helpless when you get right down to it. We can't trust in ourselves. And then people trust in other people. They can't really trust in them. People trust in the government. Did you know that? They trust that the government's going to do what's right for them. And actually, before I get to that, I I had an example of trust A week ago Saturday they had a festival in Middletown, Delaware, the Peach Festival, and they had food trucks there, and they had a seafood truck there And we decided to get some seafood there, but you know, as I was going up there, I was thinking, can I really trust that this seafood is not going to make me sick? You know, out of a truck there? Well, you know, that's a question. That's a real question. Who can you trust? If you go get the seafood there, you're trusting that it's not going to make you sick. And we did go and get some, and it didn't make us sick, even though it was excessively spicy. But anyway It was good. But who should you trust? Should you trust trust the food truck? Should you trust the government? And the government today says that abortion is good, basically. Our leaders say abortion is good, the ones that are in power. And this past week we went to the Smithsonian in Washington And you know, the Smithsan is just nothing but a DEI display today of diversity, equality, and inclusion. And it's just everywhere. But in the Natural History Museum, it's just all evolution. And just concentrates on that in the millions of years. But anyway, they had a display there of a giraffe. And a stuffed giraffe. And it's an impressive display. And the stuffed giraffe had his legs spread out and he was drinking. And you know, it's kind of hard for a giraffe to drink water out of a stream or something because he's so high up there. But anyway, it had him spread out drinking, and then it had a label there that said Oh, did you know how well evolved the giraffe is? He has valves in his neck that make it so the blood doesn't all run down to his head when he's drinking. But you know, they say that was evolved. How could that be evolved? How can anything very complex be evolved? Well, they say all you need is millions of years. Well, that's still not going to make it possible. And something very complex like that of Valve It wouldn't evolve all at once. It wouldn't be all of a sudden there's a valve there. It would evolve little by little by little. And how could it do that? And always have the evolving in a positive way, evolving exactly the right thing until finally you get that valve. I don't think so. And in fact, they say that all mutations are negative. They are losses of information. But you know what really that valve shows, and of course with the survival of the fittest, if you have a half-developed, complex thing, that's going to make you less fit, because you've got some baggage there. And no, the fittest would not have that baggage. And so it the whole thing doesn't make sense. But the government tells you that the evolution is true Can you trust the government? No. Can you trust public schools? Can you trust the scientists that tell you that evolution is true? No, you can't trust them. And we have to go to God for our trust. Let's continue here. Well, verse 7 Behold, I will send a blast upon them, upon him, the king of Assyria, and he shall hear a rumor. and shall return to his own land, and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land. And here's the message Isaiah is giving from the Lord. He's the prophet of the Lord. He's speaking forth the word of the Lord. And the servants of Hezekiah have come to him. Hezekiah has sent sent to Isaiah to ask about this great threat here and ask help from the Lord. And Isaiah gives a message from the Lord. And notice in this verse it says, Four things will happen that God will do four things. And there are specific things that God will do. You know, they've talked about people all through history that have prophesied things. And they say, oh, well, prophecies of the Bible are no big deal. There's no Stradamus. He used to prophesy things and all these other people. But you know, their prophecies are all very general. But here, this is prophecies specific. Number one, there's going to be a blast sent upon him. Number two, he's going to hear a rumor and will return. And number, well, he'll hear a rumor number two, number three, he'll return. And number four, he's going to fall by the sword in his own land. And we see all four of those things fulfilled in this passage. Specific things that happened. You know, Madeline Murray O'Hare said, oh, well, there never was any Jesus, there never was any resurrection, there never was any anything But you know, the Jesus' life, his resurrection, is the best attested to fact of history. It's attested to all over. The life of Jesus is attested to. If we can believe anything from history, we can believe that. Well, anyway, so we have these specific things that would happen. And we'll see those. Let's go on, verse 8. So Rab Shaka, he's the messenger of Sennacherib, the king of Assyria He returned and found the king of Assyria warring against Libna, for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish. And Lakish, that's where we have the great records from the Assyrians of how Sennacharib took Lachish He doesn't have records of how he took Jerusalem because he didn't, but he does of Lachish. And here it talks about that. He departed from Lachish because he had taken it And he was work it working against Libna now, the strong points of Israel. Then verse 9. And when he heard say of Turhaka, king of Ethiopia Behold, he has come out to fight against thee, he sent messengers again to Hezekiah Sae. Now, remember A blast was going to be sent upon him. We'll see that later. The blast, the big blast. There was a really big blast sent upon Sennacherib. But remember it said he would hear a rumor Well, right here we have the rumor. He heard the rumor that the king of Ethiopia was coming out against him. And Ethiopia in this time was a very powerful kingdom just below Egypt. Down in Black Africa. And it was a very powerful kingdom. We hear about it in the Bible. The blacks in the Bible are the Ethiopians. And so the Ethiopians were powerful. They had a huge army. We know earlier in 2 Kings we talked about Asa Asa the king had the Ethiopians come against him, and they had a million-man army that came against Asa. But God preserved Asa earlier. Well here the king of Assyria hears about the Ethiopians coming. He hears this rumor, and he thinks he needs to go out to fight the Ethiopians who are a big threat against him. But he's encamped around Jerusalem and he figures, well, I'll give it a last try here to take the city of Jerusalem and finish what I started here before I go back out to face the Ethiopians. And so he sends his messenger again to Hezekiah, saying, verse 10, Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah, king of Judah, saying, Let not the God in whom thou trustest deceive thee. saying, Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria. And so they repeat the things that they've said before, the Assyrians. They repeat the thing, don't trust in God. Don't trust in the God of Israel. And what do they give as reason for this that they shouldn't trust in God? Because all these other countries that they had taken all fell, and they all had their own gods, and their own gods did not protect them. And so because all these other gods didn't protect these other countries, your God in Israel is not going to protect you. We don't trust in him. And then verse 11. Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done. And then he lists all the different places that they attacked and took. Well, the thing is there's a big difference between these other gods that didn't help the peoples and the true God. They are all false, they don't exist, but the true God does exist. That's the big difference. You know, all the gods out in our world today, all the different religions in the world today are not equal. Some are false and one is true. The religion of the Bible is true. And McIntyre on the tape this morning, he tried to point that out. That this is the truth here, not all that atheism gobbledygook. And then verse 14. And Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messengers And read it, and Hezekiah went up to the house of the Lord and spread the letter here, talked about the threats of the Assyrians. He spread it out. Hezekiah split it out. Now we have Hezekiah's prayer. Hezekiah's prayer. So what does Hezekiah do? Looks really black and bad. He prays to the Lord. He goes to the Lord. And we have that prayer starting in verse 15. And Hezekiah prayed before the the Lord, and said, O Lord, God of Israel, which dot dwellest between the cherubim, thou art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth So he addresses God. He's the only God. And God created everything. It wasn't the bowel of the giraffe evolved, but God created it that way. You know, in that museum, it talks about, oh, look how wonderful these animals evolved, and this animal evolved, and that animal evolved. No. Look how wonderfully God created them. And you can see that. And then we go on to verse 16. Lord, bow down thine ear and hear. Open Lord thine eyes and see, and hear the words of Sennacherib. which hath sent him to reproach the living God. That's the situation here. The Assyrians are reproaching God. Verse 17, Of a truth, Lord, the kings of Assyria have destroyed the nations and their lands, and have cast their gods into the fire. For they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they have destroyed them. Did you ever hear, well, you know, the Muslims, you know, they may be wrong, but you know, it's great that they're sincere. Being sincere isn't enough. You can be sincerely wrong. We have to be sincerely right, and it's the truth of the Bible, the true God who really is in heaven. And then verse 19, now therefore, the end of his prayer, now therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out of his hand. That all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the Lord God, even thou only Well, here's the prayer of Hezekiah, five verses is all it is. It's a short prayer, short and to the point. And he says, Save us, O Lord, save us. We can't help ourselves. We can't save ourselves. Save us. Then verse 20. Then Isaiah, the son of Amos, sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. That which thou hast prayed to be against Sennacherib, king of Assyria, I have heard. You know, it's not when God says he hears something in the Bible, it doesn't mean he just happens to hear it No, when he hears a prayer, that means he's going to do something about it. And he's going to take it into consideration and answer it. And so I have heard this prayer, verse 21. This is the word that the Lord hath spoken concerning him, concerning Sennacherib The virgin, the daughter of Zion, hath despised thee and laughed thee to scorn, the daughter of Jerusalem hath shaken her head at thee. Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed, and against whom hast Hast thou exalted thy voice and lifted up thine eyes on high, even against the Holy One of Israel? It talks about here the virgin, the daughter of Zion. Here it personifies. That's a poetic device, personification. And here Israel is personified. As this virgin, the daughter of Zion. And Israel is laughing at that huge army out there because they have God on their side. And then they have dis blasphemed God. Sennacherib has blasphemed God. Verse 23. By thy messengers thou hast reproached the Lord and hast said with the multitude of Now get through this passage, how many times Sennacherib says, I and my That's the important thing to him. He is lifted up. It's through his great might, his great strength, his great wisdom, his great generalship that he's able to do everything. No, that's not what it's from And verse 23, with the multitude of my chariots, I am come up to the height of the mountains, to the sides of Lebanon, and will cut down the tall cedar trees thereof. and the choice fir trees thereof, and I will enter into the lodgings of his border and in the forest of Carmel. I have digg and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my feet have I dried up all the rivers of besieged places. So Senak Rub, he was really full of himself. You know the problem is when people get powerful, when they get famous, everybody looks to them and praises them. And what's the natural result of that? The person gets lifted up in pride. Preachers get that way too. When people all lift them up and praise them and everything, well They get lifted up in pride as well. But here at Sennacherib he's lifted up in pride. And you know what the Bible says about the people that are lifted up, the people at the head of governments and heads of things In the Bible, it tells us that God sets over the kingdoms the basest of men. Did you ever notice that with our leaders? The basest of men, the lowest of men, are the ones that God sets on high. Let's get on high. It's not the best men that are the rulers, it's the worst ones. And that's how God does things to show his power and to show that they aren't worthy of trust. But anyway, here's Sennacherib up at the top. And what does God answer here in verse 25? He answered Sidnacharib, Hast thou not heard long ago how I have done it? This is God speaking here God says it wasn't you that conquered all these other countries. It was I, God, who let you do it. I God was the one that goes on here. I have done it. And of ancient times that I have formed it. Now have I God. I have brought it to pass that thou shalt shouldest be to lay waste root-fenced cities into ruinous heaps Therefore their inhabitants were of small power. They were dismayed and confounded. They were as the grass of the field, as the green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as corn blasted before it be grown up. So God says here, you know why, Sennacherib, you were able to conquer all those cities? It's because I made them afraid. I made them melt away. That's what you want in warfare. You want your enemy to melt away. Just like our Uh just like they did in Afghanistan, the army of the Afghans just kind of melted away. That's what they want. And so here, they were melting away because God made it that way But verse 27, but I know thy abode and thy going out and thy coming in and thy rage against me. This is Sennacherib's rage. I know you, Sennacherib. Because thy rage against me and the tumult has come up into mine ears, therefore I will put my hook in my nose and my bridle in my lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest. And so God says, I put you here, but you know I'm going to turn you back and I'm going to put my hook in your nose. And that's significant there. The Assyrians used to do that to their captives. They used to put hooks in their nose and their skin and lead them away into captivity. That's in the historical records. And so God says he's going to do that exact same thing to the very king, Sennacherib. I'm going to put my hook in your nose. And verse 29, and this shall be the sign unto you. Ye shall eat this year sign to Israel. Ye shall eat this year such things as grow of themselves. And in the second year thou which bringeth of the same, and in the third year sow ye and reap and plant vineyards and eat the fruit thereof. And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall yet again take root downward and bear fruit upward, for out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant. And they that escape out of Mount Zion, the zeal of the Lord of hosts, shall do this And so here's comfort to Israel, comfort to Judah, that God was going to take care of them, that they were going to again plant fields, they were again going to have crops, they were again going to inhabit the land But there was only going to be a remnant left to do that, because the Assyrians had destroyed all the people around in the land, and only Jerusalem was left. A remnant was left That's what we have today of true believers, a remnant. There's a lot of stuff out there that calls itself Christianity and big crowds. But most of that is not really true. There's a remnant left of true believers today, I believe So we go on here, verse 32. Therefore, thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, he shall not come into this city. nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with a shield, nor cast a bank against it. By the way that he came by the same Shall he return and shall not come into this city, saith the Lord? For I will defend this city to save it For mine own sake and for my servant David's sake. So here God says he was going to defend the city, that Sennacherib was not going to come into Jerusalem, that his armies were not going to overcome the city That they were going to be saved. And he would defend the city for his own sake and also for David's sake. You know, what our forebears have done affects us. And the fact that we still have blessings in America, even though America is basically a godless country, the only reason we have those is because of our godly heritage and our forebears. And here we have that right here. David, because of David's godliness, God was going to defend Jerusalem. That was one of the reasons. And then verse thirty-five. And it came to pass that night that the angel of the Lord went out and smote in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred And fourscore and five thousand, hundred and eighty-five thousand. And when they arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses. So here God did it. The army was there around Jerusalem. The angel of the Lord went out that night and struck 185,000 of them dead that night. They awoke in the morning, they were all dead corpses. And God showed himself strong, and God shows himself strong for us today when we have problems. God has done many things for us. And you know, the Sennacherib, he left records of this, as I said before, of this coming to Israel. And Sennacherib, in his records, he says that he shut up Hezekiah like a bird in a cage. And he actually was being truthful. You know, you can't always depend on the records to be truthful. They might exaggerate them sometimes. But here he was exactly truthful. Sennacherib says, I shut up Hezekiah like a bird in a cage. He was shut up in Jerusalem. But that bird stayed there and got out of the cage later on. And then we have verse 36. So Sennacherib, king of Assyria, departed and went and returned and dwelt at Nineveh, Nineveh, his capital city. And it came to pass as he was worshipping in the house of Nizroch his god, that Adramelech and Sharesar his son smote him with the sword, and they escaped into the land of Armenia And Esarhaddon, his son, reigned in his stead. Well, what happened to that great Sennacherib? His sons, his own sons, killed him. And he was smitten by the sword, just as had been prophesied. And it had been prophesied that he would be killed in his own land. And that's exactly what happened. His son smote him. Do you know what people that are famous and powerful are very concerned about? They're very concerned about the people right around them. They're very concerned that the people right around them will not turn against them. Very concerned about that. You know, Dr. McIntyre there on the on the video there Uh that's one thing I noticed about him. I was working with him in years gone by and he was a great preacher. Everything he said was good. But you know, he was very famous. We talked about that on that. He was very powerful. He had a huge empire of properties and 600 radio stations and all that. But I noticed something he was very concerned about were the people right around him, that they were loyal. And so when they were loyal, he was loyal to them And so, but he was concerned about that as people powerful and famous are. And Sennacherib, what happened to him? The person right next to him killed him his sons. That's what always happened to the Caesars many times in Rome. The palace guard, the Praetorian guard, would kill them when it game became too dangerous there And so you see the timing here? When was Sennacherib killed? Right in the moment when he was worshiping his false God. God shows his hand by the timing of things. And you can see that in our lives, the timing of things. God shows things. It's not a coincidence that happened things happen at the same time. No. It's God's hand in the affairs of men. So here we have trust number three. The last one. There won't be a trust number four. Just trust number three. That's the end of that account. of Sennacherib with Israel, and Sennacherib's army is destroyed, 185,000 corpses, and Sennacherib goes home and gets killed. Well, what's the lesson for us? Trust. Trust in the Lord. And I want to leave you with a poem here today. Which I said in the past I don't do very often, and you've noticed, but I did have a poem uh a few weeks ago, and now we're gonna have one more poem. About walking on the sea. And this is by Nathaniel Hawthorne. Nathaniel Hawthorne was a great author of American history in the 1800s. who was wrote many things. He wrote The Scarlet Letter. He's he wrote a lot of other things. And he wrote some good stuff. And here's Walking on the Sea. When the storm on the mountains of Galilee fell and lifted its waters on high, and the faithless disciples were bound in the spell, a mysterious alarm. their terrors to quell, Jesus whispered, Fear not, it is I. The storm could not bury that word in the wave. For 'twas taught through the tempest to fly. It shall reach his disciples in every climb, and his voice shall be near in each troublous time. saying, Be not afraid, it is I. This is talking about when he walked on the sea, there was a big storm, and he calmed the storm and said to these disciples, Be not afraid, it is I When the spirit is broken with sickness or sorrow, and comfort is ready to die, the darkness shall pass, and in gladness to morrow the wounded complete consolation shall borrow. From his life-giving word it is I. When death is at hand, and the cottage of clay is left with a tremulous sigh. The gracious forerunner is smoothing the way for its tenant to pass to unchangeable day, saying, Be not afraid, it is I. When the waters are past, and the glories unknown burst forth on the wondering eye, the compassionate lamb in the midst of the throne shall welcome, encourage, and comfort his own. And say, be not afraid, it is I. Let's bow in prayer. Oh, Lord, we just pray that thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts O Lord, help us not to be afraid. Help us to trust in Thee. In Jesus' name. Amen.