Kind of may make sense. Somebody I don't know what you were preaching about. Let's open our Bible's New Testament letter, Second Timothy chapter two. We're going to begin with verse nineteen today and read through the end of the chapter. Second Timothy two. Follow along, please, as I read, beginning at nineteen. Paul writes, Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal. The Lord knoweth them that are his, and let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth, and some to honor and some to dishonor. If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, and meet for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work. Flee youthful lusts, but follow after righteousness, faith, charity, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. But foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do gender strife And the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient, in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves If God, peradventure, will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive by him at his will. We're thankful for this his word, trusting that it has brought truth to our hearts. Shall we pray? Lord, we offer up uh this portion of our morning service to you in the proclamation of your word. It, Lord, is a banquet table of good things And we Lord are people who have uh a need for this uh spiritual food. Uh your servant, Lord uh Haitim. And may Christ be seen in his glory. May your spirit have free course in each of our hearts. Set aside, Lord, uh all of the distracting thoughts that may have been brought in and and that we might be able to give ourselves wholly unto this your word. And we're thankful for it in Christ's name. Amen. I'm not sure if everyone caught this last week, whether your hearing aid was on or not, but in the course of my message I used the term invisible church. And that may kind of sound strange to some at times. If you're not familiar with it, this isn't something that David Blaine would perform as a magic trick and stand in front of a building with a puff of smoke and a waving of the hand and the church building disappears. But it is much more than that. The invisible church speaks of true believers We see this in our verse 19 that we just read. Again, Paul says, Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, note, the Lord knoweth them that are his. He's basically saying, not everyone that says, I'm a Christian, is. He's basically bringing forth the truth that within the world in which we live, not as all as it is seeming My Pennsylvania driver's license gives all kinds of specific information about me. Address and birthplace and and blood type and and even a place if I'm an organ donor or not. But there's no such ID that indicates a regenerated heart. There's no ID that we could carry around with us to say that I'm a born-again child of God. Only God Himself knows those things, and hence the term invisible church. This was the issue that Timothy was dealing with. The visible church and the invisible church. But Timothy couldn't see the invisible. He was dealing just with the visible church, those who were on his membership role, the church at Ephesus. And he was struggling with what seemed to be those who were not on God's role. Some of the visible members were not in God's role because of the things they were doing, the way they were acting, the conflicts that they were being caused So to help young Timothy with this mystery dealing with a visible, invisible church, Paul gives a very interesting and I think very simple illustration in verse 20. Look what he says. But in a great house, now when you hear great house, you might think of some mansion, you know, with all of the the the pools and and extra garages and so forth, but it's really a term for just a large house. It's the church. But in the great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and earth, and some to honor and some to dishonor. So in this great house, there are all types of utensils, all types of tools and things of all sizes and shapes, and maybe you could think of your own house or your own apartment And we would go through them all. And unless you were really a person who has just recently really did some spring cleaning in winter or New Year's, and cleaned out all of the stuff that is of worth worthless, I'm sure that you've got things that you would consider to be worthless that belong out on the curb when the trash man comes by. And get rid of them. Things of dishonor. But you've also got things in your house that are treasures that are special to you. Things that you would display, things you say, I'll never get rid of this. And those are things of honor. So Paul presents a picture of the church here. He says within this church There are things of honor and things of dishonor. People of honor and people of dishonor. Listen to what Jesus says in Matthew 13. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that when it is cast into the sea and gathered of every kind, which, when it was full, they drew on the shore, sat down, and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away So it may be at the end of the world that the angels shall come forth and sever the wicked from among the just, and shall cast them into the furnace of fire. There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Jesus says within the church, the visible church, there are those who are vessels of honor, but dishonor. In the parable that he gave of this net, he says The end of the world, there'll be this gathering of all, and there'll be the judgment for those who are not part of the visible or the invisible church So here Paul says that the visible church, there are true believers, and he refers to them as what? Gold and silver. And it probably is something that the only d discerning part between gold and silver, both valuable, is that one may be more faithful or more gifted, the other a little less faithful or a little less gifted. But generally speaking, they are all part of the category of the uh the the the the honor that is brought within the church Yet in the visible church, the same place, there are among those who are just professors, just professing Christ just by name, saying this is a uh I'm I'm I'm a believer, I'm part of the ch body of Christ, but they are not at all. They are merely hypocrites So Paul refers to them as wood and earthen. Earthen, like uh probably like ceramics You take from the soil and craft something. If it breaks, no big deal, uh of of less honor So these bring only dishonor. They may be in the same house, same visible church, yet God knows those who bring honor, and God knows those who bring dishonor. What a mix. What a mess. Yet even though there are vessels of dishonor present in the house Timothy, being sure that he remains a vessel of honor, Paul says, despite all that's going on around you, Timothy I want you, and not only for Timothy himself, but those who are vessels of honor within the church, I want you to remain vessels of honor. I want you to be standing forth, showing these truths. So in verse 21 If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, and meet for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work. If a man therefore purge or separate himself from these, meaning from the wood, from the earthen, then he becomes one who is honored. Miling and I had spent probably first probably within two years in the Philippines and I was invited by another uh missionary, another foreign missionary, over to their uh prayer meeting and I was encouraged because he said, I'm Presbyterian in background and a lot of the Philippines, uh a lot of the the good fundamental work is done by Baptists over there. So I really jumped at the chance to go and visit them. It was a midweek prayer service and he wanted to just uh uh know, uh give a little brief testimony, what we did and where we were from and so forth, things like that, you know. And the service started out, and we had a uh opening prayer, a couple of hymns, uh they took prayer requests, and then the missionary got up and gave some uh some devotion. And as he's going through it There is just kind of a feeling that things just weren't right. You know one of those those gut feelings you say, eh, something doesn't smell real good And we finished the service, they had prayer time, and we finished and we got chance to talk with them, have a little refreshments, and come to find out the church only believed in the writings of the Apostle Paul No gospels, no Old Testament, no John, no James, no Peter, only Paul. So on the outset, and they were they were kind, they were friendly, they seemed to be hard-working people, they had all of the all of the makings of being vessels of honor. Yeah, all the presentation of everything that we say, boy, this is good. And yet as you went into it a little bit further, you say, boy, that th those particular teachings lead you to vessels of dishonor So as Paul says, if a man therefore purge himself, separate himself, I basically said to Millie afterwards, I said, this is what they believed, and she says, eh This isn't good. We we didn't fellowship with them anymore. You know, we we we distanced ourselves, we purged ourselves from that because of the danger of the things that they believed. Nice people, welcoming, friendly, but they were not necessarily part of the visible church or the invisible church. With that in mind, Paul turns to Timothy and he says to him, he says, if a man therefore purge himself from these Who are the ones within the church that Timothy had trouble with? Remember those two names? Hymenius and Philetus? Remember those characters? And not only those two, but their particular disciples And so he's telling Timothy, and he says, and there's probably two ways that it could be looked at. He says, because of their destructive teaching, uh remember what they taught? He says uh uh the resurrection is already passed. What happens if you're sitting in the church and he says the resurrection is already passed? You're here, you're alive, that means you missed the vote. You know? Imagine how discouraging that was to the people And it talked about the people lost their faith. They were destroyed because of that. So he's telling Tim that these says there needs to be purging from these. And on one hand you can say clearly he's telling him these people have to be under church discipline, have to be uh either kicked out of the church and be dealt with, but be dealt with strongly The other way, and if that wasn't quite what Paul was speaking about, it's possible that these two men and their disciples, Himeneus and Philetus, uh weren't really part of the church, but they had an influence in the church. Their teachings from the outside, uh uh however it was, or they had been and then they left. Their teachings remained And so Paul is telling Timothy, he says, Timothy, these corrupt teachings have to be cleaned out. There has to be a separation, a purging of the garbage that has infiltrated within the church, a cleaning out. of of of those things as you were. And once that was accomplished, in either case, whether by church discipline or just the cleaning up of their doctrines, he says, he finishes in verse 21 He shall be a vessel of honor, sanctified, meet for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work. Timothy, for you. I want you to remain like that. He was a young man, some say between uh uh mid-twenties, thirties, maybe even up into his forties, you know. Uh he says the influence was there. He could have been following along with this. If not Timothy, then others within the church. But he's saying, if this is done, he says a vessel of honor, sanctified meat for the master's use, prepared unto any every good work. Was Paul just saying that to encourage Timothy? Sometimes, you know, he's about to die. Um Timothy's going through some hard times. He's been he's been hard with him in this letter, telling him about the difficulties that are in the ministry You think well maybe I ought to be back off a little bit and tell him, you know, Timothy, you know, you do some of these things and boy, this is going to go well. No, he wasn't. He was speaking from his own life This is the same man, this the Apostle Paul, who was the Pharisee, the persecutor of the church. No man could hold to a candle to the zeal that Paul had when it came to persecuting Christians. If there was ever a vessel of dishonor in the eyes of the Lord, Paul didn't see it that way, but if there was ever such a vessel, it was Paul. And yet, what had become of Paul? He was redeemed and brought into the family of God, and all of a sudden he becomes from a vessel of dishonor to be a vessel of honor. And out of his own testimony, a vessel of honor, sanctified meat for the master's use, prepared unto every good work. Prized, I'm serving the Lord. And Paul never took that as a matter of boast pride in his own life. He always reduced himself humbly, but he's saying, Lord, I've been useful to the Lord. I'll do anything. I'll go anywhere. And he did So Paul tells Timothy, he says, if these things are accomplished, you make yourself available unto the Lord, which is of greatest honor and greatest joy. Thus the accomplishment of such a task. How we should hunger and thirst for the same. To know that in my life I can be useful to Jesus, to do anything, to go anywhere, whatever He has for me to do. No greater honor than to accomplish that. Yet in separating ourselves from corrupt doctrine and false teaching really isn't enough. One side you could say, well, I don't believe in any of those things, but life is much more than that. Look at verse 22. Paul starts here in this last section from verse twenty-two on to the end of the chapter, in talking about something that's both necessary to do and not to do Separating from and an attachment to, always with the idea of separation. You separate from something, but you separate unto something. 22 he says, flee youthful lusts But follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. Flea, youthful, lust, separating. One commentator gave us three categories with this. He says pleasure, power, and possessions. Lust, uh in an an ordinate desire for something. You know, and that can be good. You can lust for those good things But oftentimes in the context of discussion in life, it's a lusting after power, pleasure, and possessions. And he uses the term use, I believe, because first of all Timothy was considered a young man. But I think in all of life and in our own experiences, we understand that youth becomes the most susceptible part of life to receive such a temptation. The carrot being dangled in front. More power. More more more what did I give uh power, possessions, and pleasure. All those three they're they're offered to us on a platter at times throughout all of the all of the forms that we see within life even today. Possessions. Not quite evident in the world, oh yes they are. They're everywhere. Power and so forth. So as I separate from those, he follows by saying, instead Attach yourself, pursue yourself, the opposite. He says, follow pleasure, per follow or pursue righteousness. Follow after, pursue faithfulness. Follow after, pursue charity. Follow after and pursue peace with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. You know, when we leave something, we don't leave a vacuum. We have to fill that vacuum with whatever has been left, with those things that are good. And Paul says, Timothy, these are the things, righteousness, faithfulness, charity, uh uh peace. What a joy that we find in life when we follow after those and fill our hearts with such. Verse 23. But foolishness and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do gender stripes. Gender is they continue to produce We've already seen in the past earlier verses the problem that existed in this church with word battles There were people in the church that were using conflicts over theological terms and so forth. Kenneth Weist translates this verse But stupid questions and questionings that come from an uninstructed and undisciplined mind refuse. Knowing that they constantly beget contentions. In Timothy's day, it could have been any number of things that they were talking about. It could have been matters of genealogies or Jewish traditions. There's a question that fits in with today. He says, if God is omnipotent and God can do anything, can God make a rock so heavy that he cannot lift it? How stupid, you know? And yet put it in the context of what was going on then in the church with Timothy. You're saying we're battling over something that is absolutely of worth worthless. Another one, can God create a prison so secure that he cannot escape from it? Why even go there? But he's saying there are conflicts that continued and and he's emphasizing this because I kind of think Timothy was falling into these arguments, discussions, and so forth. Verse 24 continues with the same thought. And the servant of the Lord must not strive or must not quarrel. You could almost put that part with verse 23. The servant of the Lord, I believe, should resemble his Lord Jesus Christ, who is always meek and always lowly. You read the New Testament, read the Gospel examples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Peter says in 1 Peter chapter 2 For even hereunto we called, and he's talking to us believers, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps. He's not talking about us we should follow in his steps to suffer. But he says, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously. Look at Christ's example before the courts, before his accusers, before the Pharisees and the Sadducees When did he ever lift up his voice, with the exception of the times that he cleaned out the temple? And I'm sure that he didn't s have to say very many words, but he told them, you know, they had made the temple of the Lord into a den of thieves, you know. Um but he's I can't see Jesus standing in front of the Sanhedrin and saying, Well, you got me now, but wait till I come back a second time, you guys are gonna get it. You know? He didn't. quarreling, uh trying to answer foolish questions with with with foolish discussions. There's no place within the body of Christ. So we are to do the same, not to quarrel, but he says, to be gentle. Kind. He says, unto all men, apt or having the ability to teach. Having patience, in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves, if peradventure will give, God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. That if I present not argument for loudness of voice or trying to timid mention about arguing with cramming down my opinions down somebody's throat He says, if I'm gentle and if I'm kind and I'm patient and I'm teaching in the matter of meekness, that God would take those opportunities And it's possible that he would use them, as he says, that they would acknowledge the truth, that God would make that conversion of the heart And that verse 26, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who hath taken captive by him at his will. He's instructing Timothy, and he says, Timothy, he says, instruct the uninstructed. Educate the uneducated. Inform the uninformed. Your gentleness and your kindness may not always be reciprocated properly. You've experienced that in your own life. You've gone out of a pure heart and a pure motive to talk to somebody about Christ and and you've gotten blasted. You've gotten the the track ripped up and thrown in your face, the door slammed. Well, forget that. I'm not going to talk to anybody anymore But we do it out of grace and kindness. And he says, if that's the possible direction that you go, he says, that's what the Lord uses in their hearts. That kindness, that gentleness, bringing forth such a truth. John Wesley, around twenty-one years of age, gone to Oxford University, and if you read about his his history It's doubtful that he wa was a born-again believer at this time. But as a student in Oxford, everybody knew he came from a Christian home. He was gifted, a very keen mind, and according to some records, he was a you know a pretty good-looking man. Yet, this talk about he was quite snobbish and sarcastic One night something happened that changed Wesley's attitude, changed his direction in life, his heart. While speaking to a porter, he discovered that the man had only one coat, didn't even have a bed where he lived, didn't even have a bed in his poor conditions of life. Yet he was unusually happy. He was filled with gratitude to God. Wesley rather immature and jokingly came to the man in sarcasm, uh said to him, uh he says, Well, and what else are you thankful for? You know. The guy had nothing, yet he was thankful And so then Porter turned to Wesley and he says, I thank him that he has given me a life and being, a heart to love him, and above all, a constant desire to serve him. Talk about vessels of honor and vessels of dishonor. The vessel of dishonor, John Wesley becomes uh a powerful preacher, a planter of churches, a missionary uh here in America and and all throughout England But at this particular stage in his in his life he saw no need for that, and he became uh that which was necessary for this poor parter porter to tell him what it was to be a vessel of honor. C. T. Studd wrote uh it's a little lengthy poem, um, but I think it bears reading. Uh two little lines I heard one day travelling along life's busy way. Bringing conviction to my heart, and from my mind, would not depart. Only one life twill soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ will last. Only one life, yes, only one. Soon will its fleeting hours be done Then, in that day, my Lord to meet, and stand before his judgment seat. Only when life twill soon be past, only what's done for Christ will last. Only when life, the still small voice, gently pleads for a better choice, bidding me selfish aims to leave, And to God's holy will to cleave Only one life twill soon be past, only what's done for Christ will last. Only one life, a few brief years, each with its burdens, hopes, and fears. Each with its clays I must fulfill, leaving living for self or in his will. Only when life will soon be passed, only what's done for Christ will last When this bright world would tempt me soar, when Satan would a victory score, when self would seek to have its way, then help me, Lord with joy to say, Only one life 'twill soon be passed, only what's done for Christ will last. Give me, Father, a purposeful deep In joy or in sorrow, thy word to keep, faithful and true, whate'er the strife pleasing thee in my daily life. Only what's only one light will soon be passed, only what's done for Christ will last. Oh, let my love with fervor burn, and from the world From the world, now let me turn. Living for thee and thee alone, bringing thee pleasure on thy throne, only one life 'twill soon be passed, only what's done for Christ will last. Only one life, yes, only one. Now, let me say, Thy will be done. And when at last I hear the call, I know I'll say, 'Twas worth it all. Only one life to soon be past, only what's done for Christ will last. A vessel of honor and dishonor As God has chosen these within the church at Ephesus, there was was that mix. And it didn't mean that once they were vessels of dishonor, that they couldn't become vessels of honor, because the power of the gospel changes those hearts Yet the apostle says, Timothy, he says, in order for you to be and remain a vessel of honor, those choices have to be made. You have to decide. Who are you living for? What's the direction of your heart? Where are you going with your plans, your intentions, and so forth? What Paul offers here to Timothy in closing that that particular uh passage he says, uh we become uh servants of the Most High God, and he grants unto us uh sanctification And the word sanctification is a separation from. We are born-again children, and we are separated from the world, and we are separated unto God. We've talked about that before, being purchased by his precious blood, not that I would serve myself, but that I would serve unto him that we are vessels of of purpose, that we can say, Lord, whatever you would have me to do, I'll go wherever you want me to go. Again, because we're not our own, because He's given us the privilege to give Him our all. Uh how is it with you today? I know that the conflicts that exist within our own souls, within family. within the nation, within the world. Um we have no no idea uh how long we're going to be here. Talked about Mrs. Mrs. Myers, you know uh lived a long life. But how many of us can say we're going to go another day? None of us have that conflict. Yet C. T. Stud says, only one life. It'll soon be passed Only what's done for Christ will last. That is the eternal gambit of it. You drive down through the cities and you see all of the names that are on top of the buildings, you know. such and such a store or such and such a building. And in those days those people were powerful and famous. They had their name uh in stone above that that doorway or that archway, you know It's going to be there to let everybody know that that's my business. And you go by fifty, hundred years later and say, Who is that? I have no idea. What will they remember us for? What is going to be thought? Was I a child of God? Was I a vessel of honor? Was I a vessel that was used by the Master in order that he might proclaim through me in some fashion the glorious gospel of Christ? Or did I bring him dishonor? Was I one who has uh not known him and really didn't care about knowing him? Uh walked through my life as merely a professor of the gospel Consider these things. Father, we're thankful as we again close this chapter. We recognize the power of the lust in the world We recognize the natural tendency to be people of argumentation about foolish things. We recognize also, though, Lord, that you work through your children. You work through their kindness, their acts of peace, you work through their generosity, you work through their love, in order to change hearts, to bring those who were vessels of dishonor to become vessels of honor. Father, in the stillness of our morning, in the quietness of this particular time, help us to search out our hearts for our priorities. Recognizing, Father, that one day this life will come to a close and what is left for us, for our name, will only be what we have done for the Lord Jesus Christ Seal upon our hearts these truths in Jesus name, Amen