We begin a statement that somebody had made what you find interesting. And most important item in it, a confession of my faith in Jesus Christ as my Savior. I also desire to bear witness to the fact that throughout my life, in which there were unusual joys and sorrows, I have been wonderfully sustained by my faith in God through Jesus Christ. This legacy was left me by my consecrated mother, a woman strong in faith, and to it I attribute any success I have attained. H. G. Heinz, the Heinz Corporation, it has surely changed, you know, but amazing, absolutely amazing. Let's open our Bibles, please, to 1 Peter. And it'll be chapter 2, a few verses I want to share this morning. First Peter Chapter Two And just kindly follow along with your eyes. I'll be reading verses eleven through fifteen. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lust, which war against the soul. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers They may, by your good works, which they shall glorif they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as supreme, or unto governors as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God, that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. May God bless our hearts the reading of His Word. Let's pray. Father, we're thankful that again we may begin a brand new week here in your house. As we open up a new month, we're mindful of your tender mercies. We're thankful, Father, for favoring us with your presence even now. And as we are approaching your word and this letter from Peter, the application of the truths that he brings to us today. by the guidance of your Spirit be uh proofworthy of your love for us. Help us to be good listeners. Help us our help us to have our hearts receptive to those truths which are necessary. And forgive us of our sin and pray, Father, your name will be glorified in it all. In Christ's name. Amen. There's been kind of a recent trend, I think in America, I don't know about other countries, for hyphenated names. Uh I know there are some uh uh ladies who take their maiden name and they'll hyphenate it with their married name, you know. There are even times when it even goes a little bit further than that a broader application, we're no longer just Americans, we're Jewish Americans, or we are Protestant Americans, or we are African Americans, or Asian Americans. And it's not even listed to limited to race. It goes on beyond that. We have obese Americans, we have uh disabled Americans, we have vegetation vegetation, vegetation, vegetarian Americans, we even have some uh uh other categories that it makes it sound kind of foolish. Uh sometimes even to the case of being anti-American. It just doesn't even make sense. But if there was a case for a hyphenated name with American, I believe it would be the Christian American. For indeed, there's a uniqueness that is ours in Christ for all who follow Christ as Americans The Christian American pledges allegiance to the American flag while holding up the blood-stained incense of the Lord Jesus Christ in the same way. The Christian America will fight for freedom for his fellow citizens, yet he has yielded to the king of kings in all aspects of life. The Christian in America loves his country, yet he is assured and he desires a better, which is still to come in glory with our Lord. And it is true that the Christian America have the has a unique position as citizens of our of our nation, unique of all the world. Our scripture reading here from Peter provides us with an insight that Peter gives to the church. And it's written in the sense to those who are scattered abroad not in a particular location, a particular building or city, but to those who were within the Roman Empire some 2,000 years ago. He counseled them on how they were to live this kind of dual citizenship, as living in Rome as well as being members of the heavenly kingdom. I believe that as we look at Peter's advice given to those back in those centuries, I think it also makes some good application for these same truths for us as Americans today. As I'm sure you would agree, the hope of America is not going to be found in leadership in in Washington or Annapolis or Harrisburg. or even from another extent on the West Coast, liberals on the California side of our country. But I think we can recognize that America's hope recog is recognized in its citizens that who through the power of the gospel have had their hearts changed that the power of the gospel bound within the heart of those believers can make change within this country for good With that in mind, I want us to look at what Peter has to say here for a number of points that will bring what he presented to those of the of the Roman Empire and as Christians and make application for us today. Verse 11 is our first point, and notice what he says here that he's writing for those living in Roman provinces under Romans' rule, and he says, dearly beloved, I beseech you or I beg you as strangers and citizens Remember the context in which they were living. They were living in a nation of Rome, and they were living under the government of Rome, and yet he tells them that you were strangers and pilgrims in your position. Like you, I am a proud American. I'm grateful to God that I was born in this nation. I pledge my allegiance to her Yet America is not the only place which I'm connected. Peter says to those back then, and even says to us today, that we are strangers. Again, verse 11, pilgrims and strangers has nothing to do with the name of the church. The original text has these two words very similar It indicates that somebody who resides in a foreign country, strangers and pilgrims, somebody who's living in a foreign country, They both indicate this because Peter is trying to deliver the idea that while these Christians may live with the natives of that country, those who were born there as regular citizens, they are truly not part of them. In other words, there is supposed to be something strange about those living in this foreign land As Christian Americans, we may and we do live by those who are not part of the household of faith. It's just part of the nature of the world in which we live in. We're supposed to yet act differently, strangely. We're supposed to love our Lord and not the culture that we're found in. We're supposed to abide by what he has presented to us. We're supposed to be strangers in this land. I want to read a few lines from Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. How many have are not familiar with Pilgrim's Progress? This is a section in Pilgrim's Progress where uh Christian and faithful are coming up to Vanity Fair. And it kind of gives a little bit of background in this city on their way to the celestial city. Bunyan writes, then I saw in my dream that when they got them out of the wilderness They presently saw a town before them, and the name of the town was Vanity. And at that town there was a great fair kept called Vanity Fair It is kept all year long. It bears the name of Vanity Fair because the town where it is kept is lighter than Vanity. And also because all that are there sold, and that comes there is vanity. As the saying is wise, all that comes is vanity. This fair is so erect that is the business, but the thing of ancient standing, I will show the origin of it. Almost 5,000 years ago, there were pilgrims walking along to the celestial city. As these two persons came, they are Beelzebub, Apollon, and Legion, with their companions, perceiving by their path that these pilgrims made, that there was no way to lay the city I'm sorry, that there is no way the city lay through the town of vanity. So they contrived where they could go up to that fair, and a fair wherein they should be sold all sorts of vanity And that it should be all year long. Therefore at that fair all such merchandise sold as houses, lands, trades places, honors, preferments, titles, countries, kingdoms, lusts, pleasures, and delights of all sorts as whores, both was wives, husbands, children, masters, servants, lives, blood, bodies, souls, silver, gold, pearls, precious stones, and the whatnot And moreover, at this fair there were at all times to be seen juggling cheats, games, plays, fools, apes, knaves, rogues, and every sort of kind. Here to be seen too, and that for nothing, thefts, murders, adulteries, false swears, and that of red color Blood red color. Pilgrim and Christian are on their way to the celestial city and the wicked one comes along and he says, All these pilgrims to Christians are on their way and there's no temptation to stop them. So Vanity Fair is created, and that's the world that's around us. We're not to be comfortable. We're not to be satisfied with the amusements that the world has laid before us. All of our society is vanity fair. We're not to be submissive to the social pleasures of this godless age. And while we share a common land, we're not to be part of it. The believer is a stranger in this land, and the Christian American is supposed to be different from the residents. He's supposed to be different from all that know not Christ. You've heard the statement of America's called the melting pot. Well, it's because of all the ethnic and cultural diversity that exists here Well apparently the phrase came out of a play from 1908. It was of that same name. Here's a part of that play. Understand that America is God's crucible, the great melting pot, where all of the races of Europe are melting and reforming. Germans and Frenchmen and Irishmen and Englishmen and Jews and Russians into a crucible with you all. God is making that America Well, America may have a great form of unity and a great form of diversity, yet in the sense that God's people are never melted into the same culture as everybody else. The social demands on us today to accept the new unity of diversity, pressing us from every form, ever increasing, we should be avoiding. The truth of God's word is that Christian Americans, we are strangers in this land, separate from those who attend to such things connected with the culture of our age. Not only are we strangers, but he also tells us that we are pilgrims, or in reality, settlers The Greek word that Peter has chosen to use here speaks of a foreigner settled in a particular native land. Similar to strangers, but somebody who is there who has a relationship with that land. The word literally means resident alien. Kind of like a green card holder, if we could get any better idea than that. Yes, Christ's people are strangers in this country, and yet we are citizens of it. This is not our landing, yet we are citizens of this country. We are residents of this great nation. There is a sense in which the Christian America must live separately from the world around him. Yet there is another sense in the relationship that we have with this land, with its residents, that we have a responsibility to participate in the land that we live in. I'm on my way to heaven, but until I get there, I'm a red-blooded flag-waving American, tax-paying citizen of the Great Republic of the United States. That's the part upon which I have a responsibility. I believe in the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, Apple Pie, Baseball, and all that's contained within it I won't burn the flag. I support the troops. I vote whenever the polls are open. It's my responsibility as a stranger, as a pilgrim in this land. As Christian Americans, we separate ourselves from sin, but that doesn't mean we remove ourselves from society, that we remove ourselves from our responsibility to that Like some foreign cult hiding out in the desert and saying, we we live in this country, but we have nothing to do with it. Or if such and such happens, I'm going to move to Canada We have an obligation as residents of this country to engage in the process to keep this as a country we as good citizens and as good Christians abide by. It annoys me terribly when there are complaints that come up about people re refusing to accept the decline on this nation and have nothing to do with that and they refuse to vote. We had a neighbor uh some years ago right across from us and he says, I just don't like what's going on. I says, Well George, do you go and vote? No, it's no good. I'm not gonna do anything like that It's ridiculous. Our connection to this country is one as a stranger as well as a settler, and we need to live as both So Peter comes and he says, this is our relationship and the connection we have with this land, strangers and pilgrims. But next he also teaches us about our conduct. in this land, in the country we live in, how we are to live. Again, verse 11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, I beg you, as strangers and pilgrims Abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that, whereas they speak against you as evildoers They may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. If we have such a unique relationship to this land, God-given, we must, as Peter tells us, show a way that we conduct ourselves as behavior to the fellow citizens of this land. He says, first of all, that we are conducting ourselves to be abstinent. Be abstinent. He says, abstain from fleshly lust. Abstain literally means to hold back. to hold back from those things which are so prevalent in the land around us. The Word of God says that we are heavenly citizens. In an earthly country that we should hold ourselves back from the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life We live in a country, or at least in a world I think, that where hedonism rules. They live by the motto, if it feels good, do it. I deserve it. This is my opportunity. I've worked so far. I desire this now. Let me just go on and do as I please. We live in a time when people across our nation will do whatever it takes to satisfy that desire, that feeling, the uh the the hunger cravings that they have, regardless of what moral boundaries they pass. What laws that they have breaking just do it? Things that were once culturally shameful, even among the heathen, are now widely accepted. The line between right and wrong is being scattered. Sometimes it's even disappeared. There is no right and wrong. Let's do as we please, because I want to Yet in the midst of such a society, we as God's people must hold back. We simply can't allow the cravings of the lust that the world offers to take us. Olympics are coming up and we're kind of looking forward to that. I always liked the competition. And I'm sure, or I'm not quite sure, but relatively sure that McDonald's is going to be another one of the sponsors of of the Olympics because they just like to get in there. But I find it ironic that McDonald's goes ahead and they become a sponsor of it, and yet I wonder how many of those athletes before their race or in their training was sit down and have a big double cheeseburger, a big Mac and Big Fries and a Big Milkshake in order to win the the contest. It just doesn't happen. Because their purposeful goal is to be able to give all that I have in my training and in my preparation to be victorious in the end to win. And I can't compromise that. No way. And I think as believers we need to remember that not everything that is popular, not everything that is good, not everything that sounds good, not everything that is offered by the world around us that is good for you is good. Peter says these things war against our souls. Abstain from them So the Christian American should conduct himself in abstinence. But next he tells us, he says, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. We should be attractive to the world. We should be attractive to the country in which we live. Not only abstinence is there, but he says the matter of our behavior, our conduct is important. He mentions here the word honest, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. It keeps, comes from a Greek word, but it literally means beautiful. In other words, that the presentation that I have before the world around me is to be seen as beautiful to those that are there The idea that living our lives and the way we live and our behavior should be beautiful and attractive to those around us. We should live in such a way that the Christ-like life is a magnet to the people. That draws them to us in Christ. You should know by now that the world we live in has its own standard of beauty. Society measures beauty by the way you look, by the beauty of the body, by the color of the hair, by the clothes that you dress By the way that you act and talk and so forth, and they they examine, he said, This is attractive, this is beautiful, this is what we all should strive for. But the Bible says that we understand what makes a person beautiful is the kind of life that they live. The beauty of the inner man, the beauty of the soul that exudes from a Christ-like life. We should be less involved in concerning what we would look like as a model in a magazine and more like looking like Christ of the scriptures. And I don't mean that No problem with the beard. But having some beard or something like that, I want to look like Jesus, look back in the first century, you know. That's not what he's talking about. The beauty of the Lord Jesus Christ. When I was in high school the guys would often rate girls, you know. And I know this sounds very stupid, but we'd rate them by their beauty, you know. This is a nine or a ten or an eight or you know, all the way down And and if she was attractive, she got a nine or a ten, you know. But if she was built like a linebacker and had one glass eye, you know, she was knocked down to a one or two, and it was just kind of the joke for everybody Not everybody, but us guys. And yes, it was mature. But what if we would apply this to our spiritual lives? How would we look upon somebody and see Christ in them? If they evaluated my speech and my behavior and my actions, can they give me a nine or a ten because they are like Christ attractive in his presentation of love and grace and so forth, or am I down to a one or two? As Christian Americans we are to conduct ourselves with abstinence and attractiveness Paul reminds the Corinthians that ye are an epistle written in your hearts, known and read of men. Paul says, you As a believer, you as member of this church are are a living epistle. You are a book. And that I can go and talk to people and he says, look at these people. These people are the exact uh uh living example of what I'm trying to write. Yet do they see Christ in me There's one more truth that we draw from this passage, and Peter teaches us not only to be connected with our country or the conduct of our country, how we are to live or how we are to behave but also the contributions that we are to make to our country. Jesus called his disciples to a place of being salt and light And I think those are very easy to see in the world in which they lived, even for us to understand. Christians today at all times are supposed to make their contributions. to have an impact on the society in which they live. The Scripture is calling us not only of matters of giving testimony, but our actions in giving a contribution to make good for those that are around us. In verses 13 through 15, Peter deals with this kind of role as we live out in the country, contributions we make. As Christian Americans, we are to do for our nation. First of all, he talks about respecting the law. Verse 13. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. He goes on to say whether it's an emperor or whether it's a governor, in other words, the highest position or lower position He said, these indeed are positions that we are to obey the laws of the land. Peter's trying to communicate the importance of submitting in a social order in which they lived Now understand, they were living in a Roman Empire where life was difficult, where the laws of the land were not necessarily accommodating to Christianity. At times it proved extremely difficult to tolerate. And for us, our social rule happens to be within the laws of the land of the United States. While we certainly don't agree with all the laws of the land, and we can vocalize ourselves with that, we have as a Christian responsibility to obey them. The truth that we draw from the text is that the greatest Americans ought to be the greatest Christian Americans. The greatest Christian Americans ought to be American citizens. No one should be better citizens, better neighbors, better people who claim than those who claim the name of Christ. Christians shouldn't be cheating on their taxes. They shouldn't be lying for any reason. They shouldn't be fighting with their neighbors. They shouldn't disrespecting the government and its leaders. Regardless of the laws and how the rebellion is set out within the country, we have a biblical responsibility to do the right thing. As Christians, we contribute to our earthly home, first of all, by submitting to the laws and obeying the powers that are there. Romans 13, 1. Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. He's established a rule. He's established a pattern for such authority. But that's not all. Peter goes on to point out that our contribution to this country is not only respecting the law, but he says we are to represent the Lord in this country. We are to represent the Lord. Verse 15 For so is the will of God that with well-doing he may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Note that phrase, put to silence, to shut them up. The way we live, the word literally means to muzzle, to close the mouth of someone. I think right now the only segment of population that it is legal to mock and ridicule are fundamental Christians We are the corner of the society that is no holes barred. Let's go ahead and say and do what we want. Men who are ignorant of the truth and foolish in the attitudes open make fun of our faith I think one of the most prominent spokesmen, and although he's been silenced now, of uh the past decade or so, has been Ted Turner. And interestingly enough, he was rather vocal until dementia decided to set in, and I wonder how he got that. Continually, Ted expressed his disdain for evangelicals And he once said that of Christianity is a religion of losers, and that pro-lifers were bozos. Peter says that we can actually shut the mouths of men like that by our well-doing. By doing good and living for Christ, they can silence those who would attack us. The reality is that the Christian America and we are representing Jesus Christ. And our greatest contribution to the society in which we live is to represent Christ in all of the aspects that we have in this land. Read about a woman who had a dream. In her dream, she was told that the Lord Jesus is going to come and visit her. And so she made all of the preparations in her household to herself, dress and everything like that. Waited, patiently waited. One day there was a doorbell ringing. She opened the door, and to her surprise, there was a an emaciated, ragged man who was standing at the door, kind of a disdainful look. She says, Who are you? She says, I'm Jesus. He says, no, you're not. He says, yes, I am. He says, no, you're not. He says, no, but I am the Jesus that everybody sees in you. I am the Jesus that everybody sees in you. What kind of Jesus do you portray in the world in which we live? Do people see selfishness? Do they see an uncaring attitude? Do they see anything else but what Christ ought to be seen in us? Peter reminds us that we are Christ's representatives in this world. I still believe America is the greatest nation on the face of this earth. I believe that there is still hope for America. However, I don't believe that America's hope lies in a better economy, or in another new president, or in the peace in the Middle East. I think America's hope is only lying in Jesus Christ. The only way for America to get through to a place in a position that it ought to be is that people come to know Christ as their Savior and Lord. America is a beautiful country, increasingly becoming ugly. It's time that God's people repent. And determine that they will live for Christ, in the midst of a society that's corrupt all around One day, brethren, we will permanently transfer our American citizen citizenship to a place of the kingdom of heaven. But until that day, may He make us good, profitable Christian Americans. Let's pray. Father, it's a great time in our year to consider uh the blessings that we have as we've recently celebrated uh Independence Day. There were speeches and there were parades and there were great family gatherings and a lot of talk about how great this nation is. And yet along with those comments and news broadcasts and pieces and bits of information There was the tragedies of deaths and burglaries and rapes and murders and and all types of things that Very shameful. We recognize that the only way that this nation can be what you would have it to be Is that we would repent of our sinful nature and that we would live as we are, Christians, but residing temporarily in this nation of ours Thank you for the privilege of the knowing uh the blessings of our heritage, of all those who have gone on before, and as we study them and we see their sacrifices and as we recognize that uh whether it be government or business uh businesses that have have uh been a prominent part of our country, that Christ has always been a prominent part in their lives. And may it so be in our life Uh we recognize, Lord, that we, as your representatives, uh must be showing forth the Lord Jesus Christ in all that we say and do. We confess that we're really often not up to the task. We confess our weakness and our inabilities, and yet we look to you as being our hope and strength. uh to represent you wherever we go, whatever we do. And we thank you, Father, for such a privilege, knowing that you can, by your Spirit, empower us to do such. In Christ's name. Amen.