We're going to start. A little bit different than what the bulletin says because I went back and forth several times. There's so much information here. It's so hard to pick and shoot. I just love it It's just hard to just pinpoint what you really want to say in about 40 minutes, but I would like to go back in Exodus chapter 3 and start with verses 11 to 14. Powerful verses And then we'll go to Exodus chapter 4, verses 1 through 9. Scripture always must prevail, so let's just start with reading here. Exodus chapter 3, verses 11 through 14. And Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? And he says, Certainly I will be with thee. And this shall be a token unto thee that I have sent thee. When thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt Ye shall serve God upon this mountain. And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers has sent me unto you, and they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? And God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am have sent me unto you. Alright, Exodus chapter 4. And Moses answered and said, But behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say the Lord hath not appeared unto thee. And the Lord said unto him, What is that in thine hand? And he said, A rod. And he said, Cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent. And Moses fled from before it And the Lord said unto Moses, put forth thine hand and take it by the tail. And he put forth his hand and he caught it, and it became a rod in his hand. That they may believe that the Lord God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob had appeared unto thee. And the Lord said furthermore unto him, put now thy hand into thy bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put his hand into his bosom again, and plucked it out of his bosom, and behold, it was turned again as his other flesh. And it shall come to pass that they will not believe thee, neither hearken to the voice of the first sign. that they will believe the voice of the latter sign. And it shall come to pass that they will not believe also these two signs, neither hearken unto thy voice. That thou shalt take of the water of the river and pour it upon the dry land, and the water which thou takest out of the river shall become blood upon thy dry land. If you're paying attention to this and you know these two chapters, you see where this is going. I think what Moses did, I think if you Look at all the grandeur of Moses and you've heard the stories, seen the movies. Moses seemed to be a pretty guy, pretty good guy that had it all together. But if you go back to the inception, the beginning of what actually happened, he had an objection. He said, Who am I? Moses felt inadequate. God knows he is inadequate. He knows we're inadequate. And when we say who am I That's a good question for a Christian. Who am I to do this? Who am I to do that? Only God can do it. It's when we go outside that and says, and when we say I know more than God, like we were talking about this morning with the Epicureans and the Stoics That's when you have a problem. Here they thought they could do everything without God. But when we can humble ourselves and say, Who am I? and have and and put everything in the hands of the Lord, that is a wonderful blessing. Moses felt inadequate God knows he is inadequate. Respond, certainly I will be with thee. And God is saying, certainly I will be with you, and you and you and you and you and you. personally. It's not some blanketed, some great big corporate event where God is with everybody all at once. He's with you personally. He knows your personal thoughts. He knows you by name. Christ said that. He knows you by name. Well, one thing we didn't talk about. The last time I was given the honor to be able to preach here a few weeks ago and we talked about Moses, one thing we didn't look at. What could God have been also saying to Moses in essence? When Moses says, who am I, Moses, like we all can forget things. Well, God could have been saying to him also, Moses, don't read don't ever forget something. When you were a little baby and you were traveling down that Nile River in that little ark, that was made with like gopher, I mean little wicker and whatever, and of the pitch and all. Just remember I'm the one that kept the crocodiles from eating you. The alligators from eating you, the snakes from eating you. I kept that thing from turning over and you drowning when you were only a baby. And then I took that little basket and I pulled it down on the shore. And put it right into the hands of Pharaoh's daughter, who could have easily had you killed, because that was basically what was going on. All the first males were supposed to be thrown into the river and murdered And she took you, gave you back to your sister, and then she gave you to your mother, and your mother raised you. I did that. Are you forgetting that? And then when you slew that Egyptian, you were defending the Hebrews, your Hebrew brothers, I'm the one that pulled you out of Egypt and stuck you out there with your father-in-law and protected you for another 40 years. I've been preparing you for this since you were born and you came down that river in that little tiny little very weak ark. And we are all, you love the Lord Jesus Christ, we are all story just like that. From day one, the Lord has a purpose for every last thing you do. He connects the dots. Stop trying to connect the dots on your own. He connects the dots. Trust in him. Good things happen, praise him. When bad things happen, praise him and thank him for the trials We see that the Lord here makes a covenant with Moses and assures him that his people will come out of Egypt. It's a covenant. He said, You'll serve me upon this mountain. We'll speak again. What a blessing to know that he would speak again to the Lord. But he didn't have to wait to go back up to that mountain. He spoke with him every day. What a blessing. See, if you remember one of the blessings that the Lord gave Moses, Moses said, how am I ever going to speak? I'm not an eloquent speaker. He says, well, listen, I'll give you your brother, okay? Now you can hang out with your brother. You guys are gonna have to spend a lot of quality nights together. You're gonna get to hang out, you're gonna you get to talk about things and be good be friends. And then it turns out Moses did most of the speaking anyway. So it worked, didn't it? The Lord prepared Moses. Well, there was another objection. I'm not a theologian. I'm not an eloquent speaker. And then God directly tells Moses, I will give you my name. I am that I am. That will be your watchword. I am have sent me unto you. Here, Moses then is furnished with two speeches, one to the elders that God has given a second name, I have the God of your fathers. Then Moses talks to the elders As they will be brought out of the affliction and will reside in the land of milk and honey and Canaan. And then here's where chapter 4 opens up with another objection. And then the Lord brings this together and he says, you're going to speak to the elders. That's why elders are so important. Elders are all throughout Scripture. There were elders back there, this is where the Lord had told Moses you're going to need elders because you're getting too old, you're going to need help. So they had elders He said, You go to the elders and you tell them when this is all over, this is going to be a really rough ride and a journey. I'm going to take you into a land flowing with milk and honey, and I'm going to give you something you've never even imagined having. You're going to have your freedom. But you're going to have more than freedom. You're going to have liberty. There's a big difference between freedom and liberty. Big difference. If you haven't heard me say this before, I'm going to say it again. Freedom is a dog on a chain. The dog can go as far as that chain takes him. It could be 100 feet, it could be 50 feet, that's freedom. Liberty is when that chain's broken. That's liberty. And Moses and his people were going to have liberty here in this new land. But there was a real problem standing in the way, and that's this guy named Pharaoh, who kind of had a little bit of power. In fact, he had a lot of power. And the Lord said. I'm gonna deal with him. And then that was the second speech. He said, I'm gonna tell you this is what's gonna happen to Pharaoh. So the the the speech Beseech Pharaoh, you're going to beseech him and beg him, you're going to go up the front and tell him to let us go, but he's not going to listen. So that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God, we are his servants, and we must serve him. And that's what you're going to tell Pharaoh. We must serve God. Well, do you think Pharaoh was going to like that? He believed he was his own deity Everything in Egypt was a deity. Everything. They worshiped the river. They worshiped the frogs. They worshiped the flies. They worshiped everything. The When they worship the sun, moon and the stars, every last thing they worshiped, the Lord brought against them as a plague Isn't that incredible? And here's where it's all coming together. And God said, I'm going to fix Pharaoh's wagon. Pharaoh will be stiff-necked, he will stiff-necked, he will not listen. Then the Lord promises that he will stretch out his hands and smite the Egyptians with all his wonders, and he will let you go. So we see this Abrahamic covenant is perfectly fulfilled. As even God promises Moses that his people will even come out of Egypt with great possession. He had told that way back to Abraham. They're going to come out. You're going to come out. After 430 years, I will hear your cry. So as we move forward to Exodus 4, that's a little review of where we were in Exodus 3. Moses continues to be furnished or trained to deliver his first speech. this speech to the elder and then he the elders, and then he's going to go to Pharaoh. And we see in verse one, Moses answered and said, They will never believe me, nor hawk hearken unto my voice, for they will say, The Lord hath not appeared unto thee. Well, can you blame them once again? Can you blame them? How are they going to blame a man that's going to go to them and say, uh they ask him, well, where did you hear about all of this from this God? Well, I was standing there talking to this burning bush, I took my shoes off, and this this burning bush starts talking to me. And how are they going to believe that? You can you can you can see the you can see basically the uh conundrum here. The Lord said, what is in thy hand Verse 2, if you want to bring a little bit of drama out of this, you have to ask yourself in verse 2, what could have the Lord said? He could have landed on Moses right there and said, How many more times are you going to question me? Why don't I just strike you with leprosy right now and why don't I put you down for a couple of weeks and then you'll start listening to me No, the Lord goes forward and he gives him a manipulative. He says, why don't you take that thing in your hand that you've been holding, that rod, and let's let's play with a little bit. Okay? So he begins with this third objection. A reply, here's a reply to God from Moses. What if they don't believe me? What if they refute my testimony and say you have not seen God? We need to consider the demeanor of Moses here. This was not just a casual conversation. Moses had hidden his face, for he was afraid to look upon God, trembling, produced these questions. Moses shows impetuosity. And great zeal. Moses already was an unwanted man in Egypt. And can you imagine him having to go back to Egypt and face Pharaoh after they had actually pursued him for his life? Here's an excellent quote from Matthew Henry. He wrote this regarding the disposition of Moses upon receiving this commission. He says, yet he is with difficulty persuaded to accept a commission, and does it at last with great reluctance, which we should rather impute to a humble diffidence lack of self-confidence and inadequacy of himself and his own sufficiency than to any unbelieving distrust of God and his word and power I think that believes that that really brings it all together. He was feeling indifference. He was feeling inadequate. And that's really, those are some real tenets of humility. Sometimes we feel that way The application is we should ask the same questions in our ministries to the world. What if those who I witness to that are unsaved, whether family, friends, associates, and business or just people we run into during the course of the week, refute our testimony? I think that's an important question because I hope that it makes us go into God's Word and find out what to say and to prepare ourselves. That's very important. We are witnessing as Christians to the world. It is our job to be able to identify the true and living God through the works and the persons of our Lord Jesus Christ. So how can we do this if we're not prepared? Remember, we were in Sunday school class this two weeks ago, and we talked about the Bereans. What were they doing? What was it that gave them such confidence in their knowledge of Jesus Christ? They search the scriptures daily. You can't just do it on Sunday morning and then just let the rest of the week go and think you're going to come back to it. No, all these things. 2 Timothy 2. 15 says, Study to show thyself, approve unto God a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of the truth. Here Moses is speaking with God to make sure he is ready for this mission. to his own people. And we see that Moses never quit. He didn't leave. He could have he didn't leave and he didn't he didn't vacate the job. Proverbs 22, verse 21, we read, that I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth, that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them that send unto thee. So we need to know the truth. We need to witness. It could be to our families. Great responsibility in our homes with our own people to be prepared, to be ready, as Peter commands us in his first epistle. In 1 Peter 3, verse 15 we read, But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear And that's what Peter says. These are great verses. What the Lord is doing is giving Moses the words to say. Why? The Bible hadn't been written yet. God is speaking audibly to Moses because he doesn't have this book. It's being written, it's in the process, but right now the Lord loves Moses and He's going to walk him through it. One way or the other, he will walk us through our trials. Moses is going to have a fate. He's going to have to face Israelite brethren to deliver them, and he is getting prepared here. Here we have another objection or an excuse, but he has a truly reasonable concern. He says, I'm not convincing. This objection, Moses is being told by God. Stop worrying. Don't worry. Be happy. You know? Don't worry. I'll do this. I can do this. I'm more than capable, God's saying I'm doing this. You know, I've just found my notes, but I every time I see this and I read this, I think of Job. Look at all Job had been through. You all know Job? Who doesn't know Job here? Anybody doesn't know Job? Well if not, we're going to be here three hours because I'm going to tell you all about Job Job for the first 37 chapters of the book of Job, which I truly believe that Moses wrote. I believe he wrote that. Job loses everything. And now the Lord is talking to Moses the same way he talked to Job. He told Job, Job lost his kids. He lost his land rights, he lost his land, he lost his house. And the worst thing, one of the things that he hated the most, is he lost his reputation in the town because when he was stripped down to nothing He didn't have that pomp and glory when he walked into town anymore. And he talks about this. And I remember Job says, he goes, oh, with everything that happened to me, oh, if these words could be put in a book, weren't they? Well, the Lord comes to Job real quick and he says, Gird yourself like a man. He says, sit down and shut up. And I'm going to tell you, who's the one that stretched out the four corners of the earth and shakes out the dirt? Who's the one that has the ostriches laying their eggs? Who is the one that created Leviathan? And almost every time when the Lord speaks about himself, he always talks about his creation. He loves his creation So then you wonder when he made us, he said, and it was good, and it was good, and it was good, and at the very last verse in Genesis 1, it was very good. I think that's awesome. Well, he tells Moses here, just like he told Job, I'm going to prove to you that this is going to work. Take that rod in your hand, and you take that rod, and I will stretch out my hand, and I'm going to smite Egypt. Well, let's think about that for a minute. And he said, cast it on the ground, take the rod. Do you think the rod was an arbitrary uh some arbitrary item in Moses' hand that the Lord just said? He could have picked anything out of the air. Why don't you throw your robe down, throw your shoes down, throw your hat whatever He says the rod. Why the rod? I think that's very interesting. Remember it was the rod that Moses was holding up in the air when the Red Sea parted Which was an absolute miracle. It wasn't some kind of a sandbar or reed sea or something that all the cemeteries, I mean seminaries talk about the authenticity of the miracles are not true No, it was a miracle. And Moses held up that rod and the Red Sea parted. He threw he tells him to throw that rod down. There's great practical and doctrinal significance in that rod. First wonder God gives Moses Cast down the rod and it'll become a serpent. Then Moses takes hold of the serpent and it becomes a rod again. Well, a rod, the Hebrew word for rod in these verses is Shibet. It can mean rod, staff, branch, offshoot, club, or scepter. Here the practical lesson is the rod was a personal possession of Moses and was the first sign of God and deals with Moses personally. His rod used for support in walking, defense, guarding sheep, and leading the sheep. So basically he was telling Moses To use your cell phone. Because that's what basically our rod is today. Our cell phone does everything. It even he tells us our heartbeat and he can tell us what our blood pressure is on. The rod was his personal possession. And he said, you take that rod and I'm going to use it. Because that rod is the whole of your persona. And you're going to see through this rod that your whole persona is going to trust in me. So you throw that rod down. He says the rod, the symbol, it's a protective support, and it's defense. And our heavenly father was telling to use it. Psalm 23 4 says, Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me And he casts it down. In verse 3, he's directed by God to cast down the rod. And the lesson here is Moses cast his rod to the ground. In other words, he casts it down His divine support, and he basically lays the rod down and says, My support is on the ground. I trust in you, Lord. That's what he was telling him. His rod was his that was his comfort. That's if a snake came up, he took the rod and he would push it away. It had a probably it had like a a little hook on the end, and if he saw one of his sheep going away, he took the rod and he pulled him out of the fence You know, the rod probably held his coat up at night when he was when he was sleeping, and it was everything to him, and he said, It's time to throw down your protection and throw down the thing you love the most, and look at me. So he said, cast it down When we cast down our rod of support to the ground, our faith is in Christ, our Bibles, our testimony to give into this world. We are to cast everything down, and we are to look at God's Word, and we're to get into God's Word You know, mo basically the Lord said, Moses, I'm speaking to you. Listen to me. And he's telling us that today too. We need to set some time to set all of our personal possessions down. Set it all down, turn all the electronic stuff off, and open your Bible and read it. Listen to the Lord. Modern churches today have cast down the rod of support in Christ. Every known gimmick to mankind today is used to pie piper people into the pews. We need to be very careful with that. The practical lesson here in our Christian lives is significant. Cast down the rod, our support, and are we Are is uh if we cast down our our our all of our things, are we too worried about being helpless? Can we fight the fiery darts of Satan off without God? Well, there's two lessons here. You know, you think, well, there's a rod, but that's not the only item here that is mentioned here in this process. Why a snake? Why is there a serpent? Why a snake? The role of the serpent was prominent in Egypt Egyptian culture. I think this is pretty awesome. This is pretty cool. Why a snake? The role of the serpent was prominent in Egyptian culture. The serpent symbolized the beginning and the end of time and symbolized fertility. In ancient Egypt, as in many cultures, the arborus, a snake swallowing with its tail, is a symbol of rejuvenation and eternity, an endless cycle of beginnings and endings. The serpent represented both good and bad, life, energy, resurrection, wisdom, power, cunning, death, darkness, evil, and corruption. Perhaps the most potent symbol in Egypt was the Ureus. Worn by the Pharaoh as a golden emblem on the forehead as a sort of crown. It was the symbol of supreme rulers and a symbol of Pharaoh's power. Depicted on the Uraeus was a cobra, a fiery snake that spit fire at Pharaoh's enemies. Serpents at the side of the Uraeus represent the goddess who drove out the enemies of Ra, the sun god. The Uraeus was also thought to possess magical power since Egyptians believed it to be the magical eye of the god Horus. Also shown wearing the Uraus was a powerful goddess Isis consort of the god Osiris. Can you imagine what Pharaoh's going to imagine to see when a rod turns into a snake? And I believe that that snake was the absolute snake that's being described here, that the Egyptians loved and worshipped. What would he think when this rod turns into a snake and there's one of his object of worship and then Moses bends down, picks it up by the tail, and it becomes a rod again. It shows that there is someone that has great power over that rod and over that snake. Moses fled when the rod became a serpent. God's chosen servant here shows fear of the serpent. He resists the symbol of Satan. James 4 7 says, Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. So evidently Moses, he jumped back a little bit. He goes, he puts that rod down. He's like, whoa, wait a minute. You remember back in the garden. Adam and Eve cast down the rod of defense support when the serpent appeared. When David cast down his rod of support, he committed adultery with Bathsheba and killed Uriah. Samson in the book of Judges cast down his rod of defense. Delilah appeared, he lost his eyesight, was enslaved and taken from his family, and he eventually died. Peter looked away from Jesus as he was walking on the water and he sank You see the significance here and all that we can learn from what happened with the rod being cast down and the snake that turned into a snake and being turned back? We've got to be very careful how we cast our rod down and who we are depending upon. And that's what the the that is the lesson that we're getting here, we're learning here from Moses this morning. Here's a doctrinal application. God will chastise those who have misused their God given ruler ruling powers over nations. Psalm 29 says, Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron, and thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. We see in Psalm 23 gives us a practical application doctrinally, and we see tells that the Lord will rule the nations with a rod of iron in Psalm 2. 9. Revelation two twenty seven, back to the rod, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron as the vessels of a potter, shall they be broken to shivers, even as I received them my father The rod speaks of governmental power, significant of God casting down the rod and delegating power to the rulers of the earth. And we see here that it's turned into a snake. And here Moses bends down, he touches it, and the Lord turns it back into the rod, and that rod will be in Moses' hand all the way through the deliverance of the people out of Egypt. See how important this is? Adam cast down the rod and death came upon him. Genesis 3. 19. In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread till thou return into the ground For out of it was thou taken, for dust thou art, and unto thus shalt thou return. Israel cast down the rod and turned to other gods, and they became conquerors of Canaan. Eventually, Israel divided and sent was sent into captivity again. That rod represented the healing powers, and it represented it represented the strength of Jesus Christ We don't ever want to misuse that power and and misuse that rod. Israel was so wicked and divided that they could not even recognize their support. The Messiah, when he came to emancipate them on the cross, as the second mediator The ultimate mediator. We read in Isaiah chapter 53, verse 4. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. And we see here how Israel had turned away Jesus Christ, and he is called the rod of Jesse. He is the right arm of God. John 1 11 says he came unto his own, and his own received his not. Morality and fear of God's law is can many times be left from nations and it could be left from communities and families. And that rod of the law of God is very important to strengthen us. Here we see Moses as God's representative before Israel then takes the serpent by the tail and it was transformed into a rod again. Satan is no free agent. He this shows that Satan is on a leash. And that God has power over that serpent. Remember what Genesis 3. 15 says. I will put enmity between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed, it shall bruise his head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. They shall bruise Satan's head. He is the serpent, and the Lord said he will destroy him. Christ is in control of this, and we see this Through this rod. Romans 1620 we read, And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. And we see another evangelical application of the rod, and we see in Psalm 23, 4: Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Once again thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. You know, we're not going to be given promises that we will not walk through the valley of the shadow of death, but the Lord says, his rod and his staff, they will comfort us. So what or who is the rod and the staff who will comfort us? Once again, and I back this up. Isaiah 11:1, and there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. You see how God backed us up? You see how when he went to Moses and he told him, I'll take care of you? He said, You take your rod and I'm going to teach you many doctrinal applications. And these applications, the Lord was giving him a theological education that he would take through him and he would teach the people of Israel, and he would show them. He's teaching them about Christ, our Comforter, our rod, and our support, who has power over the serpent. He has power over Satan. Isaiah 11:4 we read, But with righteousness shall he judge the poor. And reprove with equity for the meek of the earth, and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked. And then we move on, and I think that's such an important application as we go forward We see how there is another application here. In verse 5, that they may believe that the Lord God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob hath appeared unto thee. Now, once again, the Lord, he he sees we see that the God the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, he repeats himself back from Exodus chapter 3 And the reason he's doing that is, listen, if you want an identification, if you want to get into the people's hearts, you have to remember, give them a remembrance about their forefathers. They knew all about Jacob. They knew all about Isaac. They knew about Abraham. They knew about the 12 tribes of Israel. And he said, you remember them about their history Isn't that something here we all love to find out about is to go back in time and find out about our relatives, who was our great-grandfather, our great-great-grandfather, and go all the way back and see You know, whatever that website is where you can like you check your family tree and all. Isn't that something that's in our hearts that really interests us? He said, listen, if you tell them about your family, about the family and about where their history comes from, they're going to listen to you. Because they're going to remember things. And he tells them that. Then we see a second sign here in verses six and seven, as the Lord reminds Moses to go back and Remind them that I am the God of your forefathers, Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. He says, And the Lord said furthermore unto him, put now thine hand in thy bosom, and he put his hand in his bosom. And when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again, and he put his hand into his bosom again, and plucked it out of his bosom, and behold it was turned again as his other flesh. Can you imagine what this would feel like? Can you imagine having this happen to you, putting your hand in your coat and it comes out and it's leprous? What would you be thinking? The first thing Moses is probably thinking about is Am I going to have to live like this? Is my hand going to fall off of my arm? What a sign. This is incredible. The leprous hand, put thine hand in thy bosom. It becomes leprous. Leprosy today is known as Hansen's disease, a well-known symbol of sin. It's a loathsome, contagious rapidity and incurability. And it's it's a very horrible, horrible uh illness to have. You can't be cured of it, then it's very contagious. Back in the days of Jesus. Why do you think he never died of leprosy? Did you ever think about that? You weren't supposed to go near a leper. That was a real pandemic. I mean a real real pandemic. They talk about a pandemic today. There's a lot of bad stuff happening out there, but it is nothing like leprosy. Leprosy was it. I mean if you all saw Ben Hur when he goes back into the the lepers colonies in the caves and all, that was a horrible place to have to put your family because you couldn't see them anymore You know what happens with leprosy. Basically, your skin basically deteriorates. You know, your body parts fall off, and you just basically deteriorate into nothing. And the Lord is using that as a sign of of how he is going to clean Israel because leprosy was a sign of being unclean. And we don't have time to go into this, but if you go into Leviticus 13 and 14, the passages talk about all of the criteria and the laws around leprosy. You didn't want to be around leprosed people. It was very dangerous. The reason why Christ could be around lepers is because he is God and He had the power to heal them. And he healed them over and over and over again. Moses by the power of God would bring sword diseases upon Egypt, and by his prayer they would be removed. Chapter 3 verse 20, I will stretch out my hand and smite Egypt with all my wonders. The people of Israel were leprous to the Egyptians. Where once they were accepted and protected as the healthy leprous free hand in the days of their beloved brother and administrator Joseph in Egypt, they were then turned away and cast out as citizens like lepers people. His people were treated like lepers in Egypt. They were treated, they were the worst to an Egyptian, a Hebrew shepherd was the worst lowest form of dirt. And if you take the Hebrew and you translate it, the words that they call them translate into dirt So isn't it incredible how Joseph was a Hebrew shepherd and he became second in command over all of Egypt? They remembered that. The Lord told them to remember that. So we see here as the people were lepers to the Egyptians, and the Lord said, You're not going to be leprous to them anymore. So as Moses places his hand back in his bosom, His hand became clean and acceptable again, just as he would be sent by God to restore his people, and they would become free and powerful again. Just as the leper's hand was restored. Can everybody please turn with me to Psalm 103 real quick? I would like to read this together. I'll wait for you. I know it takes a couple minutes sometimes But let's go to Psalm 103 to bring this together. If Psalm 90 wasn't good enough that we read for the responsive reading about Moses, that was written by Moses and how he loved the Lord. Look at Psalm 103. If you're ever struggling and you're going to witness to someone that's really hurting, or maybe a loved one who's dying, or someone who you love. Look at these verses. And we sing them. We've sung them many times from our Psalter. Psalm 103. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless His holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases? Who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies, who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles The Lord executeth righteousness and judgments for all that are oppressed. He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel. And we'll stop at verse 8. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. So you see where this is going? This story filters all throughout Scripture, even here in the book of Psalms, that David wrote many of them. And he says, who forgives all thy transgressions, thy disease is all who heals. Who redeems thee from destruction? Who with thee so kindly deals? Those are the words that we sing from the Psalter going back to Psalm 103. Well, Moses was to put his hand in and it became leprous, and then he holds it back out to the great physician, and he's able to turn that hand right back into what it was, perfectly healthy. So as Moses places his hand back in his bosom, his hand became cleaned and acceptable again, just as he would be sent by God, who is cleaning him up to restore his people. And they would become free and powerful again just as the leprous hand was restored. You see the significance, and this is just the beginning You see the power of God and what God is capable of doing. These two signs are for Israel to see God's mercy and to restore and revive his people. You do you think that the Lord if He could do that with these Israelites who for four hundred and thirty years were worshiping false idols? D don't you think that the Americ in the United States of America that basically is about 276 years old since the framing of our Constitution. Don't you think he can do that again and give us back our land? I know that he can. You know, I hear people say, oh, it's over, it's over. I've said it before. I'm sorry. It's over. America's gone. No, it's not. Not not while God is on the throne, it's not. Psalm 34, 17 says, The righteous cry, and the Lord heareth, and delivereth them out of all their troubles. Here we see that this leprous hand of Moses shows how quickly we can become weak physically and spiritually. The humbling wonders, the humbling wonders of God show Moses that he has all the power. That Moses does not have power within and of himself. He needs God. So then we go verses eight and nine. Don't have a whole lot of time here, but verses eight and nine, let's go back to Exodus. Chapter 4, and we see, and it shall come to pass that they will not believe thee, neither hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign. First time shame on you. Second time shame on them. And it shall come to pass that they will not believe also these two signs, neither hearken unto thy voice. That thou shalt take the water of the river and pour it upon the dry land, and the water which thou takest out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land. Here's the third sign. God empowers Moses with a third sign. Thou shalt take of the water of the river and pour it upon dry land, and the water which thou takest out of the river shall become blood.