Well the focal point is a little odd. Cat cataracts done in the left eye two weeks ago. So I've got one eye that's, you know, really perfect and the other eye that's saying, wait a minute, what are you looking at? you know? So we're gonna work at that this coming week Um, you know, we think it's been two weeks since Easter. Um and for the most part it's Easter is kind of in the rear view mirror for most everybody. uh for the stores they've already put all those discount candies on the shelf and they're probably all gone, you know. Uh the spring fashions are going on a little bit and and all of the things that that pertain to that, you know. is that we look in the past. It's Mother's Day coming up, you know, that's where we got to focus our heart's attention. And the resurrection all of a sudden had become Well, one day of the year. Or other times we might talk about it, but but that's really all there is. However, as you read the scriptures, especially in the book of Acts, you see from the earliest days that the event of the resurrection changed lives. Not just for that day, the people you talk about at the resurrection, the disciples and others along the way. Because the church in that part of the world started out with around 120 Christians and grew to around 200,000 within a very short period of time. It grew. And it was sourced in, and actually you read the sermons, every sermon in the book of Acts, every sermon has a reference to the resurrection. It was important to them. It was life-changing and it fueled them and strengthened them for the purpose that was ahead. Yet, even though that church of Jerusalem and surrounding areas had tremendous growth Growth in the church today, for the most part, in America and around the world, with their few exceptions, has not seen that kind of growth. hasn't seen that kind of development, that openness that has uh was evident within the New Testament. Some churches that we have are slow to grow. Some are dying on the vine. Uh we've seen buildings surrendered over to some other type of facility. We've got a uh a little one in our neighborhood and it's now a um a computer uh service uh that was there I believe that one of today's greatest needs is for the Christians to boldly and confidently proclaim the resurrection of Christ. And I just don't mean saying Jesus is risen from the dead, but the source of what these people believed in the New Testament, what they were convinced of, caused them to act. It i it Jesus was not dead, but he was alive and it brought uh newness to their actions. Obviously, the power that those apostles had, the miraculous power that was given at that time isn't available to us. But there is indeed the power that works within us still available, and that's the Holy Spirit. We begin by reading Acts chapter 1 and the first 11 verses. And to see the difference between the evangelistic spirit of that first century church and making some comparisons to what we see with Christians in churches today. The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach. Until the day in which he was taken up. After that, he, through the Holy Ghost, had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen. To whom also he showed himself alive after his passion and many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God, and, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which He said, Ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence. When they were therefore come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? He said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up And the cloud received him out of their sight, and while they looked steadfastly toward heaven, as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which was taken up from you into heaven Shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. Think about this. You read Acts chapter 2, following this initial proclamation, Peter preached his first sermon, and the result was 3,000 believed that day. 3,000 believed that day. Why isn't that done today? Obviously it's all within the Lord's hands, but I think I hold the fact that the Christians of the early church not only believed what they do, yet they acted upon what they believed. We say there are a lot of things we believe. We can go through the Apostles' Creed or we can go through the I believe what the Bible says, but believing in the head sense versus believing to an action in the heart sense are two different things. This morning we want to see three things that this first century church believed, these Christians, and how it affected them. First of all, they believed that Jesus had risen. They believed that Jesus has risen. This was their message. Again, verse 3, to whom also he showed himself alive. after his passion of many infallible proofs being seen of them forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. Wow Dead to alive. And he proved it. The proofs within Scripture. In Luke, we see examples of that convincing proof offered by Jesus He had his disciples touch him. He sat with them and ate. He was seen by others. The Apostle Paul writes, in First Corinthians. And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that he was seen of about five hundred brethren all at once, of whom the greater part remained unto the present. But some have fallen asleep. After that, he was seen of James, then of all the apostles, and last of all, he was seen of me also, as one born out of due time. You want proof. 500 and go ask them. They're still alive today. It's obvious. This wasn't a ruse, a disguise. Brethren, he died And he returned to life three days after. And that's a message most worthy of sharing again and again and again. Again, the resurrection message was a very part of every single sermon within the book of Acts. Why? Because they were using the same source? No, because that was the truth. That was embedded within their hearts. Think back to the last time you received some really good news. What did you do about it? I remember when uh Millie was uh giving birth to our firstborn. I was in in the Navy and we were up in the state of Washington and uh I got to go to the hospital, but that's as far as you got in those this is days before cell phones and everything And yet the doctor came out and says, You've got a son. And I lifted off the ground about three feet and I proceeded to go back you can go back to work because I you know shh And I got back to the hangar and and uh begin before cell phones and had a handful of quarters and I'm popping in that phone and I'm calling people, I'm calling people. Because I was just elated. It was such good news that I couldn't be holding back to the wonder of all of those things that were before me. Why can't we do the same thing for the greatest news of all? Maybe because it's distant, or maybe because we're sitting on the saved side of life that we don't necessarily think it's so exciting. But it indeed is. Evangelist Vance Havner wrote: The gospel is not something we come to church to hear, it is something that we go from church to tell Come into church and we'll hear the gospel. You know? No, it's that which is born within us, which seeds within the fact that Christ is not dead, but he's raised from the dead. We have an amazing message, a God's story to share with everyone that we know. The first century church grew with incredible numbers. Incredible rates, because the Spirit of God was working in truth that Christ had been risen from the dead, even as the Old Testament scriptures proclaimed. It was a story that they were compelled to say. Remember that same resurrection day, the the resurrected Jesus appeared to those two on the road to Aeneas. Cleophas and the others. And they had traveled down and finally word got out and he went through everything, but uh their testimony was Did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened up the scriptures to us? Their hearts burned because the reality, truth that he was. I was in the think of that story, and I think how Uh you know, Jesus wasn't disguised or didn't have uh put you know a spell on these guys so they didn't know who it was They they they thought he was dead and to all practical purposes he was dead. So even though he's walking with them and talking with them, the reality that this was Jesus, you know, their minds put out of it completely. And yet as he opened the Old Testament scriptures to them, all of the pieces of the puzzle, connecting of the rats, all put together, and all of a sudden they say, wow! Our hearts burned within us, and they therefore took me off back to Jerusalem to share that good news I think that the church is not growing today because many of the God's people don't feel the burning within their hearts There's not a zeal, there's not an excitement of the change of life that occurs with the power of salvation within the resurrection. The Barnes survey recently showed that 73% of Christians believed that it was their responsibility to share the gospel. Three-quarters of every group that they interviewed, it is our responsibility to share Yet out of that group, out of that number, out of those three-quarters of 75%, only 52% of them had actually shared their faith once with somebody in the last year Yeah. I believe that's necessary that we do this, you know, eat three meals a day or drink, you know, so much quarts of water or whatever. But I don't do it. Doctor says in order for me to be healed, I'm to take this medicine three times a day. Eh, I'm not going to do it. Well, there are consequences for that, and consequences spiritually If we believe that these things are true, we're only believing it up here. We're not believing it in the heart. And I think that was different with that Old Testament or that New Testament church. Edward Kimball, he was a Sunday school teacher long before you were around. In 1858, he led a Boston shoe clerk to give his life for the Lord Jesus Christ. That shoe clerk just happened to be Deal Moody, who becomes an evangelist, well known in all different places. And once in England, in preaching the gospel, in 1879, he awakened the heart of a man who become uh Reverend F. B. Meyer, a well-known pastor uh in London and also in Boston F. B. Meyer's preaching in America took him to a number of American college campuses, and he brought a student by the name of J. Wilbur Chapman to Christ. By his preaching. Chapman engaged in the YMCA ministry and employed a former baseball player by the name of Billy Sunday to do his work. And the list goes on and on and on. It doesn't seem like much, but God uses one and is connected to the next and to the next and to the next and to the next. because of the things they believed, they had a zeal, they had an earnestness, a sincerity about it, because you can't go wrong with the resurrected Christ. And one led to the other. Jesus is risen from the dead, and because he lives, I live also. That is our message. That's our message. There's lots of things that we can talk about theologically. And lots of times people will come up to us and ask, well, what do you believe here? What have I to do? I believe that Jesus was risen from the dead. That's the most important. But there's another belief that I think these first century Christians held to not only within their heads but applied them is the fact that Jesus is ruling. Again, beginning at verse six, to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. When they therefore were come together They asked him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? He said unto them, It's not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and Judea. Samaria and to the uttermost parts of the earth. Where is the the the the thinking of the apostles at this time? It was on just what they were had as a message on Palm Sunday, you know. Hosanna, you know, he's come, throw off the Romans, you know. Restore the kingdom to Israel, a glory that it once was with Solomon and David. That was their thinking They were still thinking of those things of the past. But when Jesus uses the word kingdom, he's not looking at an earthly kingdom. of making Israel the great nation as it once had been. He's looking at a spiritual kingdom, something that they still had to understand and know. These brethren may have been confused though about definitions or the the principles of kingdom But what they weren't confused about is that they had somebody who was Lord, who was in charge, who was the ruler that they would obey He gave out a great commission, and it was understood as not an option, but a command. Go ye! And they understood that, and everything else kind of fell into place. The Great Commission is the Lord's plan for every generation. To take the gospel to Jerusalem, in other words, the immediate home front. And then Judea. stretching out farther than that. And Samaria even farther and then to the uttermost parts of the earth. And that's how the gospel has always worked, because Jesus had commanded it. And that, brethren, is our mission. A simple message? Jesus had risen from the dead. The mission that he's given from our commander is that we are to go. Beginning where we are, and to take this same message out as God would give opportunity. Remember that in the world in which we live, we are engaged in spiritual warfare. It's hard to understand as we only see the flesh, as we only hear the words of people. But he's given us the full armor of God, the sword of the spirit, the shield of faith, breastplate of righteousness. We should be engaging in a spiritual war as the soldiers of Jesus Christ. But for the most part, we find ourselves relaxing in church and letting Satan have his way, as it works. Scripture commands, put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not, we're not at warfare against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. I understand how we feel towards certain things within our world, within government and everything else. But that's why we come before this and say this is a spiritual battle. It is not a flesh and blood, as we may perceive, because of the heart of man being corrupt, that's the nature of what he does and where he goes. But Paul says: no, these things are spiritual. Friends were at war. Our commander-in-chief has called us to arms, and the battle is ours to fight. Dr. Jerry Driver had written this, and I think it's interesting. He says it's beyond my understanding why we haven't given our sons and daughters to live and die to this task, meaning the presentation of the gospel. I can't understand why we send them, yea, even make them feel obligated to go to every corner of the world under the banner of patriotism. to kill, to cripple, to destroy in the defense of the American way of life, and yet actually discourage them from going into the same place to teach love, joy, patience, and peace, the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have sent them to the tropical jungles of Vietnam, the deserts of Arabia, the cold of the Eastern Europe for months and years. And yet we scream and we kick and we fight and we fuss and we fume and we beg, please, anything, do anything, but please discourage my son to from discourage my son to preach How long before we are going to see parents sending their children into the mission field to fight the only battle that we have been commissioned to fight? How long before we see the best of our people encouraged to save souls? How long before we have our armies going forth to missions under the banner of King Jesus? How long, how long It's a shift of thinking, you know. Obviously there's nothing wrong with patriotism for the American way of life and the Christian principles that we have. Yet what beyond that Years or geography wise, beyond that, there is a much greater cause. We sing the song, we hear the words written by George Duffield. Stand up, stand up for Jesus, ye soldiers of the cross. Lift high his royal banner, yet must not suffer loss. From victory unto victory his army shall he lead, till every foe is vanquished, for Christ is what Lord indeed. He's the Lord. He's the the commanding general. That's the direction that we go in. Jesus is Lord indeed, and if he is truly ruling in my heart and my life, the path and the direction that we go in will be most obvious, as he is the captain of our salvation We are to fulfill his mission, that which he's given us, that which he's commanded us. So I think the first century church had little or no obligation to the uh the Empire of Rome, uh even to the so-called nation of Israel at its particular time, but their heart's intention was to follow their commander in chief. And and from that time of Pentecost, persecution came down as these believers grew in Jerusalem, and all of a sudden they were driven out of Jerusalem to their homes Everybody had come from a thousand mile radius, you read in, I think it's Acts 4, talking about all of the cities, the nations where these people came, Jews from all over the place. and you you draw a line and it's from a thousand mile radius outside of Jerusalem. When persecution came, where did they go? They went back home. And what did they take with them? They took a message and they took the mission that they had. The last and final thought that we'll talk about this morning is the fact that Jesus is returning. And this gave them motivation. Not only the message and not only the the truth of what they were under, but their motivation again beginning at eleven Ye men of Galilee, and and and again, you can imagine how that was. The description is a cloud comes underneath the Lord and just takes him up like that And and he says, Ye men of Galilee, the angels, why stand ye gazing into heaven? This same Jesus which was taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. Wow. There are times then you've probably done the same thing when you see some of these sunsets. You know, uh especially in the summers go long and and the clouds and they just pattern themselves up there and you can almost see, you know But I think the words of these angels were important in preparing the hearts and minds of the apostles For you see, Jesus had been gone. Forty days he was with them. And maybe they were thinking at that time, forty days that's going to continue, you know, but no, he was gone. He's not dead, but he had been taken up into heaven. So now the work that was Jesus' work was their work. He would come again, and Jesus may have gone, but he will return. If we believe the second coming like these first century Christians, I think our heart's attitude would be somewhat different than it is today. They feel that he will return just as he had done, uh unexpectedly. That's the one thing that was of a real shock to them I think those forty days with Christ was was an unknown period of time and all of a sudden he's gone. Unexpectedly. He's having guys, last meeting today, 730, we've got a meeting over on the side of the hillside and you can watch me go. didn't happen. You know, he's going to return, as the angel said, unexpectedly. We'd like to say, well, these are the signs and the times of the Lord's coming unexpectedly. visibly in the clouds and with power. Jesus will return in the same fashion. Not as we would plan it. Returning to inspire those who continue to preach to the lost. Jesus said, But of that day and of that hour no man knoweth, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only Watch therefore, in other words, be be aware of what's going on. Jesus told Peter and John while they were in the garden. Going to go into pray. And he says, Watch and pray, you fall not into temptation. He uses the same word here. He says, Watch. Be aware of what's going on around you in life. Watch, and the no man knoweth the no m knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour the Lord doth come. The words seem quite clear enough, but the disregarding of these words, the highly anticipated events, has been unfortunately abused by many. We've heard of Harold Camping's two two times opportunities to present such and how many people were uh uh led astray by that. Um in the early 1800s Uh churches in America were growing rapidly. And again, 1800s early part, that's really just the East Coast part of our nation It was at this time that a man by the name of William Miller of New York was concluded that Jesus would return in 1843 or 1844 by his studies. situation in the country was of such that he became a keyno speaker. Uh his groups multiplied. Uh they felt he was in earnest. He was a very eloquent speaker And finally he got to the point where he had a specific day that it would occur, October 22nd, 1844 Uh the years before, 1839, there was a a financial upheaval in the United States, at least in that part of the country. So uh people are saying, oh, these are the signs things are not doing well in the country. So they were prepared There was great anticipation of Christ's return. Prophetic charts were actually printed in the newspapers People were reading right next to the the the stock markets and all those other types of things they're uh printed out and people had great interest in them. They were swallowing up these teachings from New England all the way south As the morning of October 22nd of 1844 began, there was a sense of apprehension that fell all over the area. People gathered on mountaintops and in churches. Normal activities ceased. Towns became quiet as people searched out a place to gather together. normal activities had ended and they s waited for the sudden opening of the skies and the end of the world. Guess what? Yeah. And and we chuckle at that and what happens became the not only uh heart crushing for the Christians who had fallen into that. But it became known the great disappointment for the people. Actually, the event to the world was called the Great Disappointment. It was a mockery of the Church of Jesus Christ. But, brethren, when Jesus returns, it will not be disappointing. We anticipate it in God's time. And it should be an experience that we will continue to anticipate. We live in a sea of lost souls who will one day unexpectedly, unknown to them, unexpectedly, enter into an eternity, a Christeless eternity And they will be in hell for all that time. It's not something that we glory in, especially if we think, oh, there are our enemies or they hate Christians and so forth. Paul was a man of such Fulfill the Great Commission. And I think making our mission even more complicated is that there are more unsafe people in our world every single day than there have been in the past. Last year, the population of the U. S. is approximately 333 million people. About 10,200 babies were born at that time. in uh each day, and 800 or 8,000 adults died each day. So it was an approximate gain of 2,000 people every single day who'd never heard the name of Jesus Christ. The number of people still to hear, not even, you know, uh any clue of what's going on. That gain number in world population is two hundred and seventy five thousand every twenty four hours Our world grows by that number, 275,000 each day of people who have yet to hear of Christ. The second coming of Jesus Christ motivated the first century Christians to do what they could, to bring forth the gospel by the power of the Holy Spirit and the truth of the Word of God to the far corners of the world. The Institute of American Church Growth questioned four thousand people on how they first came to know uh eventually of the church, but to become born again. In other words, these were Christians. And how did you first get initiated to hear the gospel? What brought you in to that? A half to one percent came through public evangelistic crusades. Uh I don't know how many really big crusades we have today, I guess Coronavirus kind of shut down if any of those if they were going to happen. But I think of the Billy Graham Crusades and things like that. One to two percent were reached by visitation programs. We're going to go out to door to door and we're going to visit people in the neighborhood and people would say, I go back to that time when somebody was at my door and they knocked and gave me a track or invited me to church One to two percent came through a special need. You know, and there are times when we're struggling in life. And where do we go? Somebody, why don't you come into my church? I have a special need. I mean financial. Some pain or or whatever that I've got. The church will help Two to three percent just walked in. You know, the door is open, people are here, they need to have a church, that that's where they come and they eventually hear the gospel. 2 to 3% came through the church's programs. Vacation Bible School, uh you know, Feed the Hungry or whatever, some program that the church offers to the public Four to five percent came through the Sunday school class. Uh many of them, you know, uh is it uh I can't remember the percentage, but a very high percentage came to know Christ before the age of twelve. Five to six percent were attracted by the preacher. You know? That kind of puts you in your place. You know Oh, come to hear, you know, Dr. So-and-so, and they'll have the banners out and like to hear that, you know, come and hear them, you know. Seventy-five to ninety percent are eventually converted Through the influence of friends and relatives. Seventy-five to ninety percent of the people who came, eventually came to Christ, out of these 4,000, were done so through the influence. of friends and relatives. You know. People tr we trust, you know. If somebody comes to my door, you know, first Millie will say, Somebody's at the door, you know, I'm not opening, you know, and and and and you don't know, you don't know their message, you don't know their sales or whatever it is, but if it's somebody I know, I'm more than likely to invite them in Talk with them. You know, you know so-and-so, this and that and and that, and and all of a sudden I'm I'm more susceptible to the message that they've got. And they're saying there's there's a there's an openness that's provided by that What that should tell us is that there's souls of millions depend upon you and I. collectively as a church, but in essence as a Christian, as an individual Christian. That first century church didn't identify themselves. I'm the Bible Presbyterian Church of Jerusalem Well Samaria, you know, uh they weren't named. They were just people who were gathering at Timothy's house or Mark's house. or uh, you know, uh uh party's house or whatever it was. And they met there. Uh unnamed, but they were individuals who made up a part of that group. The first and greatest passion of Jesus was to seek and save the lost. And I think to follow such an example as Christ cannot be satisfied with the status quo. And you can't force people to do it, okay? But you've got to say, Lord, make my heart to be sensitive to these things. helping to come out of my shell because Jesus has risen from the dead for me. And and that that which is provided for me It's been commanded by my Jesus. And indeed we have the principles that are all laying down there for us. How the church goes, we say it's in the Lord's hands, obviously. Yet He looks back to us and says, children, time is short. And uh we need to be about his business. Let's pray. Father will offer up these few uh disordered thoughts from a time in history that the church was on fire, that individuals thought not of themselves but thought of their Savior and how He was alive, and that they were uh provided with the infallible proof of His living because they had seen him, and that others had seen him, and that he had given words that were to be honored to go to take such a message forth and that indeed with confidence they were doing it with the anticipation that he was going to return. Not that they would be afraid of that. But he would return in there was only a short time in order to accomplish that task. Lord, we put all things in your power, all things into your hands Make us servants of the Most High God more flexible and more observant, more useful than we have in the past. Be patient with us. be long-suffering to us, for we have many things to learn, and we are slow. Lord, we believe, but increase our faith. We pray these things not for the church's sake, but for the glory of the Savior who died for us and rose again and is a coming again. In His name. Amen.