Um well I changed up the sermon this morning, and uh you know, I think that's the first time I ever did this here in this church. that I changed up the sermon and got something different than what I sent in ahead of time. But I felt led to uh preach the same thing that I preached at Presbytery on Friday And let the people here hear it. So let's turn to Luke chapter 21. Luke chapter 21. Luke chapter 21. And the title of the message this morning is What Do You Expect? What do you expect? So Luke chapter 21 and verse 7. And they asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these things be? And what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass? And let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would open up thy word to us this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have the question. Jesus was talking about the end times, events in the end. And the people asked him, When will these things be? What will be the signs? And then Jesus went through many different signs and things as we go through this chapter. We won't read it all. But he talks about wars and rumors of wars. He talks about earthquakes. He talks about persecution. Well, we've got all of those signs going on today. We've got wars and rumors of war. We've got earthquakes. We had an earthquake in our presbytery meeting. Last presbytery meeting in Marcus Hook. uh may have been the strongest earthquake in the Philadelphia area ever. Definitely it's the strongest one it was the strongest one since they've been keeping records. And here today we have all these signs of storms and hurricanes going on right now. Let's go on down to verse 24. Verse 24. Skip down to verse 24 of Luke chapter 21. And they shall fall by the edge of the Sword and shall be led away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled And there shall be signs in the sun and in the moon, in the stars, upon earth, distress of nations with perplexity, the sea and the waves roaring. Men's hearts failing themselves for fear and looking after those things which are coming on the earth for the powers of heaven shall be shaken. They said this hurricane in the Carolinas was of biblical proportions. And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory? And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh. And he spake to them a parable, Behold the fig tree and all the trees. When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your own selves that summer is now nigh at hand So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. So today we're talking about the last days, the last days before Christ comes back. And Jesus had quite a bit to say about the last days. And here, this whole chapter here, the Olivet Discourse, is answering the question, when shall these things be, and what will be the signs of Christ's coming? Well, you know, Christ wants us to be able to relate current events to the prophecies in the Bible. That's what we have right here. We have down there in verse 28, and when these things begin to come to pass, then look up. You're supposed to be able to see these things coming to pass, and then look up. And then also down it talks about the budding of the fig tree. When you see the budding of the fig tree, verse 31, when ye see these things come to pass, Know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. So I submit to you that we are in the last days today. And you know, a lot of these things that are talked about here have gone on at different times during history. And when I say these things A lot of people say, oh, well, don't you know all these things have happened many times. There has been falling away and coming back. There has been earthquakes, there's been storms, there's been all these things. So how can we tell that this is the last days? Well, we can say that all those things fit with the last days, but the key is verse 24. The key is verse 24. It says in verse 24, Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. Now there's some a fact That you can hang your hat on, that you can see that we are in the last days, because Jerusalem is no longer trodden down of the Gentiles. Israel became its own country under the Jews in 1948. In 1980, the Jews made a decree in their laws that Jerusalem was their permanent capital. And then to seal that, we had when Trump was president, he moved the cap the embassy of the United States from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem And it's still there, and it's been recognized that the Jews do control Jerusalem today. And so, you know, you can say, well, all these things have happened all down through the years, but Jerusalem has never been under the control of the Jews until recently For 2,000 years, the Jews did not control Jerusalem. They were not controlling Jerusalem in the time of Jesus. The Romans were. And all down through the centuries since Jesus, the Muslims were controlling it, the Crusaders controlled it, the Gentile crusaders controlled it for a hundred years. And the Ottoman Turks controlled it. All these different groups controlled Jerusalem, but not the Jews. And so finally, now the Jews are controlling Jerusalem. And you know these people who say, well, hey, you can't tell anything from current events with prophecy. Well, they're a little bit like those people in 2 Peter. We just read that with the responsive reading. Where is the promise of his coming? For all things continue as they have been since the beginning of the earth That's what the scoffers are going to say in the last days, and they say that today. But you can't tell anything about prophecy, and things just continue the same. You know, in science you call that uniformitarianism, and that's what the evolutionists believe. They believed that everything continues on exactly the same. But we as Bible believers, we believe that God has sent catastrophes at times, the flood, and God will send another catastrophe at the end of the world It was interesting with this hurricane news coming out. I was reading one report. There was this guy there down in Florida that lived right At the place where the hurricane hit the hardest. And he came back to see his house, and his house was completely gone. Everything was destroyed. And he said he just couldn't understand that. That house had stood there for 75 years with no problem. And he just bought that house recently and he thought it was going to stay there for another 75 years. But you know it didn't. And things don't always continue the way they always have. And things are going to change when the Lord comes back. And we have to remember that. And so we can relate current events to prophecy, and we can see that Jerusalem is now with the Jews. And that's a big thing, and we are in the last days. I will say categorically, we are in the last days. We are in the last days, but we don't know how long the last days will stretch. But it's not a really long time, I'm sure. But it could be a hundred years or something like that But we are in the last days. Now let's go back to 2 Timothy chapter 3. Tell some more things about the last days. 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 1. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truce breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from such turn away. Now, here we have the last days. How are things going to be in the last days? Well Things in our world right today fit in perfectly with what it describes here. Perfectly. And you might say, well, things have fit in that way sometimes in the past, but Jerusalem was not controlled by the Jews in the past. But these things fit in with the prophecy. And it says, For men shall be lovers of their own selves today. We have opportunities for people to love their own selves greatly today. We have great opportunities with Facebook. Somebody can tell on Facebook everything they ever do. They say, I'm going to the store, I'm eating my breakfast, I'm having cornflakes for breakfast And they just go on and on about everything they do. And it's uh and then they have selfies today. When did they ever have selfies in the past where the person takes a picture of himself with whatever he's doing? And it's all these things of men being lovers of their own selves. And we have that very greatly. And then we have all these other things, disobedient to parents. We see an awful lot of that today, with their uh warped ideas of child discipline And they're without natural affection. What do we have with abortion? You know, parents just naturally love their baby. But here we have millions of parents aborting their babies without natural affection. And we have all these other things: high-minded, proud, lovers of pleasures. You know, there have been wicked times down through history. But you know, never in history has the wickedness been so institutionalized and so great and so accepted by society as a whole. Can you imagine transsexuals being accepted by the whole of society? I mean, a great part of society that's unheard of. I mean, there have been transsexuals down through history, but not completely accepted like we have today. And we have all those things, and abortion, and homosexual marriage, and we got homosexual couples adopting children. It's just institutionalized wickedness in the world around us. And it fits in so well with this prophecy right here. And then things, as I've said before from this pulpit, that things are all set up for the Antichrist today. They're all set up. And it's just getting more and more set up all the time. You know, in uh in Revelation we studied that with the number 666. No man can buy or sell without the number of the beast in Revelation Well, it's getting all set up for that. The government knows everything about us and can know everything about us. We carry our cell phones around and they can track exactly where we are and where we've been And they they they also can know somewhat about what we're going to do and what we want in the future. From what we click on on our computer or whatever. They know other big big brother is watching today As never before. We had the old book 1984, Big Brother is Watching. Well we got that to the nth degree today. And uh, you know, and then they're talking about digital money And all the government would have to do is just click off your account and you wouldn't be able to buy or sell when they get rid of all cash and it's all on the computer. So anyway, everything's set up in the last days is what we have here. And we have churches full out there. Church is full. But I submit to you that most of them have, verse five, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. You know, last night, just last night we were at the birthday party for our grandson, and somebody was there telling me about their church And their church is a big church, has hundreds of people there, and they were telling us about all the great ministries they have there. But then they went on to tell me about their woman pastor that they got. And then they were saying, oh, don't you know that this woman felt the call of God to be in the ministry? No, she didn't feel the call of God. God would not give a call to something contrary to his word. And God says in his word that I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man and other things like that. No, God didn't call that woman, but the woman mistakenly thinks she's called. But anyway, we have have a form of godliness. That's what we're going to have in the last days. We're going to have a lot of form of godliness. but denying the power thereof. And the appetizers are all, come to church as you are, come as you are. The trouble is they want people to be comfortable in church even when they're unsaved. And just stay as you are. Well, that's not how it should be when people come to church. They shouldn't stay as they are. They should get changed and get the grace of God. Well anyway, this is in the last days. Let's go over to chapter 4 now in verse 1 of 2 Timothy. And this is the the last words of Paul. The last chapter he gave here. It talks about he was ready to come to the end of his good fight. In chapter four and verse one, I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom. Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all long-suffering and doctrine. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they shall turn away their ears from the truth. and shall be turned unto fables. Well, that's what we've got. We've got exactly this today. Exactly. Verse 3. Verse 3. The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. People will not endure it. They will not endure sound doctrine. They can't stand doctrine that's too sound. And I'm talking about professing Christians. We're not talking about the world. We're talking about the people that are looking for some sort of Christian doctrine, but they will not endure or stand sound Christian doctrine. But after their own lusts they shall heap themselves teachers having itching ears. You know I've been watching a documentary on Hitler. Actually it was some some footage of of Nazi propaganda film. But anyway, it had Hitler on there. And why did the people follow Hitler? Why did they follow him? They followed him because he told them what they wanted to hear. That's exactly why And they were suffering after the First World War, and they had a very great bitterness from the First World War from Versailles Treaty. And Hitler told them to upend that Versailles treaty, that Germany was going to rise again, and they all wanted to hear that, and they followed him. Well, Hitler was followed and the people raised him up. And that's what we've got in the church today in the last days. They will not endure sound doctrine. That's what we have today. I love how the King James puts that. They just won't endure it. You ask somebody from some of those big churches to sit in here? No, they don't want to do it. They won't endure it. Just can't endure it. They can't stand it. And uh we have uh I put out my newspaper to Brazil, the fundamentalist, and I just put out the latest issue. And on the back cover of it, I put an article that comes from the United States. Actually, it comes from Baltimore here. There's a pastor in Dungalk, Maryland. I don't know if any of you ever heard of this church down there, Calvary Baptist Church and Dundalk. But anyway This pastor put out an article and they translated it into Portuguese. They sent it to me and I put it in my journal. But anyway, the article is entitled, My Group is Getting Smaller. My group is getting smaller. And that's what we see here. That's what we see in the Bible Presbyterian Church. That's what we see around. My group is getting smaller. He says there's no doubt about it. But he says, I haven't moved. The pastor says, I haven't moved. Everybody else has moved away from the Bible. They've moved. And he talks about how they want the unsaved to be comfortable in church and stay comfortable in church But anyway, he says, in spite of my group becoming smaller, I'm going to live with the same principles. beliefs and convictions that I always had. They were right back then, 40 years ago or however many years, and they're right today. They're still right, even though the group is getting smaller And the Bible tells us that the group is going to get smaller. It does say that they will not endure sound doctrine. Well, of course, somebody, these sales techniques and churches like to say, well, you know, if you just keep on doing what you've always done, you're just going to get the same results you always got. Well, the thing is, if we keep doing the same thing of preaching the word, of having sound doctrine, we're not always going to get the same results You know, back uh 50 years ago, there they there were people that wanted sound doctrine, and there were big churches and whatever, the Collingswood Bible Presbyterian Church had a thousand people there or whatever People could stand some sound doctrine back then, but now they can't stand it. Less and less as time goes on And so it has to do with the hand of God. What is God going to make out of that sound doctrine? We give out the sound doctrine, and it's up to God how much results we get But in the last days, at the end, we're not going to get very many results. That's what's prophesied. That's what's prophesied right here. And I noticed, I think I've mentioned this before, that as you look around you in the Christian world today, the more sound the church, the smaller it is, is the basic principle The more sound and the smaller it is. Well, you know the thing is, is that some of these churches have some good doctrine, but then they mix it up with some other stuff. And I think of the church that I have that's right next to me in Smyrna, a Baptist church, and it's it's uh it's uh probably the best church right around there And I like that church. We went there for a while. I like that church in that they are very evangelistic and they use chip traps. They're the only people in that chick uh area that actually use chick-tracks, and you see them around from that church. And and so they're very good in in many ways Well anyway, I went there to a Sunday evening service about a month ago, and uh I went to Sunday evening service, and of course, what attracts the people it's a little bit bigger church there, and what attracts the people to it Well what attracts them to it is bread and circuses, unfortunately. And that's what people are looking for today, like back in the Roman Empire, bread and circuses And so in that church the pastor is kind of wild and he prides himself on that and uh the people come to see what he's going to do next. Well anyway, the thing is when I was there a month ago, he was planning from the pulpit their next thing, and that was to have a hamburger eating contest And they were going to have a hamburger eating contest, and they were going to see who could eat the most hamburgers in a short period of time. And then they were arranging, well, were they going to have it with the buns or not? And they said, yeah, we're going to have it with the buns. And then he said he was going to prepare 30 hamburgers each for the contestants to eat. To eat 30 hamburgers all at once. Well, you know, that's just so where are we at I mean the thing is that goes against gluttony. We're not supposed to be gluttons. It's not healthy for you to eat all that. And then they were talking about that. They probably start throwing up And it's it's a sad story, but that's what attracts people, even to some churches that are a little bit better. And uh so anyway The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. Then it goes on there, verse 4, they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. And you know, in my own family, I've had that just recently, some members of our family, extended family, and own family. They've been putting out posts these days about how, you know, you shouldn't discipline your children. And you should let them be self-determining. And they shouldn't do things because they're afraid of punishment. And that goes completely against the Bible. They're turned on to fables. And not to the Bible. And then they put out posts about how the church is patriarchal and how it has men controlling the church And how that shouldn't be, and what of all that stuff. They're turned unto fables and turned away from the truth. Well, that's how things are going to be in the last days. And that's what the Bible tells us and that's how that's where we're at just today. Well, I think that uh We need to recognize that, you know, too often in our small fundamental churches we get an inferiority complex. And we got uh complex, you know, all these other big churches over there. How come we're so small? How come we're not doing things right to get more people here? But you know, you know, we don't do things perfectly in these small churches, and we could do things a little better, but even if we did things perfectly here, we would not have a big crowd with sound doctrine. here in the last days. And so what we need to do is recognize those facts, but then what's what should we do? Should we just sit back and not do anything and say, well Hey, we're going to be small and uh they don't endure sound doctrine and we're not going to do anything. No, we've got to keep on going, keep on going. And we have that there in verse 2, verse 2 of chapter 4 of 2 Timothy. Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. And Ed I mentioned Ed Crawford Friday. Tim referred to that in Sunday school. But anyway, what I said about Tim Cr uh Ed Crawford is that He used to say that he only preached the word on two occasions, only two occasions. And those two occasions are in-season and out of season. And you know, that's what we need to do, is be instant in seasonality of always preaching the word, always be busy for the Lord. And then as we come to communion this morning, we're coming to communion. And those are kind of some negative thoughts in many ways, but that's how where we're at here in this world around us with the last days. And if you don't think we're in the last days, what about Jerusalem? What about Jerusalem? Well, if we go back there to 2 Peter, 2 Peter. And it says 2 Peter 3 and verse 14. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things in the last days, be diligent. That ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless. And so we need to be Ready for him to come back. The Bible always talks about watching. We're supposed to be watching for the Lord to come back. We're supposed to be ready for him to come back. And he's going to come back soon. And let's make sure that our lives are right in his sight. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would uh bless the thoughts of thy word to our hearts, and we pray that it all might be according to thy word And O Lord, bless in the communion to follow, in Jesus' name, amen