Only problem is the other half of it came off, so hope these pages don't f flitter off in their Floor here. Okay, so we're looking here in Romans, and we're looking here in Romans chapter 5 today today. So you think about this one, you know, there's 1000 Romans 5. And I'm going to be looking here in Romans chapter 5 and starting in verse 6, and by the grace of God, hoping to take it to verse 11. So Romans chapter 5 Starting in verse six. Now you know, I may have I maybe I've started off before this way, I don't know, but you know you know there's 1,189 chapters in the Bible. Did you ever ask yourself that question? How many chapters in the Bible? I guess one day you must have been bored. So I started there used to be a a uh puppet creature on one of the TV programs years ago And one of the characters was called the Count. And this guy would go, uh he just started counting everything. He'd count the books, count the chairs, count the people. I think I got a little bit like him watching that program because I started counting all the things in the Bible. So for example, there's 1,189 chapters in the Bible. 31,102 verses, 788,280 words, 3,556,480 letters in your King James Bible. Now what good is all that information? I have no idea, but I might count these things up and see what it is. So that's what we have here. All right, but we're actually going to talk about just three just a few of these verses here we're going to be looking into today So what I'd like to do is start in verse 6, Romans chapter 5 and verse 6 However, because this is a spiritual work, I know we've already prayed, I'd like to pray over this again. Would you join me in prayer? Our Father, we ask now. that you would guide me to present these words in accuracy. Lord, above all, I pray for accuracy. Hopefully it can be interesting, but I pray it would be accurate. Should there be anyone here today who does not know the Lord Jesus, perhaps today, maybe the day, you will reveal yourself to them in such a way that they will cry out for the Lord. If there's a believer here, they know you, they're going to go to heaven, but yet they got some issues in their life, unconfessed sin, and it's bothering them. It's interrupting their marriage, interrupting their personal life, interrupting their relationship with you. We pray today the Spirit might speak to them that they will confess these things and forsake them by the power of the Lord. And then Lord, just the work and the general work, you know what we each of us need in our heart We invite you to do it as we look into these words. We pray through Christ our Lord. Amen. So looking here, thinking this so again getting back to verse 6, for when we were yet without strength. Think about that without our sh without strength, meaning spiritual strength, in due time, notice that that's God's timing. Christ died for the ungodly. So this is a classical verse, these 15 words. It's used often for many different reasons, but the truth is deep. And here's some gospel facts I want to give you to help us interpret these verses. Fact number one to be aware of: all for whom Christ died. were ungodly. He didn't come for any good people, because there are no good people. That's fact number one. And you get that from Romans 3. 10. All for whom Christ died were ungodly. Second, number two, all peoples of the earth earned and deserved hell. You agree on that? Everybody does. Every one of us, we've earned it and we deserve hell. And what is hell? That hell is a place of complete separation from God. You think you have it bad now? If you're completely separated from God, that's what hell's all about. Third point I want to share with you before we get deeper into here, and that is that God intervened and rescued some of the sinners. We know that not everybody's going to be saved, but he did intervene and save some. By the mercy of God You, if you believe in Jesus as your Savior, you're one of those people who he rescued and saved and had mercy on. But you know there's going to be many who will never be saved, who will have to face hell. You may have a brother, sister, parent, loved one, husband, wife, God who does not know the Lord And they will face hell. So I'm just saying that, not to discourage you, but hopefully to motivate you to share Christ with them, to bring them to church. Or to do something, give them a track. Do something for them. Because there is a hell there and from what we know of it, eternal. Does that can you I I can't even know if I can even imagine this. Eternal separation from God. So if you think somebody has it bad now while we're on earth and we're not completely separated from God, but in hell there would be that complete separation from God. Therefore, if you have people in your family, friends, your next door neighbor, or relatives who don't know Christ, get the word of God out. I had something on oh here it is. This is something I found to be very helpful. I would encourage you to look for a track, search for a track that you like, that you're comfortable with, that's theologically correct, and then carry them with you, and then you know hand them out. That's a good way to get into a conversation. To try to have a conversation with someone you don't know and you're trying to somehow gracefully get into the gospel, that's a hard thing to do. So I found this to be helpful. This particular track for me I like. Again, each of us find one that we that we like that we can work with, and this simply says Are you going to am I going to heaven? So if I'm like sitting on a train and I talk to a person about the weather or something, and if I'm getting off the train and that guy's Hey, let me leave this with you, I just get out and put it in his hand. He made one eight may not, but I think he's stuck with it. Now he can read it. Am I going to heaven? And it just You know, ask a question. Uh check below what you feel to be the best basis for reaching heaven. What do you have to do to and now there's a list of uh 17 things That people say you have to do to go to heaven. Keeping the Ten Commandments, gift to charity, doing your best, etc. And then the rest of it goes on to explain, none of that will save you from hell to heaven. You must trust in Christ alone But that anyway, the point is carry something around that you can get the word of God out with someone. Because it's difficult just to get into a conversation and people are reluctant to do that But if I get this, I just put this in her face here. Take this in the face. Then he can decide. Anyway, that's one thing to think about here about getting God's word. And I I said it with respect to the third statement I said, I mentioned God intervened to rescue some, and the way he does that is by Christians witnessing sharing the others. And the fourth statement I want to give here, heaven is pulled is populated by those rescued by God's Mercy and power. That's what's in heaven. The people who are in heaven have been rescued. Has anybody here like come close to drowning and you need help? You know, you're going under and somebody has to grab you to pull you up I mean that's like being rescued. But that's what salvation is for every one of us. We had been rescued from ourselves, rescued from the devils, rescued from hell. And set upon the solid rock of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's why you're here today. That's why you love the Lord. You've been rescued by the mercy of God. It seems to me if I've been rescued Then what? What would be the most obvious thing to do? That would be to dedicate my time, talent, money, all that I have for the glory of God. And ask the Lord, what would you want what what do you want to accomplish in my life? You know that would be a great prayer. Maybe again this I might suggest we pray that. Ask the Lord. Now I'm sure many of you have already done this, but maybe someone hasn't. Lord, what do you want with me? What do you want from me? And be sensitive to the Spirit of God moving upon you and then do it or be it. There's nothing more exciting than doing What the Lord wants you to do, and you know you're doing his will, that's an exciting thing to be. But you know if you don't know that, if you don't know what God's will is for your life You can't help but to just sort of, uh, it's a good day to day, it's fair. But if you know that you're serving the Lord and doing that what He wants you to do Gives you some zeal, gives you some energy, gives you some boldness. Okay, so why am I saying this? I don't know other than I gave these four points I wanted to give them to you, some gospel facts I have here Now let me give you also a a point of commonality. We all have something in common here today. What is that? Well, as I just said, we've all been rescued. We've been rescued by the mercy of God. We've all been born again by the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's something we all haven't, hopefully we all do, and then maybe somebody here is not. So I would Encourage you again to cry out to the Lord and ask him to save you if you've never done that. We know this that no one goes to heaven because he earned it or deserved it. You know that, right? We are saved by grace. Now can you say, can you quote with me Ephesians chapter 2 verse 8 and 9? I'm going to say it. If you know it, say it with me. For by grace are you saved through faith and that not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. How come everybody wasn't saying that with me? That's so if you do not have that memorized, you you want to memorize that. And this is basic, it's clear. And that's the message that we're giving to everyone for by grace. And what is grace? Undeserved mercy For by grace, are you saved? Saved from what? You're saved from hell to heaven. For by grace am I saved through faith? What's faith? Trusting, adhering to it, relying upon. For by grace do you stay through faith. And that's not of yourself. Isn't the Bible making that clear? Your salvation going to heaven has nothing to do with you. We tend to think that if I can be good enough, if I can join a church, if I can give enough money, if I can I can make myself, but you really can't. It's not of you. For by grace you say through faith is not of yourself, it's a gift. Think about that. Salvation is a gift, not of works, lest any man should boast. When is the last time you received a nice gift from someone? Ladies, when's the last time your husband gave you a gift of flowers when he came home from work? Has it been a while? If not, get on and tell me you should be doing that. Because wonderful women, right? Godly women right here. I hope. These women should be spoiled. You should be giving your wives flowers and gifts. Because if you know if you have a good Christian wife, you've got a great blessing. And you want to encourage them and bless them. So those are the four points I wanted to give you here. And as as we move on through this through this verse Uh we're talking here primarily about the atonement. What is atonement? Christ died on the cross for us and he saved us from from hell and and uh All this waiting for us. But we show this that, you know, now the atonement, Christ dying on the cross, has a limit to it. You realize that? The atonement, meaning Jesus on the cross, shedding his blood for sinners. For sinners around the world, for people of all nationality, any mental level Whether if you're healthy or sick, blind, can hear, whatever, they're all the Lord died for everyone, that is to say, everyone under all kinds of conditions. But I do I am saying I am going to say something here you might not like when you first hear it, but if you think through it because I didn't like it when I first heard it. In fact I almost punched the guy that said it. But the fact is When Christ died on the cross, he died, I believe Scripture says, for his elect. That's not everybody in the world. We don't know the number of the elect. I'm sure it's the well the Bible tells us a vast, vast number. But we understand that his Christ died on the cross, he just didn't leave it. Well, okay, now we have to hope that he's going to believe and she's going to believe. Well, let's just hope that they know. The Lord died and secured your salvation on Calvary, making sure that you would be saved, that you couldn't mess this thing up. Because I know if if you can mess it up, I guarantee I'd mess this whole plan up. But he saw to it that you're going to believe and follow him and love him. And that's not because of you, how smart you are, and you figured this out and you're humble. No, it's because he elected you for salvation even before the foundation of the world and hence here you are you didn't foil God's plan you're here and you love the Lord and that's a beautiful thing and we give home If you understand these things, we give him all the honor and glory for that very gift that he gives to us. So I'm talking, my thought was about the atonement. Now the word atonement, can you guess, how many times is the word atonement in the Bible? 20. The word concept, the atonement Christ died on the cross for our sins. That's what's meant by his atonement. He cover he takes away our sins. Twenty times that's mentioned in God's Word So what I'm saying, putting all this together, I've come here giving you a lot of things quickly. I'm going to give the summation statement and then move on. I'm going to move on to 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 2, but let me give you the summation statement so far. It's this. God made an election of sinners to save before the foundation of the world, and every one of them will receive Christ and occupy heaven for all eternity. That truth you find money through all scripture. You'll find that from Genesis to Revelation, directly or indirectly And that and so therefore that's why you are saved. That's why you love the Lord Jesus. It's not because you were smart enough or you're good enough. No. It's because even before you were born, even before the foundation of the world, God and all his power, all his mighty Fed his everlasting love on you and made it so that you would receive his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why you're here. That's why you love him. And if God did not do that, you would be in the bar room right now. Or you'd be somewhere else doing something you shouldn't be doing. But no, you're here in church worshiping the Lord and all of your regul most of your regulars, I you know see you every time I come, which is good. That's a good thing. But why is that Because he said his electing love on you when you didn't know about it, you didn't deserve it, but he did it. He put his love on you. 1 Peter 1, verse 2 says this, Christians Are labeled, I'm quoting this here. Christians are labeled, according to 1 Peter 1 2, elect according to the foreknowledge of God. That's a title for you, a title for me. That's 1 Peter 1 verse 2. Christians are referred to as the elect according to the foreknowledge of God. Elect to what? Elect for salvation. Think about that. God could have passed you over and let you plunge into hell for all eternity. And think about that. I don't like to think about that, but it is something perhaps once in a while we should think about. Hell. I'm sure you have a relative or a friend who has died and you don't know if they're you're saved or not. It's a terrible thought. But it's it is to be terrible. That's the whole idea. To make you know and to others know we need Jesus Christ. Otherwise you're going to have hell waiting for you. Which as we see in scripture is eternal. And um you know, so we want to get the so therefore do what? Get the word of God out. Witness one to another. Know the gospel. Learn how. You know, one of the things that I went to Bible college. I went to Bible college and seminary, so I'm one of these educated guys, you know, that's trying to figure things out. But what the reason I went to Bible college I was aware of this issue that people were going to go to hell without Christ. And I thought, well now if I am a Christian, which I was, what's the greatest thing I could do? Learn scripture so that I can tell others about Christ. Because if they don't hear about Jesus and believe in, they will spend eternity in hell. Can you even imagine I can't imagine that don't even want to imagine it, but that's the reality of things. You're a friend, you're a best friend, you're a next-door neighbor, or it may be a parent or someone who does not know Christ. If they die in that state, they have eternity in hell. And we know once you're in hell there's no second chance, there's no getting out. I think maybe the Catholic Church teaches, you know, if you do enough penance or something, you can get your sister out of hell, your brother, or whatever, but I don't think that's in the Bible at all Once we die, is then the judgment. And then so that if your brother, sister, cousin, parents don't know Jesus and they go into hell go into eternity, it's going to be in hell This is a trouble. I didn't mean to preach like this today. This is not my record in my end of my notes. But that's all I'm being led to share with you today. It's a terrible thought But Christians ought to know that and dwell on it once in a while. It may motivate us to witness, to live for Christ. We need sometime, you know, sometimes I need a shot in the arm every once in a while And this use me in the arm. Okay, let's go out the door and let's go share Christ with somebody right now. You know, you wanna we wanna have zeal to get to get God's word out So now I'm looking here at my verse, we're looking at verse 6, and it says here, again, we're looking at Romans chapter 5, verse 6, for when we were yet without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. And it says And then goes on to say, for when we're when we were yet without strength, let's take that phrase right there. When we were, this is how I go through the Bible. I just take little phrases. and try to think through it. I go back to the Greek rendering, try to understand that as much as I can. But just take that phrase, when we were without strength May not what that means is spiritual strength. Doesn't mean physical strength, like I can I may have my strength and I can pick up this pulpit. I can anyway, but You know, I have my physical strength, but this is speaking spiritual spiritually. When we had no strength spiritually And it's making the point, we come into the world, when we're born and come into this world, we're you know we have to get saved. So therefore we come into this world, shall we say weak, shall we say dead spiritually That's why Jesus said you must be born again, because we're dead spiritually unless we receive the Lord Jesus Christ. And the text goes, when we were yet without strength So we're weak, spiritually, we're dead, we're vulnerable, but look at the next phrase. In due time. Now that phrase in due time is just one word, this one Greek word, Chiron, and it means in due time or in in just the right time, because we know that whatever God does, it's always just right We mess things up from time to time, but our Lord doesn't. Isn't that wonderful that our God is because He is sovereign When he picked you for salvation and saved you, it worked, didn't it? It's not that the Lord tried to save you. No, I'm not going to do it. Here you are. You love the Lord. And many of you, most of you I see here every every time I'm here You know why? Because God loves you. And his work in you was effectual. Get that word down. Effectual. That's important as you study theology. Effectual. That means what God sets out to do He does it. He's not frustrated by the world, the flesh, or the devil. All that God does is effectual. And what blows my mind is in the providence of things, God in his mercy elected me to be saved. That really is a miracle. And uh, you know, and that's why I want to serve the Lord and love him. Because by nature I'm a miserable rat. But the Lord saved me out of all that mess and saved you out of all that mess. And so now I want to serve. I want to be here and preach this way. I would do it every day. If you come here every day at 9 o'clock or whatever, I'll be here. And gladly, enthusiastically preach this, well, I do it every day. I can't wait for Sunday to come so I can really give forth God's word. No, and that's not me. That's what the Lord has done for me. Okay, but look getting back in our text in due time. Now get this phrase, people. Do you understand this phrase? Let me read this to you. Greek first and then I'll give it to you in English. In due time it says this Huper Asibain Apostane Apatane Or Christ died for the ungodly. There's the gospel right there. Get that clear. Understand that verse. How clear could this be? Christ died for the ungodly. And there was a time when you were ungodly. And he died for you. And that's why you're here today. That's a beautiful thing. Now, the gospel. What is the gospel? So if you were, I I taught in Bible college for a couple years, and this is a question I would always ask my students sometime during the year. Okay, people take out Paper and pen quiz. The guy did it. Yeah, shut up and do the quiz. So uh and here's the question. Define for me the gospel. I mean you're in Bible college, you want to learn, so you should know the gospel is that's basic. What's the Greek word for gospel? Ewangeleon. Okay, that might ask him that question. But then here's the big question. Define the gospel as it's defined in the Bible. Now, would you any of you now know where to turn to? Because it's very clearly defined. Do you know where it's found? 1 Corinthians. Chapter 15, verses 1 to 4 defines the gospel. And it is the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Christ. That is the gospel If I come here today and I preach and I tell you Christ died on the cross for your sins, believe in Jesus, receive Jesus, and that that's Better than nothing. But that's not the full gospel. The full gospel is Christ died on the cross for your sins. He was buried. And you need to say that because therefore that shows he was dead. He was buried and he resurrected. That's the three points to a gospel. Death, burial, resurrection. When you are sharing Christ with people, I would suggest always make sure You mentioned the resurrection because that gives it the supernatural effect. If you just say Christ died on the cross for your sins, you know what the world's going to think? Everybody dies on So what? Everybody dies. He was on a cross. Some people die because they run over by a car. Jesus on a crew care But when you mention they'd be resurrected from the dead and were seen of witnesses, it changes the whole thing. And then they have to begin to think through this. And that's the text we have here. Christ died for the ungodly. And we tend to think, well, Jesus came for good people. He's going to rescue good people. No, because there are no good people. According to Scripture, what's the verse say? There's none good. No, not one. There's nobody good. By God's by God's basis, now we're talking about by God's basis. But we see here in our verse, in our verse here, God died for the Jesus died for the ungodly. So we know now here's the other thing you as you begin to put these together. For whom Christ came to die, those people will be saved. There's no such thing as Christ dying for Joe over here, and Joe won't believe he dies and goes to hell. I don't think that scripture tells us that doesn't exist For whom Christ came? Christ came for a miserable sinner like Don Britton. He came for a miserable sinner like you. And guess what? You love Jesus. You're here. You're part of the church. Why? Because he came for you. He died for you, and therefore you love Jesus. You're here today. Because we know this. Everything God does is effectual. That's a key word in theology. Understand that word. Effectual. What he sets out to do He does. And he's frustrated by no no one or nothing. And that's the Lord that we serve. He's effectual in all that he does. So we know therefore that all for whom Christ died, when he's on that cross, all for whom he died, and we don't know for whom he died, we know he died for me. But we know in the end, all for whom Christ died will believe and trust in Christ and end up in heaven. Why? Because all that God does is effectual. There's no such thing as God calling uh calling Joe, Joe, believe in Jesus, come down. And and no, I don't want that If the Lord calls you, you'll come. You were called. That's why you're here. You think you're here because you're born in a Christian family, or you're smart, or you're no, you're here because God called you before the foundation of the world And you're here and you're gonna show up. That's the power of God. That's the power that we see here in God's holy word. Well moving on here, I'm getting going into a tangent here Which I tell my students not to do and which I do. Got right into a tangent here, but we know this all for get this phrase down. This is important. And if you disagree with it, take it home, think about it, and search the scriptures. But what doesn't the Bible tell us? All for whom Christ died will be saved. All but he's on that cross dying for the sins of sins. We say he died for the sins of the world? No. He died for the sins of his elect, who he called. And we know that every that's why you you know the cross was a hundred percent success. Because everyone for whom Christ died went to the cross for will be saved. You, that's why you're here today Because the Lord Jesus went to Calvary, bled, and suffered because you were in his mind. You were part of that group that he came to rescue, and guess what? It worked, because here you are And most of you people I see every time I come here because the Lord's working in your heart. So that his death on the cross was a 100% success And you analyze what Scripture says about the cross, and you'll you'll begin to see these things. The whole purpose of the cross was fulfilled because that's what God does. He is effectual in all that he does. That's why he's called G-O-D, God. He does all of his holy will. Alright, moving on here. You see this phrase in due time. Taking verse by verse. In due time, K Ron, I told you that, Richmond. Christ died for the ungodly. Okay, we talked about this. And we know that our Lord is sovereign. He makes no mistakes. So what he try attempts to do, it is done. Moving on to verse 7, it says, For scarcely For a righteous man will one die yet, peradventure, for a good man some will even dare to die. I'm not going to comment on that because it's pretty well self-explanatory, and the purpose of it is really to set up the information in verse 8. Verse 8 goes on to say, but God commended his love toward us. Who's us? The believing community. God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. When you were in your sin, cursing God and carrying on in such a way The Lord placed his eternal love for you and rescued us and saved you and therefore you're here today because you love the Lord. He chased you down and got you. Read that verse again. Isn't that what that is saying? But God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinned in the process of our sin when we're cursing God. Christ died for us. Could it be more clear? You know, Romans chapter 11, verse 3. Anybody have that memorized by any chance? Romans, but it simply speaks about the simplicity that's in Christ. That's the phrase you see. The simplicity that's in Christ. Because when you think about it, the gospel's clear. Isn't this simple? This is Don Britain here. Here's Don Britain's sins. God loves Don Britton, but he hates the sin. Don Britton can't go to heaven. He's got too much of a sinner. And there's nothing he can do to get rid of it. But that's not the end of the story. If this hand represents the Lord Jesus Christ, notice there's no sin on him because he lived a perfect life. And what did Jesus do when he was on the cross? Taking the sins of sinner of his sinners, of his elect sinners, taking their sins on him Going to hell, I'm paying for that our sins, so that how many sins do I have to answer for? None. They're all gone. Why? Because Jesus took them. That's how I know I'm going to go to heaven. 1 John 5. 13. Who knows that These things have a written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that you can know you have eternal life. That word no, dynamite, means that you can be certain and sure. Isn't that a powerful? Get that verse down. Memorize that verse. That's important. Especially when you witness to people and they trust in Christ. Make sure they know this. 1 John 5. 13. These things have a written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know. You have eternal life and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God. Something that you know. You don't have a hope, a wish, I have to wait till I die to find out. No, you can know it. That's what God's word is saying. Moving on here, I'm getting exaggerating here. Let me move on here. Lest we'd be here till two or three o'clock. You wouldn't want that. Would you want to stay until two or three o'clock if you can go on? I'm just kidding. Okay. You'd never write me back again, you throw me out of here. Don't bring that guy back again. Okay, let's do it again. So let's look here. Now I'm looking here. I have this verse written down here 1 Peter 1 2. Just write it down if you want to, it's good for 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 2. It says, Elect According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ, grace unto you and peace from God be multiplied. Notice what that what it begins, what's the word it begins with? Elect. And that makes it clear. Again, another way of saying it, that before the foundation of the world, God made an election of miserable sinners to save And everything God does is Ezekiel. He rescued them. And you were part of that. That's why you're here. That's why you believe in Jesus. It's not that you were smarter than anybody else and you figured it out and the other guy didn't. No You were part of his elect before even the foundation of the world. That you would love him, follow him, believe in him, and hence you've got a place in heaven waiting for you. But right now we're here in the middle of the battle So get the word of God out. While we're here, get God's word out as much as you can. You know, we have scripture gives us many names as believers. It calls us Christians, the saved. Calls us believers and also it calls us the elect. And that's referring to those again who God elected before the foundation of the Lord to be saved. And so that's why you see this kind of language. Understand that for whom Christ died will be saved from hell to heaven. When Jesus is on that cross dying, he's dying for his electric And every one of his elect will be they will believe and they will be saved and they will be in heaven. That's why the cross was a 100% success. It rescues everyone for whom it was intended. You have hope in heaven, I have hope in heaven, certainly not because anything I've done, because I'll just straighten the hell off. That's not the case. Because the Lord rescued me, rescued me from myself Rescue me from my misery and my arrogance and pride and all that stuff. And he did the same thing for you. Hence, you believe in Jesus, and that's why you believe in. Are you smarter than somebody else? No Are you smarter than your neighbor who curses God every day? You believe in him because he called you and that's another thing. The call of the Lord. What do we know about the call? Uh oh. The call of the Lord It is irresistible. When the Lord calls you to heaven to believe, you will. And isn't that wonderful? As we all here believe, at some point in time in God's plan, He called us unto His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Hence, we're not going to go to hell. Hence we have a heaven to look forward to, and hence we love him today and have a purpose in our life to share Christ with others Well, let's move on here for a minute. We know that God's plan again is to save sinners, as I've just mentioned. We know that everyone for whom Christ died will be saved from hell to heaven. And of course that's the atonement what we're talking about. And the atonement is effectual. There's another key word. To get understand that word, effectual. All that God does works. What he plans to do, it is done He's not frustrated by man, the flesh, or the devil. Moving on quickly to verse nine. Much more than being now justified by his blood. Okay, do you have another hour we can talk about justification and then I'll cut it off The word justification. And that is the word decayoscentase. Decayothentase is the word justification going back to the Greek rendering. And it means this. Justification means this. Practically it means Just as if I never sinned. That's what just if that's you know that's that's um so this hand is me. This is my sins If I stand before God like this, I'll go to hell because I have sinned. I can't go to hell. Can't go to heaven If the Lord let me in heaven with my sin, that would pollute heaven. I can't have sin on me and go to heaven, but he you know the message, here's Christ. takes our sins on the cross, pays for our sins. The sin is paid for by Jesus, so I can go to heaven. I have no sin to answer for. That's what the Lord did for us in the cross. Keeping that in mind, and that's when we look at that word justified. You see that word justified we just talked about verse 9. Much more than being justified By his blood, by the shedding of the blood of Christ in our place, that justifies. That is to say, we appear before a holy God as if we never sinned. Now, do we sin? Of course. You're all dirty, rotten sinners Especially me. But because this is what Jesus takes our sin on himself, so appeared before God as if we had never sinned, hence were able to go to heaven because of the work and doing of Jesus Christ on the cross. What does the word of God says this was done by the shedding of his blood? You know Romans 9:22, that without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sins. That's why Christ had to go to the cross and bleed, shed his blood That was the program. That's what God the Almighty set up, that He would shed His blood for His people. And all those for whom He shed His blood will believe in Christ. Now some believe as children, some believe as adults, some may believe on our deathbed, but they will believe and trust in Christ, be heav and be go to heaven. And then I find this the next statement is what? We shall be saved from wrath. You see that in your Bible? We shall be saved from you know one thing you don't want is God's wrath. That's not something you want to be near We said we shall be saved. Look at the language of the Bible. What it says is that we shall be saved from wrath. There's two kinds of wrath. There's the wrath of man, and there's the wrath of God. My dad, I probably spoke about my dad many times, was a wonderful, wonderful man, and I I I'm not about to cry because I can't talk about him without crying. He was so wonderful to me Um but you know what he wasn't a perfect man either. And although he was, you know, just everybody who knew him loved him. Let's put it that way. If he was here, you'd also be talking to him and loved him just that way But he did have some kind of a temper and everyone and I could get under his temper. And if I can really get him, then he'd you know fire off the handle All right, get off the baseball team. You're not playing baseball anymore. If you're gonna bring home an eel and you report, you're fired, get out of it. Of course he never kept his word, but I'm sorry. But you know, he was like that. Little but little r little uh responsive in in in that way. But he was really a a wonderful, godly man. I thank the Lord for him. And really it was through him I came to Christ. You know, he would take me to Sunday school and church. He'd pray with me at night. You know, son, you need to believe in the Lord Jesus as your Savior. And honestly, truth is, because he did, I did. Because he told me and I trusted everything he said I received Christ. That was the one who m who motivated me, my wonderful father. What a blessing that is. And um, you know, I thank the Lord for this. Um but When he would get angry, you know, I was fearful at that time. I, you know, I wasn't involved in sports most of my life, so I had I played under different kind of coaches and some of them could be really nasty And you know one particular coach would explode, Britain, you are the worst worst. Get back there and do it again, you missed the block, do it again. Oh man, I used to hate that. But You know, they're the things you have to go through and uh you don't like, but that's the things you have to deal with in life. Let's go let me go on to the next verse here. Next phrase says what? For if when we were enemies, do you see that word in the Bible? Look at that in your Bible. Enemy. We were enemies to Christ, to God. Meaning that God and man were enemies. We were in a state of hostility toward God. Think about Well, husband and wife, we husband and wife, so you know how miserable you feel when you have an argument with your wife. And so you're usually like this, but you get an argument and sort you sort of sort of like this. And you know how bad you feel when that goes on and until you get reconciliation things are really never the same. But of course you've all been married many years so you know learn how to go through the process and reconcile after you said nasty things and did the wrong thing You're able to come back together again and love one another and so forth. The phrase said we are reconciled to God. Although you are a dirty rotten sinner, I'm worse than any of you, so I can say that. But you know what? I'm reconciled. Why? But because I No, because of what the Lord Jesus Christ has done for me, dying on the cross for my sins. And he did that for for you as well. And so that's what salvation is all about. When we were enemies to God, when we were shocked, angry fist at God, yet he sent his only begotten son for us. That we could be forgiven of our sins and have heaven to wait for. Do you ever think about do you ever meditate on heaven? What that's gonna be like Sort of hard to do. And how are we going to do this? I don't know anything. I don't know what it's like to live in a state without sin. I mean our s our world's fallen. We are surrounded by people who are sinners. We're sinners by choice and by nature. So what would it be like to be in an environment with no sin? That's gonna be nice. Because that's why a lot of times in Revelation you're reading about heaven, it's hard to understand because It's a total, completely different environment, but it's going to be one you're going to enjoy and love, and it will be for eternity. Think about that. In heaven, every one of you who trust in Christ, you will be in heaven forever You don't have to worry about the tax man coming by. You don't have to be involved in an argument with your wife or your husband or have to deal with this or sickness or illness. We will be in heaven for all eternity Because when Jesus went to the cross, he went there with for you and paid for all your sin so that you can now reside in heaven. These things that were written unto you that believe in the name of the Son of God that you can Ginomide, that you can know you have eternal life, and that you may believe in the name of the Son of God. Isn't that beautiful? You've all done that. That's why you're here. Praise God. Isn't that beautiful Thank God he didn't pass over you or whatever, but he drew you. And his draw to you is irresistible. It's not like the Lord's calling, oh, I don't want to go. None of that. If he calls you, you'll be there. You will love the Lord Jesus. You'll turn your life over to him. You'll turn your money over to him. You'll turn everything over to him and want to serve him. If he calls you And evidently he's called you because you're here every week, you love the Lord, I know you do, and so that's evidence that he has called you unto his wonderful kingdom I'm getting long, so I've got to go long. I've got to finish up here. Look at the phrase here. We're saved by his life. You follow me here in your Bible? The Bible is the authority here for us. Verse 10. We're saved by his life And not only so, that is to say there's more come, but we also joy in God. I'll probably close with this. We joy in God. In other words, God is your joy, knowing that you have Him, that He has you, that you love Him, that you follow His Word, rejoy in God. That gives you your joy Hopefully you're joyful people. Hopefully when you wake up in the morning you eat now some be a little different, you know some are sort of Some people some personalities when they first get up are sort of grumpy. What's so good about it? But sort of once you work through that, you become human again you can talk and you know you're you're happy and for the because the Lord gives you joy in your life. What what's the what is the characteristic of the Holy Spirit Being filled with the Holy Spirit is what? Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, mildness, against such there is no law. Don't you want to have that in your life? That's for you, as you are controlled by, filled by the Holy Spirit. Not only do we get heaven waiting for us, we had this joy on this earth. Did everyone come in here today and you had joy in your heart? You were happy, you were content. Was that your experience? It should be. It can be. And that is to say, is Christ in your heart? Have you given him your heart, your mind, all that you have, your money, how you deal with your life? Turn these things over to the Lord. Give them to him. And many things will occur, one of which this, it will result for you peace in your heart. And you'll have a peace, purpose together in the morning, and you'll have a joy in your life. It's all for every and I'm hoping I'm assuming you already have this because you I know you've been Christians here for many years here, I know you. But maybe someone has it. You know, I don't know what's on your mind. Okay, let me go on here. I'm going to stop here soon Because one thing I don't like when I'm sitting here, I'm sitting there like you are and the pastor goes on and on and on. Lord please have this guy stop, please. And he goes on and on. That's what I'm doing. Probably somebody's praying for me now. Please stop this guy so we can get out of here All right, let me just say this quickly here. So look at these other phrases here, because these phrases are inspired in errant, infallible Word of God. We are reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more being reconciled by His life. And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have Receive the atonement, meaning Christ thine on the cross for our sins, we've received this. So That word atonement comes from the word cattleage, and it means to be restored to favor. You and me have been restored to favor before holy God. That's what that atonement does. That's what it means. You're restored to favor. Remember uh I had a I had a I had a um Dog. Had a dog, kid growing up. It's English Springer Spaniel. You know what that is? English Springer Spaniel. It's a very nice gentle dog. This one, but this is weird, this is so true. So we have this little puppy, Englishman or Spaniel. So as a cat I'd play with him and wrestle with it and all this. When the dog did something wrong You know, the ears on the spring of spaniel. If if the dog does something wrong, he would put had his way droop in his ear. His ears would just come down. And he'd look at me like this and his ears would go down. You know, and I try to discipline her and say, You shouldn't shouldn't do that, you bad dog, and the ears go down like this. And then after a while, you know, the then the ears would go back up again and we'd be playing and everything would be going good. And the next thing he does something wrong. What did you do that for Spot? Down go the ears and he walks around like this with ears Anyway, you know, I think sometimes we may be like that before God because we don't understand his love, his mercy. And um so let me just conclude by throwing out three words that we talked about about today. Reconciliation. We've talked about the concept of reconciliation, man reconciling with God. We've talked about atonement. Atonement for our sin. Christ on the cross was the atonement for our sin. And then we talked about the word restoration. And this word restoration is in God's word 41 times. We are restored back to God in a good relationship. Again, oh, here's a good one. Okay, think about your husband and wives here. We have a number of husbands and wives. So think sometimes, you know, you get a little argument. You know, you know how miserable that is, you know, you have this issue and oh man And you know, in time, obviously you learn to work through these things, and then you come back together again in good standing And you know how good that feels. You get you know you reconcile back to your wife, back, reconciled back to your husband. That's a wonderful feeling. You know, then you're ready to go on and beat the world That's what this verse is about. We reconcile with God. We get out of fellowship with God by our sin, but when we confess our sin, knowing that Jesus died on the cross for my sin, I can get reconciliation and I can have a healthy relationship with God Almighty through His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So I close by simply asking this today. Examine your own heart. And um, you know, are you right with the Lord? Have you trusted in have you trusted in Christ? Look at verse six. I didn't read this to you. This is out of my text, but it's in the it's in the Context, Romans 5, 6 says, for when we were yet without strength in due time Christ died for the ungodly. Isn't that beautiful? And that was us at one time. We weren't born saved. We had to get saved. But the Lord wanted the cross for us to rescue us from the practice and penalty of our sin. And guess what? It was a success. Here you are. Isn't that beautiful? His death on the cross was not a failure, it was a great success. It rescued miserable sinners like us. And how beautiful is that it not only does he save you, but then give you the gift of the Holy Spirit to serve him, to be empowered, to love one another. To evangelize, to be bold for Jesus Christ. Every one of you have the Holy Spirit living in you to energize you, to encourage you. So when the world turns on you and everybody Yells at you, forget it. You got the Lord in your heart. That's what you need. And he'll be enough to get you through the hard tough times that you can live boldly for the Lord Jesus. Let's pray together Our Father, we want to say thank you for bringing us together today. Thank you for saving us. Our Father, I do confess, on behalf of all these wonderful people here We've all earned and deserved hell. We deserve to be there forever, for all eternity, and yet and yet marvelously we're getting heaven for all eternity, where there's no more sin, sorrow, sickness, and disease But we'll be in the presence of the Lord who loved us and gave himself for us, and we say thank you so much. But I would just let me close with just a challenge for everyone here. Two challenges. Number one, believer right here. Examine your life quickly right now. Is there a sin or sins in your life right now you're tolerating and you know you shouldn't be doing it? Confess that to God right now. Silently. Confess that to God right now. Yes, Lord, I know I fill in the blank. Husbands, are you loving your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it? Examine your life, your how you care for your wife. Are you loving her? Yeah, I told her last year I loved her You know what I mean. Husband or wives, are you are you following the leadership of your husband? Or are you re re revolting against him? Humble yourself and follow that wonderful man that God gave you. Praise God. Praise God. You have each other. Thank the Lord for that. Don't take it for granted. And thank you, Lord, for bringing us together today. Thank you for this church. Thank you for establishing it, maintaining it, what a beautiful thing that is. And we pray that as the weeks, months, and years go on, that This church will continue to give forth the Word of God, save souls, edify believers, and advance the kingdom of God. Thank you so much for being with us today. We love you, Lord. guide us as we depart from here. We pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen.