All of you. And um what better thing could we do than to share God's word together? So I have a few words written down here in my little sermon book And it says to open the Bible to Romans chapter 5. So would you do that? We could follow along with my thoughts here. Romans chapter 5. I'm just going to comment on a couple verses here in Romans. And we've been going through Romans verse by verse going through it. And now we're here today we're going to start in verse number 17. Romans 5, 17. And take it through to verse 20 or 21, see how how far we can get So uh if we're looking here then in Romans chapter 5 and verse 17, I'll read through these verses here for you and then you can see So verse seventeen, Romans five seventeen declares, For if by one man's offense death reigned by one Much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ. Therefore, as by the offense of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation Even so, by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. For as by one man, one man's sin, disobedience, many were made sinners. So by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Moreover, the law entered that the offense may abound. But Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound, that as sin hath reigned unto death. Even so might grace reign through the righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. Our Father, we ask now that you will give us Insight, wisdom. We pray that the Spirit of God will actually be our true teacher today. In other words, I pray you get me out of the way and that the Spirit of God could somehow preach through me to minister to put forth your word and to bring blessing unto the worshipers here today. Thank you for bringing these precise people here today, O Lord. What a wonderful work has already occurred. That you brought you awakened your people, you energize them and brought them here to the local church, that the word of God may be received, that Hymns and praises may go unto the Lord, that we may edify one another in our fellowship. And so we know that when the church comes together, many intangible things occur that are hard to recognize And yet a great work continues on. So we ask today then that you will guide us, speak through me, O Lord, to simply give to be faithful to your word. So whatever is in the word, that's what I will bring forth. Guide us to that end, and I ask that in Jesus' holy name. Amen. So we're going to be looking here, and you know I had this written out in a little pamphlet form for you and I left it at home. So it's not gonna do you any good. But I'll bring it next time. I'll give you two of them at one. So um Anyway, I'd like to sort of leave something with you, but I don't have it today, so maybe what I leave with you it'd be something I can leave to your brain, to your spirit. will be a blessing to you. So we're looking here in excuse me, Romans chapter five and verse seventeen. We're going to start with that verse there. And it simply declares, for if by one man's offense, we know what that is, death reigned by one. Much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign In life by one Jesus Christ. So for me I gotta break these things down into little bits in order to comprehend it. I'm not as bright as all of you, so I gotta make it tiny little things and then I can So if I break this down, what I have here in my notes, I take the first phrase for if by one man's offense. Now let's see if we can understand what that is. One man's offense we're talking about here. And of course we all know if you're Anywhere a bit familiar with God's word, we're talking here about Adam. We have Adam in mind here, one one man's offense. And I'm thinking of Genesis chapter 3, verse 6 And there it mentions how that he did eat. You know, Adam's mistake, he ate the forbidden fruit, and he did eat. And the result of that, what was the result of God being, if Adam not listening to God, what was the result? Well, it tells us in God's word, death reigned by one. Already that tells us what? God means what he says and says what he means. If he says don't eat the fruit, that's what he means. And of course we will take that with a grain of salt and we'll compromise with it and it leaves to our to a d a mess. Anyway, the result of this of Adam eating the forbidden fruit, we know that um sin came into the world and created the mess that we're in right now. There's sin in the world today. And think about it, whatever misery you have in your life today, whether it be mental, emotional, spiritual, It's really the cause of sin. Sin has come into the world. And we are born in a state of sin. We'll naturally gravitate to it. That's our nature, unless the Lord pulls us from that Sets it upon the solid rock of the Lord Jesus Christ, gives us salvation, become a child of God and have heaven waiting for us So I'm assuming that's what happened to all of you here. Every time I'm here, most of the it's the same people, but there's some new people, and that's good too. But the my assumption is that the Lord did that with you He brought you to himself and I use the word irresistibly because when the Lord calls a sinner, he does come. I don't think there's a result, a picture in scripture anywhere where the low Lord calls a miserable sinner and the sinner says, No, I'm not coming. I'm not gonna do it. But rather we know this. The Lord's call is effectual. So who he calls will come. And obviously that's we all of us have had that experience. And so we want to thank the Lord that and that's why we're here today. The Lord had his mercy on us. And out of and I I'm sure you asked yourself this question. Lord, why? Why would you save me? Of all the millions of people in the world, and not everyone is saved. You know, relatively speaking, just a sort of small people will be saved, a small number of people will be saved, and so I thought, Lord, why why did you include me in all this? I'm so happy you did, but uh that's a mystery to me. I think when I go to heaven that's one of be one of my first questions. I want to ask well why did you why did you p select me to be saved Was there what what was behind all that? So right now that's a mystery, but I'm happy he did. And how do I know he did? Because I have faith in the Lord Jesus. I love the Lord Jesus. I can't explain it other than that's what the Lord gave to me And so I'm very pleased and happy about that. We know this that the power of obedience sets in motion catastrophic events. That is the power of disobedience. The power of disobedience sets in motion catastrophic events. And that's what we read in Romans 5. 17. And um we know that whenever we disobey the Lord There's going to be catastrophic events. And we know that God says what he means and he means what he says. Now I have here in my book here, and you have the same thing, You know, I like to look at statistics for different things, and so I don't know why I say this quite often, but I think it's pretty interesting. Here We have 1,189 chapters in your Bible. 31,102 verses. 788,280 words, 3,556,480 letters in your King James Bible. And it's all God inspired information for us, you know, to receive and to enjoy. And so, you know, when we're going to come to preach, I I've been going through the book of Romans. I used to go by Verse by verse, chapter by chapter, and so forth. So that's why I'm here today preaching to you in Romans chapter 5 and verse 17. But the one thing we want to know is God says what he means, and he means what he says. So when we hear God's given us some kind of direction one way or the other, it would behoove us to follow it to in in detail So today we we want to look into God's Word and um analyze what the special uh uh message that He has for us today. So we look here in Romans chapter 5, verse 17, and we see the phrase, much more they which receive abundance of grace. Do you see that on there? Much more they that receive the abundance of grace. What a beautiful word that word grace. I'm sure we've all heard it and there's many churches called you know Grace Church or whatever and but that word grace comes from the word care, the Greek word cares. And it means that you received something good that you did not earn or deserve. That is grace. All of us are saved by that experience of grace. God placed his grace upon us. Hence, we hear the gospel, we believe it, we love the Lord, we want to follow Him. None of us can claim anything for this, other than the Lord gave us grace. And you might ask why. Well why would you give me grace when there's so many millions that that will never have your grace? So, and that's really a question I still have today. Why would God pour his grace on me? And yet so many will never have the grace of God. And that's uh and it probably that's probably a question all of us have asked from time to time, why is that? And I don't have an answer. All I know is I'm happy that it did happen. But that word grace. Now what verse do you think of when I say the word grace? Does any verse come to your mind with that word grace? Probably the verse that comes to most people's mind when we say grace is Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9, right? For by grace, which is undeserved mercy, for by grace are you saved through faith. And not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. What a wonder. And these are verses we need to be well aware of for that when we are witnessing to people they're going, I don't I know you it's just faith. Maybe I thought I had to be good or I had to join a certain church. Well that's when you want to recite Ephesians 2 8 and 9, but you gotta have that memorized. Hoping That all of you have that memorized and you're working on memorization. And that's another thing let me encourage you to do. Always memorize, be in the project of memorizing something of God's Word And years ago, as I'm starting to grow my face and knowledge of Christ, I can't memorize. I don't like to memorize, you have to memorize things for school. Who wants to memorize this and that? But of course, as you grow in the Lord You know, you begin to have a desire to memorize God's word. So someone challenged me. Um instead of memorizing a verse Memorize large sections of God's word. Memorize a chapter. A chapter. Are you are you crazy to memorize a chapter of God's word? I can hardly do a verse But you know I took up that challenge. I thought, you know I'm gonna set out to memorize uh you know, a chapter of God's Word And it it took some time, but you know what? I was able to do that. Paul, a servant of God of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting, my brethren count all joy when you fall into various twelves, knowing this is the twelve your faith works, patience, but let patience have re and so on and so forth. It took a long time, but but you know that has been a blessing to have that memorized, because I can be driving down the road and recite that and be thinking things of the Lord Because God's word is memorized. So here's one thing. What did the pastor say today? Let me encourage you to memorize Scripture. That's the one thing you want to w walk away with today. a program to memorize scripture. And there's many, many ways you can do this. The way I do it, I get a three by five card, write the verse down, put it in my pocket, and take it with me throughout the day As I'm driving, if I come to a red light, get it out, and he'll memorize, put it back, and then never take it out while you're driving, of course, but when you come to the red light and stuff You know, memorize it. And you'd be surprised how you'd begin to put away large numbers of of scripture. And again, give your give yourself a challenge. Memorize a chapter. Select any chapter of God's Word and commit it to memory. And you may say, okay, six months from now I want this chapter memorized. So just you know start working on it. And you'd be surprised. You can do that and really much more. Don't listen to the world, the flesh, and the devil. Say you can't memorize that. You're not good at that. Don't listen to any of that. Start memorizing God's word And see how much you can get memorized. I'm sure every one of you can memorize chapters of God's Word. And you know, we're happy if we can memorize a verse, and that's good, and that's very good But maybe expand your desire for retaining God's Word and Take up this challenge, select any chapter at all in God's Word, and commit to memory. Every one of you could do this, and wouldn't it be wonderful if I come back, we come back, where we talk about this six months from now. And have somebody recite a chapter of God's Word. Take a chapter that means a lot to you, something that you like and commit it to memory. Now you say well how do you well the way I did it I just wrote wrote it out. Do I even have one with me now? I do have one with me. I'm always we have this. Anyway. I I I have it somewhere. Anyway, the point is though, always carry a memory verse with you And there's many times you're in maybe you're sitting in a doctor's office or um you just have some time alone, some downtime, take that verse out and memorize it And then no, you're all saying I'm not good at memorization, I'm not either, but you can do it. Do it for the glory of God. Do it. And it will be a real blessing And if you learn nothing else than this today, memorize the word of God. Learn to memorize with regularity the Word of God. And in time, you will memorize chapters of God's Word. And as I say, I know if I can do it, anybody here can do it. If we all took an IQ test, I will guarantee you I'd be at the bottom of that IQ test list. However, if I can memorize a chapter of God's Word, you can do it. So I give you the challenge. Select any chapter you want, commit it to memory. But then get ready for a spiritual battle, because the world, the flesh, and the devil will fight you all the way. There'll be all kinds of interruptions, all kinds of difficulties to keep you from memorizing God's Word. And if you don't believe me, try it out. And you will find out something about spiritual warfare. You'll find out something about the resistance that this world will offer you simply because you love the Lord and you want to Memorize. I'll move on. I'll get off of this in just a minute, but what a blessing it is. You're driving down the road and I'm able to, you know Paul is servant of God of the Lord Jesus Christ of the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad greeting my brethren cannot all joy we have fallen to various trials knowing this that the trial of your faith works patience but look you know and going on like it. So that's like reading the Bible and driving at the same time. Instead you don't have the Bible in your hand, but you're um observing, but you're having God's word go through your head. You can do that. How do I know you can do it? Because if I can do it, and if I can do it, then I know you can do it. You have no excuse. Okay, moving on here. Getting off track already, what you shouldn't do when you're preaching is to do that. Therefore, as by the offense of one, here we're talking, we're getting back here talking about Adam, the offense of one All these things came upon the believer, sin came into the world. But what this points out, this phrase, therefore, by the By the um offense of one. You see that phrase there? By the offense of one in verse 18, which brings out this point. The power of one person. Here, this is in the negative, but you'll also find it in the positive as well. One person Who makes a stand for Jesus Christ, one person who commits his life to the Lord Jesus, which means that implies all that he is, all his gifts, his talents, his money, his direction, his brain Dedicated to Jesus Christ can do great and magnificent things. I bet every one of you can accomplish and do greater things than you would imagine. As you begin to think about it and ask the Lord to guide you and direct you in your life. Lord, what would you have me to do? And you're thinking, well I really can't do much, what can I do? You know, and y y you approach it with that attitude, and of course not a whole lot is going to happen. But don't put your faith in yourself, put it in the Lord. Lord, what would you have me to do? And don't limit yourself. Well I I'd like to witness to my neighbor, but I can't do that because I really don't know how to you know. Don't let that happen to you Ask the Lord, what do you want me to do? Is there a particular ministry you would like me to do? Is there something that you would like me to change in my life? Is there a project you want me to take on? What would you have me to do And then once the Lord shares that with you through Scripture, through the leading of the Holy Spirit in your life, then go out there and do it. And do it with the power of God. And it will bring great blessing into your life. And so these are the things come up here as I'm looking here. Therefore, as by the offense of one, now we're talking here about the offense of Adam here in our context here But again, the power of one in the community can do a great a great work. Can make a great change in this church Not that this church needs any change. It's a great church, but like any other church, we we all need, you know, to advance and and to uh dedicate ourselves unto the Lord afresh. Therefore, as by the offense of one, judgment came upon all men. Now think about this. Now we have a problem. Look at this. And God's inspired an errant fallible word of God, we see the phrase, judgment came upon all men And this is a statement as we look at it in the context describing Adam's catastrophic mistake. We blame all this on Adam. Because it did it did occur to him. And think of the catastrophe that we have in this world now. You can push it right back to Adam, because that's where it all it all came from him in his disobedience to God Which tells us how costly sin is. The word sin comes from the word Hamatan, and it literally means missing the mark of God's perfection. So if you are nigh perfect, if you make mistakes, then you're you're a sinner. You're missing the mark of God's perfection, is that what that word sin means. And sin we know is so very costly. Now think I'm thinking back as a pastor ministering to my congregation, what sin has brought into the congregation And you know, thinking all these things, and because you know if you do counseling, you come across a lot of issues here. But I'm thinking some things that come across families. Families divide And how sad is that to see if husband and wife have been married for many years, have children, and they you know something comes up and they eventually they they do their separate ways Businesses go under. Maybe some of you had your own business, but it went under. And you lost Churches split. I've been aware of, not part of, but I've been aware of many church splits. How sad that is. Money, your personal money is lost. All because of that little three-letter word, sin. Sin crept in and had its way, wasn't dealt with, wasn't confessed, wasn't forsaken, it lingered around and it creates chaos. I don't know the details of your personal life, but think about your life. What are the things with which you struggle? And a lot of it probably can be traced back to unconfessed and unrepented sin. Sin in and that's why, you know, that is so dangerous. This is so dangerous that Jesus had to go all the way to the cross to deal with this sin issue. Think about that. This sin issue took Jesus Christ, the Son of God, to go to the cross to deal with the sin in your personal life, in my personal life, and to all who would trust in him. So this thing of sin, we have to be very careful of it. And look at the phrase, judgment came upon all men. And notice that doesn't tell us that judgment came upon some men. Judgment came upon bad men. It says judgment came upon all men. Black, white, male, female, short, tall, you know, mention came upon all men. And look at the next two words. Judgment came upon all men, to condemnation. Kakarima is that word condemnation. And it means misery and includes things like disease and anger and hostility and judgment. This condemnation and it came upon everybody. Of course, we're talking about how sin came into the world. Is that not a catastrophe? And that's a statement in scripture. I don't know the location of the words, but it says, sin came into the world. What a disaster. The things that you're struggling with today, whether it be a health issue, a mental issue, a financial issue, you could probably trace it all right back to sin. Somewhere sin may be in your life or sin in your Family or someone near you, around you, sin with people that you work. Sin, this thing of sin is a major, major catastrophic event. Condemnation to condemnation, looking at the next phrase, even so by the right righteousness of one, one person creating all this mess. However, we know this, what does scripture tell us? While one person, Adam, of course, brought all this misery into the human race. We also know that mess is going to be solved by one person. And that's what the next phrase says. The free gift came upon all men. Now it's talking about what we call today is grace. The grace of the Lord Jesus. Adam brings sin. One man brings all sin into the earth. The Lord Jesus solves the sin problem. And the text goes on to say, unto justification of life. You see that verse justification of life. Do you know that word is found over 44 times in Scripture, justification? That's a major theme in Scripture. I'm sure you're all aware of it, but I'll just refresh it for you because it's in the text My job is to preach the text, not my opinion. So I'll just give you. But you know, justification. Literally it means just as if I never sinned. If you were justified, that means that you will appear before God as if you never sinned. Now you did sin. You're a sinner. You're a dirty rotten sinner, probably. I am. We are. We're sinners. But if we're justified, if we are justified. The work of justification makes it so that we will appear before God as if we never sinned. The sin is taken away. That's if you're justified, how do I get justified by believing in Jesus Christ, by receiving him into my heart Yes, Lord, I believe you died on the cross for my sin. I believe you resurrected from the dead. And I want to put my trust and hope in you. And the first time you ever do that, then you are what we call saved, saved from hell to heaven, because until you do that, you're headed for hell, should you die. But once you do this and genuinely mean this receive Jesus Christ into your heart, believing, trusting that when he was on that cross, he was dying for you personally and for me And so he takes the penalty of my sin so that I don't have I don't have that. What I have to look forward to is heaven. And that's the beautiful thing that we have is create that's what he's done for us. Look at that beautiful phrase. Unto justification of life. I'm trying to count the number of times. Just justify and justification is in the Bible. I have scratched on here 44 times, but it's this there's more than that. That's not my official count, but at least it's 44 times, but it's even more than that Because that's the major teaching of Scripture, justification, how a sinner can avoid hell and go to heaven. He must be justified. When or how are we justified? By believing in Christ, by receiving him into our life So let me just ask a question here. Now we're in a good this is a good church. I love coming here. Your doctrine is good. People you're also very friendly. So the question I would ask you you is this though Okay, so the question is, when is the last time that you talked to somebody about Jesus Christ? About their or the last time maybe you gave them a track? Or you gave got into a conversation or you got it thrown out of the restaurant or something. You ever think about that? Because that's what you want to do. You want to be figure out a way how you can share and I've I wanted to show you this that I have that I can trust I don't have it when I want it. I know I have it somewhere because I looked at it and saw it, but I don't have it now. So anyway, the point is You know, you carry tracks with you. Do something that you can always get God's word out to others because you never know who you're talking to. And many times they're on they're un they're sinners, unsaved, and can be gone through some serious, miserable things, but when you come to them And you befriend them and you tell them something about Christ or give them a track with some sound doctrine on it, that can do great things to people. And if you listen carefully to the testimonies of people A lot of times I'll come up and say, you know, I was going nowhere in my life and I was taking a bus to downtown and the guy sat next to me and he handed me this track and I thought, well, I'll read it, I'm bored. And he gets saved And his life takes on a whole different direction. And so that's what we want to do. We want to be that guy to hand the tract out to someone, or be the person who prays for someone who is who is hurting And being able to reach out. And so that's what all this is about here. If we look at the next phrase that I see, we talked about under justification of life, right? Being justified. before a holy God, right? We understand that. And again, how are we justified before a holy God? Because we are sinners by nature and by choice. How am I going to be justified to a holy God? It's one thing to be justified before a neutral God, I'll make that up, but to a holy God, sinners like us to be justified before a holy God How could that possibly be? If I look at my life, sins. I'm done. The work of Jesus Christ on my behalf is what rescues me From complete ruination and hell. The work of Jesus on our behalf. I want to show you this. I know I've done it. Let me do it again. So this hand represents me, Don Britton. This represents my sin And this represents you or me. I take it back. This represents me And here I am with my sin. This sin represents Jesus Christ. Notice there's no sin on him, but it's all the sins on me. So what's the story of Christ going on the cross paying for our sin? For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Jesus takes my sin on himself. And what was Jesus doing on the cross? Taking my sin, having God the Father rain down his anger and wrath for my sin when Jesus is carrying the burden of my sin So that I have how many sins to answer for? None. Where are all your sins, Don Britton? You have a lot of sins. Where are they? Jesus took them. And paid the price, the penalty for my sin. So therefore I can go to heaven. I have no sin only. I'm able to go to heaven. This transaction occurs when When I repent, when I believe. What's the word repent mean? Repent means to change your mind. Comes from the word metaneo. And then means simply to change your mind. If I'm going this way Oh, you know, I want to go that way. So I changed my mind and going over here. That's a change of mind. That's repentance. And that's what the scripture tells us to repent and to believe upon the Lord Jesus. And when you do that, your sins are taken away so that when the day comes when God's going to call you home, you'll be like this. You won't have, am I going to go to heaven and be like this? No. Did you believe in Jesus? Yes. If you truly trusted in Christ, here you are. Your sins are all paid for. They're taken on. Jesus took them. Jesus paid for them. So now you can stand before a holy God And he sees no sin and welcome welcome my son and my daughter to heaven. And therefore now we don't talk much about this. Actually in heaven. If we talk about getting to heaven, we don't talk about much being there. But we do know that is a place where there's no more sin, sorrow, sickness, and disease. Think about that. Could you imagine that? An environment Where there's no sin, sorrow, sickness, disease, all those miserable things that come upon, that's all gone. And guess and the beautiful thing is it's forever. Can we even comprehend eternity? But that's what you have, that's what I have as a result of receiving Christ. What is it to receive Christ? To believe Christ, to believe what Jesus said about himself, to believe what Scripture says. He is the Son of God. He went to the cross to pay for our sin. And then he says, if you believe this Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, what's the Bible say? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. And this last part of that verse says what? Very good, yes. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ thou shalt be saved. And thy house. Implying that if I get saved The Lord said, I believe in Jesus, I get saved, I believe in him, I'm going to go home and influence my house, my family, because we we affect other people And so now I'm hoping Chris, I you know, I come here what once a month or whatever, which is good. I I love it and love being here with you. I almost look forward to coming here. We and my wife now might uh I shouldn't have brought that up My dear wife, I used to miss her terribly. And um but we used to we used to um You know, rejoice that we were coming here to be with you people and and to share God's word. And she loved it. You know you people were so good to her. She loved coming here. You know, I do. And um Anyway, so we have heaven to look forward to and I'm looking forward to that. As time goes on, more and more of my family, you know, goes to be with the Lord. Because you know, Nikki was my second wife, my first wife, Faye, godly woman. And when Night She came to me and said, Don, you know, I noticed there there's like a lump in my breast. So well let's go to the doctor and get this thing checked. So we go to the doctor, he examines her, he says, this has to come out tomorrow morning. Oh boy. So she goes in and has her breast removed. And they discovered that the cancer had spread. So now she has to take chemotherapy. I don't know if I've maybe somebody who had chemotherapy, I don't know. It's pretty prevalent anymore. So we had to go to the doctor, she had to get a shot for the chemotherapy, and then she would go home and for a week she'd be sick in bed, you know, throwing up all the time. It was just awful So anyway, we went through all that and the wonderful day came when the doctor said, You're well. There's no sign of it anymore, you're better. So you don't have to come back here anymore. So, hey, praise God, we're celebrating the Lord. We got life again. However, in time they came back. And um, of course you know she's no longer with us But you know, I I feel sad that way, but also I feel happy because she's with the Lord right now. Instead of sitting in this hard chair here listening to me babble, she's with the Lord And that's true, you know, for your I'm sure you you've had relatives and friends who've gone on. So keep preaching the word, keep living the word, and um Anyway, why am I saying all this? I don't know. I got off a little tangent here today, but that's all right, because I see the phrase here, the free gift came upon all men. That's grace. Getting back to the word grace What is grace? Grace is receiving something good that you did not earn or deserve. We're saved by grace. Right? Ephesians 28 and I for by grace. Are we saved? By the way, saved from what? Saved from hell to heaven. For by grace are we saved through faith, not of yourself. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. What a beautiful statement that is. Now that's grace. We are saved by grace. And of course we've all come to the Lord in that way. But the the verse I'm trying to get through here, and I'm going off on many tangents, so I'll Cut it short here because the value of your time. But I'm just looking at this phrase phrase here. The free gift came upon all men. You have that there in your in your Bible? That's verse eighteen. The free gift Came upon all men. And what that means is it came upon all kinds of men. White men, black men, Asian men. It doesn't mean like every person who ever lived, although it sounds like when you first read it, but as you look at it in the context, and that's why context is very important. Study, you've got to study the context when you're studying God's Word. The free gift came upon all men, and of course, this is done by grace. And what is grace? Undeserved mercy The free gift came upon all men what? Unto justification of life. That word, justification. Dicaiosin, is how you say if you go back to the Greek rendering, it is it is called dickeosin. the the word justification. And I tried to count the number of times that justify, justification, and I guess there's two. Somehow I got my figures messed up, so I don't have it what I wanted to say. It says justification 50 times, but I I didn't get the right I have two numbers down here. One, I think it's the word just justify it. is four times in the Bible and justified the ED past tense forty-four times in Scripture. In other words, the message of the Bible is just basically it's the message of justification. How a miserable sinner can go to heaven. Now how can that be, if there's a perfectly holy God, how can a sinner go to heaven? Because of the work and doing of Jesus, taking your sin on himself, so that you don't have sin to answer for, and therefore we go to heaven as we trust in Christ. Unto justification. That means that you appear before God as if you never sinned. Although you are a dirty, rotten sinner, you'll appear before God as if you never sinned. Because you've been justified. You have had the experience of justification. Your sin was taken from you. Again, going back to that illustration, Don, my sin, Jesus takes it off. I've been justified. I now before God, I appear before God with no sin. And because of this, I go to heaven. However, the sad thing is, if a person doesn't believe in Christ as his Savior, if he doesn't receive Jesus, Then when he dies and stands before God, he will stand before God this way with all of the sin. And probably, if this illustration is to be according to scale, He might be appearing before God like this. Well, I I did my best. Really? With this mess? Or to make it even more realistic, appear before God like this. Well, I did my best, I tried. Well, what's all that sin about? And you know, that's why you can't pay for that sin. That's why you have to trust in Christ. He paid for that sin. But you have to believe in him to receive the benefit of his death on the cross. That's what he calls you to do. And notice he doesn't call you to pay $100,000 for it. He doesn't call call you to move from here to Jerusalem. But he says, believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved, and thy house, the verse goes on to say. Believe on Christ. So I ask you the question, even though I'm not I'll stop now. I'm getting long-winded and I'm not even done yet So uh call me back next week or next time and I'll do it again. I'll give the second half of this. But you know, the major thing is this. Have you and I'm sure you have, or I believe you have, I believe most of you people have done this Although I really don't know for sure. I don't know your heart. Maybe somebody's a hypocrite here and you could you like to come to church and just hang around. You like the environment, you like being received, but your heart really doesn't have Jesus. I don't know, could could be, I don't know Anyway, give the gospel to you. Now, what's the gospel? Technically, the gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. That is the gospel. That's the Ewangelion, the Gospel. And what about the gospel? What are you to do about it? Believe it. Receive it. Trust it. And so I will ask, again, perhaps I should do that. Have you received Christ? Do you believe that Jesus was on that cross, he's dying for you? Knowing that you would be born, knowing that you would be a rotten sinner by nature and by choice? And yet he set his love on you and wanting to rescue you from eternal hell. And so what does scripture tell us that he goes to the cross for our sins? and offers the gift of forgiveness and a home in heaven to any miserable sinner who will repent. What's repentance mean? Comes from the word metaneo and it means to change your mind. That's all that means. So I'm going this way and I change my mind. I want to get back behind the pulpit. Okay, I have to change the direction of my life. My mind was changed. And that's what repentance is. You change your mind If you come here today and you're whatever you are, you may be religious, but maybe you don't really trust in Christ. I don't know. You've got to change your mind to truly trust in Christ. That's repentance And you can't be saved without repentance. If you don't change your mind about these issues, then you won't be saved. You may be a good church member, you may be a good friend, but you're not saved Unless you repent and receive Jesus into your heart. And by the way, repent of what? Repent of your sins. What's sin? By the way, sin comes from the word Hamaton, and it means missing the mark of God's perfection. We all sin. Right? The Bob all have sinned to come true to the glory of God. So the sin that you know that's in your life, repent of it. That is to change your mind about it. That is, stop it as much as you can. And so you do that, you have a home in heaven, and um you you'll have what happens when a person believes in Christ, what happens to them? There many things happen by the way. Many, many things happen. One of which you re you have now heaven. Before hell was your home, now heaven will be your home. You receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. That's not something else you get. At the time of belief, the Spirit of God enters into your life. And now he will guide you, he will energize you to live the Christian life. That's why the Christian life is it's I shouldn't this is not a good word. But it's what comes to my silly little mind. But I say that the Christian life is fun. Many in many ways it's fun. Not all the time. Sometimes it's sad, but m most of the time it's it's exciting to uh that's a better word To live their Christian life is exciting to do. We have communication with our Lord through His Word. He gives us the Holy Spirit. Reach out and win others to Christ. What a glorious day. Have you all won somebody to Christ? Have you ever had that thrill of leading somebody to Jesus Christ? You know, you should carry a track around. Again, I wanted to do a good example to you to see the tracks that I carry around. Speak in my pocket. There's no tracks. What a hipp what a hypocrite I am. Carry tracks around, I only have one Anyway, don't do what I do, but do what I say. And that would that'll be very helpful there. So I'm glad to see you here today. I know this is a good sound church and the fact that you're here encourages me. I'm quite sure you're getting a good sound gospel. Live it. And one other challenge I give to you today, when you come to church next Sunday or in the future, bring somebody with you. We don't want to walk into church like this, you know. Hi, Pastor. But you want to come into church? Bring in somebody. Hold somebody's hand and br drag them in. You know, bring people to church. Invite them. Hey John, good to see you. Hey, by the way, I go to church on Sunday. Would you like to come with me? No, I don't want to do that. You sure? Yeah. Okay. Next week. Hey, John. I'm going to go to church. Wanna come? No, I don't want to come. I told you I don't want to come. Alright. Next week. Hey John, I'm going to go to church? We're going to leave in about 15 minutes. Why don't you come? How many times do I got to tell you I don't want to go to the church All right. Fourth week. John, I'm going, my wife and I are going to go to church. Why don't you come with us? Okay. Okay. What's the matter? My ears. I thought I thought you said okay. I did. You're gonna come yeah. You know what? That was that was a a true experience that I had with my best friend. When I was in college, um, a guy from Montreal, Canada, really a miserable guy. He was my roommate and I shared Christ with him, just like I just said. No, what are you telling me that for, Don? I don't want to hear that stuff. All right. A couple weeks later. Hey Al, I'm going to go to church this morning. Why don't you come along with me? No. I mean didn't I just tell you last week I don't want to go? Okay, alright. You know Next week, yeah, I'm gonna go over to a Bible study over here. Why don't you come along? How many times do I gotta tell you I don't want to do that? Next day or next week. Al, I'm gonna go to the Bible study. Why don't you come along? Okay. Right. Yeah, I'll come. Okay, he comes along with me. In the process of time, Al gets saved. Al begins to grow in his faith and knowledge of Christ. He meets a beautiful girl. This is on the campus of U University, Kentucky campus. Meets a beautiful Christian girl there. They get married, have a wonderful day. In fact, his wife had just visited us a couple weeks ago. They've got a couple kids. Al played professional football for five or six years. Now he's in Christian work Serving the Lord and you know raising a Christian family. It's a beautiful thing to see. But what am I what am I trying to tell you? Get God's word out. Carry tracts with you and get God's word out. They don't want to hear it, don't get mad. They will. We know that. That's okay Just be consistent. And after a while, they'll cave. Just to shut you up. But and then perhaps the Lord will save him. That's how souls get saved. So we got let's pray together. Lord Help us for help us today. Bring us thank you for bringing us together today. We ask that you will guide us, that we pray that when the service is over, that you'll take us home safely, that we can have uh a a restful Sunday afternoon, Lord. This is the Lord's day when your people are to use this day for rest worship. And we're thanking you for this time of worship and help us learn to use the Sabbath to rest, to rest our bodies, so that when Monday comes, we're eager to get to work for the glory of God. Thank you for bringing us together. I call down your blessing on this church. Thank you for the leadership. Guide them, protect them, and thank you for this hour. Thank you for this minute, oh Lord. And I pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen