We heard a letter from Paul to the Romans before he had ever seen the Romans. And in that message was very plain We spoke in the first 11 chapters regarding the different doctrines that Paul had given to the Romans. And then in verse in chapter 12, he goes into Christian living. The remaining chapters of Romans deal with Christian living. Now we turn over and we see another letter that Paul wrote In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 18 to 31, this is a very fascinating passage, a letter that is written with a little bit more of a different perspective and a different urging of Paul. in this letter because there were some great problems. So in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 18 to 31, if you're there, let's start reading and see where the Lord directs all of us together this morning. Paul writes, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. And then Paul asked the questions. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men For ye see your calling. Brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. and base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, whom of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That According as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. I think that's a wonderful benediction on a very good chapter. In 1 Corinthians, we hear we see how Paul is, he mentions names. He mentions Sosthenes, he mentions Crispus and Gaius. And he says, and he's you should go into the first portion of the chapter before you get to verse 18, he's talking about how Jesus has strategically placed people in these areas of Corinth that they were building churches. that Paul had he had baptized and he had gone and he had helped set up the churches, but whose name were they baptized in the name of? And he says all throughout the chapter, in the name of Jesus Christ, in the name of Jesus Christ, that is who the preeminence is. And so when you walk into any establishment where there is religiosity or some kind of form of worship, who's that's a big question, who is the preeminence? Who is the preemise? It should always be the Lord Jesus Christ. We see here the effects of the ministry of Christ carrying into the life of Paul the Apostle. And how wonderful this is. Paul, he had the equivalent of two PhDs in theology and law. He was a man of prodigious knowledge and converted by our Lord Jesus Christ, writing to the church in Corinth Approximately this would have been written about A. D. 55, most likely, very likely from Ephesus, where he was during his third missionary journey. Now, Corinth is very interesting The very place itself stands for a lot of things. Southern Greece, Corinth was near southern Greece, it was the Roman province of Cai, about 45 miles from Athens, Greece. a great trade region, not only for Greece, but for the whole Mediterranean area, the Mediterranean world, North Africa, Italy, and Asia Minor. The very name Corinth, and this is where the conflict comes in. You know, you can never have a really good story without a good conflict. And this is where the conflict is. The name in the day of Corinth, that was a name that was symbolic of debauchery It was almost kind of like saying today, Las Vegas or something like that, where there's all kinds of wickedness. And it was very synonymous of the depravity of Corinth, and it was morally corrupt The Ismian Games as well as the Olympic Games were hosted by Corinth. Does that sound familiar today? What is the Olympiad? The Olympiad is a four-year period of Olympics. The Olympiad, we still honor that in our country and all around the world. That the Olympics are four years, they're stretched out every four years Well the Ithmian games were played one year before and one year after the main Olympic events that were over in Corinth near Greece. And what they did in two parts was one of them there was a part of the Olympia or the Olympics that there was all kinds of athletics, and then there was another part that there was music. And so in this period of time there was so much stuff going on, so much entertainment, it was a real time of filth and sin and wickedness. And the city of Corinth was a was a transfer port It was on the water. And there was all kinds of great trade and a lot of big money that came through there. And Paul was writing the Corinth the church of Corinth and he was warning them Be careful. In your churches, there's a lot of wickedness going on around you, and it's not hard for it to creep into your churches. It's not hard for it to seep into your personal lives, and it's not hard for it to be a division And so he goes right to the cross and he talks about all the different types of religions that are out there. And he writes the Church of Corinth. And this sounds very familiar today that we as Christians, we need to be very careful of what's creeping into our churches and what's out there all around us. We see a lot of games, a lot of sports a lot of worship of of of sports figures and Hollywood movie stars and there's a real preeminence of people whose faces are seen on television. We've got to be very careful with that because we can get all wrapped up in that and forget about the Lord. That's very easy to do. Paul writes the Corinthians and teaches about many doctrines that relate to the matters of sin and righteousness. And this here, Paul's writing, is a short compendium relating to Paul's letter to the Corinthian church. It was very stretched out And then you have whole two whole ch two whole books that Paul writes and you can you can see what he was the point that he was trying to get across Well, what was the sentiment of the day? Right now we're in verse 18, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. And then that perish but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. The preaching of the cross is wonderful to us. It's an encouragement. It's what we cling to the old rugged cross. We cling to it with all of our hearts. Because we love it. But the sentiment of the day, even when Paul was writing, connects right into where we are today. It was the same sentiment. That the sentiment of the day was that Christ's crucifixion sadly is greatly mocked. And it was the sentiment of Corinth, and it had crept into the churches. And it goes all the way back to the first century where our Lord Jesus Christ, He's mocked and He's scoffed. Now, in a Dalton Sunday School class about two years ago, I don't know how many of you remember this, but have you ever heard this term? The Alexamenos graffito. Have you ever heard of that? Well if you were in the class, if you remember anything about that, once I tell you about it, I think you'll remember it because it's quite riveting This was a demeaning caricature. You know, and I I almost hate to say this, but I actually love this. As horrible as it is, it is proof Even outside of Scripture, there is proof that Jesus Christ died on the cross of Calvary to save us from our sins What was the Aleximenus Graffito? It's also known as the Graffito Blasphemo. It was an inscription carved in a plaster. in plaster on a wall near the Palatine Hill in Rome, one of the seven mountains in Rome, and it was discovered in eighteen fifty seven And it's alleged to be among the earliest known pictorial representations of the crucifixion of Jesus. Guess what it is? It's a cartoon It was a cartoon written by a Roman. It was a stick figure of a cross with hands that are stretched out. You can look it up and see a picture of it because it actually does exist and it's in a museum And there's a cartoon with a man's hand out like this, with the head of a jackass. It's the head of a donkey. And it's to it was alleged to be among the earliest known pictorial representations of the crucifixion. There was an inscription, a man on the cross with a loincloth with the head of a jackass, with a Roman soldier with his hand out toward the man on the cross. And this Alexamenos written right, and it says, worships his God. Evidently the man looking Could have been, they believe, could have been the Roman soldier that declared that Jesus Christ is Lord. Truly this was the Son of God. And it was a written actual drawing to prove that this actually happened, but it was a mockery of what Christ did on the cross. And that was the sentiment of the day. People made fun of him. They said, Who is this man? And even the the the thieves on the cross said, save yourself. If you're who you say you are, why don't you come down and save yourself? And this sentiment of the day depicts the thinking of the day of Christ being no more than that of a jackass. The reality of Christ dying for sins was totally mocked and it was scoffed down through the ages. He was to be taunted, not trusted, belittled, not believed, ridiculed, and not revered. And the chief reason is the sin. One must trust in the Savior for the cleansing of sins and humble themselves before an Almighty God, and this is offensive. People don't want to believe that they need a savior. This is what we live in today. The people believe today that they have their own ways to heaven. They can do it on their own. They don't need a savior. They don't need a mediator Liberalism and atheism say this sacrifice of Christ is barbaric. Cosmic child abuse. Why would God send his son on the cross of Calvary and abuse his child for people like us? Treat his son in this manner, and it's nothing more than an unthinkable act. You know the papacy, along with the liberal church, all down through the ages removes the true message of the cross to be popular, and it's to be accepted it's not to be popular, it's not to be acceptable. They dress up what happened at Galgotha, they rewrite it, they pretty it up, they put perfume on it, they put lipstick on the cross, polish it, and give it an extreme makeover for the sake of making redemption a man-centered works instead of a blood sacrifice. You can see that today. Think of the movies that you've seen that depict Jesus. You know, there was a time when movies were made where Jesus' face was not shown. I think Ben Hur was one of them and there was a respect for Jesus Christ. Now you have movies that have Jesus looking like some European rock star And there's all kinds of things about Jesus this and Jesus that in social media. You even have back in the seventies the Jesus movement where the rock stars were trying to look like and They had Jesus Christ superstar and all these things going on, and of course that faded out. But the true meaning of the Lord Jesus Christ with the cross is never given. There's all kinds of ways to make money off of the Lord, instead, but but don't give the truth. Tragically, many in the church down through the ages have tried to neuter the cross to make it more pretty to make it acceptable. And back in the day of Paul, you had the Greek philosophers and the Pharisaical high priests. They were the rock stars of the day. That's who people looked at for guidance and for religion. That's who they looked up to. And when Jesus comes out of nowhere, he is the Messiah. And he is proclaimed as the Messiah. He's their Messiah that was talked about in Isaiah 53, Psalm 22, going all the way back to Genesis 3:15. What do they do? They crucify him. When I mention the cross this morning, I give all the glory to Jesus Christ and what he did on that wretched, honed-out piece of wood. Paul tackles these worldview educators and philosophers of the day and addresses them. And I have six major points for you to cling to. And I'm going to make it easy. Because each one begins with a word that starts with the letter D. And that's what we're going to look at this morning. Okay? Now, you go to verse 18. The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. Divide that person half. You have the dividing line of all of mankind since day one. You have those that believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and those that think that the preaching of the cross is foolishness. So in verse 18, the first word we learn this morning is the cross of Jesus Christ it divides. It divides. The death on the cross at Galgotha, the burial and bodily resurrection of our Savior, as the only way of salvation, it divides. It cuts If you're a Christian, ask yourself this. I don't think you have to, because I think you've lived it and experienced it, and you know how horrible it is. It divides families, it divides relationships. It divides churches. It divides denominations. And oh has it divided nations and caused wars. It's incredible how you can go nowhere and not see some kind of representation of God's glory in Jesus Christ, no matter where you go. Christ said in Luke chapter 12, verses 51 to 53, Suppose ye that I come to give peace on earth, I tell you, nay, but rather division. He said that. Christ himself said division. Verse 52, for from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided. three against two and two against three. The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father, the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother, the mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter It doesn't say here but I the son against the mother-in-law. That happens kind of naturally sometimes. But you see that there is great divisions. There are divisions that the the gospel of Jesus Christ is going to cause divisions. Jesus said himself that his that his mission on his earth, his preaching, his miracles, his death, burial, and resurrection would divide. We read this morning, Isaiah 53 For the responsive reading. He is despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid as it were our faces from him. He was despised and we esteemed him not Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted This division comes from the affliction of Christ. And this division has carried on down through the centuries. The cross divides the world and separates it from the people Jesus had redeemed for himself. We see that there are those that perish who think the preaching of the cross is foolishness, and they are foolish. The foolish word is derived from the Greek word moros, or what English derives as morons. Preaching is idiotic to the natural man and they will perish eternally. The cross is inane, it's idiotic, foolishness to the natural man. And sadly, those that don't believe in it are perishing already. There is one way to God. Today we're taught in modern religions today that there are many ways to heaven. And if you've heard this, this sounds almost repetitive if you listen to different pastors that are part of modern religions. That the way to heaven is considerably easy. That there are many ways to heaven. It's like going up a mountain. There are roads, there are tunnels, there are many pathways to heaven. And there's many ways you can take. You can do it through being a Muslim. They have a new word now called Chrislam. Christian Muslims. That's an oxymoron in and of itself. Christian Muslims, Chrislam, Catholicism, Atheism, all these ways are ways to heaven. And how could God turn away anybody? Well, I'll give you a quote from a pastor that I've quoted before, and I love quoting him because he's really, really wonderful to listen to. He's very encouragement. He says There are many ways to hell. There is only one way to heaven. It's John 14, 6. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by To too little work. Me. What else do we need? It's sad how so many people are confused. Talk to many of these people and they'll eventually say to you, and I've heard many of them that talk like this say, I hope I go to heaven. If you love the Lord, you know. Those that are saved that love the preaching, there are those that are saved that love preaching, and to them the preaching of Christ's work on the cross is the power of God and the only means of salvation to save us from destruction, hell, eternal damnation, but most of all from God. We do have a loving, wonderful, merciful God, but he is a God of wrath And a God who, in Isaiah 42, 8, says, I am the Lord. That is my name. My glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images. Number one is divides. Number two, destroys. Verses 19 to 21. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. And then Paul asked, where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where are the disputers of the world? Where are the debaters? Oh, there's so much debating out there. So much debating about the truth. Isaiah 29, 14 says, Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder. For the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, the Lord will destroy, Isaiah is saying, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. We learned this morning in the adult Sunday school class by our by our friend and our dear deacon Mike Hall, who gave a wonderful message on the book of Isaiah and how hard it is, the job that Isaiah had to deliver the oracles of woe to man It's a very serious malediction, very hard to know that there is a very angry God out there. But where does God's mercy come in? Where do you find comfort if there's not a warning about what the possibilities are? You look in Scripture, you look what happened to Sodom and Gomorrah, and we read that in Isaiah chapter 1 this morning. And look what happens to the cities and the wicked Israelites that turn on. Today the wisdom of the wise, the Lord will destroy it. You have the worldview has produced secularism Humanism, we could spend weeks talking about each one of these. Existentialism, pragmatism, rationalism, universalism, atheism, pantheism. There are so many isms Somebody needs to invent a wasm. And to cancel it out. There's so many isms today. God is not neutral There are educators, think tanks, false teachers who tear down the Bible and they call it a historical reference. People say that the Bible is only a historical reference. It's only something to go back and see what happened a few thousand years ago, but it's nothing more than that. I love what Martin Luther said. The Bible has arms, it has legs, it's alive, and it has the power of salvation. The educators, the think tanks, the false teachers, they all go against God's holy, inerrant word And it's so sad that there are so many young men trying to attempt to get into the ministry today and they're drawn away by seminaries. They're drawn away from the truth of the Bible because today they're not being taught to be shepherds, they're being taught to be businessmen You get those seats filled up, I don't care how you do it. Build that building, get it big, get entertainment here. I was if you gotta talk about the Bible and put a little bit in there, if it really makes you feel bad, well give them a 20-minute intervention But get the bands in here, get their trailers and their trucks to come in, fill the front, make it look like a big museum of rock stars, and come in there and listen to entertainment. And that'll get them going. And that's basically what's out there today. Many in many places. I heard I've heard from two three missionaries and a call in on a Christian radio broadcast that said In Sao Paulo, Brazil, all in the southern area of Brazil or there's missionary fields, Rica Chile, Colombia, and in Bogota. The number one opposition to the Christian faith there is not the Roman Catholic Church anymore. It used to be. Now it's contemporary worship. And entertainment. That's their biggest, biggest people that draw the people out of the Christian churches. Paul here calls them out in verse 20. He says, where are the disputers of the world? Where is the wise man, the worldview educator? Where is the scribe, the recorder? Where is the disputer, the debater? Come forward and see where your logic gets you in the face of God Almighty. Your wisdom is bankrupt. And the Lord will make sure that you understand that. Go back to Psalm 2. The question is asked by the psalmist. Why do the heathen rage? Why do the people imagine a vain thing? And then in verse 4, you see, he that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh, the Lord shall have them in derision. The cross of Christ destroys all human wisdom. And the wisdom of man is bankrupt. Talk about faith, blind faith, and how faith today, people have a problem with faith. There are a lot of things you do today that require faith. You pull out of the driveway today, you have faith that somebody's not going to plow into you and you take a chance pulling out because you can't really see very well over that hill You have we talked about it last week, you have faith letting a doctor operate on you. You have no idea who he really is. You might not even know where he went to college. There's many times there's many ways that you have faith. It takes faith to believe in the cross of Jesus Christ and what the intentions and what redemption is. Hebrews 11. 1 once again. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. There's not everything that exists. We can't see everything We have faith right now that there are people alive and well in California. Can't see them, but we know they're there. We know we have missionaries overseas. We don't know what they're doing. We have uh no idea where they're at Right now they're preaching probably in some of their churches in some length, but we have no idea, but we have faith they're there doing the work Number one, the cross divides. Number two, the cross destroys. Verse twenty-two to twenty-three. It disturbs. It's disturbing. Makes people feel uncomfortable. It confounds. Verses 22 and 23 we see, for the Jew requires a sign. And the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. You know, it confounds. It confounded the Pharisaic order. If they didn't believe Jesus Christ was Messiah, And if the Pharisaical order and the Sadducees and the Sanhedrin didn't believe that Jesus was who he said he was, why did Jesus infuriate them so much? He infuriated them. They will all you back to John chapter s John chapter 11 with the healing of the raising of Lazarus and Caiaphas takes over, and Caiaphas is furious. And he said, we have to go after this Jesus. We have to kill him. We've got to get rid of him. Well, if he wasn't real and he wasn't really the Messiah, what was the big deal? Oh, they knew something, didn't they? The cross it disturbs, it confounds. The Jews and the Gentiles had the ultimate answer to the way to heaven, they thought. They had the meaning of life right in front of them, but they thought they had the answer. Then and now the cross is the most controversial message ever declared. Jews wanted signs. They asked Jesus, give us a sign. Matthew 12, 38 and 39. Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee. But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign, and there shall no sign be given to it but the sign of the prophet Jonas. Isn't it amazing how Jesus brought up the Old Testament? That's another thing about the book of Isaiah. You see your book of Psalms. These are some of the most quoted verses all throughout the New Testament. Has somebody known the New Testament with the very most quoted verses in the Old Testament? It's very simple. Psalm 110-1 is quoted over 86 times. I think it's 85 or 86, but it's right there somewhere, right in the middle of the 80s there. Psalm 110. 1. The Lord said to my Lord, sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool This was a very confounding verse for the Jews because they were always asking the question, if Jesus Christ is David's Lord, How could he be his son? How could he be also his son? Because Jesus, he was David was his great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great grandfather. He was of the line of David, who was of the line of Judah How can he also be his Lord? And that was answered in Psalm 110. 1. He sits at the right hand of the Father. So we see that the cross disturbs. It's disturbing. Jesus tells them about the loss, those that were lost as Nineveh, that he sent one person who was very very recalcitrant, did not want to go, and the Lord brought him and drew Jonah all the way to Nineveh, didn't he? Oh, he went down kicking and screaming, I'm going to Tarsus, I'm going to go to the corner of the earth, and the Lord will never find me there And all of a sudden he gets on that boat, and all of a sudden the storms come up, he gets gobbled up by a whale, spit out on the shore, and where did he wind up? Minima. Jonah was going no matter how he kicked and screamed I believe that the message of the gospel was even disturbing to poor Jonah, and he found out the hard way what happens. The Gentiles and the Greeks were the debaters of the day. They were the disputers, and they had no interest in the truth. To them the preaching of the cross was disturbing. It was foolishness. There are many debaters today, and I've listened to many of them. And there is so much debate about the Bible. In fact, I went out to lunch with a great debater. This is what he does professionally for a living. And I thought I was sitting down with a debater. Wow, this is going to be great. I can sit down and have lunch and talk about the Lord. Well, then he begins to tell me that this in this deb in his debating system going around the world, he I come to find out that he only believes in 80% of the Bible So I had to ask them, what do you do with the other 20%? What part of it's wrong? And the second thing was all of the synoptic gospels, they contradict themselves because from different writers, their different perspectives And they all contradict, so the Bible cannot be inerrant. These are the kind of debaters that we have going around the world calling themselves Christians. Be very careful of the words Christian caucus when you hear that in the elections They want to lump all Christians into this great big Christian buffet and put everybody in with religion. That doesn't mean they're saved. If you don't believe in 100% of the inerrancy of Scripture, you've got a real problem. And that's what we have. Acts 17. 20, we read, For thou bringest certain strange things to our ears We would know therefore what these things mean. For all the Athenians and strangers which were there spent their time in nothing else but either to tell or to hear some new thing. And then Paul replies in chapter seventeen, verse twenty four of the book of Acts. God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is the Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands, neither is worshipped With men's hand as though he needed anything, seeing he giveth to all life and breath and all things And these are the present-day people like you see the evolutionists out there like Bill Nye who's out there and Richard Dawkins promoting evolution. They want to create a whole nother philosophy. They're just like the flop philosophers of the day. To them the cross was foolishness, and it disturbed. So we have three D's there right now. It defies, it destroys, it disturbs. Number four, verses twenty-four to twenty-five. We have the cross. It delivers. Isn't that wonderful? What a word. It delivers. From what? Paul writes in his second letter to the Corinthians in 2 Corinthians 1 9, we get a little window ahead here But we had the sentence of death in ourselves that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raiseth from the dead, who delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver in whom we trust that he will yet deliver us. You go back to verses twenty-four and twenty-five, but unto them which are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God It delivers. And it not only delivers us, it not only delivered the disciples, it delivers the Jews and the Greeks. Those were the ones that were having such a terrible problem. It delivers the Romans. It delivers them also. You go back to Romans chapter 1, verse 16 Real quick, let's turn back. I'd like to read that to you. Real quick. Romans chapter 1, verse 16. What do we learn here that Paul writes? Romans 1, 16, we read, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation. Well, what does it say next? To everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greeks. Now, this really flies in the face of what modern community conscience politically correct talk about Christians. They say that those that believe and follow Jesus Christ are terrorists. We're uh what are some of the words there? Fundamentalists, Jesus freaks, homophobic. These are the names that Christians are called today. And here we see here, we're learning here, that the gospel of Jesus Christ is for everyone. It doesn't matter what nationality you are. It doesn't matter whether you're white, you're red, you're black, you're Hispanic, you're English, whatever you are, it's open to all. And you see throughout the Bible and you look at the backgrounds of those that love Jesus Christ and look at their nationalities. They were from everywhere. You had Nicodemus, Joseph of Arimathea were Jews. You had Peter was a Jew. And then you go forward and you see all throughout the ages is how they they come from all over. The cross, it delivers. Man's blind perception of God's foolishness and weakness is no match for Christ. He is the name of might and power. He delivers us from hell, from the sin of death, sins that are nigh unto death. from Satan. And here's a big one. He delivers us from ourselves. We get in our own ways, don't we? We have a very difficult time sometimes. You know, the message that we had heard on Friday with Pastor Vanderman, he goes back to the cross of Christ and he speaks in Psalm 22. What I loved about it, he gave the real reason why he loves preaching. And it's been difficult. He told a story. There was a time years ago Where there was an outbreak of riots. The Hispanics were all coming against each other and there was a lot of death. There were a lot of riots going on. And there's a family member of his that said, We want you to arbitrate between these gangs. One gang was coming to go after another gang and they were coming to fight and they were going to kill each other. And it was that volatile. And this family member got to him somehow and he wanted wanted him to sit and talk to these people and they were willing to come to the church and listen. Now I don't know all the details, it's pretty vast, but when they got together, he gave them the scripture. He gave them and he taught them about the cross, and he said it calmed them down. And he said, There was nothing out of my mouth that I could have ever said that could have comforted them more than the gospel of Jesus Christ and the preaching of the cross And you go back to Psalm 22, that's a prophecy in great detail about what actually happened on the cross. It starts out, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? The cross, it delivers. It delivers us. You know, in July 8, 1741, Jonathan Edwards preached He's talking about those that are unsafe slipping down a very slippery ravine into hell, walking on a rickety narrow bridge with rails sliding out from under us, and that and a spider being held over a flame. And it's only God's restraint, his grace, that keeps us from perishing into damnation. And he said that Jesus never sleeps. He holds us up. And he ends that message, sinners in the hands of an angry God. Yeah, if you if you listen to it, you can listen to it. It's actually, you can listen to it online. Max McClain He's an English uh uh he he he orates these things and you listen to it, it's riveting. But then you go to the end of it and you hear the gospel of Jesus Christ and how he is the salvation of all this horror His divine normative providence only is enough to send us into damnation. He needs no miracles or special powers to punish us many different ways. His power is unlimited. And the wisdom uh against the wisdom of this world. And it's Christ's blood on the cross that delivers us from damnation. Many ways to hell. Okay, here's the next here's the next word. Verse 26, the cross distinguishes. It clarifies. It distinguishes, it clarifies. There are not many wise men of the world, of this world of the flesh, nobles or mighty men, who are called to preach the true gospel of Jesus Christ. This distinguishes the only way to eternal life by Christ is the power of God. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. And the Lord says there's not many that can get over themselves enough to preach the true gospel. They take it to a certain point and they become the preeminence. It takes humility. It takes a submission to Jesus Christ to be able to preach the truth. For ye see your calling to distinguish, to preach, to preach the truth. Not many are able to set apart the Bible and differentiate it, make it out from the essence of its truth. There's too much interpretation today. There's too much reinterpretation of the Bible and getting away from preaching verse by verse You take a topic, you throw a couple verses into it, and then you paint it all up and bring it to your own conclusion. That's not preaching. What that is, is that's basically just interpretation. It's it's storytelling. And there's too much of that out there. Not many are able to set apart the Bible. Only those that are endowed by the Holy Spirit can preach the Bible in spirit and in truth. The cross distinguishes. Matthew 10, 18 we read, and ye shall be brought before governors and kings for my sake for a testimony against them and the Gentiles. But when, I look in this verse it doesn't say, but if they deliver you up. But when they deliver you up, take no thought how or what ye shall speak, for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak. For it is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father which speaketh in you Now I'm going to go back to Pastor Vandermee again on Friday when he preached at the Presbytery. He said that people over the years have told him, Do you ever have asked him, do you rehearse your sermons? When you write your sermons, do you rehearse them and go down and preach against the wall, or you set up, you know, you know, figures and I know one fella that used to preach, he told me years ago he used to he had a pool table in his basement and he used to set up all the balls and he would pretend that they were the congregation and preach to them. And that was kind of funny 'cause he was nervous and all. But he said, Do you rehearse your sermons and do you like recite them? He goes, No. He said, I write them, I study hard, I put the verses in there, and he said, I want to be spontaneous when I preach. I want the Holy Spirit. to speak to me. I don't want it to be contrived. I don't want it to be repetitive or or something like ritualistic For it is not ye that speak, but the spirit of the of your Father which speaketh in you. Matthew ten twenty. So Here's the last D. We just went and we the cross distinguishes. The cross number six, verses twenty-seven to twenty-nine, the cross defies. It's a defiant message against the world order. What? What does it defy? Well, look at verses 27 to 29. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, and base things of the world, and things which are despised hath God chosen. Yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught things that are. That no flesh should glory in his presence. And you have to ask yourself, if you love the Bible, why is this word despised? Why? Why is it hated so much? Why has it been burned over the years? Why do you go down to the Holy Land experience in Florida and see a whole bunch of Bibles there that have purple drops on them from blood of the Reformers? They still have those Bibles and you can see them. It was their blood when they were pulled out of their churches and they were hung, or they were either taken to the stake and burned alive, they were boiled. They were beaten, they were sawn asunder. There were so many ways that they would die. And if you read the accounts of really what happens with the crucifixion, you see a big miracle on how in the world Jesus Christ made it to the cross. What they would do, remember, this happened around Passover. I get started on this, so I could go on this for hours to buckle in. I'm just kidding. But anyway, the the bot the bottom line is what happened there. You know what happened during Passover? The Romans did everything they could during the period of scourging to rip open the backs of the criminals. so that their organs would be exposed, so that they would die right there and they wouldn't have to put them through putting on the cross because they had to clean and pretty everything up for Passover, for the big feast, because all these people were coming in from out of town Christ was scourged worse than anybody ever was, and he actually made it to the cross alive. That is a miracle in and of itself, and that's what happens. This is what's caused there's been a defiance against the gospel of Jesus Christ down through the centuries, and that's why why do you think there's a Hebrews 11, that there is a hall of faith there that speaks about the horrible things that happened over the centuries? Back then, it defies. It defies logic of this world. Christ did not need evolution to create his world. He does not need science to define his miracles. He does not need the works of the riches of men to bind his providence as a means of salvation. His ways are not our ways, and his ways defy worldly wisdom. Job chapter 5. 8 says, I would seek unto God. We all know the story of Job and what he had been through. He had been through a very horrible time, and unto God would I commit my cause. which doeth great things and unsearchable, marvelous things without number. How could the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ be logical to the natural man? How could a man come into this world born of a virgin, escape death by Herod, and the Jewish high priests over and over, heal multitudes of people, save people's souls, allow himself to be detained, beaten unto death, nailed to the cross? Save a man's soul on the cross, die, be buried, and raise himself from the dead on the third day, and then walk through the very walls of the tomb he was buried in and be seen by hundreds of people. How can anybody believe that That's supernatural. Christ is transcended. It's supernatural. It's miraculous. How could any man receive salvation and understand it how Solofidae. Wrap your arms around that term. It's a Latin phrase used by the reformers. Faith alone. You can believe a lot of things you can't see. Why can't you believe in Jesus Christ? Why can't people that hate him and defy him, why can't they believe? It takes the Lord to open their hearts up. It takes us to spread the gospel. He primarily uses the lowly creatures from the dust of the earth over the centuries, men like Moses, Joshua, Nathan, Isaiah. Wonderful message this morning in Sunday school, Isaiah. Verse by verse. Hosea, Jonah, John the Baptist, Stephen, and here we see Paul He didn't need them. By the mercy of his grace, he gives the foolishness of preaching to the abilities of men to be able to articulate his word. Well, let's go back over this so you so we can remember if anybody missed any of these. Make sure we get them in right order. The cross divides. It destroys, disturbs, it delivers, it distinguishes, and it defies. The foolishness of preaching teaches us that God needs no man to deliver his word, and it's an honor that God would allow anyone to teach it or preach it. If you have the gift to do that, Even if it's in your home with your children in Bible studies, you have a wonderful gift. You have a gift that the Lord's honored you with, and you will realize that if you will work at it and you will work hard at it It's not easy because we live in a day and age where we're really supposed to be working on paying our bills, getting to work on time, and we have so many things that we have to do. Set aside time to get into scripture. You're going to be so glad that you do it. I promise you. Well, we end this morning. I haven't been watching the time. I'm sorry, I'm a little over. But of him are ye in Christ in verse 30. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That according as it is written, He that glorifieth, let him glory in the Lord. Let's talk about glorifying the Lord just for one minute. We are of Jesus Christ. We praise Him. We exalt Him. It's He that we glory in. Not ourselves. We exalt him. We worship him high. And you know in your life, if you have a high view of God, you will have a very high life. A very comforted life. You're all we're all going to go through trials, and if you think it's getting any easier, it's not going to. I'm here to tell you that things are going to get tough, but do you know how to deal with them? Go to Psalm 150 about glorifying God and we'll finish with that. I love Psalm 146 to 150 Who is it that needs to be glorified? Who is it that can see everything all at once and who never sleeps and is there to give mercy to us and to love us? Psalm 150, the psalm closes out. Praise ye the Lord, praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmament of his power. Praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him according to his excellent greatness. Praise him with the sound of the trumpet. Praise him with the psalter and harp. Praise him with the timbrel and dance. Praise him with the stringed instruments and organs. Praise him upon the loud cymbals. Praise him upon the high-sounding cymbals. Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. That's where our glory is directed to. And isn't it amazing how Paul closes out 1 Corinthians 1 verse 31 and he goes back to praising the Lord. A lot of people like to praise Paul. If you read through all of his messages, there are people that wanted to bow down to him and worship him And he was like, no, I would don't y it was it was it he mentioned all kind of names. They were all baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Don't worship me. And he says, I am the least of the disciples. I was the least of the apostles, I mean. He said, Oh wretched man that I am, he also wrote, Take heed where ye stand lest ye fall. I think that's a real key point to being a leader and given the word of God is being very careful. God is always glorified and he is the preeminence. Let's close this morning Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee for these words. They are the words of life. They are the true words of eternal life. They are words that are disturbing, words that are very defiant Words that divide, but they deliver. And we love these words. Lord, we just thank thee and praise thee for thy deliverance. And that, Lord, that thou wouldst be so kind and lovely to love us, to give us the gospel, to reveal to us the true way to heaven. Let us hide it in our hearts that we might not sin against thee. In the name of Jesus Christ we thank thee. Amen.