This morning is out of the Gospel of John chapter 10. And if you would follow along as I read verses 22 through 30. John chapter ten, beginning with verse twenty two. And it was at Jerusalem the feast of dedication, and it was winter. And Jesus walked in the temple of Solomon's porch. Then came the Jews round about him and said unto him, How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, I told you, and you believe not. The works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me. But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said unto you, my sheep, hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father Which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. I and my father are one. Thank the Lord for his word to our hearts today. Let's pray. Father, we pause and our service once and again to come into your presence in prayer. And we're most thankful for this your word, as it provides unto us not only uh guidance in our day not only causes us to look upon our own lives and heart and see where we are lacking and where the direction of our hearts ought to be But we also know we have an intercessory responsibility for others to remember. And we would pray, Father, for our land, our country Uh we pray that you'll continue to lead it, especially as it seems. We sit on the doorstep of a possible war. We're thankful, Father, for uh the stand that our country takes, but indeed uh we are concerned of the direction that it may go. So give wisdom, we pray, to those in positions of leadership. We pray also for the uh the country of Australia and the tremendous fires that are burning there, no doubt uh many uh homes of believers and and uh and such are are been consumed and we ask Lord that you give them an upper hand on that. May they realize that these things are are uh uh an indication of the sign of their times and that uh such tragedies are are not to be uh uh laid upon the fault of mankind but It is the sin that uh so runs this world, and uh you can consume it as you will. So blessed we pray. We're thankful again for this day, and the privilege we have to come to your word in Christ's name. Amen. In my youth, and yes, I do remember my youth, there were an abundance of cowboy shows. The television they're black and white, and I know you'll have to, some of the young people have no idea what a black and white TV show was Uh Roy Rogers, the Lone Ranger, John Wayne, Randolph Scott. I mean they were and I kinda look back on them now, they were a little bit on the hokey side. But You know, I was really wrapped up in them. And uh just to to kind of guess, um I've more recently and done some studies and uh not everything was quite accurate in those shows. Um and the one thing that was quite accurate was bank robberies. Almost every T V show had a bank robbery with it. Well, come to find out 1859 to 1900, uh across 15 states in the Wild West, there were only 10 bank robberies. However, the real deal was and is uh isn't often showed in the cowboy shows, was the war between the cattlemen and the sheep herders This was far greater in the reality of what was taking place in our Wild West than bank robberies. Statistics, 1870 to 1920, 50 years compared to the 40 years of the bank robberies There were approximately a hundred and twenty engagements that occurred between sheep herders and and cattlemen. It resulted in in in eight different states or territories, fifty-four men were killed and over a hundred thousand sheep were slaughtered. Wow, I guess it probably doesn't make good TV movies, you know, for the Lone Ranger to come in and stop the cattlemen from killing the sheep, you know, but that was the reality of of what took place. And I kinda wondered about that. What were they fighting over? What was the big danger that the cattlemen felt so intruded upon that they were willing to kill and take the lives of of human beings? Well it ends up that as you study, and we've talked about a little bit, sheep were notorious creatures of habit. They would go in the same paths time and time again. And when it came time for grazing, they would go to a field and they would eat if allowed, uh eat even to the point of pulling the the grass up by its roots and eating the roots So what does that do to a uh a field where the cow would normally just come and munch and move on his way? It destroys the field. It ruins it. It lays it in waste. Today you can go to places in Spain and Greece and North Africa and find wastelands where sheep had once grazed, and it just simply was their habit. the the pattern that they always took, and they would destroy these fields. So in essence, that's what these cattlemen from the American West were fighting about I mentioned some weeks ago that there was no other livestock that required more special hand specialized handling than sheep. No other livestock that required the attention that sheep did. And I'm sure David recognized that. If the shepherd did not manage his flock properly, their natural destructive habits would eventually destroy the land that they required to live on, and in essence destroy themselves. Their own natural habits of destroying the ground, ruin the ground, and eventually would kill themselves. And so I think it's really no wonder, as we come back to God's Word, why God often refers to us as she Our behavior, our habits, the things that we normally have fallen into can be our own destructive habits. And they end up destroying ourselves, our life, the examples that are often found within Scripture and in life. Scripture calls us a stiff-neck and stubborn people. You know, cut my way, this is the way it is. And uh Isaiah 53, 6 calls, all we like sheep uh pointing to us, reference to that. We've all like sheep and we've all gone astray. We've gone to the way of our own pattern, our own direction, the own path of our own life. Everyone turned to his own way. And that's nothing more than our selfish pride, saying, this is what I think is best for me, and this is the direction of life that I'm going. For all practical purposes, we are singing Frank Sinatras, and I did it my way. You know, I look at my life. And I examine it and I say, this is best for me and this is the direction I'm going. And at the end of it, unless God has opened our eyes to it, and even some of us as believers We pride ourselves on saying, I did it my way. I don't listen to uh what others are saying The presumption I know is that I want what is best for me to get what I want. And if others don't agree, I'm willing to stand upon my principles to say that my way is it or the highway for you. And too many relationships, too many groups, gatherers have felt that in being very stubborn and stiff-necked. Proverbs 14, 12 and 16, 25. Solomon repeats this verse. He says, There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the ends thereof are the ways of. Death. Yeah. He says there is a way that seems right to a man. And Psalm is really saying there's a way that a man thinks. That his heart is active towards, that he's planned on, that he is set on. There is a pattern in life that makes sense to him, according to his own conclusions. And that ends up being the end result is the way of death. Our eating habits. I think of Going to the doctor and think it's next week or whatever, he's going to say, Well, Mr. Coleman, how were you over the holidays It's obvious by the scale here that your eating habits were not being doing very well. You know, we say our our own eating habits or those who are uh with tobacco products, I think, have often the the great appeal to the vaping now for young people. No, uh alcohol abuse, uh sexual promiscuity. There are ways that we in our normal pattern of life find as an acceptable way to live because it is what I found to be good for me. And the ways thereof are death. Physical for sure But death in relationships, to families, to groups, my own education, my own occupation, whatever it is, and it can end if we end up continuing on such a path. There is a way which seemeth right unto a sheep, but the end thereof are the ways of death. His own habits of eating those grass all the way down to the roots, he doesn't realize. He seems right to him He says this is the best thing to do. Why walk away when I can continue to eat and get something? He doesn't see it. He doesn't understand it. To the sheep it seems like the right thing to do But those same old paths, those ruts, that becomes the way of his destruction. I probably shared this illustration with you before, but there was a man who had asked his wife, he says, why do you cut the end of the roast off? And she says, my mom did it. Well let's ask your mom, why'd you cut the end of the roast off? She says, well my mom did it. And say, well, Grandma, let's check with grandma. She's still okay, you know. And they go over to great grandma's house and He says, Well you only had a short pan, and we had to cut the end of the roast off in order to fit into the pan. So there are some habits that we get engaged in, that we are involved in, that we are We find our rust that we don't even know why we're doing it, but we've always done it. Or I was taught in my family, or this is what our communities are, this is the way we do it But it doesn't make sense and it ends up being the ways of death. And I'm afraid uh all too often advertising and and uh companies trying to sell a product can put us into habits and ruts that we don't necessarily know how to get out of. In contrast to this, our great shepherd says, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but by me. And he's very definitive in that. He says, I am the path, I am the way, I'm truth. I'm life. And that runs in contrast to everybody who's got an opinion about it. And you look in your Bibles, you go through the Old and New Testaments, and there were many who argued against Christ because that path was not an acceptable one. He says, I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. So life is offered for eternal life, obviously. But Jesus says, even now in life, he says, I didn't come offer life, but an abundant life. And the believer, even today, we have an abundance of grace, of peace, of joy, of things that were we used to graze, where we used to live, it had nothing at all And so what he's offering is an abundance of those things. If any man will follow me, let him deny himself. Deny my way. I did it my way. Let him deny that. Not saying it's my way or the highway, but deny that. Take up his cross and follow me. Beginning a new year, I I won't ask you to raise your hand if you make New Year's resolutions. You know, they seem foolish. There are some things I challenge myself to do afresh because it's kind of a a neat way at a first of a you a new year or a decade or something like that But for the most part I don't think we we're our our old habits, our ruts, we're in such a path and we could really start things any time we want. But as we start a new decade, as we start a new year, we often bristle at the suggestions of change. We don't want to deny ourselves or give up the right to make our own decisions Choices that are based on pleasing me is most important to me. I know best what's for me. So the decisions and choices I make are for me as I see it best, and I think, I really do it oftentimes, that I know what's best for me. So we don't want to follow what we may surely think somebody's trying to lead me in a direction. We've traveled the same paths for so long that they become habits, and habits have become ruts, and those ruts have become so deep that it seems like it's almost impossible to get out of. The Lord's allowed me to go to Kenya a number of times and driving uh with uh Gary Johnson, for example, and had an old land uh Toyota, not a Land Row, it was another model And you get off the main highways and you go back to the places where the dirt roads have through the rainy season uh provided a great number of ruts and every time the vehicle goes through the ruts get deeper or a bus goes through and the ruts get deeper to the point where once the s rainy seasons are over and it's the hot, dry season, those ruts are like cement. And the only way to get down the road is to get into the rut and to stay into it. And a lot of life is like that. As I look back and I say, the things that I do that I'm not necessarily pleased with, and probably God isn't pleased with There are things that I found as a pattern of ruts that I've gotten into, and it's just so hard to get out of. And when somebody suggests a possible way out, well, I kind of don't like that Yet what Jesus is asking us to do in denying self, forsaking all, and following Him, seems to be everything that we would say we are required to do as the children of God. He never said that it would be easy, because Jesus knew for sure that it wasn't natural. It's not normal for man to do that. Because we are born in sin, we are children of Adam, he understands when he says there is another way of following him that is absolutely different from what all mankind has come to know and to realize in life. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. I shall not be in need. What's best for me, he says, I'll provide. And he summarizes that by following. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the still waters. He restores my soul. And now he leads me in the paths of righteousness. We talk about paths of life, of whats, of habits. And one of the great blessings to say, I will not be in need is to know that I can follow him in a path that is not the old way. And I thank God as I look back and I say, since I am redeemed, there are changes in my life. You can ask yourself, well, how was I last year at this time? What was my spiritual walk like? How was I five years ago or ten years ago? Have there been changes? Have am I still in some ruts that I shouldn't be, or is this the way that he's saying I need to be honest with myself and with the Lord and say a path of righteousness he'll lead me to. And he's promised that. And that's what David says in the Psalm. Leadeth me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. I want to share with you five what I'll call fresh attitudes, they may be not new to you, that I think if we acquire them, they will bring us out of the paths of the ruts, the habits of life. and put us on a path that leads us to the green pastures, the clear still waters that He offers us at all times. Number one, instead of loving myself most, I'm willing to love Jesus best than others more than myself. Not rocket science for the Christian. We've heard it time and time again. But I think one of the greatest tragedies in life is that when I continue to love myself more than anything else I find that is a deepest rut. It causes all types of other stuff to fall in. To be able to get to the place where loving Jesus first and best and others more than myself. You know, we talk about love and you look in the scriptures and the love that the Bible talks about isn't a sentimental, soft, mushy-mushy love. It is seated basically within the words of Christ Himself. Hereby perceive we the love of God because He laid down His life for us. If I am willing to lay down my life, If I'm willing to be in that type of position, then I'm really expressing a love that is really needed in day. Now I think about that for a moment. And how would I lay down my life? Well, if I give to God, or if I give to somebody else, something that costs me. Then I'm following with this pattern of love that the scripture defines. Love is not selfish, but selfless. And my actions cannot betray my heart. If I say I love Jesus and I don't display it in loving others before me, then I'm not really displaying what Christ has seated within me. So I have to love him. And then I have to love others. If that relationship is to be born true, it has to be born out of life experiences. It's often expressed in the word joy, Jesus others yourself, as the pattern of life that goes on With all of these, and it and and clearly if it's taken us a long time, if it's taken us 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 years to get into the rut, it's not going to hop out all of a sudden It's going to take some time for God by His grace to bring us out slowly. But the key is a central focus away from me of looking in the mirror and saying, this is the life that I want to please, and looking to Christ and saying, He's the one I want to please. And if I'm pleasing him, then his commands and his own example says I need to look to others to see what their needs are and how I can meet those needs more than myself. And I think the moment a person discovers the delight in doing something for others, he or she has started to be led to those pastures of of green fields. Once we get to that place, once we get to be engaged in in not being selfish but selfless, we're on a good path to be able to be in the right direction Number two, instead of being one of the crowd, I'm willing to be singled out and set apart from the gang. Instead of being one of the crowd, I'm willing to be set apart from the gang. Most of us, like sheep, want to belong. Generally speaking, we don't want to be different from other people. And I think we show that in a nice way as the way we dress. or the the the the the foods we eat or the the group that we hang around with or the interactions that we have with others You know. We like to belong. We like to be part of it. And the world has such an influence on us that that we oftentimes tend to to swing our attention to favor what the world does What we listen to, what we read, what we see, how we act or dress or whatever, in the direction of the world, and we book look more like the world than we do like a child of God Back when I was in high school, there were groups within the high school that there was the athletes, you know, the jocks. And You hung around with them because that's the identity that you had, or the the drama club, or the choir, or the the physics club, or chess club, or whatever. And you you found your identity by associating with them Because that's how your heart bent towards. And they had those common interests that were there. But Jesus said that only a few would follow his way as being acceptable. Because who Jesus is oftentimes brought criticism. It oftentimes brought sarcasm. It oftentimes became the butt end of a joke. Once you were part of the association with Christ, and it's the same today. My association with Him, if my f f by my favoritism is with the world. My association with him oftentimes finds that I become uh the the butt end of the joke and even t places in the world where Persecution is by its very nature against the child of God. It's part of the world that we live in. But if we're following the shepherd, we have to take up his cross. Peter and John, we read as they were uh freely post-resurrection going around and preaching the gospel, they were arrested and taken in front of the uh the religious courts and uh to which they received quite the thrashing and the warning Don't go out and start preaching Christ again, okay? You know, just l let this be a lesson to you. The text says And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. They found their association, their their their link, their their favorite group to be with was with Christ. And the the the policy of of their former life or whatever else was set aside. And that didn't sit well with some people, some people of authority. And when they were persecuted for that, they felt that it was finally recognized that what we did, how we lived, how we acted, which was no threat to anybody except those who were persecuting them This is what we would take as great joy. Taking up my cross is a bold profession of the crucified Christ. Jesus says, take up the cross and follow me. It's a profession which says vocally and by the stand that I take that this is important to me. It's more than church membership, and there's church membership is right. But you can have a whole church filled with members who don't take a profession of Christ as being serious. It's what I would say, what I would do, how I would act, as being the most important part within my life. Although there's nothing wrong with these associations as Christians, it's finding Jesus as my sufficiency in life. My sufficiency. He is my all and all. Number three, instead of insisting on my own rights, I'm willing to surrender my rights in favor of others. My rights versus your rights. Basically, this is what Jesus meant when he said his followers were to deny themselves. And again. Jesus knew in his day that this wasn't natural and this was not normal. It's not what we're born into. It's not our our natural bent as mankind. As a parent, now as a grandparent, there are two words that I know you're familiar with. It's mine. It's a toy. It's mine. That food. It's mine. That's my space. It's mine. Not that my grandchildren would ever act like that. Not my children would ever act like that. You understand that. But you might have heard others who are not quite as well trained as yours are. That same sense of greed and pride is also found within us our unwillingness to surrender my own opinion. It's my opinion. And even though what you may say does have validity, I'm in such a position that I cannot honor that. It's mine, and I'm not going to change Not only matters of opinion, but ideas, thoughts, time, rights. It's a huge step Coming to Christ and saying, He will lead me in paths of righteousness means that there's a surrendering of my right to possibly yours. To listen to what they've got to say. They may have something valid. They may have something realistic. And maybe at this particular time it's the encouragement that they need for me to recognize what their particular situation is in order that we might grow together as brothers and sisters in Christ. The Apostle Paul wrote of a hard attitude in Philippians 2. Very familiar passage. And he begins by saying, let this mind be in you. When we talk about rights, when we talk about wills, when we talk about responsibilities and and that which is important Paul says, let this, your mind, your heart, let the same thing be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. He magnifies it and he focuses upon what was the heart and the mind of Christ, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. If there's anyone who could say, I've got a right not to do because of who I am, I am God. The second person of the Trinity. I'm Emmanuel, I've got the right not to do this. And you are to do this because I say so. But he didn't. He left the glories of heaven and came into this, you know, stay away from the heaters, by the way, they're sick, you know. Um We think of the frailties of the body, of all of the the the stuff that goes on within us. He experienced it and he didn't have to Being a servant, washing the feet of his own disciples, acting in such a way that it was totally unfathomable to think that he is the Messiah. But he did it willingly. And so Paul says that type of attitude of the surrendering of his will for others ought to be my heart attitude. Why would I listen to you? Why would I do this? Because, you know, it's the mind of Christ, it's the heart of Christ to be put in to me. The person who is willing to put his personal life and his personal affairs in the master's hands for his management and his direction. has already found himself on the resting path of the will of God. It doesn't mean that everybody else has the right understanding over me, but God does. If it's my willingness to be able to say, Lord, your will. And we often say that, God's will. You know. We say God's will. Well, we don't even think about what God's will is We don't crack a Bible to say, well, what does the Word of God say about this? We don't pray about it. We just go and say, well, if God will, it didn't know, it's my will then. If I'm willing to put my life in my future and my direction for his management, for my good and for his glory, then I've taken that step. Lead me in the path of righteousness. Well, who's going to do that? Well, God will. Lead me, take me in such a direction in such a way. He's my boss. And then obeying him and not obeying myself. Number four, instead of finding fault with life and asking why I'm willing to accept every circumstance of life with an attitude of gratitude. How many times have we Had this instance or situation again and again and again, and we will say, Why, Lord? Why? If we put ourselves in the position of saying that he is the boss of my life, he's in management of my life, then I ought to be able to say I'm grateful for what he's done. As human beings, we can frequently feel entitled to question the reasons for everything that this happens to us when it doesn't make sense. When it's not the obvious reason, the obvious answer, our life can become filled with criticism and blame towards others around us, and as well as to God, as well as to life itself. When it just doesn't fit right, where do I point the finger? I've got to point the finger at somebody. I've got to find fault with somebody. They just didn't do it on its own. But when these things happen, I have to realize that the hand of my God is still upon me. If we really believe that our lives are in his hands, every part, no matter if it seems to make joy or tragedy It must be part of his plan, right? It makes sense. If h I am his, he is mine, if he is God, and I am a a sinful uh uh redeemed uh believer, If I say, Lord, take my life and let it be consecrated for you, and all of a sudden something happens, we say, why? That's not the issue. There ought to be an attitude of gratitude. To know beyond a shadow of a doubt that He does all things for our good and His glory must be the guiding principle. Paul's own words, he says, I have learned. And the picture that Paul draws here is by experience. He says, that's been my experience. Not that he sat down in a textbook and learned these things. I have learned whether whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. I know, again, I've experienced, my own experience, both how to be abase and how to abound. Everywhere, and in all things I am instructed, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. Paul says, the education of my life has been learning by experience. And in every case, the common thread is that God was with me. Had not abandoned him, but Paul The character that he was, the all warts and all, had to become the one that God wanted him to become. And in order to get from point A to point B, God says there's going to be some rough times here. And Paul says, go ahead. Paul says, do what you have to do. I'm being instructed on these particular cases. Um when I was a kid we went to that I think he was probably like Doctor Frankenstein, you know My my aunt and uncle lived next door to us and they had three and my sister and I and we all went at the same time and Uh this is one of those things we hear the drill go, you know, and I hated it. I hated it. So being away from the dentist for once I got out of that uh was just a joy. But once you're away from the dentist, what happens? Well we won't go into that, but I found that, you know, you have to pay the piper to get things back up. And that's what happens. The Lord this is for Uh you you go through these things in order that there might be a product at the end that is pleasing in your sight. Number five. Instead of asserting my will, I learned to cooperate with His wishes and comply with His will. It sounds similar to the things that we've been talking about because the common thread again becomes me versus God. leading me in paths of righteousness, well, it ends up being the principles of will. I found it interesting throughout chur church history that believers, nine-tenths of the time, as they wrote, referred to the Christian life or the church life or the life of the believer in terms of the will They referred to this in the writings and the things that they had said. It is a matter of the will, the dedicated disciple. I think of Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou will. There's the I and Thou again. It's me versus God's will. And Jesus said in this particular case, asserting his will would not benefit us, would it? He had to go to the cross, he had to suffer, in order that the greater accomplishment for the redeemed would be made possible. So it's clearly understandable in that context. When a man or a woman allows his will to be crossed out canceling the I in making decisions, then the cross has been applied to life. decision making time, choices. How should I do it? This, this, or any one of these dozen things? If I can cross out I, if I can cross out me, if I can cross out that, and make the decision with what does God want me to do? You know, how would God have me to go in direction? It takes me a long way in the path. The Apostle Paul says in Galatians 5, and that they that are Christ have crucified the flesh in the affections and the lusts. Crucifying the flesh means my will, my rights, my everything. And Paul says those types of things have to be put to death. Those stubborn sheep, those stubborn humans. The path of righteousness that Christ wants us to live lead into has no place for the flesh, no place for those lusts. Conclusion, let me wrap a ribbon around this and hopefully it'll make a little more sense. Instead of choosing my way, I'm willing to choose to follow Christ's way. And again, it's a path of decisions, of direction. Basically, it comes down to straightforward obedience. I do what he asked me to do. And again, this isn't the club. Do it. But he offers me this path of life, and I choose it because it's there. I go where he invites me to go. I say what he instructs me to say. I will act and react in a way that maintains what is best for my interest and for his glory and his reputation. It's just common sense. This is a new way of life. The old man is dead, the new man is made alive. My Sony heart has been made to a heart of flesh. I've been given a new life. And therefore, the choices that I make, it's a matter of obedience. And it's not often easy. I think for the most part we usually understand what the Lord expects. If we were honest with each other in times of crises when I find that I've not made the right choice and we sat down together, you say, let's be honest. And you say, yeah, I knew what to do. You know. But I just didn't want to do it. You know, it was a matter of embarrassment, it was a matter of pride, it was a matter of greed, it was a matter of my choice, you know. We know in our minds, the longer we are as believers, the more that we read, the more that we just grow in life. We know that we've made those decisions, and it's not always been the right choices. Some might think that is what God expects, is it tremendously difficult, if not impossible What he's asking you to do is way beyond, and yet I guarantee you that what he asks us to do, what he directs us, what he offers us to do and to go, he will accomplish it if I come to him and say, Lord, By your grace will you do that within me? Which means there has to be a lot of cutting off of some things and you know I can't have walk in both worlds. Um as a new believer, I remember we used to dad would take load up the van and Millie and I and and uh sometimes my mom or brother and we'd go over to church and it was about a twenty miles away from where we were. And the first prayer meeting that we came home, that all of a sudden something clicked in my mind, is that the pastor gave an illustration of walking a fence And he says, there's the world on one side and the Christian life on the other. He says you just can't do it. You can't well again in my mind, instead of a fence, it was a razor blade. I wanted to be more more dramatic, you know. I just can't have it. I can't you can you have to make those choices. And so through life there are choices to be made And being led in the path of righteousness says that, Lord, I'm willing, but you have to help me to do it I believe, Lord, but give me faith to believe. So there has to be an honest assessment of our condition and our surrendering to those things and saying, Lord, please grant me such Paul reminds the Philippians, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure. He does work in us. And I hope as you look back in your past you say, yeah, there have been things that have really changed, that have been good. You know, there were things that I profited in spiritually. Who did it? Well, it was God's work in you. It was God's work in me. Holy Spirit convicting me, and my willingness to say no, or my willingness to say yes. My willingness to listen, my willingness to speak, my willingness to have my heart softened. Whatever it may have been, there ought to be changes because it is God who works in us to will and to do of his good pleasure. I'd like to think if we are not taken home to glory that next year at this time you could sit and say, Lord We're thankful for this past year. We have no idea what what twenty twenty is gonna bring, you know. I don't think you thought that You know, twenty eighteen and going into twenty nineteen would twenty nineteen would have been like it is. But it happens. But I'd like to think that as Lord, you know, lead me in the path of righteousness And a willingness to follow through with those things and how God will put things together. He's desirous to do that. It pleases him to have his sheep follow him, and his promise to bless us with that is in abundance. Let's pray. Father, we'll close with these simple thoughts. And we must admit that what your word offers is clear and plain. Yet it is the hardship of our own hard hearts, uh the process of sanctification where we're being change from the people that we had been to become the people you would have us to be. May we allow your spirit to continue to work in us. to do your will in order that it will profit us and will glorify you. Where there are areas, Father, that we're struggling with, may you not give us rest until we deal with it that we handle, that we uh surrender it, whatever it may be, in order that we'll profit from it and find the delight of your presence to be our very joy. Thank you for these thoughts in Christ's name. Amen.