In the world. And the total deaths before COVID and after COVID are all the same. The same total. Something like a million per week or something like that. But they're exactly flat, the same exact number of deaths in the whole world from everything before and after So what does that tell you? That tells you there's not any big huge thing going on. And what they're doing is they're crediting COVID with all kinds of deaths from other stuff that used to be credited to other things that they died of. And uh so anyway, those are interesting points So anyway, let's uh go to Leah, my daughter in la uh my uh granddaughter. Uh she continues to struggle with her cancer, continue to keep her in prayer. We were just down there on the way to Presbytery. And she uh looks like she's going to need another operation. The uh cancer has spread to her lymph nodes. uh from her uh thyroid and so it has spread and so there she's gonna have to have another operation to take out the lymph nodes And then she will have uh radioactive iodine after that to uh clean up the rest of the cancer, fortunately But uh the prognosis is still not too bad. They hope that if they can get the lymph nodes taken out and get rid of the cancer there And uh if they can uh do the radioactive iodine then it it might take care of it. What's really interesting is in the Marcus Hook church, both uh Debbie Zimmerman And Donna Gensel both have taken radioactive iodine. And uh so and and they're fine and whatever, so So praise the Lord that it may be uh well we're just praying to the Lord that it'll all turn out well Well, let's turn in our Bibles to Revelation chapter 22, Revelation chapter 22, and we'll go to verse 1. Revelation chapter 22 and verse 1. And he showed me a rib uh well, maybe I better put my glasses on. Okay. And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. In the midst of the street of it, and on every s either side of the river, was there a tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. So let's bow in prayer once again. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless as we study thy word. We pray that thou would bless the book of Revelation to our hearts. In Jesus' name, amen. And we're going through the book of Revelation. We're to the very end here, to chapter 22, and the very last Chapter we've seen the tribulation, and we went on and on and on with the tribulation, which is in the book of Revelation, with all the different judgments falling down upon the earth, the seven seals, the seven trumpets, the seven vials. And we have all this falling down upon the earth and God setting things aright. And then we have seen the Christ coming back in chapter 19, the millennium, chapter 20, and now we have the eternal state. And we might just call it heaven, even though it's the new heavens and the new earth here in Revelation chapter 22. And so here we have the eternal state. And here we have a river proceeding out of the throne. And this river comes out. There's no more sea in the book of R uh here at the very end of the new heavens and new earth. It'll be a very different type of earth And the sea has always been a place of danger, but no more sea. But there will be a river here. The river of water of life proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. And then there's the tree of life. And the tree of life there looks like it's a big tree, tree of life which has its leaves for the healing of the nations. Now that brings up an interesting question. Is uh if there's no more sickness, uh no more dying in the eternal state, why do we need leaves for the healing of the nations? Well I think it might be just that these this these leaves are a means that God uses to have no sickness And did you know that God uses means for everything he does? And that's something that people that are Arminians never get through their head. That God uses means to save his elect. That God uses means. And so here are the means of keeping the people healthy. And keeping the people with no sickness, uh it it seems to be here these leaves from the tree of life have a key to that. And maybe those are distributed in some way, and they keep them healthy. God has ordained that there will be no sickness, and he has also ordained the means to have no sickness And we have the healing of the nations. And that seems like there's going to be nations in the new heavens and new earth. They are nations of the elect, of God's people. And then we have verse 3. We read this in our responsive reading. We won't read these all again, 3 to 10. But here we have verse 3. And there's no more curse. No more curse. And today we got the curse. We've had the curse since Adam. And Eve. When they sinned, the curse fell down. The curse set fell upon the earth. You know, we have thorns and thistles brought forth by the earth. And that won't be any more Uh we had death come upon the earth. There won't be any more death. Uh there won't be any more, it looks like there won't be any more uh straining and pain in childbirth And uh there won't be any of that. No more curse. For the Lord shall be there. And then we have verse 4, and they shall see his face. We're going to see God's face. In the new heavens and new earth. And you know, in 1 Corinthians 13 it talks about that uh you know now we see through a glass darkly. But then face to face. And we will see God face to face at that time and see him as he is. Right now, no man has looked on God at any time And is what the Bible says, at least in his fullness. But here we'll be able to see his face. And then verse 5, there will be no night there. No need of the candle, no need of any light, because God is the light of the new heavens and the new earth. And of course there with the new heavens and the new earth, as we saw last time, we have the New Jerusalem there. The pyramid-shaped New Jerusalem, I believe, is huge, 1500 miles wide, 1500 miles long, and 1500 miles high. That's really huge. And the Christians will have their places, their mansions in that New Jerusalem. And then we have these are the sayings. And they are faithful and true. Faithful and true sayings we have in this book. We can bet on the fact that these things are really going to come to pass. This is really what's going to happen in the future. This is really where we're going to be. We can trust it It's not like the lies that we have going all around every day here in our world, and especially today And then it says here, he gave this book to show what must shortly be done. Shortly be done. And of course this was 2,000 years ago this was written, but it's still shortly will be done because a thousand years is a day and a day is a thousand years to the Lord. There's still a day and there's still a thousand years, but They're the same to someone who's timeless and someone that's eternal. And so here we have the uh what must shortly be done. Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book. And once again, people like to discount the keeping of commandments today. And they said, don't you know we're not under the law, we're under grace, nobody keeps commandments anymore, we just do a few things for the Lord because we love him. But over and over at this very end here, it talks about keeping the sayings, about the commandments of God. Blessed are they that keep the sayings. And we have to be ready for Christ to come back by keeping his commandments, keeping his sayings Well, John, when he saw all these things, what was his reaction? His reaction was that he wanted to fall down and worship the angel. Because the angel was showing these things to him. But you notice the angel does not accept the worship. The angel says, I'm one of your fellow servants. See, thou do it not. I don't want you to be worshiping me, worship God. Remember when they wanted to worship Paul, he said, No, you can't be worshiping me. But when people wanted to worship Jesus, Jesus accepted it. And that's one of the great proofs that Jesus said that he was God He definitely said he was God, in spite of what the Jehovah's Witnesses say. He said he was God, and that's why the Jews crucified him, because he said he was God And that's why he accepted worship. Because he is God. And he accepted that worship Well, then we go on down to verse 10. And he says, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book. This book is not sealed. We're opening it today. We're learning about the things that are going to happen in the future. And you know, it's no accident that the book of Revelation is at the end of our Bible. Because it's the things that are for the time of the end. It was meant to be that way. And it says here again, the time is at hand. And we can see things all developing today for the time of the end. And you know, there might be a lot of different uh views on vaccination, but you know Uh I think uh that we could really see that the forced vaccinations that we have today is a real problem. And today it's not far off the track to have a mark where you can't buy or sell or do anything. And here they're making the vaccination so you can't do anything unless you have this vaccination. It's paving the way for the mark of the Antichrist. A mark on your body, something done to your body, the vaccination, whatever it is. And one-fourth of the army is going to be shown the door because they won't have vaccinations That's what they're estimating. And uh when when when we saw those guys there in the field being herded for the vaccinations, there were certain ones of them that had papers in their hands. And Luke, my son, said those are the ones that are opting out and they have papers, but that paper's not going to keep them from getting discharged from the military And so it's uh and of course you can't go to college today unless you got the mark. You can't uh go to work in a hospital. You can't We're in and of course Biden wants to make it you can't work in a company that has over a hundred employees without that mark. And so anyway, it's uh leading up to those things. And then we have all the influx of all the immigrants into the United States today opening the doors wide open And that's always been the policy of those that want a one-world government. They don't want any borders. And that's paving the way for the Antichrist as well. They want to mix everything up. They don't want separate countries. And so anyway, so these things are true, faithful, and they're coming. And we can see it And then we go on here, continuing to read. He that is unjust, verse 11, let him be unjust still. And he which is filthy, let him be filthy still. And he that is righteous, let him be righteous still. And he that is holy, let him be holy still. And behold, I come quickly. And my reward is with me to give every man according as his work shall be. Well, what does that mean, he that is unjust, let him be unjust still. He that is holy, let him be holy still Well what's that saying is here at the time of the new heavens and the new earth it's all done. There's no purgatory. There's no way to pay for sins here. You're either in heaven and the new heavens and new earth or you're in the lake of fire. one or the other, and he that is unjust will be unjust. There's no more chances, no more of any of that, etc. And then we have my reward is with me to give every man according to his works. That's all through history, all the way to the time of the end. We're going to get rewarded for what we do for the Lord. And there will be judgment for sin. And God's reward. We want reward when we get to heaven. We want to uh do some things for the Lord to have some rewards. And that's not selfish to want rewards. He's talking about something good here. My reward is with me. And he'll give to every man according to as his work shall be. And we need to be serving the Lord with our whole heart and mind and soul and body. Well then we go on here, on to verse 13. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Blessed are they that do his commandments That they may have right to the tree of life and may enter in through the gates into the city. For without our dogs And sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie. So here we have again, blessed are they that keep his commandments, that do his commandments. There are commandments in the Bible. We still gotta do them. Yes, we serve God because we love him. Yes, we do things for him because we love him, but we also do it because they are his commandments, do his commandments. And our commandment, keeping the commandments, does not save us. We've said that a million times, but it shows that we are saved. It doesn't save us, but it's the evidence that we're saved. So here we come to our last verse of this passage. We're going to save the end of the book, the last few verses, for one more message on Revelation. Probably next month. But uh verses 16 to the end of the chapter, because it's very important things there. But verse 15 It tells who are in the lake of fire. Who's in the lake of fire? Who's without the new heavens and new earth? Who's without the new Jerusalem? Well, without, we have dogs, and we'll say another word about that, a little bit about that coming up. But without our dogs and sorcerers and whoremongers and murderers and idolaters and those that make a lie. And there's a once again, there's so many lies out there. And uh we were just in the we har we almost never watch the news. But on that trip that we just took we were in the motel there and watched a little bit of the news on there and they had a conservative on there and they were saying and she was saying that The left has no problem lying about everything or about most things. And of course, that's one of the tenets of what they believe And that's with the communists. The lies are no big thing if it follow if it furthers your ends. The ends justify the means. And uh there's so many lies circulating out there. But here are the people that are in the book of lake of fire. They're whosoever loveth and maketh a lie And so we got the usual people that you would think of in the lake of fire. We got the whoremongers, the murderers, the idolaters, we got the sorcerers in there. You know, there have always been sorcerers. Always. And always will be. People that use the power of Satan to do miracles. In the book of Revelation we have the beast, the false prophet, they use the power of Satan to do miracles. And they deceive people on the earth through their miracles. You know, the witch doctor in Africa has always deceived people through doing miracles. Through Satan. And some of them are false miracles, most of them, but I'm sure a few of them are true miracles. And we've always had the sorcerers around. And today we got a lot of it mixed up with the charismatics and Pentecostals, the these miracles that they do. They don't know that Satan's power is being used. But I think it is being used and they attribute it to God. Of course Satan appears as an angel of light But I wanted to focus for a little while here on that first phrase. For without our dogs, without our dogs. Now uh is it talking about uh dog that uh is your pet, that's my pet, that uh barks and whatever? No Couldn't be talking about that. It's not talking about animals here. It's talking about people that are dogs. People that are dogs. That's not very complimentary uh Expression, at least in the Bible, it's not very complimentary. You know, the thing is, is that uh people really love dogs today, and I love dogs. And uh I I've had dogs. We had a dog in Brazil. Uh I was just uh spending some time with the dog of my son down in uh North Carolina And you know, I like dogs, I like pets. But you know, here in America today, dogs are regarded pretty much on the level of people. And that's where you got a problem. That dogs are not the same as people. That they there's a whole difference between the two. A whole uh chasm between animals and people. People have eternal souls. They go to heaven and go to hell. And we never have that in the Bible for for animals, whatever type of animal it is. When we were on our trip down south, we were cruising down the interstate there, and here was a big sign over, and it said, Saving Grace Dog Rescue. Well, you know, I mean it's good that they want to rescue the dogs and of course the Bible is very clear about treating beasts well. It says uh just man regards the life of his beasts of course back then they had the oxen and all that. But to use saving grace In connection with dogs, I think that's a little bit much. That's using like scriptural terms that shouldn't be associated with animals. And so we can't put animals on the same uh st level as people And uh the problem is, is a lot of times in our in America today, dogs and cats and pets are like a substitute for children, for so many people. They want to have them instead of children or in fact they have bumper sticklers that say my dog is my child and all this. And and and and you know, they don't want to have children. And of course you can kind of understand that today because the attitude is is that the parents are supposed to give everything to the child children, the children never give anything back, and children all they do is put the parents in the nursing home and not forget about them. But you know The thing is, is that uh so they say, why should I have children if I have to give, give, give and don't get anything back? Well, that's not the way it should be. It should be give and take. It should be both ways, children and the and the parents. But you know the Bible talks about that it's good to have children. And that children are a heritage of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is his reward. It says, blessed is the man that has his quiver full of them. And I've often wondered how many arrows are in a quiver, and when I look at the programs on TV, I like to see how many arrows they got in their quiver. And a lot of times it's around five arrows Something like that. So anyway, uh blessed is the man have his quiver full of them. They're like olive plants around the table And those things are all still in in force. And it's a real problem in the world today that there aren't enough children. There got all kinds of uh news stories about how these countries are going to go under because they're gonna have no young people to support the huge old population. And uh the only thing in the United States we have all the immigrants that come in that kind of uh spread out and make it not such a problem as these other countries have. But anyway, children are good, and pets and dogs can't be a substitute for them, and not on the same level as them. But I like dogs once again. But anyway, here it says, having said all that about dogs, the other thing to say is that in the Bible, dogs are not depicted in a good light. They never are depicted in a very good light. And in fact, I looked up all the different references that had to do with dogs in the Bible. And you know, remember when s when s when uh Goliath was there, he said to David, Am I a dog And uh and then it was a curse of Jezebel that her that she was going to be thrown out and the dogs were gonna eat her up. And it seems there in Bible times the dogs were mainly like uh running around stray dogs. And uh and in Brazil where we were there was a lot of stray dogs around. They were everywhere. And uh packs of them all around the place. And I'm sure that's a little bit how it was in Bible times. But anyway, uh the only things that are a little bit favorable of dogs in the Bible is that they eat the crumbs under the table and uh foreign woman said, oh well well, you know, the dogs eat the crumbs. And they eat the crumbs, and I think it might talk about a little bit of barking dogs as far as watchdogs, but generally they're not spoken of, almost always, they're not spoken of in a favorable thing So what it says here, without our dogs, it's talking about, in very unfavorable terms, somebody. Now, who's it talking about here? Well, that's a good question. Well, you should have the Bible interpret the Bible. And so let's go back to Deuteronomy chapter 23. Deuteronomy chapter 23 and verse 17. And I think it'll tell us who those dogs are. Deuteronomy 23 and verse 17. And here Deuteronomy is the second giving of the law. And it has various laws for various things, the second giving of Moses. And here we are of 2317. There shall be no whore of the daughters of Israel, nor a sodomite of the sons of Israel. Thou shalt not bring the hire of a whore or the price of a dog into the house of the Lord thy God for any vow. For even both these are abomination unto the Lord thy God. Well, I think it's very clear there what a dog is in scriptural terms. A dog is actually a homosexual, a sodomite, in scriptural terms And so it says that you're not supposed to have any whores, you're not supposed to have any sodomites. And then it says you're not supposed to bring the hire of a whore or the price of a dog. Into the temple. And so the dog would definitely translate out to be the homosexual, the sodomite here. And that's not a very good description of them. Well, what do we have in our world today? Well, we have, you have to accept the alternate lifestyle of the homosexuals. And of course we've got a lot way beyond that. And we have the LBGTQ. LGBTQ. And you have to accept all those people. And of course, all those people are sexual deviants. Sexual deviants. And we're supposed to accept all of that. And don't you know you it's just an alternate lifestyle? Well, what does it say in the Bible? It says in the Bible, without our dogs. It says there shouldn't be any of them here in Deuteronomy chapter 23, and it says, beware of dogs. We had that in our call to worship. That we read that verse. It says, Beware of dogs. What dogs? It's not talking about when we go door to door, there's a sign on the door that says, Beware of the dog It's not talking about that when it says beware of dogs. It's talking about beware of the homosexuals. Beware of them. And so it's not just an alternate lifestyle in the Bible. And so the sexual deviation just goes on and on and on. And so now we're past just being homosexual and lesbian. Now we're the transsexual. And we're to the point now where children in school are supposed to declare if they're a boy or they're a girl. We're to the point where we're on our passport. We're supposed to declare whether we're a boy or a girl. And it's really gone bad. And in the Olympics, you got these men competing in the Olympics as women and beating out all the women. And it's is it's really getting to be bad. And uh and you know it's uh it nobody wants God to tell 'em what to do. They want to rebel against God. They want to rebel against how God has made them. And God made us when we're born either male or female. God has made us that way, and we can't rebel against that. And act the homosexual and the lesbian, he act they act like they're the opposite. If they're a man, they act like they're a woman. If they're a woman, they act like they're a The transsexual, of course, they have operations, they have hormones, and all this stuff trying to make them into something different than what God made them into. And it's sad. But you know here in Revelation chapter twenty-two we got right there it talks about without our dogs. Right there at the very end of the Bible. Right at the very end when we're coming to to the new heavens and the new earth. And so it's not just an alternate lifestyle. It's not something that we can decide if we're a man or a woman. No, God has made us that way And we need to recognize that God is the creator. That God has created all things, that He has made us the way we are. You know, the Bible talks about us as the potter's clay And God makes the potter's clay how he wants to make it. And even the salvation. God makes the potter's clay and he makes Some vessels to honor, some vessels to dishonor. And he has made those that are saved and those that are not saved. And of course he uses means to that end And when we want to get saved, God puts that desire in our heart to get saved. And yes, we do make the decision, but God gives us the power to make that decision for God. And so God is in control of everything, He is sovereign. And he's going to bring things aright in the book of Revelation here at the time of the end. And at the time of the end, it will be very clear who's within, who's without, what's an alternate lifestyle, and what's not an alternate lifestyle. You know, it's an alternate lifestyle. The only thing is an alternate lifestyle is going to be in the lake of fire. And it's not, you know, we have to see it as that. That's how the Bible depicts it. And so praise the Lord for his word, and praise the Lord for the hope we have of the new heavens and new earth. Praise the Lord for the hope we have of a place with no sickness, no death No crying with the river of the water of life, the New Jerusalem, and we're going to reign with the Lord forever and ever. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, help us to be the Christians that Thou would have us to be, and O Lord, help us to have the discernment in these days that we live in. And O Lord, we just pray that thou would be gracious unto us, that thou would be gracious unto our country, that thou would turn us and our country back to thee. In Jesus' name, amen.