On the Chinese flu to begin with. I call it the Chinese flu. Is that the uh thing is they've now revised down the death the projected death toll down to sixty thousand. t uh down from two hundred thousand they had before. And sixty thousand is d down in the same ballpark as the normal flu toll of fifty thousand that is every year And we have the uh news media, they're uh really have a lot of yellow journalism. And they're pushing the fact that everybody's dying and everybody they can think of, they tell about how they died. And every relative of every star and every I mean as if nobody ever dies, but they're acting like you got a million people dying all around and they're talking about bodies lay lying out in the streets in Colombia and it's uh uh really bad. And the thing is, uh, you know, there are 38,000 deaths from car accidents every year. You know, what we need to do is just quit driving cars. Look at how many lives would be saved And uh I mean, there's a point where you c can't be, you know, just h stop your entire life in in the hopes that nobody ever gets killed or nobody ever dies. And of course we're all gonna die anyway. And so it's a sad situation, but praise the Lord for this church. Praise the Lord that it keeps on having services And uh that's great. And it's terrible to s it's scary to see how easy it has been to close down the cheap churches. Very easy. And you know, over in China they have the Underground Church, and they say, oh, all you need to do is register your church All you need to do. And of course that's to have the government control your church is to register your church. But why don't you want to register your church? And uh, you know, uh we're just a step from that today here in America. Well, let's go over there to Revelation chapter 5. We're continuing with our study of Revelation and we'll see say a little bit about Easter today too. This is kind of a good Easter chapter here. Revelation chapter five. The thing is, chapter four, we looked at the last time, had God on the throne And he's in control of everything. He's in control of the Chinese flu. He's in charge of everything. And he knows what's happening. And he's sending the Chinese flu as a little taste of the plagues that are coming. In the book of Revelation are prophesied. And so we had God on the throne in Revelation chapter 4, and now we have Christ coming to open the book of judgment. Here Christ. Chapter 5 focuses on Christ. And so we have chapter 5 and verse 1. I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals. This would seem to have been a scroll. Back at this time they had scrolls, not codex books like we have today. And that's why we would talk about written within and on the back side, on both sides of the scroll. And so he has this book. Once again, books are very important, very important with God. And the one who sat on the throne, God the Father, he has in his hand The book. It's a physical book. It's not a virtual book. It's not a book online. It's not a Kindle book. It's a literal book in his hand. And so he has in his hand this book that has seven seals. And these are seals of judgment, as we will see in chapter 6. And as each seal is opened, judgments fall upon the earth. And so here we have this book. And so a strong angel, verse 2, comes and says, Who is worthy to open the book? Who is worthy? Verse 3, no man in heaven or in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book. Neither to look thereon. And so there was nobody worthy to open the book. It talks about under the earth. In the earth, in heaven, under the earth. What would be under the earth? Well, I guess it would be hell. Nobody in hell, nobody in heaven, nobody on the earth, nobody able to open this book of judgment. And then verse 4, John found this to be a great problem. And it says, I wept much. Because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. John, he was very personally concerned about this. And he wept much because nobody could open the book. And this is a book of judgment. This is not a book of life. It's a book of judgment, although I don't know how much he had he knew about it at that time. But anyway, he wept much. And it's interesting, they weren't able to open, read, or even to look at the book. And you know the looking at the book is significant. And it's like alcohol there in Proverbs chapter 23. It says, look not upon the wine when it gives its color in the cup, when it moves itself aright. Don't even look at the alcohol with lusting after it, greatly desiring it. We're not supposed to even look at it with desire. And here we have the problem. Nobody could even look at this book. And then we go on. Verse 5. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not. Behold the lion of the tribe of Judah. The root of David hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. And so it's the Lion of the tribe of Judah. Remember, we had the lion's face of one of the seraphim in the last chapter. And here we have them, there's the lion of the tribe of Judah. Does that mean that Jesus looked like a lion I don't think so. That's figurative language. Figurative language. He didn't look like a lion. Even though I remember singing in Brazil in one of the churches down there, one of the modern choruses. And it talked about Jesus having the face of a lion. And that's that's not exactly it. He doesn't have the face of a lion, although he's like a lion. It's a metaphor comparing him to a lion. It's just like Jesus talked of Herod. Jesus said, Go tell that fox. Does that mean Herod looked like a fox? No, he didn't look like a fox, but he was compared to a fox. And here, Jesus is compared to a lion. With the authority, the power of the lion, the lion of the tribe of Judah, Judah, the root of David. And he's come from Judah. He's come from David. He has fulfilled perfectly the scriptures of the Old Testament for the coming of the Messiah. And here's that's pointed out here. And so he's going to have opened the book, loose the seven seals. And verse six And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne, and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a lamb. As it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth. So here, John sees Christ, and Christ is compared to a lamb here. And here we have Easter here in Revelation chapter 5. We have Good Friday here. A lamb as it had been slain. He was slain. And that's normally commemorated on Good Friday, although I believe it should be Good Wednesday, that it was prophesied That Jesus would be in the tomb three days and three nights, like Jonah. And how do you get three days and three nights from Friday to Sunday morning? It's impossible. Now you can you could get parts of three days, but you can't get any three nights in any w way, shape, or form. And so I believe it was Wednesday, and the reason they believe it's Friday is because the Sabbath was right after. And they wanted to get Jesus taken down off the cross before the Sabbath But they forget the fact that with the Passover there was a Sabbath as well. And Thursday that week was the Passover Sabbath. And they wanted to get him down off the cross before the Passover Sabbath. But anyway, here we have a lamb that had been slain. And we commemorate that this week. And with the Lamb being there, with Christ being there, it also points out the fact that he is risen, risen from the dead, as we celebrate today on Easter. It's a sad story here today with all the churches being closed on the biggest day of the year, pretty well, for Christians, that and Christmas, and they're all closed And it's a sad story. But anyway, here we have the Lamb. The Lamb here, and he is resurrected. He is risen. And he's there. He had been slain before, but he's now risen. And so he's there. He has seven horns and seven eyes. That's another figurative bit of information. Seven horns. Horns is authority and power in the Bible. And seven is complete, complete power and authority, and he has uh complete knowledge of everything. With the Holy Spirit there, the whole uh seven spirits of God, and the seven eyes. And so complete power and authority. And you'll notice here that We like to take Revelation as literally as possible, but there are things that are symbolic and figurative in the book of Revelation. That's obvious. But these figurative and symbolic things are not just something up in the air, just some indefinite battle between good and bad. No, the Lamb is Jesus. The Lion is Jesus. Stands for something. And the horns are authority. And these things stand for other things. And there are things that are definite. And so here we have the seven spirits of God. The Holy Spirit is pointed out in chapter 4, also chapter 5, him and his completeness, seven different aspects of the Holy Spirit. And then verse 7. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. Of course, if he was a lamb, a literal lamb, he'd have a hard time taking the book. He wouldn't be able to grab it, he might be able to grab it with his mouth or something, but that's not what it's it is. We have Jesus. Jesus. He took the book. out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. And verse 8, and when he had taken the book, the four beasts, the four and twenty elders, fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. So they all fall down before Jesus Fall down before God as Jesus takes this book of judgment. The judgment is going to fall. And you know, here in the book of Revelation, we're told that the mystery of iniquity is going to be finished. The mystery of iniquity. And so often people argue against God. And they say, if He's a good God, why is there evil? And why isn't he totally in control? And why is the devil running around? And that's the mystery of iniquity. The mystery that God is in control, but he hasn't taken full control yet. We're told that in Hebrews. And so he hasn't taken full control yet. And the mystery, even though he's over overall in control, but he's left this earth to the devil to be the prince of the power of the air And so that's the mystery of iniquity. But here in the book of Revelation, that mystery is going to be finished as God takes total control and as God judges the earth and judges the sin. that's in the world and has been in the world. So they all fall down before Jesus and they have all of them electric guitars. Is that what they have? No. They have harps. Harps. There's a little bit of difference between an electric guitar and a harp. And you know the thing is, is that harp, a harp has a very soft, soothing, uh smooth music generally. And uh the electric guitar doesn't have that. And people say that music is neutral, you can have any instrument praising God. Well, I don't think so. I mean, of course, you could use an electric guitar in certain situations, perhaps, but that's not really a good instrument for praising God. And the uh the thing especially not the drums pounding out a rock beat. But here we have, they all have harps, harps that they were playing music suitable to heaven. And when we are in worship service, we need to play music that's suitable to the worship of God. And not all music is suitable for that. Hard rock is not suitable for that. And here we have harps And they have these vials full of the prayers of the saints. We talked about in Sunday school how prayer is important. God uses prayer. When God wants to do things, he puts it in our heart to pray for them. And God uses those prayers to accomplish his will. Sometimes we wonder, what good does it do to pray if God is going to do what he's going to do anyway? Well, God is going to do it, but he's going to use our prayers in doing what he's going to do. And so here we have those prayers are important. They're important here at the end, here. The prayers of the saints. And then verse nine, and they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us To God by thy blood, out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And so Christ is worthy because he suffered on the cross Because he shed his blood for our sin. The blood is pointed out right here in Revelation. He shed his blood for our sin. He's worthy. To take that book of judgment, to set things right, to finish the mystery of iniquity. And so he was slain, he is resurrected. And he has redeemed us to God. And all through this passage, and also we're going to go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and look a little bit at Easter and the resurrection after we look here. And all through these passages, we have words that are immortalized in Handel's Messiah. Hand is Messiah, one of the greatest uh works of music that has ever been composed in this world. And you know You know, it is it an accident that the greatest works of art and the greatest works of music and the greatest scientists of the past that they were all Christians And they all gave praise to God. I have here Michelangelo's creation of man, the great artist. And he may very well have been a Christian. And we have Handel, great composer, made the Messiah. And he uses these very words. And he uses the words out of the King James Version The exact wording out of the King James Version. And part of the Messiah, he uses those words, hast redeemed us to God by thy blood. And so here we have Christ is worthy to take the book. And he's redeemed people from every kindred, tongue, people, and nation. In the Bible, many times it uses the word all. It says, God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And the Arminian will quote that verse, and he'll say, God wants everybody to be saved. And they say all means all, and that's all that all means. But that's not true. Is all can have very often in Scripture have a restricted uh sense, a restricted uh uh group that it's talking about. And the all that's usually referred to in scripture is a talking about Jew and Gentile, people from every kindred, every tongue, every nation, all. All of them. All of them from every part of the world. And so God is redeeming those to Himself today and throughout history, and that's referred to here as Christ is worthy. Then we have verse 10, and hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. He's made us kings and priests. In what sense are we kings? Well, it has it right here that we're going to reign on the earth. And when are we going to reign on the earth? You know, if you're going to reign, you need to reign over someone. You could say, oh, they're just going to reign over the creation. But that's not really much of reigning. You reign over someone, over some sort of a kingdom, if you're reigning. And you know, when that would be is in the millennium. In the millennium. In the millennium, there will be unsaved nations. There will be unsaved people in the millennium, but Jesus will be on the throne, and we will be reigning with him over the nations. And so here we have shall rain on the earth. If you don't have a millennium, you don't have any time for that to happen. We'll reign on the earth. We're kings. We also are kings in the fact that we have individual responsibility, that we are the ones that have to search the scriptures daily, whether these things are so And we need to come to the Lord on our own and not just trust to the church. And we're also priests in that same sense. Remember when Jesus died on the cross, the veil was rent in the temple? That signified that we can go before the throne, that we are priests before God today, the priesthood of believers. And so he has made us kings and priests. And then verse 11. And I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands. Many here. And uh the uh thing is in b in the Bible we don't have the word million. Million is not in the Bible. But they have 10,000 times 10,000, which is 100 million, and add that to thousands of thousands. And so there's a big number of angels, and here we have, we know there's a great multitude of believers as well. 10,000 times 10,000. Or what are they saying? Well, verse 12, right out of the handle's Messiah. Reynolds Messiah has a great chorus there, worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches. Wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. All those words are in the Messiah, every one of them. And uh so it's uh Really immortalized and worthy is the Lamb to receive all of these many things. And He is God. Who's worthy to receive all of these things? Only God. And Jesus is God. And then verse thirteen, and every creature which is in heaven and on the earth And under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I say, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the land forever and ever. And the four beasts said Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth forever and ever. So worthy is the Lamb to receive all these things. He's the Lamb that was slain. Jesus is like a lamb. He opened not his mouth. when he was slain. He went as a lamb to the slaughter. And so then we are everybody praises God here, and all these a lot of these words here are in the Messiah as well. Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb. And So here we have worthy is the Lamb. Worthy to do what? Worthy to send judgment upon the earth. Because he has redeemed his own, and he's worthy to open up this book of judgment that we have in chapter six. Worthy is the Lamb. Well let's go back to chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Look at a few things from Easter here. And the resurrection. We have the resurrected Lord in Revelation chapter 5, the lamb that had been slain. And he is resurrected. And we have here in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 19. This is the great resurrection chapter of the Bible. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. If in this life only, 1 Corinthians 15, 19, if in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. But every man in his own order, Christ, the first fruits. Afterward, they that are Christ said is coming. And this resurrection chapter talks about our body, about our body being resurrected, being raised from the dead. And you know, we know that absent from the body, present with the Lord. We know that as soon as we die as a Christian, we go to be with the Lord But that's our soul that goes to be with the Lord. And we often talk at funerals about people's mortal remains. Well, that's what's going to be left when we die. Our soul has left the body, and we have the mortal remains. And then this whole chapter, 1 Corinthians 15, is talking about that resurrected body that our body will be raised. Is our body important? It's important. And especially uh when it's raised. And do we want to just take it out and burn it? I don't think so. And uh that's not in keeping with the resurrection of the body. But keeping with the resurrection of the body is the fact that we bury the body, that we take care of it, that we treat it gently. And we bury it for waiting for the resurrection. You know, Jesus, he was buried. He was put in the tomb. He wasn't burned up. And if he would had been burned up, that would not have been in keeping with his being raised the the third day. And so here it says that we have hope for the future. And Christ was the first fruits. He rose from the dead, and we're also going to rise from the dead. And then it says here, since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. That's another line that's from Handel's Messiah. All of these are word from word, word for word from the King James and the Messiah. And so by man came death. By Adam came death, original sin, and a sinful nature. We're all born in sin. We aren't born neutral, we're born in sin. You don't have to teach a child to lie. He's born a sinner. And as an Adam all die, verse 22. Even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Are all going to be raised with a glorified body with the Lord? No Not every single person that ever lived, but all the Christians will be, and people from every kindred and tribe and nation and tongue. And here is every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, and afterward Christ, those that are Christ's at his coming. And just as Jesus had a glorified body when he rose, we will have glorified bodies at the resurrection of the dead at the last trump. And then we go on down to verse 36. Verse 36. It says, Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened except it die. And you know, we have to die first before we can be raised from the dead. We have to be dead first. And in the news media today they act like it's a really unusual thing that people are dying here and there and uh around and oh it's just a horrible thing and we have to stop all life 'cause people are dying and And it's uh it it's a fact of life. It's a fact of life that all of us is gonna die. That's the only thing that we are sure of in this life. Is that we're gonna die. They talk about death and taxes, but we can get out of taxes, but we can't get out of dying. Is that we're gonna die. And the only exception to that would be if Christ comes back before we die. But uh uh you can mark it down That we're going to die, each one of us, and we have to die in order to be raised from the dead. Just like a seed. When you plant a seed in the ground, It has to rot in the ground. It has to rot and then spring up with shoots from the seed. And that's how it is with our body. We have to be planted in the ground. Of course that's a good picture of burial there. Be planted in the ground. And then we're going to rise up from that. Then let's skip down to verse 50. Verse 50 Now, this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither doth corruption inherit incorruption. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump For the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. Some more words immortalized by the Messiah. The trumpet shall sound. I always remember being in Collingswood Church, the Bible Presbyterian Church of Collingswood, back when it had more people there, and there was a big choir up there singing the Messiah, and they had professional musicians And they had a guy with a little trumpet that was about this size. And he played that trumpet, The Trumpet Shall Sound, and it resounded all over the auditorium, and it was great The trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. And that's when we're going to be changed at the end, when our mortal bodies will be raised from the dead. Flesh and blood can't inherit the kingdom of God. We have to die first. To be raised from the dead. But we will shall be changed, changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, changed into a glorified body And people have found fault with the millennium, and they've said, well, you know, how can you have a millennium where you have glorified people walking around and non-glorified people walking around at the same time. Well, why not? You can. Why not? And uh uh we will have the glorified Christians that have been raised, they'll be reigning. During the millennium, and you'll have the people that are still left, that were still left after Armageddon, and they will be walking around in their mortal bodies So flesh and blood cannot inherit. We shall be changed at the last trump. And then finally, let's go down to verse 57. Verse 57. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Thanks be to God. And uh you know he gives us the victory over what? Over death, over sin, over the grave. That's what it talks about a little bit before here, O grave, where is thy thing? O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? We have victory over death in the future. Praise him. He gives us the victory. Okay, so we have the resurrection. We have the fact that we will be raised from the dead, and we give thanks to God. And what should that lead to in our lives? Well, last time we looked at chapter 4, and we looked at holy, holy, holy. And remember at the end of all that, God said, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? And Isaiah said, Here am I, send me. And here at the end of chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians, the great resurrection chapter, we have the same thing here. That we need to be serving the Lord. We need to be active in the work of the Lord. Verse 58, 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren Be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. We're supposed to be steadfast like a rock, immovable. Steadfast, immovable What's another word for steadfast and unmovable? Well, some people might use the word stubborn. We're supposed to be stubborn. In the things of the Lord, steadfast, unmovable, in the things that we have been taught, the things that we have studied in the Bible, the old-time religion. We're supposed to be steadfast and unmovable, and we're not supposed to be always looking for something new. We're steadfast, unmovable. Always residing in the Lord, and always abounding in the work of the Lord Always doing a little bit of the work of the Lord, always doing just enough to get by, always just uh doing the bare minimum. No, we want to be abounding in the work of the Lord. The Bible tells us he that sows much will reap much. We want to be sowing much in our Christian life. And once again, there's many things that we can do for the Lord. Many different ministries we can do for the Lord. We can do ministries in the church, we can witness, we can help people. So many things we can do. That we do as unto the Lord. We're not doing it for money. We're doing it as unto the Lord. Abounding in the work of the Lord. And so as we are steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, what do we know? We know that our labor is not in vain in the Lord. And the Lord keeps a perfect tally of What we've done for him. A perfect tally of our rewards. And we are looking for rewards. The Bible says that's something good to look for. That's something to be desired, to have those crowns that the 24 elders have. We want to have rewards, and we want to be abounding in the work of the Lord. And when do we get our rewards? Well, we get some rewards here on this earth. We get uh, you know, the Lord is with us here and he gives us many things. But our true rewards, our full rewards are going to be in heaven. And so after we die, It'll be time for the end of the work. The end of the work day. What do we get at the end of the workday? Well, we get a paycheck and we get rest. And that's what we're going to have in heaven. Right now is not the time to get the paycheck, really. Right now is not the time to get the rest. We're supposed to be keeping on abounding in the work of the Lord as long as we live upon this earth. And So let us abound in the work of the Lord, knowing that our labor is not in vain in the Lord. Nobody ever gets away with any evil, and God never forgets any good that we do for Him. And so we know that our labor is not in vain. And we don't want to do our labor to have other people recognize us. That's not why we work for the Lord, to get glory from men. We want to get glory from God. And you can really tell some if somebody's doing things to get glory from God if they do things anonymously that nobody even knows they did. And they'll get their reward from the Lord. So let us take our, let's be thankful for the resurrection. Let's be thankful that God gives us the victory. And let us, as a result of that, be always abounding in the work of the Lord. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts And O Lord, we thank Thee for Thy resurrection. We thank Thee that Thou wast raised from the dead. We thank Thee that we also will rise from the dead. And O Lord, help us to abound in the work of the Lord in Jesus' name, Amen