Like we are in Philippians. Oh, that's a surprise. Chapter two Just as a reminder to kindly read through chapter two. Actually we're going to start at chapter one, verse twenty-seven. And go through chapter 2, verse 4. As you remember, the scriptures are not written in chapters and verses, and it was only in the decades later that they were put in such in order that we could better handle them uh and understand them. Philippians 127 Only let your conversation be as becometh the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I come and Or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. into nothing, terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God. For unto you it is given to the behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake having the same conflict which he saw in me, and now here to be in me. If therefore there be any consolation in Christ If any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels of mercy, fulfill ye my joy And that she may be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, one mind. And I'm sorry. One accord and one mind. Let nothing be done through strife and vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem the other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. We'll close our reading of the scriptures with that area. Well finally we move into chapter two, and we discover that it's a continuation of one. As he said, Paul didn't write Oh, I'm going to close here in chapter one with uh this particular verse thirty, and now I start a new chapter there. It's a theme that runs through as the topics that he picks out. The particular section that we had there from verse 27 on gives us an idea of the things that he was concerned about. We talked about the idea of him with the repetitions of the use of one. He says, only let your conversation or your lifestyle, though the way that you live, your citizenship, become the gospel of Christ, or honoring Christ So whether I come to see you or an absent, I hear of your affairs that ye stand fast, stand strong in one spirit, one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. It would seem that Paul had an understanding that there wasn't such being done. He loved them. He loved these dear people. But there's issues that he had heard things that had been necessarily to be addressed. He had a concern that they would have this strength as one body in order to stand against the tremendous opposition that they were facing as a church and as the body of Christ. I think from what we read in the New Testament from Paul, from James, even words of our Lord Jesus Christ, they understand that unity is an essential of the Church. Not only to prosper, and I don't mean prosper to the sense of finance, but I mean prosper as a body of Christ, but in reality to survive If they weren't united in Christ, in other words, if they weren't working together to honor Christ, which is what he closed there in verse 27, their effectiveness in ministry would almost be nothing. I think in our world failing to work together for a common cause has been most evident in various corners of life. How about Congress? Hmm. How about a school board meeting? How about a professional sports team? You know, all of a sudden failures, disgruntled attitudes and conflicts, all of a sudden we just can't work together for a common cause even within a home, family members. I found a article from Readers Digest Some years ago, and this came from a newspaper article in Lawrence, Kansas, the newspaper was the Journal World. It claimed, quote, we will oil your sewing machine and adjust the tension in your home for only one dollar. Oiling the sewing machine is fine, but if they can adjust the tension in the home for a dollar, I'm sure people would be willing to pay a a hundred dollars or even more. Obviously the use of punctuation uh brought forth a real truth in there. Man stands up and he says, This is the woman I'm going to marry and I just love her, she's just the perfect thing. And then after a couple of months or a year or so She's not quite as perfect as I thought. You know. All of a sudden she doesn't listen to me. She doesn't obey. I have to instruct her on how she ought to be living, you know All types of areas. The teenager, all of a sudden, what parent well Stephen, you're beyond the point of being a teenager now, but uh what teenager has not found conflict with the directions of mom and dad, you know So these things of conflict are part and parcel of the world in which we live. In the realm of spiritual things, the church, the assembly of believers. The fundamentals truth has not changed. A responsive reading David writes down to uh to those who was familiar with, but the situation that he had at hand Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. And he's talking about a time of the the transition from Egypt onto the Promised Land But the beauty of those things that God could provide within the nation of Israel, he says, it is so much better when there's unity that's found in that accord. In fact, I'm convinced that it is of the highest importance, apart from believing and teaching sound doctrine, the unity of the church. is essential for the health of the church, the well-being of the church, and its vitality. If we lack unity, we'll never be fruitful in the Lord We can continue to gather together in a building and perform those situations, worship services, and gatherings that we always do, but if our efforts are without unity, it is all in vain. Our Lord Jesus wrote in uh Matthew chapter twelve, every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself shall not what? Shall not stand the conflict that exists. Nations have fallen because of this very thing. So back in our text, how does Paul become aware of what's going on? How is Paul here? He's what some 800 miles away from Philippi in jail in Rome? How does he become aware of this? Who is the man who came and brought him some relief goods and brought him some concerns about Philippi? Remember we talked about Epaphroditus? He comes from Philippi and he brings to Paul the understanding of what's going on in the church and this letter of Philippi. indeed was Paul's answer. So Epaphroditus no doubt gave him some first hand uh information that the things that were going on. But I can't help but believe there were also situations that Paul was made aware of in the church at Philippi that others brought to his attention. Uh maybe we'll call it in the form of prayerful gossip, you know. Uh uh Did you hear, Paul, about what's going on back in Philippi? Oh, really? Well, we need to pray about this. Why, there's two in that church, you know, uh Eodius and Syntheci, and we'll get to those people when we get to chapter four. They are tearing the church apart. But this is something we ought to just pray about. I can't give you any more information. Oh, really? You know? And those types of things are evident to destruct rather than to heal. So in any case, Paul recognized the importance of dealing with this from the beginning. If they have a strong testimony and stand against the opposition in unity, they'll be victorious, and this is his desire. So the first, as we see in chapter two and verse one, in a little part of chapter two, he gives us admonition for unity. And again, admonition is a what? It's counseling, it's advice, sometimes it's a warning. He says, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ If any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels of mercies, fulfill ye my joy. Here's a very passionate plea from Paul, from the heart of Paul, and he is four things here, and it's divided by what? What word? If. You see the four ifs that are found in there. And sometimes it's not a questionable if, but it could be the idea of saying since or because of that Since there is consolation in Christ, since there is comfort above, since there is fellowship, since there are bowels and mercies, it gives us a better understanding. So this first clause it helps them out to as a matter of admonition, if there's any consolation in Christ. The word consolation here is a Greek word paraceletus. And it's a combination of two thoughts. And translated literally, it means one called alongside to help. If there is any comfort, consolation, one called alongside to help, Jesus himself even said in John chapter 14. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. So the other comforter is whom? The Holy Spirit. But he says, another comforter. Well, who was the first comforter then? Jesus says, I'll pray to the Father that he will give another comforter. Well, the first one was Jesus Himself. Christ says, I am a comforter to you and to all that I minister to. I am one to whom I give consolation. But another one will come and he will walk alongside you. Jesus walked alongside. So he provides such I think if we know anything about Paul's life, you know that he was a recipient of tremendous encouragement, tremendous comfort from Jesus Himself. I think of the times in prison or the beatings or how many times people abandon Paul to be on his own. Who is there to walk with Paul but the Lord Jesus Christ? He gave him consolation. And he knew that the Philippians had received the same things. And because they shared a same consolation, because Christ was with them as much as he was with Paul. Paul says, out of necessity there must be a binding together. There must be a common obligation to be of the same mind regarding the Lord Jesus Christ. If for no other reason, God's grace was and still is a motivation for unity in Christ. I think of our own lives in the world in which we've lived. how many times said or thought, you know, if it hadn't been for the Lord, I I don't know how I would have made it. You know, if it hadn't been for the Lord I couldn't have gone on. If it hadn't been for the Lord. In other words, his consolation, his walking beside me, his providing, his fulfilling, if it hadn't been for him That truly was the blessing that we have. He's always been there for us, listened to us, been faithful to meet our needs, and continually, according to provide the grace and mercy that's necessary. He gives us that which we do not deserve. Grace. He doesn't give us that which we rightly and justly deserve, holds back such, and we give what we've been provided by his great mercy. I'm sorry to say that we have often recognized, failed to recognize the richness of the consolation that God has provided for us. And this is what Paul is introducing to them. You have conflict within yourselves because you fail to see the richness and the fulfillment of what God has provided in your lives I think it's time, he says, to take note, to consider blessings that you have. Count your blessings, name them one by one. Count your blessings, see what God has done. We used to do that in a nursing home some years ago, and we asked the ladies and the gentlemen who were rather infirmed about those things. And they often talked about the ideas of tangible things. Oh I thank God for my health, which for most of them wasn't real good, you know. I thank God for the food that we eat. We think of all of those tangibles And yet it is the mercy and grace of God that should be primost on our list. Paul says, take inventory. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, secondly, if there is any comfort of love, comfort of love. Paul mentions comfort of love, but it's possessed by those who are in Christ and only those who are in Christ. Only the believer can truly understand and see what it is for the love that God has given us. Paul speaks as one who is a persecutor of Jesus, of the followers of Jesus, a hater of Christians. He says, I'm doing this for the ministry of God, but he had no idea who the Lord Jesus Christ was. And now as a redeemed man, he admonishes these Philippians who share this common situation to strive to maintain unity and love. I was going to have us sing a song this morning, but I forgot that Bob was in here. Bob would have told me, well, we don't know that one. But Samuel Francis wrote, Oh, the deep, deep love of Jesus. And he says, Karen, do you know that? Oh yes, well good. We would have gone through then. The first stanza is, oh the deep, deep love of Jesus, vast, unmeasured, boundless, free. Rolling as a mighty ocean in its fullness over me, underneath me, around me, is the current of his love leading onward, leading homeward to the glorious rest above. I think far too often many tried to find comfort in things other than God But the love that God has offered us is boundless, measureless, all around us, and it's that which is uh yearning for us to draw together in strength Beloved, if God so loved the world, we ought to love one another, writes in 1 John. If God so loves the world, and when John writes of the world, it's a horrible picture, but if God so loves such How ought we? Jesus says in John chapter 15, this is my commandment, that ye love one another as I have loved you. The binding together of the hearts of those believers is that which was necessary for them to continue in unity. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit This third clause is fellowship of the Spirit. We've talked about fellowship before. We have fellowship halls, we have fellowship meals, we have fellowship sports times, you know, but that's not what it's found in The fellowship that he talks about is found in a biblical fellowship and a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, the indwelling Holy Spirit. is the action which God takes up permanent residence in the body of the believer. When that believer says, I receive the Lord Jesus Christ into my heart and life That individual has found that the Holy Spirit has come and is bound within his heart and brought him into fellowship with everyone else who is of that same relationship. The fellowship of the Spirit is always two ways. We have a fellowship and as one is horizontal. It's with other believers. We're bound together because God has chosen us, but it's also vertical. is a relationship that I have with God Himself. What a blessing. As believers, the Philippians all shared in the same spirit, a common bond that would create a common fellowship. and directly affect their lives together. As they stood far away from Paul and far away from the direction and facing all types of enemies, he says, we as believers have to stand together as believers in Christ. Sorry to say, it doesn't always happen as it should, because we tend to allow sin to cloud our lives, sound to move away from the truths that we ought to have found together. I see it happen too many times within churches. The color of the carpet, we're gonna have a new color, and one church had it as as is blue carpeting and one church wanted half of the church wanted red carpeting. And it was the sufficient evidence for that church to get torn all apart. I'm thankful for the fellowship that we experience here in this church, the binding together that we have because of the commonality that we have in Christ and what He's done for us all. As we walk in the awareness of the Lord, focusing on the love for one another, the Spirit leads us and according to the will of God. It's His desire that we find a commonality and a binding together as brothers and sisters in Christ. If there be therefore any consolation of Christ, any comfort of love, any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, Bowels. There's one word that I think we've kind of lost from the King James, a little bit on the archaic side. But bowels in our understanding is that which is from the very depths of the heart. Um Jesus was talking about and and this is the situation I think you'll understand it better. But when he saw the multitudes, here's the Lord looking out of those who were in the fields He was moved with compassion upon them, because they fainted, and they were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. When he saw the multitudes in their situation, he had compassion on them. He had bows and mercies for those who were suffering around him. Literally, it is our tender mercies for one another. It deals with being so united with a zeal for the Lord, for one another. When one hurts, we hurt. When one rejoices, we rejoice. You know, we mentioned about the fires in California. We mentioned about the war going on in Ukraine. We have compassion for those who are believers in the things that have been suffering for them. We do so Galatians 6. 2. Bear ye one another's burdens so as to fulfill the law of Christ. Bear them. Somebody's hurting. What can they do for you? Somebody's suffering, how can I help them build you up? Can I pray with you? Can we get together and just talk about this? What can we provide for you? When brothers and sisters are under a heavy load, we are compelled to come alongside and help them carry the load. It's motivated action produced by love. I don't do it for any other reason, but that the Holy Spirit has bound us together in these bowels and mercies for such. I found an interesting paraphrase of this passage, of what Paul is actually saying. Listen to it as we read, as I read this for you. He says, therefore, in light of our mission to proclaim Christ, if you have ever received encouragement in the time of need because of your union with Christ. And I know you have. If Christ's love has ever given you comfort in trials, and I know it has If you've known the common bond with God and others, it comes from the Holy Spirit. In fact, we've known that bond together. If you've ever felt the deep down inside tender concern Christ has given you, as every Christian has Then top off my joy with working through the conflicts until your times come out in the place of true oneness of heart. He's saying, if these things are true, if what Christ offers in the relationship, the work of the Holy Spirit, if these things are true, and they say, yes, they are, obviously, they are All four of those clauses, the if clauses, are things that Paul says, I've experienced. They are all if clauses that Paul says, you Philippians have experienced. They are all if clauses that we all have experienced. Here today. So if that was an admonition, Paul's instruction, counseling, it's a reminder for us. that what God has provided in us was not something we asked for. He continues on the rest of our reading here today, and he says those admonitions should produce a number of things. And the first is out of verse 2. I'll refer to it just as harmony. He says, fulfill ye my joy. If those things are true, That ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord in one mind. Where unity is present, harmony among believers is evident. When unity is present, harmony is a natural byproduct. He wanted them to be like-minded. Literally, it means thinking the same thoughts or that we that you think the one. Now, how many of us are thinking the same thoughts? I mean, I mean in in a sense. We're all varied um in in various senses. How many of you have ever watched the Star Trek show The Next Generation? With the Borg. Do you remember the Borg? It's this giant cube. And it was floating around and it's all full of these these uh uh people that they've in essence swallowed up, other other aliens. And they've gone from throughout the universe and they've just taken in. And everybody contributes to uh the particular situation. It was called the collective. The board came and assimilated this group and this group and part of the Star Trek people even got caught into the board, you know. This may even encourage you to watch it. But they lost what they were, and everybody contributed to the same thing. When Paul talks about harmony, when he talks about this being of one mind, of one thought, thinking the same things, you don't lose what you are. To contribute to the church or to the gospel. You remain exactly as you are, but your contribution is voluntary. Your contribution has not been forced. Your contribution is there for the honor and the glory of Christ. That's the beauty of it. We think the same things on topics. What about the lost? What about the people who are hurting? What about this situation here to reach uh relatives or to pray for family members and everything that goes on. We have one thought when those things occur. It doesn't mean that we all have to think the exact same things, but those are the common bonds that we have with them I like Adrian Rogers, he has these interesting clips at times, and he talks about this matter of harmony within the church. He says, you know, there are three words that sound alike. One is unity, one is union, and one is uniformity. Now it's unity that we're looking for, not union. Somebody as well said you can take two Tomcats and tie their tails together and hang them over a clothesline and you have union. But you do not have unity. And you can have you can conjure up the picture of that in your own mind. We want more than union. We want to be more than wired together or rusted together or frozen together. That's union. And then uniformity. What is uniformity? Uniformity comes from without. Everybody saying the same thing, looking alike, and doing the same thing, that's uniformity. And it comes by pressure from without. Unity comes from within, where we have the same Spirit and the Lord. We are not brought together by rules. We're not brought together by threats. We are bound together by the love of the Lord Jesus, and so there is to be harmony Rightly said, all too often there are churches that will say, well we want uniformity, in other words, we want union, but we want everybody to think the same thing and act the same way and do the exact same It's not what's provided. We need harmony of heart and deed and thought. Same love, one accord, and one mind. So there's harmony, but then there has to be humility. Verse 3 Let nothing be done through strife and vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem the other better than themselves. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Paul talks about the conflicts or accomplishments being done within the church. And it was a matter of contention or rivalry moted by self-interest. In other words, there was vainglory. There were some thinking we're going to accomplish this Because it helps me out. It provides for me. It's my desire. It's my praise. Self-conceit, pride, and the desire for praise. Those who were not representative of the humble spirit would never promote unity. So he says, keep away from such Verse the hat second half of that verse, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves Through humble spirit, the church was urged to place the needs of others above themselves. Remember the theme of this verse, the book of Philippians? What's the three-letter word? Joy. Jesus first, others second, and yourself last. And he says, but in lowliness of mind, let each of you esteem others better than themselves. They were to sacrifice their own desires for the benefit of the church. Rather than acting in pride and conceit, they were to act in humility, always being aware of the needs of others. This would become evident How many times have our problems be understood they'd disappear if all of a sudden I would quit thinking of myself and thinking more of others? This is the Church of Christ. And then fourth, verse four is hospitality. Look not on every man the things of his own, but every man also on the things of others It goes hand in hand with the other two points of uh of of hospitality and humility. I think if we focus on the needs of others, the church as a whole will have very little time to be selfish. and self-seeking. You know, the principles that Paul lays here are very practical, and they're applicable for not only us as a church, but also as us as individuals, with the families, with the country in which we live. Our Lord Jesus Christ comes and he was robbed of his flesh Over and over again we see humility in others. He came and he was united and bore our sins upon the wrath of God upon that cross. That is given unto us as a good understanding for the way the Lord lived for us. May God give us, may be pleased to help us to understand the unity and the strength that's found within it. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your uh tremendous grace that has seen this congregation through many of its very painful and struggled uh situations where it seemed that unity was anything But and yet Father, because of the love that each has for each other, because of the united had attitude that they've had the humility that's been presented, the uh caring for each other, uh the binding together, the fellowship of the saints. And the love that you've given them, we see evidence before us even today of what you've done. May such continue We pray for those who've had seen fit to not be part of such unity. And we pray likewise, Father, that they would offer up themselves as uh as exig examples to you of grace and help them to be provided for that which is necessary. Bless we pray in Christ's name. Amen.