These two uh you probably last year since you looked at that, you know. Philippians chapter one Uh let's pause for a prayer, please. And so Father, as we Once and again approach this very personal, very blessed, very joyous letter of the apostle. written to people that he specifically had in mind, but by your spirit written to us even this morning. May your spirit continue to be our teacher. May we father be like sponges, absorbing all that is brought to our hearts' attention, and to not only receive that which is here, truth But that your spirit would be allowed to put into practice. We are unable, uh even in of ourselves, no matter what we think of ourselves, we can't do it. Except you do it in us. You work in us. Forgive us for our sins. Ask Father for that you would bless this time around your word, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we've been away from Philippians for almost four weeks. Um it's been uh like I said, since last year. And as a matter of refreshment, we finished up one section in chapter one with really verse 21 of our text. For to me, to live as Christ and to die is gained. There was a statement that the apostle wrote down as a personal testimony of himself. He spoke of the things that were on his heart and in his mind. They were things of his ministry. They were things of his life. They were truths that he tried to express And he didn't say it, well I'm an apostle, so I'm gonna have to say something very Christian like, you know? For me to live as Christ. Or what's the Christian thing to do? I'm in ministry, so I should say that. I should write that down. Or he didn't say it because it just felt like the right thing. But he says, for me to live as Christ, Christ is in me. Christ is me, because Christ had redeemed him. Christ had taken Paul away from the legalism of Pharisaic lifestyle, took him from sin and misery, and brought truth into his heart, opened his eyes uh literally, uh spiritually, and brought him to a place where he needed to go. What Christ had done for him had rescued him. No longer was he an enemy of God, but he is a child of God. And he gave him purpose. He gave him fulfillment. He gave him direction, ministry, and life. So therefore Paul could say clearly, for me, for me, my life to live is Christ. And if I die, that's gain also. James Hastings writes this brief paragraph. About this particular verse. He says: the words of this text are not the words of a newly born Christian, but the language of a full-grown man in Christ. They contain the ripe experience of a well-matured Christian. There are 30 years of Christian life and experience at the back of these words for to me to live as Christ. So you've got to put your mind in the place where Paul was and who Paul was for him to come along and say that. Hastings continued, and this is important. We must not expect to lean into religious experience of this kind, like St. Paul. We must grow in grace and in the knowledge to attain it. Paul grew more and more of a saint every day that he lived. And his last days were the crowning days of a glorious and triumphant life. Paul wanted to express this very principle, not just in the words for me to live as Christ, but really this entire letter, to the Philippians, because they were concerned for his life. It was kind of a questionable thing. What's going to happen to you, Paul? You're going to be executed? You're going to be let go? You're going to be part of the group? Or are we going to lose you? So he wanted to bring them up to the up to speed, we might say. He wanted them to learn and to apply the truth that spiritual growth was not achieved overnight. It had been ten years, and we've talked about this. It had been ten years since that he had visited, since that church innocence started. And over that ten years, I'm sure there were those who adapted better and grew faster But he's saying for me at my stage in life, he says, I want you to learn that I see this imprisonment, I see all of these things. As nothing at all, because for me to live as Christ. And I want you to learn that. I want you, Philippians, to learn that They uh need to face the challenge for me to live as Christ and to die as gain. You know, that's our a and I'm not much from New Year's resolutions. There was a day I think uh January tenth they said that's the failure date. Most people make a resolution and by the tenth of the month, you know, uh that that's it, you know. Um that's why all of those places where they give you extra days to go into the gym will give you f you know, up to a certain point, you know, because they know you're gonna end up dropping out of it anyways. I'll be the first one to admit that I'm far from what I would like to be spiritually. I'm far from what I want myself to be. And I've been in Christ for a lot longer than the Apostle Paul was. 30 years for him, for me, a lot longer than that. But I have to come to myself and say what Hastings writes. He says this is a slow, everyday progress. Because I can be disappointed. Because I blundered that. I could look in the past week or the two weeks or three weeks or whatever past year and say, boy, that was messed up. Surely, for me to live as Christ wasn't always expressed in the way I lived, in the expressions of my life. Nonetheless, I take on this principle because this slow, gracious process is obtainable by the grace of God. God gives us the ability to grow in Him. But we have to earn it and yearn it to do that. So with that in mind, Look down to verse 22 now, as we these verses we had gone over before, but nonetheless, he says, But if I live in the flesh, meaning he's alive, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose, I what not. For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, meaning to go to heaven, and to be with Christ, which is far better Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And having this confidence, I know That I shall abide and continue with you all for the your furtherance and joy of faith That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me, by my coming to you again. He says, whatever happens, if I'm stuck in the jail, if they chop off my head, if I'm released He says, all of these things are in God's hands. All of these things. And then he says to them in verse 27, one thing I want you to clearly understand with that background. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. Whatever happens to me, if I'm alive, if I'm dead If all of these things take place, this is what I want you to grasp. Because I've given you my background, you understand my life, my comfort, my confidence. But for you, only let your conversation be as becometh the gospel of Christ. The old King James uses conversation in your mind. What does that mean? Words, isn't it? Talk, discussion. I have a conversation with somebody, just an expression. Later on in the scriptures it's used or most often is used for conduct, behavior, your manner of life. When you read conversation in your Bibles, it means how you live. And obviously that includes the idea of talk, your behavior, your conversation. It also means I hear your words and I'm seeing really who you are But here in verse 27, there's a different Greek word used. As a matter of fact, it's the only time this is used in the New Testament. If you remember the idea that's better understood for Paul, that Philippi was a free Roman colony Remember those maps that we passed out and you saw perfectly mastered in your minds, you know? Uh oh good, good The idea was Philippi was way to the east on the Roman Empire. And all of a sudden they would take all of these countries that they there are countries in essence take over all of these properties, lands, and they would make them a buffer zone in order to protect the Roman Empire's Central Corps. And so he says, Philippi, we're going to make you a free Roman province. You belong now to Rome. And as a Roman citizen, you have rights and privileges. And they were proud of those rights and privileges They were joyous because they belonged to Rome. So Paul says: only let your life be seen as free citizens. Not of Rome, but only let your life be seen, your behavior, your actions, what you do, be seen as a free citizen of heaven. That's the relationship that one people to see. Later on in chapter 3 and verse 20, Paul writes, For our conversation. Same thought. For our citizenship is in heaven. From once also we look for the Savior, our Lord Jesus Christ. He's reminding them you have citizenship in heaven. Your lifestyle is in heaven He writes a similar thing in the book of Ephesians. Now, therefore, you are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens. Citizenship with the saints, household of God. You have a visa stamp in your passport, and it says Philippi. You turn that page and it's stamped there, it says, Rome. So you are uh you are visiting Rome. But you pull up the passport and you look at the outside, what does it say? It's a golden passport, and it's a passport of heaven. You're just visiting. You're just here for a certain period of time. I want you to say your citizenship is not here. It is up there. That's how you to live. 1919 Albert Brumley wrote a a gospel song. Some of you are probably familiar with it But it goes first stanza goes like this. This world is not my home, I'm just a passing through. My treasures are laid up. somewhere beyond the blue. The angels beckon me from heaven's open door, and I can't feel at home in this world any more. O Lord, O Lord He says there's a an understanding in my life as I live here that all of the things here are temporary and temporal. I'm just passing through in this time. Behave as citizens Or perform your duty as citizens of heaven. It was November of 72 when our ship was approaching the Philippines. And I'm sure maybe Greg get a similar ex experience. Um the idea that the our commander called us all together and and he gave us a remembering speech And to some who were part of the squadron, they they'd heard it already, who'd been on a cruise, but for me it was new. And he says, we're going to be in a foreign country He says, we want you to act a certain way. Be aware of the laws of that land. Be especially aware of drugs and stuff like that, because if you get caught with drugs in a foreign country, you know, you're in big trouble. Be careful with the young ladies. Amen, Greg? Thank you. Be careful with the young ladies and a whole list of other stuff. But he finished it with a passionate plea for us to behave as Americans. He says, you're representing your country. You're representing the uniform that you're wearing. You're representing your flag You're representing your family. You're representing the you know, all of those things and people will see you as you act in that way. Now after our time and we went back home. That always wasn't the case, but in my mind, you know, it's stuck there. And that's a similar thing to what the Apostle Paul is writing to the Philippians here. The principle is there. He exhorts the Christians in Philippi. To conduct themselves in a manner worthy of their eternal home. Conduct themselves in a manner that's worthy of the gospel of Christ. How people see them, what they do, their thoughts, as well as how they behaved, was not defined by what was acceptable in Philippi. You'd go down here in the city of Baltimore and you'd find things that are not acceptable in the city of heaven. But there are things that are acceptable by there, by the people that they live there So he says, to you church folks there in Philippi, you have those bumper stickers on your chariot. It says, what happens in Philippi stays in Philippi? You know? No, that isn't the way it goes. Why, everybody cheats on their taxes in Philippi. Paul says, no, you can't do that. What about those little statues of the emperor? He always brings good luck if I have those in my house. Paul says, no. What's acceptable in your thinking, in your behavior, what's acceptable to those of Philippi is not acceptable in God's sight. And you didn't have anything to do with it The actions were always to be experienced to honor the Lord Jesus Christ and the gospel. I think the church today, and I say this in the broadest sense, needs to understand and embrace this biblical principle. It has to be acceptable, whatever is in society and the laws of the land, the customs that we've grown up with, the things that everybody does, but if those things are contrary to the word of God, then I'm to have nothing to do with it. It's a litmus test for what is acceptable and what is not. I have to test it. I have to see if this is appropriate in God's word, which behooves us to understand what God's word says. I need to re-evaluate and maybe sometimes just how am I going to handle? What am I going to do? Where am I going to go? How are these things going to be engaged with? in order that I would know what's proper and right. I'm not talking about Christ Christian legalism either. Where all of a sudden we mark things down and say, well, you're not a Christian because you do this or you do understand this or this is what you're what you're No, we're not talking about a heart's relationship. We're talking about those things that bring honor to Christ. So I have to ask myself once and again, whatever I do, whatever I read, whatever I listen to, whatever I buy, sell, join, will this bring honor to Christ? And that's the principle that I hold up before me. Only let your conversation be as becometh the gospel of Christ, that whether I come to see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs. Kind of makes me think of the parents as they're going out for the evening and tell the babysitter and to the children, he says, We're going out, whatever happens in this house, whether we're absent or present, we want to hear the good things going on in your life. when mom and dad aren't there. So Paul says, if I come to Philippi, remain at Rome, I expect to hear of your faithfulness to the Lord. Paul expected the church to honor Christ in all things. Title of my message today is what? Oh, Thank you. You win a prize. Not decided yet what it is, but you win a prize. They do, don't they? Our actions often speak louder than our words. The boss is praising his um employees and telling them what a great job they're doing. He says the company is is progressing, we're growing. We had the best year last year and and yet he comes around for a pay raise and there's not a thought or there's not a penny given over to the company employees, even though he may praise them for all of the things that they've done, parent is telling his child to be kind. Brother and sisters, you have to show kindness to your brother and sister. You know, this is your your classmates. You have to be kind and and gentle and caring and loving to them And yet the children look at the father's life, and there's no modeling whatsoever to such a lifestyle of being kind. One person always talks about the poor homeless folks and how they need to be taken care of. You can yet this person never volunteers at a shelter, never contributes a penny to caring for the homeless. Our actions speak louder than our words. Christians are said to be living sermons. We have some neighbors who believe in a false gospel, said the young man as he came to the pastor after the church service. And he says, is there some type of literature I could give them? Something maybe a chick track, you know. Uh something that I could give them to put them on the right track, something that they could read, help them to understand what's right and what's wrong Pastor opens his Bible to 2 Corinthians 3. 2, which reads, Ye are our epistle, written in your hearts, known and read of all men. Pastor said the best literature that anybody could read is the life of the believer, as they see you live out Jesus Christ. in what you do, in your normal actions. He says they can come under to an understanding of who Christ is and to give you an opportunity to talk to them about the gospel of Christ, the true one I've used this before, but you are writing a gospel, a chapter a day, by the deeds that you do, by the words that you say. Men read you what you write, whether faithless or true, say, what is the gospel according to you? People look at us and oftentimes um we had uh and I've shared this illustration before after I became a believer, uh I was in a uh first vacation bible school and and my job in that VBS was to oversee the parking lot for the kids and as they're coming in and then we'd go to the class So kids are all coming across the the properties and I see three of them head on out, you know, and they drop down behind the cars and there's some telephone poles laying down. So hmm So it's my duty to go around and be the big tough guy and I says and I they didn't know I was coming. And snuck up to them and they uh you know, I says, Why can't you guys inside Vacation Bible School. Your parents signed you up, you're supposed to come there and should be in My Dad says you're a bunch of hypocrites. In other words, dad purviewed the school or the vacation Bible school or the church at large as having not keeping up with the words that they say Their actions spoke louder than words. Now I ask them, do you know what that means, hypocrite? And they had no idea. But they just took the words of death in order to show forth their ignorance. The rest of verse 27 he says that ye stand fast, in other words, stand firm. In one spirit, in one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel Paul says if you're going to honor Christ as believers, and this is individually, but it's also collectively as a body, he talks about the oneness here that's that's available He says for all members they have to do it as one. As a matter of fact, he says they need to stand together as one. Obviously, the church in Philippi had issues. You know, when you think about it, there isn't a single member of the church who decided that they were going to become a member of a church or become a Christian by saying, I'd like to be like so-and-so. You know, I want to be like Mr. So-and-so, or I want to be like Ms. or Mrs. So-and-so. I want to become a Christian because I want to be like them. I want to join the church because I want to be like them. The choice has always been God's choice. You know, even in birth, uh I have a sister and a brother and and all of a sudden mom and dad, you know, oh I was the oldest, and oh we're gonna have another we're gonna have another. But it wasn't their choice. It was God's choice. And all of a sudden I find that our three si uh siblings, three of us, were not my choice, but it was God's choice. And so in the spiritual realm We didn't choose to be part of the body of Christ. It was God's choice. We didn't choose to be collectively part of the group that is there, but it has always been God's choice. And he says, because it's God's choice, it's made up of the body, and it is our responsibility to strive together. You know what that word in the Greek means? It means to wrestle. And oftentimes that's what the body of Christ does, doesn't it? We wrestle against each other, but the principle that he lays here, he says we're wrestling together against an enemy. We are wrestling, working together in a strong effort in order that we would do that which is against the enemy. Anybody remember the Hindu leader Mahatma Gandhi? Remember him? He was a little bald guy. He wore a like a bedsheet around himself, uh uh nonviolence. I think he was during the British time in order to get the British kicked out in order for them to have their independence. One day it was some A fellow came up to him and he says, What's the greatest hindrance to Christian missions in India? And Gandhi said, Christians. The greatest work that has been done, and to be honest with you, there are lots of godly churches in India. But the struggles that occurred in India with all of the influence of all of the missionaries that have gone to India over all those years, he says, I see the greatest hindrance is Christians. And he says it wasn't an external matter, it was an internal matter. The church itself was the problem. The point is this. The world, its peoples, its families, its nations may split and divide, may argue and differ, may fuss and feud, may fight and divorce, may war and kill. But the church is not to live that way. The church can't. The church is to be united. It is a one spirit, one mind, one heart, one purpose to honor the gospel of Christ. There is but one enemy. It is that which has always been. Now, I'm not calling for some great ecumenical movement. There are those churches in the world that are doing that very same thing. We need to unite as one, all Presbyterians and Methodists, and Lutherans, and Congregationalists and Charismatics and Roman Catholics All under the Christian banner of oneness and ecumenical ecumen matter. It's not what we're talking about. We are to be believers. Take a stand in war against a spiritual battle. Verse 28. And in nothing terrified by your adversaries. There's the enemy There is where true believers have to stand against those who are enemies, opponents, and the Philippian believers were suffering such a persecution. Which is in them, meaning the enemies, an evident token, an indication of perdition, but for you, salvation, and that is of God. For unto you it is given in behalf of Christ not only to believe, but also to suffer for his sake having the same conflict which he saw in me and now here to be in me. Paul says the struggles that you have with the enemy Those who are opposed, those who are persecuting you, those who are throwing you in prison, those who are taking your employments, and whatever it is. The opposition from the Jews, the opposition from the Romans, and not worshiping the emperor, all of those things that are there. He says, that's evidence that you are standing for truth. He says you need to do things together. I'd like to close with a little statement from the late Walter Martin, and he's talking about the Christian armor. He says, There isn't a single piece for your rear end Think of Ephesians six, and he talks about the helmet of salvation, the breastplate of righteousness, shield of faith, the sword of spirit. You know, feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, he says there's not one peace for your rear end. He says, do you know why? Because soldiers do not turn around in the middle of combat. They go forward. And the reason some Christians have become ineffective and weak and drained is that in the midst of conflict and combat, they fail to believe in Jesus Christ. And they turn around and run away. And the flaming arrows of the wicked one have lodged in their spiritual rumps. There is only one way, he says, to get your strength back. It's to get down on your knees and confess your sins. To ask Jesus to pull out those arrows and then apply what we've learned. Endure hardship as a good soldier. Be self-controlled and alert. Maintain faith in Christ and put on the armor of God. God will give you a victory. You can count on it. You have no clue what 2025 is going to bring. But I guarantee you there will be conflicts. There will be strife. And it's not a strife within the body, it's a strife with Satan and the world and all that he implores. All that he puts together. Well, we've got the election done. That's going to take care of a whole bunch of stuff. No, it doesn't. It doesn't handle anything that's a matter of spiritual, other than give us more responsibility to pray for those who are in authority and responsibility over this great land. Listening to a fellow on the radio this past week and he said, think of all that you he says, I was in the process of moving and and he says, getting rid of all the stuff in the house and And he says down sizing and everything. He says, think of all of the stuff that we've could we put our efforts in, our worldly efforts, to to live by. And he says, at our demise, at our death, all of those things are passed on, sold, gotten rid of. And he said, I would venture to say that within five years, not a single person who had come to the funeral or said anything about it is going to remember anything that you've done We've put all of our efforts in life for our three, four, and ten years in order to make something of ourselves. And then he says, within five years or so after we've died, it didn't matter. Shouldn't our efforts be engaged in those things which will go for eternity? I'm not saying we're gonna go up to a cave and live as as hermits, you know, with uh cloth and and stuff like that. But I am saying it's a reevaluation of our priorities. May twenty twenty five be a year where our actions give strength to our words May this coming year be a year where the things that I do strengthen the things I say as a believer. I believe this. This is God's holy word. I believe that. May my actions support such. What do we first do in the morning? Well, we grab that phone and we take a look and see what's the problems of the day, what emails and what texts, what uh you know We've turned on the TV and I say, well, so-and-so was killed this past week and there's another fire and there's another death and it's and you walk away from it and you say, Ya What a life where if I believe that this book has truth that God earnestly desires for me to feed from, to set my day upon Then I ought to have schedules, some part of that, to digest in order to support my actions. If I say I believe it, I need to support it. May 2025 be a year where our decisions and our choices are prayerfully and purposely made to honor Christ. I got a choice to make. Do I go here? Do I go there? Do I read this? Do I watch this? Do I listen to this? Do I listen to that? Do I, whatever the choices. And again, it's not a matter of legalism, but it's within my own heart. Is this going to honor Christ? And some of them I'll clue you in right away if you haven't got it already. Some of them are going to be really fine, you know. Just carefully, you know, I'm not sure, you know, uh, you know Be assured if you make the wrong move you can ask for forgiveness. I've been down that road, you know. Is this going to honor Christ? Well I'm just going to go ahead and do it anyways. And I look back and say, boy, I messed that one up. I can ask him for forgiveness But it's a byword, it's a litmus test, as we said. This is going to honor Christ. And then thirdly, may 2025 be a year where we learn to value the oneness in Christ. The oneness of Christ. I don't know if I mentioned we had at Jeff's house for Thanksgiving, we had over an Egyptian family, a family from Afghanistan. uh three young men from uh from uh India and then other family members, you know. And uh the one couple Um he uh one one of the young men, Indian men, he's married, and um His they are they believe in arranged marriages. And his parents are back home in India. And he says, My mom doesn't know that we're married for almost three years And he is actually he's back in India now and he's he's going to go and tell his mom. They met up in Reading, Pennsylvania. She was, I guess, born in India and came here, but her She she's very much American. Um and she says her mother knows and wasn't real elated about it. He's a great guy, he's got a great job. But he just went through this whole rigmarole of now how am I going to take this back and do this and this, you know. And when they were when they left, he said, we you know like we don't know. We were all panicking and and when they left, we sat down, we talked just a second and said You know, if they were believers, everything is taken care of. If you honor Christ, if you're doing it as as the in the in the the the oneness of the spirit of what God has laid down in his word I can't say there's not going to be problems, but it answers a whole bunch of stuff that their whole life was just spinning out of control about, you know. He says that my mom says Uh well me what can happen, you know, well he can I don't know, I don't want to disappoint my mom, you know. Stuff like that So as we approach the year, this is what Paul is saying. He says, I am in Christ. And whatever happens to me, For me, living, that's great. Dying, that's even greater. But in Christ, that settles it all for me Philippians, I want you to understand what's taking place in your lives, in your church, and all of those things for now and for the future. Be of that nature. He says, let your conversation, let your lifestyle, let your relationship show forth as you are citizens of heaven. May that be the the byword. And we are citizens of heaven. If you know Christ is your Savior, live as a citizen of heaven. Let's pray. Father, you know our hearts and you know our lives. You know what's past and what's present and what's future. And we'll admit we've uh confessed much to you in times past. There's still much to be opened up. But we've entrusted our lives into your hands and pray as this new year, as we've already launched into it, will be a year of learning. Of growth, of understanding, of application of that which has been read many many times before. preached about many times before and talked about many times before, but there hasn't been an application within our own hearts and lives. May your Spirit work to accomplish that. May we have a boldness that your Spirit brings to our heart and our lives and our steps. So when it comes time for making choices and decisions, the Lord Jesus Christ will be there to walk us through. When it comes time for uh fighting the enemy, we'll find uh sweet comfort and peace in the unity of the body and in the truth of the word. May these principles that Paul writes to the church in order for them to be comforted in, may they abide in our day. We pray it in our Savior's name. Amen.