I've been called on to preach some extra days in the last few months, and what I've decided to do, and what I have been doing, is to parallel some of the Sunday school class. with certain um tenets of what we're learning about assurance of salvation and also using and having scripture from my notes um that have different applications that are so vital in those worship services. And so Let's see what the Lord teaches us this morning and how we can share this together. We're going to be in John chapter 14, verses 13 to 24 this morning. That's John chapter 14, verses 13 to 24, and we'll we'll read here. Our Lord Jesus Christ, he's comforting his disciples, and he continues on and says And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If ye shall ask anything in my name, I will do it If ye love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. Yet a little while in the world seeth me no more, but ye see me, because I live, ye shall live also. At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you, he that hath my commandments and keepeth them. He it is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him and will manifest myself to him Judah saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us and not unto the world? Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words, and my father will love him, and we will come unto him and make our abode with him. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings, and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the father's which sent me. Our Lord and our God, I pray that thou wouldst bless these words to our hearts that we might not sin against Thee. These are thy wholly inspired word, and the and the direct quotes right before thou went to the cross to save us from our sins. So in the name of Jesus Christ, Lord, lift us up. And I pray that we will hear these words. And I pray that all who are here this morning will have ears to hear. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. The last time we were in here in John 14, the disciples were confused. The stage was set. Thomas had said, show us the way. Philip had petitioned Christ to show him the Father. None of the disciples had replied. Obviously, none had stepped up and said, This is wrong. We know who he is. They basically were very confused. And Christ says, Have you been so long with me? Make sure you remember that for the word and the very work's sake that there is a oneness with our Lord Jesus Christ, with the Father. And He had a perfect three-year ministry. He showed them who He is. He gave signs, he gave wonders, he gave miracles, and he gave healing. We see here now, as many times we are, the disciples are in the grip of ambivalence. to the Lord Jesus Christ's mission here and they're wondering what's going on. And Jesus had not meant that he was going to avenge the throne and and and and become a king here as people were crying out, Hosanna, Hosanna, on the triumphal entry, he was going to die. He was going to humble himself and die. It's hard to know when we know our friends and people we love are going to die. We see here that this would bring power This would be the power and the joy that he would leave with them. And it greatly applies to us today because he tells us that in John 15. Here Christ laid out his elected purposes. We see these massive verses the way that he expects the disciples to be in communion with him upon his departure, and he leaves peace with them. He says, Peace I leave with you to love one another. We know that when a dear friend must go away, correspondence must follow to stay in touch and to continue in lovely fellowship. Remember in the days of Moses there were several great means of correspondence that were very efficient due to the sophisticated delivery system of the Egyptian scribes and the writers. We see that King David, he had a very effective delivery system with horseback, with messengers out of his own army, and John the Baptist rode constantly. and had his faithful fellow believers get messages out in long distances as this has been a staple all throughout centuries. People love to stay in communication and today to stay in communication is at our fingertips anytime we want it. It's incredible how we do that. And here that is exactly what Christ is doing. Out of love for his people, he is leaving a letter. He's leaving a last will and testament, and he's telling them the way things will be. He would leave. He lays out a means by which his precious disciples would keep in touch with him, and that is through the works of the Holy Spirit. He says, Whatsoever ye ask in my name, that's the title of the message this morning Ye ask in my name, I will do it. That was basically why we had 17 verses this morning for the responsive reading, because the 17th verse Is the crescendo where once again we are told by Paul, ask in the name of Jesus Christ and he will give you the desires of your heart. But there are some things that we do ask that we don't get, do we? Those are the desires that God wants for you. Those are the things that you don't know. Those are the things that you glorify Him the most for, the ones that He doesn't give us, because He saves us from awful things that we may want We know that the apostles wrote Gospels and Epistles. They're still circulating in massive rate of numbers today. The correspondence is essential to mankind and we love to keep in touch with our dear friends. But Christ would leave. Was he just going to leave? Was he just going to die and go into the grave and that's it? The book's closed. He was a good teacher. He was a good leader. But as the rest of the false gods in the world, which many people call him the prophet, parmixdom, he's just nothing but a good teacher among others. He died. They lost his body. Remember, the soldiers were there They were paid off to lie and say basically his body was stolen. People still believe that today. The bones are somewhere laying around, somewhere around Golgotha. They were spread or maybe burned in Gehana, that they're the great big That great big pauper's grave where they burned the bodies. That's what people believe. It all ended there. We can see that through many theological With many theological writings in the past, especially two centuries, of how people hate Christ, he would leave Here he lays out a means by which his precious disciples would keep in touch with him. We see in verse, go to verse 14, You ask anything in my name, I will do it. How? How do we do it? How are we going to do it when you're going to die? How can you ask anything of anybody that's going to die? How? Isn't that a big spiritual question here? Theologically speaking, you have to ask that question and know in your heart do you know the answer Well he lays it out here. If you read it, you'll see it. It's so wonderful. He would teach the congregations, not just here, but down through the ages, who he is, who the Holy Spirit is, who the Father is. How would he keep in communion with them? How would he derive power to himself and convey that to his people? Christ says, Let me hear from you by a prayer of faith, and you will hear from me by the Holy Spirit of truth. Write it down. If you don't know what this is, write that down. Say it again, Christ says, Let me hear from you by a prayer of faith, and you will hear from me by the Holy Spirit of truth. That's not a perhaps or a paradigm or statement. You know the word paradventure came up many times in the Old Testament, meant perhaps. This is not a roll of the dice, or maybe that's my interpretation. This is what Christ Himself said You give me a prayer faith, I'll give you the spirit of truth. Boy, what a good reward. What a trade-off. This is how they wrote their gospels and epistles by the name of Christ. How many times? I don't even have this in my notes I was listening to this incredible series years ago on the canonization of scriptures and the lies that are out there that say that the disciples who became apostles that wrote the gospels had no idea they were writing scripture. What does Paul then say, in the power of Jesus Christ, by the direction of the Holy Spirit, grace and peace be unto you? That turns out to be the name of one of the greatest ministries that we have today We have the Holy Spirit leading and guiding them. And basically these morons that say they didn't know they were writing scripture, they're basically saying scripture is in error because they had no idea what they were doing. So the Holy Spirit doesn't know what it's doing? God doesn't know what it's doing? Let me tell you something. He knows This is how they wrote their gospel and epistles. By the name of Jesus Christ. Ask in my name and I will do it. Christ laid this out to the church and it sp still open and it's required of us today to pray in his name. Why is it so difficult to pray when Christ commands us He loves us and he loves hearing from us. You haven't seen anybody in a long time. It's a family member. You love with all your heart Something happened. Maybe they were stationed and they were in the middle of a war. Maybe something horrible happened and then all of a sudden that that letter comes or that phone rings and you just everything just gets put off to the side and you want to read that letter. That's what Christ is saying, how you treat this. That's what he's saying. That letter is everything that he gives you. Why is it so difficult? Don't ever forget what Pastor Coleman said last week. What a quote. Never underestimate your prayers. This morning we learned how to pray. We learned even more how to pray. What do you pray for? Pray for the church. You pray for others. You pray for your loved ones. You pray for everything, but do not pray for anything that is unlawful. The Lord says, do not pray and ask for things that are against his law. Here we see why is it so difficult to pray when Christ commands us? He loves us, he loves hearing from us. Psalm 66, verse 19-20, verses 19 and 20 we read. But verily God hath heard me. He hath attended to the voice of my prayer. Blessed be God which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me. Proverbs 15, 29 says, The Lord is far from the wicked, but he heareth the prayer of the righteous. We must pray. We see that Pastor Coleman encouraged us that this week for many reasons. He gave us many wonderful tenets and why we should pray. In these verses, we have five major applications that we have that are promises. How to pray, basically. These are five applications of prayer on how To whom and then there's a promise. Look at this. Number one, we're to pray with humility. Whatsoever ye shall ask, we must humbly ask our intercessor, and not demand, name it and claim it. Philip implored. He did not ask Christ. Remember, when he asked this question, I love what Thomas and I love what Philip did. Even though it seems almost a dollop of disrespect because they were questioning the Lord, they cared. That's the biggest thing is they tried, they cared. Another thing I love what Pastor Coleman said last week when he was talking about all the traffic stuff and he was saying about somebody gets behind you and they're tailgating you and You go up to the light and the light takes forever and you're grumbling about that. You know, he's probably sitting there singing the grumbling song, maybe And he's grumbling and he's upset about that, and then he looks at Miss Millie and he looks and he goes, Well, she looks at me and she knows 'cause I violated all of these. But I love what he said. You remember what he said after that I'm trying. That's what we do as Christians. We're trying, and that's what we need to do. Here's the second application is how should we ask? With what credentials? When we submit correspondence, we identify those who we are speaking to not just by their name, but by their titles, like Mr. Mrs. Doctor, Attorney, Officer, maybe Lieutenant, Pastor. What about our spouses? Do we have unique names that show how we adore our spouses when we write them, you know, the little emojis with the hearts and you blowing the kisses and all that stuff, you know? Do we have these unique names? Christ is saying there is a way to approach me because I am the only way. You know what? We do have unique names for him too. And I've used them many times, and many people have used them to me. Many times. I've had people write me in the salutation or like the end of the message. I have one in particular says a fellow soldier in Jesus Christ. of the bread of life, some of the IN statements uh talking about him being the resurrection and the life, the bread of life, the way, the truth and the life. All kinds of names. The King of Kings, Lord of Lords, uh Jesus Hocurios, Jesus is King. All these wonderful names come up. And isn't it way a m amazing how we love to have little names for each other? These are big names for him. The Christian prays how Christ commands and simply, ask in my name. Why? Many of most religions refuse to pray in the name of Jesus Christ Does the Father be glorified in the Son, petition the Lord, ask the Lord, make supplication to the Lord in his name, and declare that his will be done Why? Why? Why do we have to declare his will be done? Well, that's a very good reason for that. I'll give you that in a second. If you want a little bit of a cliffhanger, he says, if you love me, keep my commandments. Verse 16, and I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter. That he may abide with you forever. Boy, that's a good reason. But why do you pray in his name? Because in the Garden of Gethsemane was sweat and blood for you and me He said, Can you let this cup of wrath pass before me? Please? This is too much for me to bear in my humanity. I don't think that's what he was saying. I think he was looking into that cup of wrath and he saw Satan. He saw hell. Well we saw last Wednesday what happened. You saw the gates of hell opening up. You saw that on this earth, that evil does abound. You saw the work of Satan. You see it, and it's one of the most hard things I've ever can imagine, because never do you ever see a feed where you see a man get shot and the blood come out of him live. That was one of the most hard things I've ever seen in my life. And that was all satanic. All of it. Christ is avenging this. Give him uh or you give him time and you watch how he works through this as bad as it is. Evil abounds. But he says, I will I will do this. I think A smidgen of what we saw on Wednesday was the overall thing that Christ saw in that cup of wrath when he was in Gethsemane. But he prayed, not my will, but thy will be done. And the will of the Father was for him to go to that cross. And that's what happened, didn't it? Can you even believe how horrible that death was? I can't. All I know is he did it for me. He did it for you. If you love him, if you don't love him, he didn't do it for you. He did not do it for you if you don't love him. Uh is his blood sufficient for all? Yes. But if you hate him, he didn't do it for you. And I'm begging you to come to him so you will know that he did. 1 John 5. 14 says, and this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. Verse 15 says, And if we know that he hear us whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him. Christ taught the disciples how to pray, and the first petition is, hallowed be thy name. That is a very wonderful outline on how to pray. There are several petitions. There are endless They're not endless. There's a whole list of petitions in that prayer, and then you can learn how to pray by his prayer that he gave us. His personal prayer is here. In John chapters 13 to 8, 17, right before he goes to the cross, that's his spiritual prayer to the Father for us But the prayer, you know, we call it the Lord's Prayer, where our our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come. That is a prayer that he taught the disciples to pray because they said, Lord, please increase our faith As John the Baptist taught his disciples how to pray, how do we pray? That's a sinner's prayer. So that's not Christ's prayer for himself, because he's not a sinner. That is his prayer to teach us how to pray in that outline. And I really encourage you when you pray to pray in that outline. Use it as an outline. Our Father who art in hallowed be thy name, hallowed be the name of Jehovah Elohim, the great creator and judge of the earth. And I love to use his Hebrew names Thy kingdom come, and I always say in my prayers, even come soon, Lord Jesus. Thou said thou come in a fief thief in the night, thy will be done. That's a big one. Thy will be done in the hearts and minds of so many that need thee And then you have in your mind, you're now outlined, and you can start listing all the people that have asked you to pray for them. And then you pray for them and others. And then you finish like Paul did and say, Lord, the people that I forgot, I pray for them. Pray for the brethren. Pray for the unsaved loved ones, the unspoken prayer request. And you pray. The Lord hears all of that. And then after that, thy will thy king thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread. That is a key point in that prayer. Lord, give us this day our daily bread. I beg thee for the bread of salvation, for my for my So-and-so and my friend. This is a pray for salvation for them. And then the hard one comes. Forgive us, forgive me my trespasses. Don't breeze over that one. Use that one and then and and tell him the sins that you've committed. You know what they are. I know what they are. Lord, I should have never said that. You know, I should have never thought that. And you know what, even uh, who wasn't one of the reformers used to pray for the bad dreams that he had? I think it was Jay Gresham Mason that did that. He would pray for the dreams that he had. He had bad dreams, and some of the dreams had bad things in them, and he would even ask forgiveness for them. And then the big one comes after that one. And I I don't even have this in my notes. I'm sorry, it's a rabbit trail. Sorry. And uh the the the next one is Bless those who've trespassed against me. That's the hardest part of the prayer. That's the tough one. Oh, I don't want to pray for that guy. He's not worth it. Oh, neither are you. So pray for him And then you go on. So I just give you a little lesson there. That's a wonderful way to pray. And it won't take you eight minutes. Sometimes it takes an hour. So be it. Keep my commandments. The Lord says, if you love me, keep my commandments. Do you really want to be with a person that hates what you tell them? You tell them how to do things, say that you were boss of a company and you have some little guy working for you that doesn't want to listen to anything you say. Hey, I told you, put your tools away. I told you, fill the trunk up. I told you Take care and they don't do anything you ask them? Do you want them near you? This is very practical. Keep my commandments. I've told you this. Is that so hard not to kill somebody? Was it so hard for that moron Wednesday to not kill Charlie Kirk? Was that so hard for him that he really had to do that? If he would have been following this, he'd have been saying to my I can't do that. That's why it's one of the reasons it's satanic. It's horrible. He says, keep my commandments. And we see here in in verse 16, I will pray the Father, he shall give you another comforter. that he may abide with you forever if you keep my commandments. Even the spirit of truth in the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him in verse 17, for he dwelleth with you And shall be in you, I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. And he says, verse 21, keep my commandments. I'll go back to verse 18 in a minute But keep my commandments. He says my commandments, they're not grievous. The things that I tell you, they're not a burden. They're good things. 1 John 5 verses 3 to 4, for this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous. Matthew 11, 29, take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek, unlowly in heart, and ye shall find rest under your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. We see the burdens of the Pharisees were heavy upon their people. Rome, the Roman Catholic Church, their burdens are heavy upon the people. Why are they heavy? Because they're teaching them how to go to hell. That's why they're heavy. Christ loves us He offers us precious rewards for a simple submission to his law, and it strengthens and it protects us. Well, these blessings lie in a perfect promise. And the Savior repeatedly says, and I love this. I will do it. I will do it. I will do it. Christ is blessing on his children. It's procured by his intercession. For us to the Father and secured with us through his mediatorial work to pray to the Father on his behalf. We learned this morning that how do we get to the Father? We get through the Father through the Holy Spirit. Don't you ever underestimate the presence of the Holy Spirit. When you approach the Holy Spirit, when you think, when you read, you do it with the most utter utter this is probably one of the most lost lost um tenors or feelings or uh lost art or whatever you want to call it is having respect today. We've lost a lot of that sadly. We've really lost respect. We see that out in public Where you you know I go up and a lot of times I'm going to get a drink somewhere, I'll see young people and I say hi to them and they look at you like, what are you talking about? They don't even say hello back to you. You know, people lose respect You approach the Holy Spirit and you pray and you mention his name in your prayers, you do it with the utmost uh reverence and honor and respect that you can even imagine. Because the Lord has given him to you. He says Psalm uh no no John seventeen I pray for them. I pray not for this world because oh mine are thine and thine are mine and I'm glorified. And then he says, I've given unto them thy word. And the world hath hated them, hath hath hated them, because they are not of this world, even as I am not of this world. I pray not that thou should take them out of this world, but that thou should keep them from the evil. He's prayed, prayed for that. See the blessing lies and Christ says, I will do it. Verse 19, yet a little while and the world seeth me no more, but ye see it me because I live. Ye shall live also. Wow, what a gift. It's worth it. It's worth dying for, that you'll live again. In that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. I love that verse when Christ is talking to the disciples Remember, it's probably one of the most tragic. John 6 is one of the most tragic parts of Scripture Here Christ is pouring his heart out, and he's talking about communion, and he says, He goes, He that eateth of my flesh and drinketh of my blood dwelleth in me, and I in him. What could be better than have Christ dwelling in you? He says this. And he tells them all about communion. He says what's going to happen with his blood. I'm going to the cross. I'm doing this since I love him with this. These people come back and say to him, He was his disciples. And according to some theologians, it was over a hundred disciples came to him and said, This is a hard saying, Jesus, how can we know it? And from that point they left him. Can you imagine if some of them came around after he died and he resurrected what they were saying? How could I do that? Hopefully some did. 1 Timothy 2. 5 says, For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. Romans 8:34 then says, Who is he that condemneth It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. Christ says, I will do it. Christ intercedes to the Father in heaven and offers up our pleas to him. And so if I can't see Christ physically here, he's not sitting in that chair. Maybe he is. I don't know. Maybe in spirit. I know, I believe he's here. I do. But if you can't see him physically, all you have to know is I will do it How many times do we say I will do something and we don't totally forget about it? You know, I'll remember to bring you that book next week, and then two, three months later, where's the book? I don't know, I forgot about it. I will pick you up at uh 1015. 1050 comes around. Ah, sorry, I'm in traffic. All these things we say we're going to do. When Christ says I will do it You can set your life by it, not your clock. You can set your life by it. You can depend on it. Always. Says I will do it And this answer comes to us through the Holy Spirit as we were led that we are protected by His providence through the Holy Spirit, and if we are willing to accept His providence We will know that our prayers are answered in a way that He wants to be answered. And I think that if we can understand that He knows everything and we commit our burdens to Him, He knows our burdens before we even ask about them. It says that in Scripture. That's how perfect that he is. Oh, I don't believe in predestination. I don't believe in election. I don't believe in Calvin. I don't think Calvin didn't even believe in Cal That didn't come out until 200 years later. He just knew all the right things to say because he was so wonderful. He wasn't perfect. He would tell you that. And all these things we know. But then you see the prayer of Samson. We're going into Samson on Wednesday. I've been waiting for years to do this. I don't I don't know. I'm a little a little nervous, but I love Samson. Samson was the biggest idiot in the Bible. Even Sinclair Ferguson, who's declared one of the best present-day theologians No, no. Derrick Thomas. He says Samson was an idiot's idiot. That's what he said. He loved to joke around. He loved to goof around. He loved the women. He loved the Philistines, and that was a real problem. But when it all came full circle, he had finally lost everything in his life. The Holy Spirit had departed from him, by the way, it says that, but came back. Here's what he says. He prays. You notice how he prayed to the Lord? You notice how he didn't go up and ask, can I go touch Dagon's ear? Can I go down to Johns Hopkins and touch that big toe on Jesus Christ, that marble statue? Oh, that oh that disgusting thing Ken and people go down there, I saw that. People touch the toe, it's all shining, there's all these prayer cards around his toe, big toes like that big. And people do that. Christ hates that. He hates it He doesn't say go down to Johns Hopkins and touch that marble toe or that thing that they think looks like me. He says pray to me. And here's what Samson does. He prays to the Lord, Judges 16, 28. And Samson called unto the Lord. He called unto him and said, Oh Lord, God, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me. I pray thee only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes. I screwed up I went and I fooled around with the Philistines and their women and I've lost everything. My wife is burned alive. I burned down a father of my father-in-law's crops with 300 foxes and I tied them together and lit them on fire And I did, I carried these doors miles down the streets for no reason whatsoever. I touched unclean things, trying to grab honey in a deadline. I did all these things against thee, Lord He did it all. He was as bad as he could be. He cries out to the Lord. What does he do? Go get that little boy over there. Put your arms up there and pull the whole house down on him. That was his whole reason for his existence was to destroy The Philistines, because they hated God and they worshipped Dagon. He prayed, and the Lord answered his prayer, didn't he? Not only did he answer this prayer, that was the day that Samson met his savior. Anybody that says Samson wasn't saved is wrong. Christ says, ask in my name and I will do it. Verse 21, let's see, he that oh here here. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me. And he that loves me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. He doesn't say I will put up with them or I will keep them from annoying me. He says I will love them and will manifest myself to him. He says, ask him my name and I'll do it. Here he makes intercession. He says, there's another comforter that I will give you as a promise of the Old Testament. There's it from the Messiah. The great promise in the New Testament from the Messiah is the Holy Spirit. You had the covenants in the Old Testament. Acts 1 5 says, For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence. And here Christ was addressing the present distresses of the disciples with a providential plan before creation. We see he sends them a comforter, and he always knew that he would do this That's what's so wonderful. This wasn't something that he just thought of, oh well, you know, I know what I'll do. I I'll come up with a comforter and I'll send it to them, and maybe this will work, maybe this won't. No. This was foreordained. That's what you love predestination for You love election, God elected this. If we look To some other Bible verses we looked at this morning, Lisi read some verses and we saw the spirit of grace, the spirit of infirmities, the spirit of supplication. the come the consolation of Israel, that's in Luke 2, and the Christ is the consolation of Israel. Well who do you think the consolation is he's talking about? The Holy Spirit is the comforter. He carried his whole ministry. The Holy Spirit was his parakletos. And in the Greek, it practically means the one that walks beside you. He the Holy Spirit guided and directed Christ all the way through. That very same Holy Spirit lives. 1 John 2. 1 says, My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sinned, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. If any man sin, we see he says the comforter. He is the bicker of Christ. Advocate. There's the name of the Holy Spirit in that verse. We have an advocate with the Father. Advocate is one of many marvelous names assigned to that being who is the representative of Christ here on the earth, or in the Latin, vicarius Christi, or Christ. The Holy Spirit becomes the only vicar of Christ here on this earth after the ascension, and one of the blasphemies of the Roman Catholic Church Aimed at the Holy Spirit is to have the Pope share this title. I've heard it a lot lately that this new Pope is now the new Vicar of Christ. No, he's not. That's blasphemy. He's not the vicar of Christ. He's a sinner going to hell unless the Lord saves him. They have used this title of the Pope, implying his supreme and universal primacy both of honor and of jurisdiction. And what I love about Calvin, I've read some of his institutes and anytime he gets a chance to expose the papacy for taking the place of Christ He does that. He says, remember Peter. Christ talked to Peter and he said, Feed my lambs, feed my sheep. They're mine And you feed them. And he used to Peter is called the rock. And we see how here that the vicar of Christ is the Holy Spirit. That's so important that we understand that. The comforter that is to come into the world, we will receive him. We see it or not, we neither know him. But the Lord says to study, to show thyself approved, for workman it needeth not be ashamed. That's how you know him. We wouldn't know him when we're unsaved. Consolation of Israel. Here's another name. Luke 2. 25. And behold, there was a man in Israel. Whose name was Simeon. I love Simeon. That's a great story. And the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Ghost was upon him. The consolation was the coming of the Messiah. We see here a comforter would come. Why do we need a comforter? Well, Luke 22, 31 says, here's two good reasons. There are many reasons. I'll give you a couple good reasons. Running out of time already. Luke 22, 31, and the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. That is a great reason to have the Holy Spirit. Don't ever even begin to be just mesmerized or brainwashed into these people that think that they can wear t-shirts that says Not today, Satan. What are you going to do to Satan? Satan would have you and sift you like wheat. That's pretty that's pretty graphic of what Christ says here to Peter. He goes, Don't you mess with Satan? Let me tell you something. He'll take you and bend you into a pretzel when you're deep done with you. Only I can stop it. Don't you think for one minute you can do anything on your own People say that crazy. John 15, 20. I got a little special thing to finish out here. We're going to finish, but I'm not going to stop till I'm bundled this, okay? John 15, 20, remember the words that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also, but all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sinned, but now they have no cloak for their sin. He that hateth me hateth my father also. And I've had people texting me co constantly since what happened at 1229 on Wednesday to our dear brother Charlie Kirk. And I've this is what I did. I copied and pasted these verses. Why? Why? Why did this happen? That's why. I have the answer for you. If they hated me, they will hate you. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you. And I'm going to tell you in in essence. Charlie Kirk got all thirty-nine years for good behavior. Think about it. I would say that Charlie Kirk's family needs comfort now. I believe Erica was able to get up on 9. 12 in the evening at 8. 30, get the kids ready, get dressed. and prepared to make her first public statement as she had just laid and and and and laid over and hugged her husband in a casket. And here's some of the things that she said. Now and for all eternity he will stand at his Savior's side, wearing the glorious crown of a martyr. And Mrs. Kirk remarked Friday evening, Charlie loved, he loved, he loved life, he loved his life, he loved America. Here's some quotes from Charlie Kirk. All death can do to a believer is deliver him to Jesus. I mean I'm nothing without Jesus. I'm a sinner. I fall incredibly short of the glory of God. That's a quote from Scripture. I say the Bible, the entire arc of the Bible, is a story of love and a need for humanity's redemption. The Bible has wisdom in ways you might not ever imagine. So trust in it. The greatest minds of history have been mesmerized by scriptures. Isaac Newton, Thomas Aquinas, Isaac Newton wrote more about biblical prophecy than even physics. And so there's something about scriptures that are intellectual that does push your limits, and that's what I think is so beautiful about our faith, is it can be accessible to everyone But also in infinitely nourishing in exploration. We're talking about quotes from a 31-year-old man, you'd think you're listening to Patrick Henry or Samuel Davies Christ says, I will not leave you without joy, and I will not leave you comfortless. And you see in verse 22, Judith saith unto him, That's not a scariot, Lord. How is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us and not unto this world? He had already taught him that. Even Judas, the brother of James, was a little confused And Jesus answered and he keeps talking and he keeps answering them. He says, if a man love me, he will keep my words, and my father will love him. And we will come unto him and make our abode with him. He says the but here's the big here's the big apostolic, however, or the but he that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings And the word which he hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me. He says, if you love me, you'll try. You go to the red light, you get upset, and you'll say, Lord, forgive me. I'll try again next tomorrow. You'll try. You keep trying. You know, God Christ says, I will not leave you. We see that the gift of the Spirit is a fruit of Christ's mediation, purchased by his merit and taken by his intercession. Christ says, I will not leave you comfortless, not an orphan, not without hope. His departure would not be final, it would not be total. He continues on with consulting his consolation. His consolatory discourse here, you will see me, you will see my father, you will be in me, I will be in you. What a marvelous consolation. And as we finish 1 John 2. 24, we're almost finished. Let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard from the beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you. Ye shall also continue in the Son and in the Father. And this is the promise that he has promised unto you. So we see here basically in closing, we have a precious comforter. The Lord left us with some things. It's Christ's free and sovereign grace that he would choose those that he will manifest himself to. We don't know who they are. You see, that bothers people that Christ knows and we don't. Who says we have any any we have any obligation to know what he knows? Other than what he teaches us here. We are supposed to be so perfect that we can actually say, no, he doesn't know everybody that's going to go to heaven or hell. Yes, he does. You want to worship a God who's a liar and who's not perfect? That's election. That's very important that he knows. We don't know, and so we spread the gospel into the world. That's what we do Christ confirms that either not just my words, but the Father's words that sent me, and he implores his disciples. He gets ready to go to go to the cross, and the question is Did he leave an inheritance? Well it's not the kind of inheritance that we think, because we're always thinking about ourselves. Oh, I hope Uncle Uncle Ray left me uh the car. Boy, I want that Mustang, boy, that's a convertible, I want that. Did he leave that for me in the will? Did I get a hundred bucks? Did I get the house on the shore? Or did I get, you know Expensive stuff I can throw in line and make money. That's what we think. That's not you have to see you gotta think outside of that box when you think about what Christ is leaving. He leaves something a little more special than that. And I'll finish with this. This is what some of the things that he left, and this is just a very small compendium. First, he leaves us our precious comforter. I'll take it. You better believe it. He leaves us with peace. That is the comfort. He says, peace I leave with you. Not the peace of the world, as we talked about in the Sunday school class, not the peace that the world gives, like opiates. Alcohol, all these incr endless psychologists and all this therapy. No. He says, I leave you real peace in your heart The kind of peace that Savannah Rolla had when he went down the stake, he went to get burned at the stake with his family watching him, and they rolled him down there, and he was quoting Psalm 51. That's the kind of peace when he's about to be burned alive. I don't know about you, but I haven't been burned alive lately. And I'm really glad of that. He was about to be burned alive. And they and and they would stoke you know how they were merciful to some of those martyrs? They would just stoke up all the twigs and put a lot on them so they would burn quick. But if they didn't like you, they'd burn you nice and slow So you started with your feet on your way up, that's a bad way to go. They still had peace. And a lot of them were around Charlie Kirk's age, by the way. Well, with the precious comforter he leaves us peace. He left an inheritance, and here are some of the many blessings he left with us as he pronounces this in his last will and testament. Before he will go to the cross and be crucified. He'd be placed in a tomb three days by his own power, resurrect from the dead, and then ascend into heaven on the right hand of the Father. He left. He leaves peace He made his will, his soul he committed to the Father, his body he bequeathed to Joseph and Nicodemus to be interred properly in a in a rich man's grave that was properly prepared He would be decently interned, his clothes fell to the soldiers, his mother he left in the care of John the Beloved The one who said Jesus loved him, that was John the Beloved. So he leaves to his disciples not silver and gold, but he left them perfect peace and a comforter and a consolation He says, I leave this with you, I leave my peace with you. I not only give you a title to it, but you are in possession of it. He left this all for them, just as Abraham and Jacob and many of the forefathers had left. He would leave peace in trials, peace in uncertainties, peace in dissensions, and peace on deathbeds. And we remember these precious verses, John 16, 32 and 33. Behold, the hour cometh, the a is now come that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own. And shall leave me alone, and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. These things have I spoken unto you that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. O Heavenly Father, we thank thee that thou hast overcome the world. Satan doesn't know it yet, but thou has already overcome him, so I pray that thou wouldst protect us from the evil one. I ask, Lord, as we go out of here today, that we would be comforted to know that no matter what happens, Lord, thou art with us. Thou art a friend that sticketh closer than the brother, for those that doubt that believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And this we ask in thy name we pray. Amen