Philippians four. And with your eyes, follow along as I'll be reading the first nine verses. Therefore, my brethren dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and crown so steadfast in the Lord. My dearly beloved, I beseech you, Odysseus, and I beseech you Cynthy, that they be of the same mind in the Lord, and I entreat thee also, true yoke fellow. Help those women which labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other fellow laborers whose names are in the book of life. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just. Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of a good report, if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things Those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do. And the God of peace shall be with you. Amen. Well Father, we'll offer a word of praise for your presence with us now, and as your word is before us. We thank you for preserving it and providing unto us a banquet table of truth. Um we father are needy people and you know especially well each of us uh lack and where we uh have the opportunity to grow in your understanding and your knowledge and your grace and mercy And even as this letter is before us, it had been presented to those dear believers back in Philippi, and it worked greatly. So may Father you give clarity to our minds. Help us to learn that which we need to learn. Help us to adhere to that which is necessary. And we pray it in Christ's name. Amen. It's amazing how often words are so powerfully used that they bring great detriment to the lives of other misguided words, James says, are a fire. A world of iniquity create tremendous damage. Our Lord Jesus powerfully warned about the use of careless and foolish words. Uh I met a or I'm sorry, I met I read of an author. He was moved to a new town in his middle school age period and he said uh gotten to a new school and didn't know anybody He says I sat down at lunch and pulled out my lunch and the other kids of that school they were looking at him and And uh nothing was said and they're just kind of talking amongst themselves and giggling as junior hires do. And uh one kid shouted out, Well, you've got a giant nose And he said, I just thought and I kind of chuckled along with it as nothing, but he said, that stuck with me. He says, quote, thankfully, I eventually grew out of this perception, but it literally took me 20 years. Even now I am a little self-conscious about it. You know, words, you know How painful they can be. I'm sure you've been the recipients of similar attacks and heard where words have stung and have been very uh foolishly launched out, uh seemingly harmless, but nonetheless they were there. And I'm sure there are times when you have offered up a few opportunities of verbal attack. That's why it's so refreshing to hear and to receive and to know wholesome, good, loving, sound doctrine. The person who receives such often walks away greatly encouraged because they know the person behind those words was sincere. He was just throwing verbiage out, but his heart was born into the truth of those words. And we walk away in courage. We have a different perspective on things Because we see that good words given out of a heart of love become a medicine to the soul. I see this as the Apostle Paul words. They received these words, the churches always did in his letters, recognizing that, number one, the man was sincere in what he said. And even though there were times when he spoke strongly, and I won't say harshly, strongly, the words were received and had great profit. Look at verse 1 of our opening text here Paul says, therefore, in other words, what we'd gone through in chapter three, my brethren, dearly beloved And longed for my joy and crown, so steadfast in the Lord, so stand steadfast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. Wow. Was that just words to butter them up? You know? Was that just words, oh you know, they're gonna really like me because I've said these words? These were words brought forth by the Holy Spirit because of his love for Christ and because of their love for Christ, and Christ had brought them together, and he said, These are things from my heart These are things that I sincerely believe in you. A week ago, Saturday, my son and his oldest daughter went to a wedding. and uh in in Lancaster and um he said after the wedding uh we met up with the wife of the f the founding pastor of this church He says she was a dear lady, just a dear lady. And she said when she talked with us, she went out and she took our hand and she held it. And she looked at you, holding the hand, I've got your attention. And she says, you listen to me. And she said, I just what the words that poured out from her heart She expressed in such a way, having his attention and having my granddaughter's attention, you know, when she went to each one of them, she says, I knew what she was saying was born within her heart I can see Paul here almost reaching out and holding each one of the hands of these Philippian believers and saying, I love you people. You're dearly beloved. You're special to me. I'm reaching out with you, and I can see them saying, wow, he really means it. And where is Paul? Remember? He's in prison. Not the best of conditions, not the best of circumstances to be able to pour out such truth. These brethren are brought to joy to their hearts because of this, because of the evidence that Paul says, you are my fruit. He says, long for my joy, my crown. One day when I get to glory, he says, you will be the crown because of your faithfulness in Christ, this dear relationship that is there. So he says that the apostle exhorts them to stand fast in the Lord. Do you remember chapter three, the enemies? Remember the enemies, the Judaizers? Remember the dogs? The evil workers? The concision? And then I think the last time we were together we talked about what? The enemies of the cross. He says, those people were there. And because I love you so, because Christ loves you so, stand fast in the gospel, stand fast for Christ. Stand fast in the Lord. This church was not exempt from problems or conflicts or attacks or struggles from within and from without And Paul presents unto them how much he loved them because Christ was evident in them. So with that in mind, Pastor Paul now reaches out to in verse 2 pious women of the church. I beseech, or I I beg, I urge, Iodius, and I beseech Synthiki, that they be of the same mind in the Lord. Now, not thinking about it too much, but this is an awkward moment. Why? Because there are only few places where the Apostle Paul mentions somebody by name in a criticism or pointing out to them. Here's a letter that's going to be taken around the whole area, and Iodius and Syntici are mentioned in there, not for their good works but because they did something. And and note though that he says, for each one of them, I beseech Iodius, I beseech Syndechis. He's pointing to both of them, not just that one was at fault and the other was not And he doesn't specify what their problem was, but in essence he's saying you are out of harmony with each other. They're good workers. They're pious ladies. They served with Paul. The gospel was brought forth for these ladies. But something something occurred that was evident to the whole church because he says, now I'm going to mention their names, and now these things that are there Tim Keller helped me with this when he wrote, and this is like Paul saying it. He says, sisters, remember where you're from. You're citizens of heaven. Remember where you are going, the glory. Realize and remember what Christ has done. If you think about that, how could you be so petty? How could you be so divisive? Lift up your thoughts, he says. Lift up your eyes. You're not seeing the big picture. That's the only possible way you could be so upset with each other Some little little trifling type of thing going on. And he says, you're forgetting the big picture in life. You're forgetting all that's going on. The big picture. Swall small squabbles broke harmony. When you think about it, a small squabble is no such thing, is there? It never ends with just a small squabble. I've seen it in schools, I've seen it in businesses, I've seen it within families, and yes, it even occurs within a church every once in a while. So Paul says, as a good pastor, not only call these two for harmony to get back together, but to be reconciled, and then he also reaches out for others to help. He's in prison, he's far away, but he says, I also need you others to come along and bring some attention to these ladies to bring them back together. Now, Paul moves from helping Iodius and Syntheci, and he gives us a final series of exhortations, teaching points, points of encouragement, and verses four through nine. By God's grace in the weeks to follow that we're here, we're going to take these. But today we want to just do verse four. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice. Sound familiar? It's a song and song books, a little chorus, but also the very beginning of chapter 3. He says the same thing. Rejoice in the Lord. What's important here is that we need to carefully understand what the Lord is calling us to do when he calls us to rejoice. in our English language and the culture that we grew up, and we almost use synonymously the idea of happiness in rejoicing. We almost throw them back and forth. But he's not calling us to be happy. Because happiness is an attitude of satisfaction. Happiness is a delight based upon circumstances. Based upon the situation I find myself in. Happiness is related to happenings. You can't plan, you can't program happiness. It just doesn't work out that way. It may, or it may not happen. We're talking about biblical joy, though, and that's what Paul is pointing his finger at. And we're talking about something related to circumstances and chance? No! It is a secure attitude that the believer is to head. He says such by saying, always. If you're a Christian, then no matter what's taking place in your life You should be at this present moment experiencing biblical joy. Uh I don't quite believe that. But maybe we don't understand biblical joy that's presented within the text or in all of Scripture. Today you may not necessarily be feeling like decking the halls with balls of jolly But you can experience biblical joy. Biblical joy is a deep down confidence that all is going well. and all will go well, no matter what the circumstances may be. I'm sure some of you know Horatio G. Spafford by name A man who understood biblical joy very, very well in his life. He was a man who knew the meaning of good times and hard times. The very successful law practice in Chicago. He had numerous properties in the city of Chicago And real estate holdings that were brought him into the uh, I don't know, maybe six figures, seven figures back in his day. But after suffering the loss of his son, there was the Chicago fire of 1871, where he lost almost all of his properties. So there was a opportunity for him to go to Great Britain to be with Iris Sankey and Deal Moody and one of their revivals. And he had everything packed up just to be able to get out of the country, get out of town, and to shift his focus. He had some business dealings to go, so he told his wife and children, get on the boat. I'll meet you over there. They were put on the ship to sail over to England with the four daughters, the wife. On November 22nd, the ship was hit by another ship and it sunk in 12 minutes He had no idea what had taken place. A number of days later, he received a cable from his wife with the only words, Saved Alone. Saved alone. He soon boarded the next ship to meet his wife in England. While crossing the sea near the place where the tragedy occurred, the ship slowed down in order to maybe have a time of reflection for those on board. And this is where he wrote the pen the pen, the words for the song, It Is Well With My Soul. Let me read verse one. When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll. Whatever my lot, thou hast taught me to say, it is well. It is well with my soul. Was he happy when this happened? Hardly. Hardly. He was grief stricken. But why could he say when see when sorrows like Siubillo's roll is expressing that which he carried with him The loss of his children, gone. Certainly death to the four daughters, but much grief in those words. But even though he was grief-stricken, what accompanied his grief? A deep-down confidence that all is well. When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll, whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say It is well, it is well with my soul. The biblical joy expressed within those words shows forth in his life. Those who possess it are filled with hope instead of hopelessness, just like Horatio Spafford. Although as Christians, we may or we may not necessarily experience happiness in related to the experiences or the circumstances of life We should have the joy as our constant companion. Joy should be our expectation. As Paul says, rejoice in the Lord, always. Rejoice in the Lord. Always And just in case we missed the point, he repeats the word again. And again I say, rejoice. Again I say rejoice. Remember the place that the man is in prison What's behind the simple truth, though, is not just what Paul writes, but it's a facet of all of Scripture, the theological truth, the matter of joy. Found within this letter and within other texts. Listen to Psalm 4, verses 7 and 8. Thou hast put gladness in my heart. more than in time of their corn and their wine increased. I will both lay me down to peace and sleep, for thou, Lord, only makest me to dwell in safety. The psalmist wasn't looking to the grain and the wine to be his sufficiency, his circumstance to bring joy to his life, his provision, but rather he was looking to the Lord The psalmist knew that if we were going to enjoy a deep confidence that everything was going to be okay regardless of the circumstance, He knows that it had to come from God. Thou hast put gladness in my heart, not happiness. But a joy of rejoicing that only God could provide to say that irrespective of the circumstance, he could have lost his crops, he could have lost everything. That God was there in charge. We need to know this as well, irrespective of what is happening in our life. We need to realize the experience is a gift of God The provision that the psalmist says, This is from you, Lord. You have given to me. Another Psalm, Psalm 16, 11. In thy presence is fullness of Joy. In thy presence is fullness of joy. In thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Those who received it as a gift from God are fully satisfied, no matter what the circumstance. But how do we receive the gift from God? How do we do it? As with anything else by faith, we receive any gift from God, receive it from Him by faith. Biblical joy is a gift from God to all those who believe. Listen to the Lord Jesus talking to his disciples, thinking all that's gone in their life. John 15. These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full Let me read it again. These things I have spoken to you, I've told you, that my joy, the joy that Jesus had, might remain in you, keep in you. and that the joy you have, the joy, your joy, might be full. Those who received this gift from God received the gift of joy, of rejoicing from Him by faith. How did the verse begin? These things have I spoken unto you. What did Christ speak unto them? What was the message of Christ? Receive Him to receive Him indeed as a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus And with that personal relationship, it is an intimate relationship that he describes by saying that I am in him and he is in me. In Christ, and Christ is in me. That's the relationship of intimacy in the joy of having Christ there. And the benefit of having that intimate relationship with Christ was that his joy would be in them. Think of the change in the life of the disciples. Up to the place of the crucifixion, they were all very bold and brash. Then the arrest came, then the crucifixion comes, and all of a sudden they were what? cowering cowards in the room, windows shut, doors closed, everything. Oh, we're all afraid. But then the resurrected Christ comes to them and in his presence, all of a sudden they have great joy They have great power, they have great comfort, great encouragement, and went forth with great boldness to preach the gospel. Let's go back to that verse again. These things have I spoken unto you that my joy may remain in you. What was the joy of Christ? It's hard to think about, you know. The rejoicing of Christ. Let me read from Hebrews 12. 2. What did it say? Who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross? Whoa! Jesus, who for the joy that was set before him, he knew what was going to take place. He knew that he would have to. Die on Calvary's Cross. He knew the expectations of his Heavenly Father. But Christ had a confident expectation that no matter what happened to him, Or all around him, everything would be okay. In the time of the world's greatest upheavals, in the time of the greatest, the world's greatest turmoil, Christ going to the cross, he knew that everything was going to be alright. Even though he would die, the sacrificial lamb, he would be victorious over death and the grave. And that indeed would pre-exalted to the right hand of God the Father on his throne. That's what I'm saying. It's going to be alright. Because we have believed in Christ and because we have entered into an intimate relationship with Him, this very same joy, this very same expectation, this very same confidence is in the life of the believer. Offered unto each one of us. No matter how severe the suffering may be, now and any time, we can again say with Christ. These things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you. Intimate joy, no matter what's taking place in us. If you know that you have entered into a personal relationship with Christ and He is in you and I am in Him, then indeed we have that joy as provisioned. If you're not confident in that, the personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, and therefore not confident that that joy is in him, you need to look to him to be saved. Need to look to Him to find your trust transferred to the Lord Jesus Christ. And all the trials that are severe as that will come will be your joy. Horatio Spafford understood a close connection between experiencing biblical joy in the midst of trials and tragedies. His personal faith in Christ, he links verses one and two of his hymn. When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll Whatever my law, whatever my situation, thou hast taught me to say, It is well, it is well with my soul. But then he says in the second verse, My sin, oh the joy of this glorious thought, my sin, not in part, but the whole, is nailed to the cross and I bear it no more Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, O my soul. Spafford couldn't say, with a clear conscience, or couldn't write that, and we don't couldn't sing the truth of it that in the midst of trials and turmoils I have peace in my soul unless he knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that all of his sins were nailed to the cross on Christ and he bears them no more He carries them no more. I have nothing to do with my sin because Christ has taken it all. And therefore he understood such a joy. But you might be saying, I know that I have a personal relationship with Christ, but I don't feel that I have that joy. And there are days that I've walked down that road. There are days that we experience that very same thing. May I point to you with that which is still missing or still needs to be understood. And it's the work of the Holy Spirit in our life. Biblical joy is produced by the Holy Spirit. Romans chapter 14, verse 17 For the kingdom of God is none meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. How does God release the joy in Christ into us? It is the work of the Holy Spirit, through the ministry of the Holy Spirit. You know Galatians 5:22, but the fruit of the Spirit is love. Joy. At least somebody let's try that again. But the fruit, the fruit, that which is produced by the Holy Spirit is love. Joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faithfulness, all the way through. It is a fruit of the Holy Spirit, that which God brings into our hearts by the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. See the seed, the Holy Spirit is the one that Jesus has sent unto us in this world, and he lives so that we can enjoy that which Christ has provided by himself for us. Are problems that may be sinful choices, though, keep us oftentimes from the fruit of the Spirit Paul says, quench not the spirit. If I choose the sinful part of my life and God's spirit is telling me, don't do that, don't go there, don't participate, don't act in that way, or or do this, and I say, no, I won't do it, or so forth like that. I'm quenching the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of God talking to me, in order to give me that which is necessary, and I quench it. But there's one more important teaching concerning biblical joy. Biblical joy is a gift from God to all those who believe, produced by the work of the Holy Spirit in the life of each believer. As long as they receive that which the Holy Spirit directs, but also as they understand and obey the Word of God. Jeremiah 15, 16. Thy words were found, and I did eat them, and thy word was unto me the joy and rejoicing of mine heart. For I am called by the name, Lord God of hosts. Jeremiah received the word of God. and in in a in a in a very descriptive way. He says, I desire to eat your word. I I desire to consume it It was sweeter than honey for me. It was that which is necessary for me. And it was a joy and rejoicing of my heart. How important do you think the Word of God was to Horatio Stafford? Think of what he went through. Put yourself in that position. Lose all of your your financial withholdings. Lose a son, lose your children, your four daughters, and then he could write of the joy that God had given him, peace. Do you think the Word of God had any impact in his life up to this point? Do you think he was kind of maybe a fifteen-minute devotional guy in the in the week? I've got my daily bread here or some other little devotional I've gone through. Oh, that's enough. That'll see me through. That'll carry me along. I think if there is anything that we could classify him as he's a Jeremiah 15, 16 man, it could very well have been his testimony. Joy and rejoicing that God had provided for him. The Holy Spirit brought him through in the midst of a terrible tragedy. If we're going to experience the fruit of the Spirit, such as the joy which cannot be understood outside of it, we cannot neglect the work of the Holy Spirit, and we cannot neglect the Word of God. Two of those combined bring forth the understanding of what God intends for us to know of Him. There's no other way that we can constantly be experiencing the biblical joy in our life. Rather than singing the words written by Horatius Spatford, you will be singing the words when sorrows like sea billows roll Whatever the pain I have chosen to say, woe is me, woe is me, of my soul. And that's what we do, is we ignore the word of God. As we ignore the direction of the Holy Spirit, as believers, those things are part of life. I don't know how you're doing this morning. Your exterior does not always relay your interior. Your countenance doesn't always show what's going on inside. The way you carry yourself or the way you interact, your exterior doesn't always relay about what's going on within your soul. Happiness may be a word that's far from your vocabulary. Joy and rejoicing may not be something you truly understand as a free gift of God. But if you're a disciple of Christ, you can, in spite of whatever the circumstances may be, experience biblical joy. What is biblical joy? Biblical joy is a deep down confidence that all is well with your soul, no matter what the circumstances may be. No matter what takes place, no matter how the situations may be, the news is jam-packed with wool. Go through a flooded water here and there were fires and they go out to California and see the properties all burned out and the fires are starting again. Cars being flooded down there in the streets of New York. Another uh we're heading to Cincinnati and and here they show us This guy getting beat up with a like a gang mentality out of the streets of Cincinnati. Somebody breaks in a shooting here at this bar, a shooting over here at this place, in this school, and this It just never stops. But how can I, in the surr circumstances around me, my own personal circumstance or those things that we face as an individual or as a family, how can I have rejoicing in that I am rejoicing because the hand of God is in it, because I'm a child of God. I'm his there for his provisions. Rejoicing is a gift from God to all who believe. It's produced by the Holy Spirit, and as they who receive such and obey God's word. thrives in the midst of trials. Thrives in the midst of woe and sorrow. I've talked to a number of folks who are back in World War II who'd come out of one dear brother who used to work at the mission. uh D-Day came to know Christ as his Lord and Savior. And he says, my fiance back then, she says, I was praying. that Bob would come to know the Lord. Can you imagine the the the things that the reports that came out of of D-Day in that those days, the people the hearing it? But she says I had a confidence that God was going to bring him through and carry him through and and when I finally got word that he was not only safe but he asked Christ to be his Savior, he says that my my my joy was overflowing because she had such Brethren, not only can we experience the biblical joy, but we are expected to receive and experience what Paul said. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. Challenge yourself this week as a seed to understand more and more. Allow the Holy Spirit to work in your hearts. Allow the Word of God to be the value and the truth of showing what Christ has done for you and what He continues to do for you and what He continues to offer. In Jesus' name. Thank you, Father, for allowing us to take this one small verse, one that we no doubt had even memorized or even sung before. to rejoice in you, to find confidence in you and comfort and peace in you. Always, in all circumstances, in all situations, despite all the the things that are going on and all the whisperings we hear and all the evidence of failures and fallings around us, you are in charge. For in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.