Good morning. I don't think I've ever watched a presidential debate because it's mainly the two people attacking each other, but It seems like that debate this past week went pretty well and uh showed up uh a little bit of the right and wrong there, which is good Let's turn our Bibles to Exodus. Exodus chapter 2. And today we want to look at the 4th of July. Actually, Exodus chapter 1. We want to look at the things having to do with the independence of America and a godly revolution that was had back in 1776. It was a godly revolution. Now we just read this morning from Romans 13. The great passage about the Christian and the government. And we're going to look at 1 Peter, which has to do with that same thing. And when you read that those passages on the surface, they seem to indicate that you should always obey your government and you should always be subject And period. But no, that's not what we have in the Bible. And it has there in that passage in Romans chapter 13, he is the minister of God to thee for good. Is our government the minister of God to us for good today? In a lot of ways it's not. And was the government of King George back In the time of the colonies, was it a minister of God to them for good? Well they definitely had determined that he was not a government uh minister of God to them for good And it was a godly revolution of godly people there at July fourth, seventeen seventy-six, when they signed the Declaration of Independence And you know, you have to look at the context of the revolution. And the context was the Great Awakening. And just before the American Revolution, you had the Great Awakening, and there was a great revival in America. Jonathan Edwards, you had uh George Whitfield, you had the tenants, you had a uh many godly men preaching godly things And the people were getting saved in Jonathan Edwards Church. They were grabbing the pillars of the church, not wanting to sink into hell because God was convicting them so much And that's the context right before the American Revolution. And these were godly men at the time of the American Revolution. And they made that revolution. And so what we want to see about obeying the government all the time and in every circumstance, we don't have that taught in the Bible. And if you go back to Exodus chapter 1, Exodus chapter 1 and verse 15. We have the Hebrew midwives. And here we have Exodus 1. 15, and the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the name of the one was Shifra, in the name of the other Pu'ah. And he said, When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them upon the stools, if it be a son, then ye shall kill him. But if it be a daughter, then ye shall then she shall live. But the midwives feared God and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the men children alive. You notice they did not obey Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women, for they are or actually verse 18, we forgot that. And the king of Egypt Called for the midwives and said unto them, Why have ye done this thing and have saved the men and children alive? And the wiz midwives said to Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women, for they are lively and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them. Therefore, God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied and waxed very mighty, and it came to pass because the midwives feared God that he made them houses. And so here we have the midwives. They did not obey Pharaoh. They did not obey the ruler. They did not obey the government to kill the Hebrew boys. And they saved them alive. They gave an excuse for it that didn't hold much water. But anyway, they saved them alive. They obeyed God and didn't commit murder. And it says the end result, verse 20, therefore God blessed them. God blessed them. God made them houses, made them big families. Because they obeyed God rather than men. Remember back with Peter and the Apostles in the book of Acts, well, they said we ought to obey God rather than men. And that's what these Hebrew midwives did. You know, back in World War Two, they had the Nuremberg trials, remember, of the Nazi war criminals criminals And what was the defense of the Nazi war criminals back in Nuremberg and just after World War II? Well, their defense was, oh, we did all these atrocities because we were ordered to do it. And therefore it was all right. We were ordered to do it Well, the midwives were ordered to kill the men children, and they didn't do it. They disobeyed the government. And the Nazis should have disobeyed as well. And then we go on back to another example of this to get started here today. We go back to 1 Samuel. 1 Samuel chapter 22. 1 Samuel chapter 22. And we have some more people that disobeyed the government. 1 Samuel 22, and then verse 9. Then answered Doeg the Edomite, which was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse, that's David, coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahita, the priest. And he inquired of the Lord for him and gave him bittles and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine. Do you ever remember hearing on the Beverly Hillbillies about bittles? Granny talking about the bittles Well, that's what it is right here. That comes right from the King James Bible, Vittles, verse 10. And so the priest gave him vitals, gave him the sword of Goliath Then verse 11, and the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob, and they came all of them to the king. And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitab. And he answered, I, here I am, my lord. And Saul said unto him, Why have ye considered Conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me to lie in wait as at this day Then Ahimelech the priest answered the king and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, which is the king's son-in-law, and goeth at thy bidding and is honorable in my house Did I then begin to inquire of God for him? Be it far from me. Let not the king impute anything unto his servant, nor to all the house of my father, for thy servant knew nothing of all this. Less or more. And so here the priest said he didn't know that David was running away from Saul. In verse 16, and the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou and all thy father's house. And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, the soldiers there, Turn and slay the priests of the Lord, because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled and did not show it to me. But the servants of the king would not Put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of the Lord. And the king said to Doad, Turn thou and fall upon the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned and he fell upon the priests and slew on that day four score and five persons that did wear a linen ephi. And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and sucklings, and oxen and asses and sheep with the edge of the sword. So here we have another good example in the Bible of people that did not obey the government. They did not obey the king. You know, back in those days, the king's word was law. Back with Louis XIV, the king in France, he said, the state is me and I am the state. And that's how it was with kings back then. And yet, when the king commanded his soldiers there to kill the priests, what did they do? They resisted. They would not kill the priests They would not do it, even though that was with the orders. And they got some foreigner there who had given the report about David, Doeg the Edomite, they got him to do it So anyway, the just following orders defense doesn't work. It doesn't work in the Bible. And here we have examples of people that disobeyed the government. And now let's go all the way back to 1 Peter. 1 Peter, 1 Peter chapter 2, and here's a parallel passage to Romans chapter 13. And this parallel passage starts with verse 5 13, verse 13 of chapter 2 of 1 Peter. It says, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as supreme or unto governors. as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. As free and not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. But you notice in this passage, it's just like Romans 13, just like it. The government is described as a good government. Here is a good government for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of them that do well. And so that's the type of government is talking about that you want to obey completely But when a government no longer fits into that, it's something different altogether. And that's what happened at the time of the American Revolution. Well, you remember what Jesus said? He said, render unto Caesar the things that be Caesar's, and to God the things that be God's. Well, Caesar gets the idea that everything is Caesar's, and he can demand anything. But you know what? Jesus said, give Caesar what is Caesar's. And it's not Caesar's to demand everything. He only has a limited amount of things he can demand And surrender unto him. That has limits. And you know there are limits with all kinds of authority. There's limits of the government's authority. There's limits in the family with the father and the family. There's limits In the church, with the officers of the church, there's limits. And so it's not just unlimited power that the government has. And back in 2 Kings, as we've been going through 2 Kings, we saw the greatest godly revolution in the Bible. And we've seen it already. You've got a 4th of July in the past. And you remember we went through that about Atheliah. Athaliah was the wicked queen. She had been ruling over Israel for seven years And then the she killed all of the royal seed, all of the children, but one of the children was saved, Joash. And Jehoiada the high priest saved the child Joash, and when he was seven years old, he was presented to the people, and they had a revolution, a godly revolution And they were there with their swords, they were ready to fight, and they said, God saved the king, God saved Joash and Jehoiada, the godly uh priest of the Lord, he put Joash on the throne. And Athaliah actually was killed. And we have all kinds of uh examples of godly revolutions in the past. There was a godly revolution in England with Cromwell Cromwell, they put down the king, Charles I, and it was basically the beginning of democratic government in our modern world with Cromwell back in the 1600s in England. And so there are limits to things. And so we want to look at a few of these things and a few of the godly people that what they have had to say about. These matters. Anybody ever hear of Robert L. Dabney? Dabney. Well, Dabney, he was the chaplain of Stonewall Jackson. And he was a great theologian, wrote books of theology, taught in the seminary, taught in the University of Virginia. And he was a great Christian, great Presbyterian, and he said about limited authority, he says, again we have seen that sovereignty is in the people rather than the rulers. May the people never resume their own when it is wholly abused to their injury, when the power is, they're abused by that power There may be obviously a point, then, where resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. And that's what Robert L. Dabney said, great theologian of the Presbyterian Church. And then Charles Hodge. Probably heard of him, wrote the big systematic theology books of the Presbyterians, taught at uh Princeton Seminary. But anyway, he talked about limited authority back in the 1800s He said, a father, if he shamefully abuses his power, may rightfully be deprived of authority over his children. If he abuses his authority, the father may be limited in his power over the children. And then John Knox. John Knox was a great figure of church history in Scotland, a beater of the Reformation there. And he was he had a continual battle with Mary, Queen of Scots, and with uh government back then. And so as he stood before Queen Mary, he said For no greater honor is to be given to kings than God has committed to be given to father and mother. But the father may be struck with a frenzy in which he would slay his children. Now, madame, talking to the queen there. If the children arise, join together, apprehend their father, take his sword from him, bind his hands, keep him in prison till the frenzy is over, think you, madame, that the children do any wrong? Even so, madam, it is with the princes that would murder the children of God that are subject to them. They must be resisted, and that's what Martin Luther did. I mean, what uh John Knox did, Martin Luther did the same thing in the church. He resisted the tyranny in the church. Well, that brings us to the American Revolution. And I have a little book here called Presbyterians and the Revolution. I already preached a message here in the past about the Presbyterian Rebellion. It was called the Presbyterian Rebellion in America, the American Revolution. And here we have the uh uh The revolution was back in 1776. They had the Declaration of Independence, and they were debating it in the Constitutional Congress. And they couldn't decide whether to sign it or not to sign it, whether they wanted to declare revolution. It was a big thing And so I read here from this book that was put out a hundred years at the hundred-year anniversary of the American Revolution back in the 1800s. It says, when the Declaration of Independence was under debate, we quote the words of the Reverend Dr. John Krebs, doubts and forebodings were whispered through the hall The house hesitated, wavered, and for a while liberty and slavery appeared to hang in even scale. So here in the Constitutional Congress they were debating the Declaration of Independence. It seemed like it could fail. It was an even scale. It was then that an aged patriot arose, a venerable and stately form, his head white with the frost of years. Remember in Proverbs this morning we looked at the hoary head? Well, this guy had the hoary head. He rose to speak in the Continental Congress there. And there is, said he, a tide in the affairs of men. A nick of time. We perceive it now before us. To hesitate is to consent to our own slavery That noble instrument upon your table, which ensures immortality to its author, should be subscribed this very morning by every pen in the house. And the guy that was speaking was John Witherspoon. He was a Presbyterian preacher, the only preacher in the Continental Congress. And he rose to speak about the Declaration of Independence. He later on went on to be the moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States And then he goes on. For my own part of property I have some, of reputation more. That reputation is staked, that property is pledged on the issue of this contest. And although these grey hairs must st soon descend into the sepulchre, I would infinitely rather that they descend thither by the hand of the executioner then desert at this crisis the sacred cause of my country. And so John Witherspoon, his speech before the Continental Congress, that Presbyterian preacher A godly man, he said that they should sign the Declaration of Independence, and that speech he gave did quite a bit to sway them to sign the Declaration of Independence. And by the way, I think I've mentioned to you before that where I live in Smyrna, I live on Main Street in Smyrna And Main Street in Smyrna has always been, in history, the main north-south highway up the Delmarva Peninsula. Going from down in Maryland and Virginia all the way up to Philadelphia And we had a representative to the Continental Congress, Caesar Rodney, and he was sick But they called him and said he needed to go to the Continental Congress even though he was sick. He made a famous ride through the rain up to Philadelphia to sign the Declaration of Independence And you know where he rode by? He rode right in front of my house there in Smyrna on Main Street. He can pretty well I talked to a history professor and he said that's a safe bet that he rode by there. That was the main highway. But anyway, there we had Caesar Rodney went up there and signed the Declaration of Independence, and he was there when John Witherspoon gave this speech before the Continental Congress. A couple weeks ago we were in Philadelphia, and I had gotten a certificate to a museum through my daughter's Christian school auction, so we went there And while we were there, we went to the Presbyterian Historical Society in Philadelphia. And that's right downtown there in the old part of town. And as you walk into the Presbyterian Historical Society there, they have a grandfather clock right there, and that's the old grandfather clock of John Witherspoon. that he brought from Scotland and it's right there. And they have it labeled as such. And what's also interesting, that Presbyterian Historical Society is right on the same property with the old Pine Street Presbyterian Church In Philadelphia, the preacher at that church was George Duffield, and he preached independence. He was very, he was a chaplain at Valley Forge. And anyway, but they have in their they have the cemetery right around the church there, like they often do with the old churches And they have colonial flags flying from over 200 of the graves in that cemetery there, probably half the graves in the cemetery And those colonial flags show that these people were veterans of the American Revolution. And they're buried there. That just shows how many of the Presbyterians were in the American Revolution and supported it. And then it goes on in this book here. It says that about Presbyterians and the American Revolution. It talks about the battles in the South during the American Revolution, of cow pens, of King's Mountain, they were turning points. And then it says, General Morgan, who commanded at the cow pens, was a Presbyterian elder. General Pickens, who made all the arrangements for the battle, was a Presbyterian elder. And nearly all under their command were Presbyterians in that battle of the American Revolution. In the Battle of King's Mountain, Colonel Campbell, Colonel James Williams, Colonel Cleveland, Colonel Shelby, Colonel Sevier were all Presbyterian elders. And the body of their troops were from Presbyterian settlements. And it was a Presbyterian rebellion. And it was godly men. We know they were godly. Back in those days, just about all the Presbyterians were fundamentalists And they were ones that really believed God and followed him, and they supported the American Revolution. Well, I want to leave you with our final guy, godly man of the revolution, and that was James Caldwell James Caldwell, I'm sure a couple of you have heard of him before. But anyway, he's known as he was a Presbyterian pastor from New Jersey. And he's known as the guy that when there was a battle going on next to his church, the troops, the colonial troops, were running out of wadding for their muskets. They had to have these little pieces of paper wadded up there to make their musket work. And so he ran into the church, got a big load of hymn books, and brought them out, gave them to the troops, and they used the hymn books for wadding for their muskets. They're in the battle. But anyway, he was a good Presbyterian preacher, but a poem was made about him back in the 1800s And I'm going to leave you with this poem today. And you know a lot of preachers, they have a have a habit of giving a poem at the end of their sermon And I rarely do that, but I'll do it today. And of course, some preachers always have the idea of having a tear-jerker illustration at the end of the sermon, too. to get in line with the invitation. But anyway, I don't usually give poems, but I'm going to give this one. This poem was made about James Caldwell. And it was written by Bret Hart And Bret Hart was a very famous author and poet of the 1800s. And so here's what he has to say in this poem about James Caldwell and the American Revolution. Stay one moment, one moment. You've heard of Caldwell the person who once preached the word. Down at Springfield, what no? Come that's bad. Why he had all the jerseys aflame, and they gave him the name of the rebel high priest He stuck in their gorge, for he loved the Lord God, and he hated King George. He had cause, you may say, when the Hessians that day they stopped on the way at the farms where his wife, with a child in her arms Sat alone in the house, how it happened, none knew, but God and that one of the hireling crew Who fired the shot enough, there she lay, And called well the chaplain, her husband, away. So they came to his church when he was away, and they shot and killed his wife, there, this Presbyterian preacher's wife. Did he preach? Did he pray? Think of him as you stand by the old church today. Think of him and that band of militant plowboys, see the smoke and the heat, Of that reckless advance, of that straggling retreat. Keep the ghost of that wife foully slain in your view, and what could you, what should you, what would you do Why, just what he did, they were left in the lurch for the want of more wadding. He ran in the church. broke the door, stripped the pews, and dashed out in the road, With his arms full of hymn books, and threw down his load At their feet Then above all the shouting and shots rang his voice, put watts into him, boys, give him watts. And so that was a poem about James Caldwell, a good Presbyterian, and these guys in the American Revolution they pre pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor And they had to pay the price. James Caldwell had his wife shot and killed there. He had his place burned down. And uh we had a lot of them went to jail, tortured and killed these Presbyterians in the American Revolution, but they paid the price for what they believed And you know, today the attitude is there's nothing really worth fighting for. But there are things worth fighting for. And freedom is worth fighting for. And our old Bible Presbyterian Pastor McIntyre, he used to say freedom is everybody's business. Your business, my business, the church's business. A man who will not use his freedom to defend his freedom does not deserve his freedom. And so anyway, these men back in the American Revolution, godly men, the Lord led them. They had a godly revolution. We saw great results from that through the history of the United States, our godly heritage. And praise the Lord for that. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just thank thee for thy goodness to us. We thank thee for the heritage that we have. And O Lord, as we come to communion. We pray that we might prepare our hearts for communion, and O Lord, we pray that Thou would turn us from our sin, turn us to Thee. In Jesus' name, Amen.