Uh base have the honor to preach in the and to preach in the pulpit here was we Pastor Olson was supposed to be here and we had the bulletin and it had all his information in it And he had the surgery. He was very sick and then we had really bad weather that day. So I got to do an extension of John chapter 15 verses 1 through 8. We went into a couple other verses. I'd like to pick up at verse 9 and read to verse 16. and go over that a little bit as a reminder and just keep going steadily in these verses. So John chapter 15, we read and we pick up in verse 9 As our Lord continues his discourse, and as you can see, if you have a Bible that has red letters, these are the actual words that came out of the mouth of Christ as he spoke himself. And we're reading here about this union between Christ and his church. Verse 9 says, As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love, even as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. This is my commandment, that ye love one another, as I have loved you. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. Henceforth I call you not servants, for the servants knoweth not what his Lord doeth, but I have called you friends. For all things that I have heard of my Father, I have made known unto you. Ye have not chosen me, but I've chosen you. And ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain, that whatsoever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, bless these words to our hearts. What a precious discourse before thou goes to the cross. to tell thy disciples and to tell us that we're thy friends. If we do thy commandments and we love thee. Pray that thou wouldst bless our hearts thee This morning, and this will give us an encouragement beyond anything we can imagine from these precious words that thou gave us. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray, our precious Savior. Amen. We we spoke basically leaving off with verse 9 and 10. We didn't get too much further than that. The last time I was here preaching about basically the Father as the Father has loved me. Christ talks about how on his ministry he prayed to the Father. He knew the Father loved him, even though the Lord God Almighty would not even spare his son How important it is we should know that, and what an incredible message that is to us, that if he wouldn't spare us his son, he will not spare us if we don't believe in his son and we don't believe in his work. He says, For me, without me, you can do nothing. All joy, peace, and comfort and prosperity in this earth is predicated on abiding in the vine, our wonderful Savior. And that's what started this chapter off is about the vine being grafted into that vine. It's an incredible horticulture, landscaping parable, almost like a directive uh collegiate theological manipulative to show us that Christ is the only vine and we are grafted in him and if we if he we we abide in him, he abides in us. That's salvation. That's that is salvation. That's beautiful We have sorrows, we have trials in this life, we have death, we have sickness, we have failures, we have relational difficulties, you name it, that's a whole salad full of problems that we carry in this world But it's incredible how the Lord is there and how He said He will help us. Christ says to press onward and fight the good fight. He that endureth to the end is worthy of the kingdom. He says, You ask what you will, you pray to me, and I'll tell you, I'll give you the desires of your heart. And we have to remember those desires in the heart have to be in the confines of Christ's righteousness. We have to be careful what we ask for, but we ask for with a very, very penitent and a fervent heart We see that there are many cowards out there. There are many false religions and compromises and unrepentant sinners, and they're all like chapel Lord says. And those that abide in Him are His disciples. You love and you obey Him and honor Him. What could he better? He says you go in the first we read this a few weeks ago somewhere because 1 John chapter 3 it says my burdens he goes my commandments my burdens are not burdens to you They are light, and he said that I will I will burden myself for you. I'll go to the cross You know, there's two types of religions there are really in this world. And I'm saying this and I'm going to copy this from John MacArthur because when I copy him, I know I'm on the right track. I know that I'm going to say something very profound. Two. That's it. There's two. I mean you can call all the other ones out there, all these different names that they have. I mean they're all written on their on their edifices and all But there's only two real religions in this world. The first one is a true religion with truth. The second one is everything else. What is the first one? The first one is Christianity. That is, it's a Christianity where Christians are truly submissive to Christ and truly know, as Charles Spurgeon said, he said, until I knew and I realized that I was not worthy therein that I understand the truth. That's what Christianity is about, those that are not worthy. No, they need a savior. That's the one. And the other one all falls under, he says it very, very pro profoundly, falls under the heading of man's achievements. That's every other religion. It's all predicated on man's achievements. What can I do to get to heaven on my own? That's what it's about. And that's the that's two. And wait and we know that the one that we know As Christians, how we love the Lord is the one where we are nothing and He is everything. But when we know He is everything, He brings us to be everything. Isn't that wonderful? through his righteousness, through his blood, through that being clothed in his righteousness brings us and gives us everything. And these are the very words of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It's a beautiful transfer of love that's found here in verse 9 and verse 10. Once again, as I go back, he says, So if I loved you, continue ye in my love. We we read this morning in Psalm thirty-seven that basically it's a commitment. It's a commitment to the Lord. When we follow him, it's a commitment that we love. It's not a burden. We don't get up and saying, oh, I've got to commit myself to the Lord today. I just want to go out and rob a bank. No, we don't want to do that. We commit ourselves to the words of the Lord, to his commandments, to what he's laid out. And it's not easy, is it? You want to know what I love about that? It's hard. He said it wouldn't be easy. So when it's not easy, I think to myself, you know, I could easily be the old man. And get all mad and frustrated because things aren't working out, the trials are coming, this happened, this weird things happen. Then I say to myself, the Lord said it would happen. You're going to be persecuted. I was persecuted. You're no greater than me. You may me you might know you're not only my servant, but you're my friend. We're going to see that. I love that. I think isn't wonderful But he says, as my servant and my friend, you are not above me. If they hated me, they will hate you. You will be persecuted, and you will have trials And so I can guarantee, I can guarantee I can promise you in in in my life alone, I know that what the the what's totally the opposite of what many big ministries say out there about come unto Jesus and all your problems will go away? Oh no, it's quite the opposite. You Jesus comes to you Your problems just got started because now you just started to see Christ is showing you how bad you really were. And how bad we really were. Look at Paul. He never forgot that, but he used it to help others And he used that to strengthen his faith by bringing others to the gospel. And we see that in verse 10: if you keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love. He says, My commandments are not burdensome. Here we see that Christ is going to the cross and he's saying, I'm telling you, follow the words that the Lord has given. Follow those words. Abide, commit to them, delight thyself in the Lord, as David did. Delight thyselves, and I will give you the desires of your heart. We can be punished. You see that there's a book called Fox's Book of Martyrs. I just read of another account, precious little 16-year-old girl, beautiful little girl. And she went in, she defended the name of Christ, and they took her. Then they burned her alive right in the right in the town back in the 16th century. And she stood there and she defended the name of Christ and she witnessed that she was dying You know, we we may be punished. That may happen. We see that a simple reprimand from a friend, a correction from authority, an admonition even from a pastor, could be a speeding ticket, could drive us into anger and retaliation. retaliation and these can be some of the trials that we can face. But we see as we're building up to that verse 13, as we go through that verse, and Lord willing we get to verse 16, we see how this is building up to a case How Christ calls us something that's so wonderful. We see that Christ, He never replied against the Father. He never back talked God. He from the onset of creation, man was always replying against God, but he never did it. You know one thing I noticed in Christ's ministry that's so sadly it's so prevalent in many churches All the times you read about Christ's actions and him walking from town to town, him going from synagogue to synagogue, he never back talked and he never talked poorly about any of the disciples behind their backs. He never did that. I think that's a real problem that we c we all have and it's I think it's something that we really always need to work on because sometimes we get offended He never said, Well, did you see uh the Sons of Thunder? Did you see those ugly robes they were wearing? What did they do? Buy 'em at the Seamart in Damascus or something? Did you see those sandals he was wearing? Oh they're disgusting. Did you hear what he was saying? You know, his mother really is a real she's a real real real problem. He never did that kind of stuff. The food that we had, oh that was awful. He never you never heard him complaining and putting down. What he was showing is he was something true. Something that we really need to work on. We've all been there. We get upset and he knows it. And that's why he tells us over and over again, be careful what you say. Be careful, love one another. Why do you think he said that? Do you think he would have had to have said that if people were loving one another? Trust me on this. The disciples amongst themselves had real problems There was dissension between them. I mean it was bad. Think about Paul and Barnabas. Remember that? That was a real dge between them, but later on Paul does come back and says that Barnabas' ministry was very needful and it was wonderful. Other ones he blasted. Because what they did they wound up being actu a a actual horrible like uh reproaches to the ministry and he hurt the ministry and he called them out to warn other people. It wasn't the gossip And I understand there sometimes we have to like talk and fix things, and that's wonderful. But we need to be careful and we can see what Christ was trying to show us, what he is. We see in Genesis chapter 3, verse 6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. Then we see that their son Cain also replied against God. Eve and Adam replied against God. Genesis chapter 4, verse 8 also, you see what happens With this the with this uh progression of the life of Cain and how the Lord exposes Cain and shows how murder came into the world, we see already Christ never replied against the Lord. He never did this. But look what happens here in Genesis 4, 8, and 9. If you if you if you're able to turn, if you were able to turn there in in the meet in in the interim there. Genesis 4, 8 says And Cain talked with Abel his brother. And it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and slew him. And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? Where is he? What happened to him? The Lord knew where he was. But we go back to Scripture. And he said, I know not Am I my brother's keeper? Well, one of the things that you can remember when Christ Himself says to love thy neighbor. is that you are your brother and sister's keeper. You are. We are. And I think that's a very profound statement. It's one of those really negative universal negatives that's a really horrible situation that teaches us what not to be. He was being sarcastic against the Lord and too obtuse to see God knew where Abel was What does he say later on? The Lord says, His blood crieth out from the ground, and I know you murdered him, and I know what you did. And here you see how the first Adam failed, and Christ is the second Adam. He doesn't fail. He never fails us. He never talked back to the Father. He never cursed. He never used OMGs. He never used slang. He never used blasphemy. He was obedient unto death. He obeyed the Father perfectly because he continued to love his father. He went through these these sufferings cheerfully And therefore his connection continued to love him. He abode in the Father's love because he kept the Father's law. Christ's soul delighted in the Father. He didn't fail, nor was he in any way discouraged from keeping the mission of death. He was about to enter it in less than twenty-four hours. Isn't incredible? What is he saying here? What's he trying to tell us? He's saying here, basically, he's our friend. He's our friend. Much more than a friend. I mean, he puts an awful lot of clout and an awful lot of meaning and authenticity in scripture and theological brilliance into the word friend. Sometimes we use friends very kind of like generically don't we? Oh hey brother man, how you doing? You're my friend. Yeah you meet some guy the first time and you're trying to hang out, you know you're working or with him or something like that. Hey brother, how how you doing friend? And we say that kind of lightly. But when Christ says he's your friend, he's saying there's nothing I won't do for you. I'm preparing a place for you. I will be there when you're ready to die. Even Stonewall Jackson was dying, thirty-nine years old. He had a little girl He loved the Lord with all his heart. Don't ever let the media tell you anything different. If you do if they do, and if you don't believe me, start reading about him. I did. He loved the Lord. And he, who as he's dying and he had witnessed to so many people, said, I'm ready to cross over the river. He didn't fight death He didn't say he he didn't sit there and cry and go nuts. He was ready. 39 years old. He asked the Lord to bring him over the river to bring him to him because he was ready. You see how he knew that Christ was his friend? We see here Christ's soul, he delighted in the Father. He didn't fail. We see in verse 11, he says Going from verse ten, I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love at the end of verse ten. Then he said, These things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you And that your joy might be full. And he's saying here basically, these things are going to be hard. Things are going to happen. And Christ didn't fail. He was not discouraged from keeping the mission of death that he was about to enter in. Isaiah chapter 42, verses 1 through 3. Can you imagine? Listen to these verses. In Isaiah 42, you go back to these verses, and these are messianic prophecies that perfectly come to pass, as we read in Psalm 37 this morning as we were reading one verse at a time. He says, I will bring these things to pass, which means he has the ability to see perfectly into the future. Do you Do you have per that ability? Of course you don't. I don't. Nobody does. But we depend on the Lord that does, and there are things we don't know that He knows, so that's faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, of the evidence of things not seen. For by it the elders obtained a good report. And that good report was the elders had faith, the ones that Moses had appointed, the elders all throughout Scripture. Elders are biblical. Peter was an elder And basically they obtained a good report because they had faith in the Lord and they gave it. They gave the message. Isaiah 42, 1 through 3 says Behold, my servant, whom I uphold, mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth. I have put my spirit upon him. He shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flash shall he not quench He shall bring forth judgment unto truth. He shall not fall fail. Here, here, and here's here's these wonderful attributes. He shall not fail. Christ shall not fail. Nor be discouraged, Christ shall not be discouraged, till he have set judgment in the earth, and the isles shall wait for his law. So what do we learn in Psalm and John sixteen? He says, I send to you the Spirit of truth. who has already judged the prince of this world, but I am giving judgment to him. The Holy Spirit gets judgment and takes that judgment and uses it, judges it on our behalf as Christians But uses it against those that hate the Lord. That's a very fierce, very fierce truth. We see how our Lord Jesus Christ He kept the commandments of the Father to the letter perfectly. He abrogated the law. He never took away the law. He I mean when I say he abrogated, he didn't take away the law That's the wrong word. He fulfilled the law. He lifted it up. He he encouraged it. He showed that if he kept every commandment perfectly, he is the one that has the qualifications of three offices, prophet, priest, and king. as he's getting ready to go to the cross. And he says that wonderful prayer w before he goes up in John 17, which we'll get to eventually here for the service. What he is doing is proving that he is of the order of Melchizedek. He is of the royal priesthood. He is orderly, and of that priesthood, he manifests being the ultimate sacrifice on that cross by the priesthood. Remember the sacrifices. No more animals need to be sacrificed because he's the perfect sacrifice. His blood is perfect. It's absolutely perfect. And here we see how he's getting ready But then he but he's he's he's teaching us something before he goes. He keeps the commandments perfectly and he makes that very manifest. I have fulfilled. He did not abrogate the law, he fulfilled it, he lifted it up He listened to the Father while being on this earth in his ministry. He prayed often, he spoke to the Father, he quotes scripture, even to Satan, and he never got pulled in by the world in any way And these wonderful attributes are roadmaps for our Christian walk. What do I do? How am I supposed to sit? Could I just please sit on a bench and I can have Jesus sit there with me and I can see his face and his beard You want to see his face? You want to see his beard? Well then wait till you go to heaven. You want to talk to him? You want to get inside his head and you want him to be inside of your heart? Read this. Read it. Memorize it I agree with Pastor Coleman last week. It's a great opportunity. We see in verse 11, Christ gives the ultimate lesson of joy. These things have I spoken unto you. That should be enough. If that's all you had and you had a a leather binder and all you had is one paper in it and it had red letters and one little phrase and that's all you had and it said these things I've spoken unto you And I'm telling you right now, that should be enough to bring you joy that Christ would speak to us. He had no obligation to speak to a bunch of vile, wicked people that sinned against him. I've got to be honest with you, and I'm sorry, you probably get mad at me for this. I'm sorry if I offend you, but there's some there's some of these hymns back from the 18th and 19th century that bother me Some of them are so theologically unsound when I've thank the Lord we don't sing too many of them anymore, but there's two that really bother me, especially. A lot of them I love. Some of them they bother me. The one that goes, I have decided to follow Jesus, no turning back, no turning. No, you didn't You wouldn't have decided to follow Jesus if a horse kicked you in your face, you wouldn't have decided. Never. You wouldn't do it without him. The other one, it's a good one, but it says, to the cross I cling. No, you don't. You didn't ever cling to the cross. Now if you're saying I cling to the cross because Jesus brought me to it, well you got it. That's perfect. You say that but the way I read it, and some of the other songs say that, I cling to the cross first, I ran to the cross on my own, clung to it, and that saved me. No, you didn't. You spit on that cross. You kicked dirt on that cross. You've blasphemed that cross and you've sinned against that cross with everything in your being and so have I. And the only reason you don't do it anymore is because Christ cleaned you up and he breathed life into your soul And now you cling to the cross because he cleans you first. He grabbed you first. And it's very simple. He goes, the only reason you love me is because I first love you. And if you can remember that, that is the essence of Christianity. He loved you first. He didn't change his mind. You do understand that nothing ever occurs to God. Think about that. Nothing occurs, like a little riddle That's not saying he's stupid. It's saying nothing occurs to him because he already knows it. What when you have to something has to occur to you, it's kind of like you have to have this special sparkling moment that all of a sudden you remembered something you'd forgotten a long time ago And all of a sudden it occurs to you, well that doesn't happen with the Lord. He already knows it perfectly forever. He Christ's soul, he delighted in the Father. Joy is the reward of obedience to the Father, even on this earth. We see that this consolatory discourse, this is a beautiful writing on consolation. As Christ also was called, he was called the consolation of Israel in in Luke chapter two, which is a wonderful name for him. He brings this consolatory discord. It's the key to true everlasting joy. And Christ beautifully reveals this before mankind murders him. And he knew it was coming. And he knew how it was coming once again. I've said it before. He knew every part of it. There's some wonderful quotes from believers. I think we went through some of them before, but I'm going to read a couple of them again about joy. When we are powerless to do a thing, it is a great joy that we can come and step inside the abilities of Jesus. That was from Cory Tendum. That's incredible that a woman like that could write about joy if you know anything about her. There is not one blade of grass, there is no color in this world that is not intended to make us rejoice, John Calvin says. I think about that. The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth forth his handiwork You don't have to look far to see God's handiwork. And yet all loneliness, angers, hatreds, envies, and itchings that hell contains, if rolled into one single experience and put into the scale against the least moment, of the joy that is felt by the least in heaven, would have no weight that could be registered at all. Bad cannot succeed even in being bad as truly as good as good, C. S. Lewis said. To rejoice in temporal comforts is dangerous. To rejoice in self is foolishness. To rejoice in sin is fatal, but to rejoice in God is heavenly. Charles Haddon Spurgeon. What an incredible statement. I love that. He says to rejoice in self is foolish. That's true. Rejoice in sin it's fatal. To rejoice in God, that's heavenly. He struggled hard. I was reading about him this morning and he died at the age of 57. He was so sick for about 30 years of his life. He had gout. He had all these intestinal problems. He was in he was just an abject sorrow physically and mentally And all the while writing all these wonderful sermons. He there's there's volumes. I saw the uh this this one man was selling this volumes of Charles Spurge. I was looking at it and there must be like thirty or fi it's like just Calvin's commentaries. It's incredible the sermons that he wrote. We see how joy is found in God's perfect and errant word. And remember what we've already quoted in verse 11 these things have I spoken unto you. that my joy might remain in you and that your joy might be full. He doesn't the Lord here doesn't want it to be a partial joy or just this He knows the Lord knows how we love to get our brains going and when we're not feeling well, like do something to bring a little dopamine out of our brain and try to make us a little happier. It could be f food, it could be a drink, it could be all kinds of things. But he says, I don't want it to be just some temporary little opiate high. I don't want it to be like that I wanted to be in your soul, like he told Ezekiel to eat the scrolls. Why did he tell him that? Well, because he hadn't eaten in a few days and he wasn't and he was out of food? No. He told him to eat the scrolls, and then Ezekiel comes back and he goes, They were sweeter than honey. He wanted him to eat the scrolls because they would be in him. They would flow through his blood and they would come out of his pores. He wanted that word to come out and him prophesy it and everything to be about that, even to the point where in Ezekiel 26 he took away the desire of his heart. He killed his wife. The Lord took her home early, which she got off many years for good behavior, and then all of a sudden he said to Ezekiel, Don't even shed a tear. Don't even cry over it. That's hard. And Ezekiel the rest of his life was married to Christ, who took the position of his wife in essence, and followed him all the way to his death until he went and saw his wife again, and the Lord told him I want you to eat those scrolls and prepare yourselves for that and use those scrolls to give my word and my testimony to those that are hurting, especially. He said, give it to those that are defiant of me, the ones that I called my people. who are now serving false idols, the Israelites. He wanted him to blast them. We actually should be doing that today. They're horrible. They're not honoring the Lord. Here's a mar that was a marvelous quote that we just read. We see God's inerrant word, he brings us joy. Let me read you Job chapter 41, verse 22. In his neck remaineth strength, and sorrow is torn turned into joy before him. There's no greater quotes of joy than can be in other than what we can find in Scripture. Psalm 16, 11 says, Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore. Isaiah 65, 19. What of oh there's so many wonderful verses in Isaiah 65 All throughout Isaiah Isaiah, Isaiah 65, 19, and I will rejoice in Jerusalem and joy in my people, and the voice of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice of crying We don't hear from Habakkuk a whole lot. Here's Habakkuk 3. 18. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. And he's in the middle of a real hard time where his country is totally turned on the Lord. He's one of the few little prophets left and he's preaching his heart out. Here's a good one. We we this is a very uh wonderful blessing to us. We all know this one. Luke chapter two verse ten. And the angel said unto him, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. First Peter one eight, here's another one. Peter comes back and he talks about how you know he remembers Christ as his friend. He was such a wonderful friend and he knew that Christ was his Savior. Remember Christ had said, who who do you say? Not the scuttle butt on the street. What are they talking about me Whom do you say that I son of I the son of man M? Peter says, Thou art the Christ of the living God. Wow. Blessed be thou, Simon Bar Jonah. Boy, that was a good The Lord knew what he was going to say, but he gave him that one wonderful blessing. He said, Thou art the Christ of the living God. Here's what Peter says About joy, whom first Peter one eight, whom having not seen ye love, in whom though now ye see him not, Yet believing. Don't forget that. Yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. For all ages, this is the true source of joy. Christ is true joy. How is it acquired? The Lord gave it to him. He had it eternally. He wasn't begotten to be created. Christ was begotten to be revealed to us and give us joy. Joy comes from loving one another. He says this in verse 12. This is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. Brotherly love. Romans 12, 9 Go into Romans 12 and Paul he solidifies this when he says being kindly affectionate to one another. He talks about how we're the arms and legs, the toes, the fingers of the church, and Christ is the head of the church. He says, you know, let love not be without simple be without assimilation. A poor that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. And he talks about brotherly love, about how we lift each other up and how we love each other. He says this commandment is to love one another as I've loved you. This is a question of ironical uh uh and irony of proportion. Why would the father who rightfully loves his most worthy son love a people who sinned against him, reply against him, who are unworthy? It's because the people that Brother Todd Friel said that he preaches to the most. are those that think that they have heaven locked in because they deserve it. They're the ones that he really, that's a good statement he makes. He says, the ones that he talks to and he says, About depart from me, I'd I have never known you. When they first hear the first two letters D He said when he talks to people about that and they're not sure, he says there are people that cry, they cringe, they're upset about it, it bothers them, they lose sleep, they contact them, what do you mean by that? He says, those are the ones that I love because they care. That's one of the marks of a Christian. Does it bother you? Because I talk to a lot of people. They're not bothered. I'm good. I'm fine. I don't need anything. Human achievement. The other world religion. It's human achievement We're not worthy. We never were. That question actually proposes quite a conundrum. It's a m a major dilemma. So why does Christ love us if we're not at all worthy? Christ reveals the heavenly answer with one perfect blessing after another. It's a heavenly transfer. We have an alien righteousness. You ever heard of that? Martin Luther said it. You ever listen to Martin Luther? You ever read his works? We have an alien righteousness. No, we don't have ET living inside of us phoning home. No. It's not that kind of alien. It's something that we never had and possessed on our own that someone else needed to help us with. And not only does he give us that righteousness, look what else he does. Verse 13, this is a big one. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. Look at what he's saying this. He's about to lay his life down for his friends. Friends? Those that spit upon him? Do you realize some of the very people that spat upon him got saved after that? There was a Roman soldier there. Did you ever hear of Alexis Menos? Alexamenus? Have you ever heard of that? Now you've seen all of these reliquies. And you've heard about the big problem with the Notre Dame church burning down because the reliquie burned down. And the reliques have the thorns in Christ's head and you can touch and be blessed by them and be venerated Or you can touch the nails that were in Jesus' hands. The problem is you can go to all these different reliquies, and there's over 7,000 nails they found. Now that would hurt. And there's all like there's hundreds and hundreds of crowns of thorns. They're not the real crowns of thorns. But here's what's interesting. Greater love has known me in this that he lay down his life for a friend. He's getting ready to go to the cross. And when there's all these venerations for all these nails and all of these things, he's not talking about these things. He's talking about what he has done for us and what we are not worthy of. He says, Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. He says here, that ye love one another as I love you, and I'm going to prove this to you. He came down to this earth, sent from the Father, and left his throne to save a lost and dying world. John 3. 17 says, For God sent not a Son of the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Love thy neighbor, Mark chapter 12, verse 31. Christ talked about this all through his ministry. And the second is like, namely this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. Isn't it amazing how the last six commandments deals with loving your neighbor? Isn't that amazing? Very funny message. I mean it's really shouldn't be funny, but it was to me. A pastor was preaching and he starts getting into this and he says I had to counsel this guy like 30-some years ago and the guy came into my office and he says to me, I hate my wife. I despise her. I hate her. And he says, well, you know what the Bible commands. He said that, you know, you're to love your wife more than yourself. You're to love her more than yourself. He goes, I hate her so much, I don't want to love her like myself. I want her out of here. And I want her gone. And he goes, she can move in next door to me as far as I'm concerned. But I don't even want her here. He says, well, she moves next door to you. The Bible says to love your neighbor. You're to love her on that level. He says, I despise her because she despises me and I hate her. He says, well, you're to love your enemy. He got him all the way he said Dr. Sproul got him all the way down the line. He couldn't say anything after that. You know, it's amazing how there's no reason for us if we love Christ to knowing what I'm about to tell you here. There's no reason to hate anybody. There's no reason not to welcome people into the church. I don't care who they are There's no reason not to take care of them and not to encourage them in the Lord. Give them the gospel. Two sodomites are holding hands walking. Great. Let them sit down, give them the gospel. I'm not going to preach, but we're going to love them. Well, two couple Muslims come in here. They come in here whenever they sit down. I don't care who they are. Let them come in. Let's give them the gospel. Let's show them. Let's show them from Scripture what true religion is all about. And to show that we're not here being the terrorists that we're being called by all these liars. We're not terrorists and we're not a cult. We're not Jesus freaks. We're following the truth. This religion should not be a religion or just an arbitrary belief. It should be life in your blood. You should be, that's that's what's called being grafted into that vine. And the Lord says, you see it like that, what am I going to do? I am your friend that sticketh closer than the brother. He says, I called you servants. He says that I called you friend. But the servant and the friend is not greater than his Lord. If they hate me, they'll hate you, but I'm still your friend. I'm your friend that sticketh closer than a brother. And when I read this, all I can think about is these precious, precious, lovely soldiers who gave their lives for this country, going all the way back to the wars, all of them I'm praying hard. I was on my knees praying for this 13 that died that got killed in the last couple of weeks, giving their lives. I think of this precious young girl, Amy Cyril Caprio, down here's names in Perry Hall, and how I remember the day that happened, I know where it happened and how she was Going on a routine call and this this wicked marauder literally drugged with his Jeep and killed her. She's got a she has a husband who's still in abject sorrow. She gave her life. She's out there working as first responders and then all of a sudden this wicked man steals the election and they're going in, they're crying out against the police and they're saying how bad the police are and they want to stop the police like this guy up here in New York. He hasn't one policeman anymore. These people had given their life. You know, Sheriff Gaylor up there, hey I wish I was in Harford County. I'd I'd vote for him in a minute. He's a wonderful, wonderful sheriff He loves the lives of the people, that he puts his people all of their lives on the line for his people, for the people that are that he works for. And that's what it's all about. Being able to g to give your life for a friend, and that's what Christ is doing here. He says it's a commandment that you love one another Others have laid down their lives for their friends, and how beautiful is that. I think of going up to the the church up at the Marcus Hook Bible Presbyterian Church. You know, while it's there, it's interesting to visit. You go out, this old church has been there, it burned down, but it was there back and they rebuilt it back in the 1600s. I preached there several times. And I can never forget, I love to go take a break, and I walk all around the cemetery. You go all the way in the back, you have those that have died in the French and Indian War. the uh the war between the states, the revolutionary war. And you just saw hundreds and hundreds of graves there. And you see all those that have given their life You can't preach or talk about this verse without bringing that up. The difference is they fought against their enemies and died to preserve their fellow man. Christ died for his enemies. We're his enemies. We are. And he's the one that that's brought us to be his friend. Romans chapter 5, verse 10 says, For if when w for if when we were enemies For if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. That's Romans chapter 5, verse 10. What a beautiful verse. The statement of laying down one's life for his friend is supreme evidence and a manifestation of the love of our Lord Jesus Christ, and it's full proof of love. that he has for us because surely he's getting ready to lay his life down. He's he's actually doing everything that he says he does. There are those still that are his enemies who will be saved. Saul of Tarsus will be saved. Joseph of Arimathea was just saved. Nicodemus is just saved. Those two who really are very courageous warriors, Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea, if remember them? They put their lives on the line to beg for the body of Christ and to peel his dead, rotted, rotting, mutilated, horribly treated body off of that cross and to put him in that tomb. That was very difficult. Look at some quotes here about friendship I have for you, and we'll finish here in a minute. Quotes about friendship. Walking with a friend in the dark is better than walking alone in the light Boy, that's a very profound statement made by Helen Keller. Helen Keller, she was blind. Walking with a friend in the dark is better than walking alone in the light. When the reality of Christ is introduced into a relationship of love and trust that has already been established, the effect is powerful. And it seems that invariably, when someone becomes a true follower of Christ, that person's first impulse is to want to find a friend and introduce that friend to Jesus Christ. Who other but John MacArthur? He said that. Here's another one. Associate yourself with men of good quality. If you esteem your own reputation, it is better to be alone than in bad company, speaking about friendship. That came from George Washington. Here's three Bible verses about friendship. Exodus chapter 33, verse 11. And what an incredible blessing here for Moses. And the Lord spake unto Moses face to face as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp But his servant Joshua, the son of none, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle. They spoke as friends. This is proof that God means what he says. You can actually read the words. God spoke not only to Moses, but he spoke to Joshua face to face as if they were friends. Basically. And that's a metaphor. He didn't a Moses didn't actually see the face of God or he would have died. But he heard his voice. And he says it was as if seeing his face. Lord told him he couldn't see his face, so he couldn't see his face But he talked and it spoke face to face as if they were friends. And you wonder, you know, everybody thinks and makes God out to be some this great big raging horrible dictating commander. He's not like that Proverbs 1824, we read it earlier. A man that hath friends must show himself friendly, and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. All the way back in Proverbs, goes right to these verses here, in John chapter 15. James chapter 2, verse 23, and the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. Isn't that wonderful? We are called to exemplify the same love as Christians, to be prepared. to even sacrifice our lives for our friends and to love our enemies in limitation I mean in in I'm sorry in imitation of Christ's example. First John 3. 11 says, for this is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. In verse 12 in verse John chapter 3 says, Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil and his brothers at his brother's righteousness. Verse 13: Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. And this is a commandment of all commandments. What do the Pharisees say? What's the greatest commandment? And the Lord said, two commandments. I'm going to break this down. First four, love the Lord God Almighty with all your heart, mind, and soul. Love your neighbor. Which they really struggled with, didn't they? And I'll end with this, as I just said, Matthew twenty two, thirty-seven, and that'll Jesus saith unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and greatest commandment. And then he says we're t to love love our neighbor we'll we're to we're to l love one another. 1 John 5, 3 says, For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous. I I don't understand why that's so hard. I think a lot of people struggle with that. In fact they're even saying that the Old Testament commandments are gone. They're not even real anymore. I've heard that a lot. That's not true. I mean if you read the New Testament how many times I mean I think the the greatest uh I think the one of the greatest verses that's quoted all throughout the New Testament many, many times is is Psalm 110-1, going back to the Old Testament The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. Isaiah 53 is quoted all over the place. And you see how the New Testament is so plugged into the Old Testament You can't say, well, we've got a whole new set of commandments under the righteousness of Christ. We don't have to follow them anymore. No, he fulfilled them. He fulfilled them to accentuate them and to teach them and to encourage us in them. John 1. 12 says, But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And then one last verse, Romans ten nine, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead Thou shalt be saved. It's that simple. Heavenly Father, what a beautiful set of verses. Many verses we've read this morning that thou hast taught us. Lord, we thank thee, Lord, for being with us. We pray that thou would bless these words to our hearts, that we will consider, that we will memorize, that we will read them especially, that we will love them. And Lord, I pray that thou wouldst just embolden us and burn them into our soul. We thank thee, Lord, for thy precious testimony. And pray that thou wouldst guide and direct us in the way we should go. In the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.