As you're turning, last week we spoke about how Christ had said, ask in my name, and he says, I will do it. If ye shall ask anything in my name, I will do it. That if you love me, keep my commandments. We are in John chapter 14, and we will be reading now verses 25 to 31. That's John 14, 25 to 31, as a continuation of last week, and it's incredible what our Lord has to say here. So let's read. John fourteen twenty five These things have I spoken unto you being yet present with you But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled Neither let it be afraid. Ye have heard how I said unto you I go away and come again unto you. If ye love me, ye would rejoice, because I said I go unto the Father, for my Father is greater than I And now I have told you before it come to pass, that when it has come to pass, ye might believe. Hereafter I will not talk much with you, for the prince of this world cometh, and have nothing in me. But that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence. Our Heavenly Father, bless these words to our hearts. I pray that thou wouldst prepare us, Lord, to understand and to ingest these words. I pray that they will be like the scrolls that Ezekiel ingested, and that thy word came out of his pores like honey, and it tasted sweet to him I ask, Lord, that as we read these words together, that our minds would be off of everything other than these words, and that all the secular will be left out in the secular world, and that the thoughts of thee will be today amongst us in thy sanctuary on the Sabbath day to keep it holy. I pray that reverence will be the utmost importance. And as Paul said, how come they hear without a preacher? Lord, I just pray, Lord, that as we expound these words and we learn them together to bless our hearts. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen We see that it's God's, our Lord Jesus Christ, who is God, his free and sovereign grace given from the Father, that He would choose, that He would manifest Himself to us. He didn't have to He says, you want to know what's going to happen, I'm going to tell you. I'm going to stay with you through the Spirit I'm going to leave the comforter with you. I am going to give you comforting words. You will read them and you will hide them in your hearts. And when you do, your hearts will not be troubled. We see that he speaks of the Father, and he says, I Christ will love those that keep my words, and I will abide with them through the Spirit. And Christ confirms these are not just my words. But the Fathers which sent me. We spoke this morning in the Sunday school class how the Holy Spirit is personable. The Holy Spirit is not immaterial The Holy Spirit is not just a concept or some kind of theoretical, mystical uh presence, but that the Holy Spirit actually can hear us speak. And articulate words, and it's perfectly brilliant. It's the third part of the Godhead and gives our prayers to the right hand of the Father, which is to our Lord Jesus Christ. And here Christ implores his disciples who are still in a state of confusion, as we just saw back last week. We saw if you go back to verse 22 in John 14. Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us? He's still asking. The disciples are asking, how will you manifest yourself unto us? As it's almost a reminds me of when the Pharisees kept saying, Show us a sign, show us a sign, show us a sign. It's amazing how Christ comes back. He says, I'm not going to show you anything, but that sign of Jonah, who was in the great fish for three days, as he would be in the tomb for three days. Right So we see here that here Christ still continues on. Well, I have a little bit of an introduction here, and when we look at verse 25, I think it's fascinating what Christ is saying here, but I'd like to say this first. Love is the root and obedience is the fruit. That is what we see here. And there is veneration for the authority of Christ. There is a need in us for habitual practice of his commands as evidence of as believers that we love him. There is a way that we see, basically, when you go forward in chapter 15, which we looked at this morning That he abides in us and we abide in him, and how is that? Well, I believe we can differentiate that by what the demons know, as opposed to what we know There is a difference between what they know. In James 2. 19 we read, Thou believeth that there is one God. Let me read that again Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead Oh, whoa! That must be the epitaph and that must be the title of the Arminians. Well, we can't have faith without works. But what comes first? What comes first? Our salvation comes first. Our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We're justified by faith, and then works follow. But wilt thou, obey man? The demons know everything about Christ. You can know everything about Christ. You can think you know everything about Christ and still be on your way to hell. Hell is real. We talked this morning about the parable of the vine. Pray says, I am the true vine. And he says, those that are not of that are of the vine that are dead are broken off like chaff and they're burned in the fire. And that's not metaphorical. There is a real burning hell. And that is what's going to happen. The demons know who Jesus is. Remember the man of Cadera and all the disciples are standing there and they're in absolute horror. They're just basically frozen because there's this man who's taking his clothes off, ripping chains off, he's running through the cemetery like a madman. And then Jesus just stands there, no doubt, just exactly as calm and as collective and as pure as he was in the back of the boat or in the tempest when the storms were raging and he's asleep. And he looks at that man and that that man did not bother him one bit. That wicked demonic man did not even make him flinch. And he stands there. Can you imagine the look on his face? He stands there. And the man looks and the demons cry out. Who art thou, O Son of Man, that we would have anything to do with you? They literally referred to him as the Son of Man They knew who he was. And incredible, but they knew who he was, and they knew everything about it, but there's something that's missing. Massive. Christ does not abide in demons. And if your says, demons cannot abide in you Only the Holy Spirit can. There is not enough, you do not have enough hotel space in your heart, in your temple, to store demons and the Holy Spirit at the same time You do not have a condominium in your heart. You have a temple, and it's either filled by the Holy Spirit or it's not. The Lord teaches us that. We see that these works that we do for the Lord and the testimony we give by telling others about him are expressions of the love which the Spirit pours out into the hearts of those that are the followers of Christ, and he gives you words to say. Where there's love for Christ, there are words. When there's a will, there's a way. When there's a will, there's a drill. I'll never forget here in that Bible class when I was young, that when there's a will, there's a drill. And the drill is reading scriptures and learning it and drilling it into your mind repetitiously, reading it over and over again, learning Bible verses, praying, and asking the Lord throughout the day to guide and direct you and to give you the words to say and he will. He says, He that loveth me, he that loveth me not. Go back to verse 24, he keepeth not my sayings. Sayings. Those that love me not, they don't keep my sayings. Sayings. The demons knew him And the difference is they did not love him, they did not keep his sayings, they hate him. And I find it fascinating through this whole horrible assassination of our brother Charlie Kirk, all the demons that have arisen amongst all of this and they've manifested themselves and they many of them even quote Bible verses. They have these little phrases that are from the Bible and they say things and they use it against the work that he was doing. I find that very amazing. There's such confusion about what works. What works must be accomplished to prove a relationship to Christ. We see here in verse 26 The comforter, but the comforter which is in the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name. I'll be going to that in a minute, because I want to go back to verse 25, but I never can stop thinking about Martin Luther Martin Luther and what happened in the early part of his religious life, his father wanted him to be a lawyer, he wanted to go into the monastic orders. And he could not get peace in his heart about where he was going when he dies. He cared about that. And so with the monastic orders, he did everything, every work he could think of in order to be able to make himself feel some kind of joy or comfort in his heart that he would be one with God and he couldn't do it. That's really the truth. The truth of the matter is is People can mask that, they can posture it, but they cannot provide that peace that passeth all understanding without the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what did it to Martin Luther. Let me read this. Martin Luther, he was a major example. He was asked at one point in his days of the monastery if he loved God. Do you love God? Do you love him? His reply, sometimes I hate him. There was never enough obedience of the monastic orders following of the rituals, the penance, the prayers to the church to give Luther that peace in his heart, taking his confessions to men that no doubt were just as unsaved at the time as he was, for sure. And he had no peace with that whatsoever. Then he read Romans. Verse after verse after verse, he read Romans. The just shall live by faith. And it is Jesus Christ that bears all of our iniquities. Verse 25. What about verse 25? No, we can spend a lot of time on that first phrase. These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you. In that second phrase, too. Well, we're still in the upper room. These are massive promises that our Lord has perfectly given and they will be carried out to the remaining. So many had departed already. So many disciples had left him. With eternal heaven being promised, the Lord saying that he would take his own, he would prepare a place for them. You go back to John 6, and there were still those that said, This is a hard saying, Lord, how can we know it? And they left him We see heaven and heaven's resources along with joy. He's giving that protection, peace of the Holy Spirit, and guarantees that he would be with them. See what happens is our Savior does something here He does something that we're not really capable of. He goes back on every last syllable vowel phrase, parable, everything he said from the time he began speaking to them, and he reifies every bit of it and remembers it, and he tells them that it is all the truth. Remember what happens in John chapter 17, where Christ comes back and he says, Sanctify them through thy truth, for thy word is truth. As thou hast sent me into the world, even so I send them into the world. And for their sakes do I sanctify myself, so that they may be sanctified through the truth. And he said that over and over again, repetitiously. Sanctified through the truth. And what that means is our spiritual growth is predicated on the truth of Jesus Christ, and he promises If we have that truth and we love it, he will sanctify us, but he will be there with us. That's what he taught. He was imploring and he was commanded. He ratified all his words and he never retracted Anything that he ever said, all the time he was with him. He never came back and he said, You know when I said that sermon and they threw me over the cliff? I was wrong that day. I'm sorry. What I told you was not right He never once had to do that. Never once did he redact or do anything to pull back on what he had said. He offers everything to us. We see that in verse 25. We see that he promises that He says, he says being present with you, and he's asking a question very much like he asked Nicodemus, and he also had asked on the road to Emmaus when he was speaking to Cleopathus on his friend He goes, You are Jewish rulers. You are Christians. He said that to Cleatus, but then he said to Nicodemus, You are a Jewish ruler. You don't know these things Have I not been present with you enough? Haven't you seen my works and what I've done? Well, he uses the spirit of truth as his agent Remaining on this earth, and what happens to the Holy Spirit, Christ goes to be with the Father. Remember the first advent. The Holy Spirit is the connection to the second coming. That is going to connect the second coming with the first, and the Holy Spirit leads us and tells us exactly what's going to happen And the whole time Christ was here on the earth, the Holy Spirit is his paracletos, his advocate, the one that stood by him. And since that Holy Spirit stood by him, he says, the Holy Spirit will stand by us personally. Not in some like we talked about last week, in some broad corporate spectrum, like we're in the middle of some great big auditorium and the Holy Spirit does everything at once for everybody. No, personally. A personal relationship where Christ says, Ye are my sheep, and I know you by name, and that's how the Holy Spirit treats us. Hebrews 9. 28 says So Christ was once offered to bear sins of many, and unto them that look for him, he shall appear the second time without sin unto salvation. He will prepare us. We see in the midst of darkness and bleakness of the tribulations of this world, Christ as we saw, we saw Christ as last week as the comforter, he's our advocate. We see through the Spirit of truth, He will lift that darkness. John 14 7, that we get back a little bit, said, If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also, and from henceforth ye know him and have seen him John 16, 7, we read, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go away, for if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you, but if I depart, I will send him unto you. And you know what I love about this? One of the hardest things to have in any type of a relationship, whether it's parents or children, or whether it's maybe a teacher or a boss or anything One of the greatest things that you can have is righteous transparency. Is to have be able to explain yourself and let other people know what's going on. I remember Dave Ramsey always says when he's when he's teaching his his uh his Christian financial uh um applications there. He always says being uh being uh uh unclear is being unkind. And here Christ never, never let them wonder what really is going to happen. He gives them a step-by-step, it's almost bullet bullet points all the way down the line. He's saying, I am going to leave you. I'm going to the cross. You're going to flee. You're going to be afraid. Fear took them over. Instead of having sorrow in their hearts at the time, fear took them over because they knew what a crucifixion looked like They knew how bloodthirsty this that it could be when you go through a crucifixion, you go through these public executions. These public executions were brutal and they were scared to death And the Lord knew that they would scatter, and they did. And so he, even knowing that, prepared them and gave him this discourse and encouraged them and showed them this. We see here that Christ is telling them that the world is caught up in lies and deception, but you can count on me. The word of God is always true, and it's the only pure truth that we can learn and we can be comforted by. What else can you do when someone finds out they have terminal cancer? Or when you go down and you're praying with somebody and they're dying, you're going to sit there and you're going to give them something from Aesop or Confucius or something or quotes from all these wicked people? That's going to do nothing? You give them Christ. He's the Comforter. Here we see that the God of truth has spoken to His Son, and who is always with truth, and His Son will send the Spirit of truth. He will send comfort through what's called in the Jewish teachings the Hamalitz or the Advocate, the Spirit of Eternity, or the Ruach Olam, and He will teach them now. You know what's incredible is how many of y'all remember Larry Briquette? Remember listening to him? He was excellent before Dave Ramsey. He did a very good job. I think he died of cancer and it hit him early. And he had some really good wonderful lessons on finances and Dave Ramsey's and they gave financial they give financial counseling to the radio or books you've heard them speak and how important it is how important it is that we leave an inheritance to our family, whether it be through life insurance or retained earnings from work for many years, money saved and putting into a will It's very important. And we see here that Christ leaves us something that's better than anything we can touch Any better than a than a than a treasure, like a treasure chest full of gold medallions or money or that that incredible beautiful car sitting in grandpa's garage or something like that He leaves us the Comforter and He leaves us the parakletos. He leaves us the Holy Spirit. And the reason that I keep going on and on about this is because as we've talked about in the Sunday school class, the Holy Spirit is so. Misunderstood and so underrated and so underestimated. And sometimes, sadly, it's overused. Because overused, people use the Holy Spirit as an excuse to do things that are not godly, even in worship And we need to understand the Holy Spirit. And I've got six quotes here that refer to the Holy Spirit that I'd like to share with you, and I really believe it'll encourage us And to know that before we read them, we're talking about the parakletos. Christ is our paraclete, and the Holy Spirit is our parakletos, the one that walks beside us, the one that comforts us. Here are some quotes. Trying to do the Lord's work in your own strength is the most confusing, exhausting, and tedious of all work. But when you are filled with the Holy Spirit, then the ministry of Jesus just flows out of you. You can imagine who said this, that this really makes sense from her. Corey Tenboon, that was a quote from her Here's another quote. The Holy Spirit is the bond by which Christ efficaciously unites us to himself. Boy, how simple is that. Efficaciously, he's efficient. That means when Christ does this, there's an perfect efficiency there. It's efficacious. That's from John Calvin. Here's number three. Without the Spirit of God, we can do nothing. We are as ships without wind. We are useless. Charles Spurgeon. Here's a fourth one. Our nation will prosper or decline in direct proportion to our selection of leaders who are guided by the Holy Spirit. If we fail to select godly leaders, our destiny will surely be as that of the Roman Empire. You'd think that's George Washington, don't you? You think that's Patrick Henry? No. It's Ronald Reagan. That's incredible. That's a great quote from Ronald Reagan Now here's a big one. Oh, they're all big. The true spirit of prayer is no other than God's own spirit dwelling in the hearts of the saints And as the Spirit comes from God, so does it naturally tend to God in holy breathings and pantings. It naturally leads to God to converse with Him by prayer. Jonathan Edwards. Well, that's a great statement. And number six, prayer is a sincere, sensible, affectionate pouring out of the soul to God. through Christ in strength and assistance of the Spirit for such things as God has promised. Twelve years in jail John Bunyan. And he he's taught how he'd like the last two speak about how important prayer is with the Holy Spirit. Pastor Coleman, a couple weeks ago, never underestimate your prayers. Christ is handling this as his last will and testament, as we saw. This is his personal advocate, a marvelous representative of God to guide, he protects, he speaks to us And we are his heirs. The Spirit will inspire the writers of God's Word to write the truth, to teach, and to build the church. And once again The canonization of Scripture has been so ripped apart that even today theologians are saying that those writers, even the prophets, did not know they were writing scripture. They didn't know that it was being written down. Then we can go all the way back to Job, and Job comes back and he says something very profound. He says, Oh, but and I have to kind of word this myself because I don't have the exact wording, but he said in essence he was saying Oh, the trials, the horrors, the tribulations that I've been through, and the works of Christ. Remember, he said, My Redeemer leveth, oh, that they were written in a book. You know, can you imagine what he would what he would see if he could see this today down here? I mean, this is incredible They knew they were writing scripture. Those that wrote it. Job could say that because he didn't write that. There were other writers in the Old Testament. But let me tell you something. The disciples, the apostles, knew they were writing scripture. They knew that it was the holy inspired word of God, and they didn't back out on that. And so if you can come up with such a prophetic lie Oh, you can mask the scriptures and then you can say, well, this should be taken out. Oh, I've been reading stuff there. Some one one one uh group of people believe it's uh it's actually an evangelical group of people believe that there's part of 1 John, I think it's chapter 5 that should be take taken out. I could be wrong about that, but somewhere like this verses in 1 John 5. And others say that Esther should have never been in Scripture. It has nothing to do with Scripture. Others have said that. Who says that? They're fools. Well, Christ brings the scriptures and the gospel alive through his word, through the Holy Spirit. And he brings alive all the wonderful prophecies of the coming Messiah to the ultimate atonement for the remission of sins. He says that the Holy Spirit will bring all things to remembrance to you. Everything you will remember it. He says, even if you feel trepidation and you're anticipating speaking some biblical applications, or out of nowhere, you're brought to witness to somebody. He says that I will teach you and I will speak to you through the Holy Ghost. Luke 12, 11, written in verse 12, it says And when they bring you into the synagogues and unto magistrates and powers, take ye no thought of how or what thing ye shall answer and what ye shall say, for the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what ye ought to say It's amazing how Christ brought that up because how how much more nervous could you be if you're standing in front of magistrates and you're facing death? And even in the situation that's that Absolutely tragic and frightening. He says even the Holy Spirit will speak to you then Sadly, this is not possible for unbelievers. And I think when we hear those that are trying to mask some kind of a religion without Christ, It makes it very clear that they don't know what they're talking about. Because the Spirit brings truth, and without that you can't have it. It comes to our remembrance, but it cannot come to the unbelieving sinners. Sure, they can learn, they can attain worldly knowledge and know certain applications regarding science and religion and math and mechanics and all these wonderful things, but they don't have the truth about eternity. First Timothy chapter two verse four says, Who will have all men to be saved and to come unto the knowledge of the truth for the Holy Spirit for those that the Lord has called. We see here that the Spirit brings truth. You know, a great order of scripture, whether it's a pastor or whoever is measured by one who preaches the whole counsel of our Savior. A pastor begs the Lord to bring remembrance to him as he learns to apply his message. And he is fearful that he might say something that might hurt someone. He might say something that would cause them to question. Whether this is true or not. And I see this a lot when the inerrancy of Scripture is being questioned. Scripture is is not holy and inerrant anymore Whatever happened? All that is is like a false genre. It's wrong. The whole council can only be preached by the whole scriptures. That's the only way. The Holy Spirit brings that. He brought that to the apostles. He gave them an attained, accurate understanding where to lead the messages about Christ in the New Testament. We read in 2 Peter 1, verses 20 and 21, knowing this first, that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost And then Christ goes on, and we see this going to verse 27. He says, and on top of this, with the inheritance that we spoke about many of the things that Christ left last week, he says, peace I leave unto you. He goes, Let your heart not be troubled. He says, I will be troubled, I'm going to the cross, and I'm going to bear all of this for you. And we see there's applications of peace that we can wrap our hearts or minds around. And basically the very first application is objective from an action, a peace that will be left with the followers of Christ, a signifying reconciliation. That comes and it ends our alienation from God, and that objective was for him to do the action of dying on the cross to save us from our sins. That's the action, and that's the objective he gives us. And he did that for us. And in Romans 5 verse 1, we read, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace. with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And this application is judicial. God's wrath is ended forever. And this peace is a result of atonement. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine being on your deathbed, leaving this earth and facing Christ, and Christ saying, I'm your lawyer. I am your advocate. The Holy Spirit led you to me. You are free. Well done, my good and faithful servant. Can you imagine that? Here the second application is subjective. The first one is objective. This is subjective. The subject existing by perception through Scripture. Here, the subject is the Holy Spirit. This piece is confirmed by the Apostle Paul. The objective is the action. The subjective nature is the Holy Spirit itself, is the subject. Philippians 1-2 says, Grace be unto you in peace from God our Father and from our Lord Jesus Christ. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus, and as we've been learning, through the Holy Spirit, who will walk beside you. And we understand that this peace comes from our Lord Jesus Christ. It's in our hearts, and He shows us what to do. That's why one of His names, one of the Hebrew names for our Lord Lord God Almighty, is Jehovah Shalom, or the God of peace. And this became a great greeting to the disciples following the resurrection. We see in John chapter 20, verse 19, we read Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst of them and said, saith unto them, Peace be unto you. Romans 8. 6, for to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Psalm 37, 37 says, Mark the perfect man and behold the upright, for the end of that man is peace. But isn't that what we all really want in our hearts? There are so many that are worth billions of dollars that have no peace in their hearts. They cry out. I read some of the final sayings of some of the atheists in some of our early Sunday school classes of the summer And they cried out in the things that they said, one of them was screaming, I can feel the fire. And that's not peace. How do you know that you have that peace? You know one of the marks to have that peace is to want to share it with others, is to tell them how they can find that peace. It's not a treasure chest that you're trying to hide in the sand so that you can save all the gold for yourself. It's a beautiful blessing that you can share with other people. Are you saved? Are you blessed with that covenant of grace? Christ has entitled you to this peace, and He it passeth all understanding. It's joy unspeakable. And you know we we we may have overwhelming fears and griefs in this life, but we should not yield to them and let them destroy that joy and not ruin our testimony. What is peace? By the world's standards, it's a healthy bank account. Or it's a 401k plan. It's or endless college degrees plastered all over the wall. A sizable inheritance on the way, big tax breaks, or the repeal of of some of the some of the laws that have that have taken away some of our finances. These are all temporal, but the ultimate piece is what Christ is teaching us here. Verses 28 and 29, we consider the circumstances here. Here Christ says here, ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away and come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice. Ye would rejoice knowing that in the Old Testament you should know that I was coming to die I wasn't coming to take David's throne and turn it right side up so that the alabasters would gleam on my first coming. That will be coming in the second coming. The first one, I am going to prepare a place for you. And and to bring peace to you. That's what he's saying. He says, let your hearts not be troubled. He Christ loved where he was going, and to him that was peace and joy. He needed to feel He what he did was he had his endurance fueled by the heart Holy Spirit and these upcoming horrors that he was going to have to face. He could see the big picture. Whereas many times we can't If we're praying, the Lord will give us that through the Holy Spirit and through Scripture. He will show us that. He said, if you love me, you would rejoice. He wants them to focus on exalting him and exalting the Father to not be sorrowful. Look at what Peter, Peter will write this later, 1 Peter 1, 6. Think about what I'm about to read here, and look at where he is right now. Right now he is hours away from denying Christ three times as Christ is getting ready to go to the cross. He denies him and we we can once again we can we can think about that poignant that incredible moment where Peter's standing there in the courtyard and Christ walks out chained and he looks at Peter. Says that he looked at him and he gazed at him. Look at what Peter says here in 1 Peter 1, verses 6 and 7. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations That the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found under praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ Whom having not seen, ye love in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. We see that the eleven are left, and they still have considerable unbelief, but the Lord is not going to leave them. Please, if you haven't learned anything today, learn this. The disciples were about to leave and scatter, and when their dear friend who they love so much is about to be taken in. As human beings, we would see somebody leaving and scattering from us and be greatly, greatly offended in our hearts We would feel a great gulf between them. We might even not love them anymore. We might get furious and we might not want to have anything to do with them. That's how we are as human beings. But what we can learn from Christ, when these various disciples just scattered and left him and they went all the way up to Galilee, he went after them. After he died and he resurrected and he went after them to tell them and to have the women at the tomb tell them he had prepared, he has resurrected. And they're like, what And he's like, I've been telling you this all along. Thomas says, show me the holes in your hands. And he even does that. He holds his hands out and says, stick your fingers in the holes. That's how wide they were. And he does that. You might have days where you forget about him. You might have days where you think that he's not there. He's not you, and you're not him yet. He's not going to leave you. He will not. And if you have that faith, you will come back. You will pray more. You will read more. Stop having this horrible cliche, which was one of the one of the terms that I've hated the most as in in the ministry that the Lord has graced me with. I hate the term fire and brimstone sermons I've always hated that. Because I thought when that came up what that did was that deflated true traditional obedient worship And people were saying, I don't want to hear about hell anymore. I don't want to hear about sin anymore. I want to be lifted up. I don't want to hear that fire and brimstone. True preaching were firing brimstone pastors that were preaching the truth about what would happen with sin. And here Christ is making very clear, no matter what, I will not cast you away. But there is a barrier between Christ There was a very, very small, brief barrier between Christ and his humanity and the Father on that cross, and the whole time the Holy Spirit was with him. Christ, he will carry the sins of the world. He speaks about it in the Old Testament. He talks about it. And he does it through David. This is with great humility and humiliation. There's a separation that the Lord had because of our sins. And we see in Psalm 22, verse 1, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Does that sound familiar? That was all all the way back in Psalm 22, verse 1 Why art thou so far from helping me and from the words of my roaring? Look at that. And he did that for us. Well, verse 30 he says, Hereafter I will not talk much with you For the prince of this world cometh. You know, many times Pastor Olson has talked about end times. I am no theologian and I am certainly no expert on the end times, but I know this He is right about the part where there are those that are part of the all, I think the all-millennius movement, that believe that Satan right now is locked up and he's chained away. That's part of the all-millennialist point of view. Christ said here, right here in verse 30, he says, the prince of this world cometh. He's been here ever since. Look at what happened the last 10 days, what we've seen. He's there. And Christ said he would be there, but he says that I will protect you. He says, Herever I will not talk too much with you, for the prince of the world cometh. and have nothing in me, Christ must leave. This is a divine dominion mandate, and sin had ho no hold on Christ whatsoever. Second Corinthians 521 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Satan had no hold on Christ. He thinks he does How do we know that? He never stops coming after us, does he? He's always doing things to make things hard on us. He does that, and he's very proficient. Because even we can see him working with the disciples and having them flee from Christ, they were not demonic But they went away from Christ. And that's from a that is definitely of Satan. And Satan creates, he knows how to create these, he knows how to create these horrible situations that make you afraid. And that's what happened. Well, we see here they will all leave Christ, but they will marvelously be called back to Christ. And he will never let them go away. Are we ready to follow him? Hosea six three says, Then shall we know if we follow on to know the Lord His going forth is prepared as the morning, and he shall come unto us as the rain, as the latter and form a rain unto the earth Luke 9. 23 tells us, and he said to them all, if any man will come after me, let him deny myself and take up his cross daily and follow me. And he says, I'll never let him go. And so we're out of time. I thought it was twelve, but it's a little after, I'm sorry. But um when Christ comes back in verse thirty-one, I did want to mention this. I wanted to talk about this just for a minute But that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I to do, arise and let us go hence. He's getting ready to go to the cross and he says, let's go forward. Please go forward. When you feel like you're being held back by trials and tribulations and things are weighing you down. Do the work. Go forward. Stay busy. Pray. Read scripture. Talk to another Christian brother or sister. But keep going. He says, let us go hence. Here There's nothing more horrible in the world than what's going to happen to Christ. And he says, let's go forward. Let's go hence. And what he's saying is, let's continue to worship. Now I'm going to say this, and I'm I'm probably some may like it and some may not like it, but I feel like that I've been praying about it all week and it's something that I need to say. Of course, we've been praying our hearts out for Erica Kirk and the family. We've been praying over the situation and we have seen all kinds of unbridled assaults come against Christ through this. But I am going to say this I do not agree with this funeral being held on the Sabbath day. I don't agree with it. I don't agree with it because it is the Sabbath day and it takes people away from their churches and it takes them away from worship. I'm sure that it had to happen for maybe good reasons for them, but I'm very concerned about it. And one of the things that has been said by a prominent politician is that the whole day will be filled with worship. And I just want to say this Music is not worship. It is a misconception. According to John MacArthur, music is an effect. It's a reaction of worship to the Lord through obedience, and most of pretty much all of our singing that we do in our churches is against the world culture of music. It really is And today they're saying that worship is going to be through the singing that's going to be, and there's going to be a lot of praise and a lot of rock bands That is not worship. Do not be confused about that. Of course, our heart goes out to the family. Of course, we're praying for them. And I'm not throwing anything on that at all. But don't be confused. Don't let that say that was worship. Because a lot of people are staying home from their churches today to watch that, thinking that is obedient worship to the Father on the Sabbath day. And I'm telling you it's not That's the components. I mean you know that today the funeral is about a man. It's not going to be primarily about Christ. So pray through it and I just wanted to say that and be very careful with that. Pray for the family. And we know that Charlie was one of us. We know that I heard a lot of statements that he's made about the Sabbath day, and I'm very concerned, and I'm wondering if he would have been for this. I really do. I have to say that. Because he had a real love for the Sabbath day But pray for the family, and I pray that this message will lift you up to know if you love the Lord, the Holy Spirit is going to be there with you wherever you go. Peace I leave with you. And the Lord meant that. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you, let not your heart be troubled. And he says it again, neither let it be afraid. Heavenly Father, I pray that we will not be troubled, we will not be afraid, and although we'll go through times like that, because we can be weak, we can be fickle, we can have things that can just completely just befall us. No matter what, Thou will never leave us and Thou will never forsake us. So I pray for everyone here. Bless them. Bless their families. Give us a good week to look for opportunities to witness To be a witness of thy word to others. And I pray, Lord, that thou wouldst just guide us and direct us in the way that we should go. And Lord, I pray again, I pray for the Kirk family, for his mother and father, for his siblings his wife, his children, and all of them, all of the wonderful people that work with him. Lord, just I pray that that was protect them today and lift them up. And I just ask, Lord, that thy gospel will go through every single day continuously, and more young people will come to thee because of that ministry and many others. And all these things we ask in the name of Jesus Christ we pray that not our will but thy will be done, we pray, Amen