Just a quick word be ooh, we're allowed a quick word before we do begin. Our thanks to the church for It's preparation for our mission meeting. We held uh Thursday last. We had a good meeting. We had some nice refreshments. Uh even for the two security guys that you had, uh you came in they they were kind of watching over us. They sat in the back a little bit and and uh just kind of wonder what they were there for, but uh Well it was it was for our safety, no doubt. Our safety. Open your Bibles again to Philippians and chapter four. We've been kind of hopping through this simply because of our time away. Thank the Lord we had the privilege the second Sunday last month to be up in Queens, New York, up at Flushing Church of our old friends. It was their twenty-fifth anniversary of their English ministry and we had the privilege of uh joining in on that anniversary service. And what was nice is that when we used to go up there Um the a lot of the young people that were high school, junior highs, and now many of them are married, uh, have their own children and they're in charge. And it was just great to see after those years have progressed how they've uh grown and uh filled in the places. So Let's pray. Father, thank you as we again purposely set aside this first day of the week to remember the empty tomb. and to remember those who uh had gone to the tomb. And uh since that time uh believers have gathered together uh the first day of the week to uh to honor you in thought, word, and deed. Um help us to collect our thoughts and allow your spirit to be our teacher, hiding your servant, and may the things we're able to share here today be of profit. to honor our Lord and King, but also profit to the kingdom and its work here on earth, even our own souls, the souls of our families. May the word be profitable there. But in Jesus' name. Amen. You get your Bibles there. You see we've gone through some of the things here in chapter four. We've been looking at it for the past couple of weeks and these passages we've looked at have been given a couple exhortations, words of admonition or encouragement. Paul talked about the uh dear ladies that were fighting in the church. Remember them? Judius and Syntheci? He says, I help these ladies out. And then he goes into this matter of love and rejoicing, verse 4 And then verse 5 and 5, we talked about the last time we were here about the matter of moderation, in other words, being gracious and kind and considerate. And so it takes us to today's, verse 6 and 7. Look at these verses, please. Paul writes, be careful for nothing But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God, and the God of peace, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Can you see the admonition in this passage? The command? It's not hard. He says, be careful for nothing. Again, like the last time we were here, we talked about the word moderation, which doesn't make sense, you know. This be careful for nothing again, it doesn't necessarily make sense, does it? We think of being careful and be careful for nothing It's better understood if you take the word and divide it. Careful or full of care. He says, don't be full of care. Be careful or full of care for nothing. Don't be full of care. Paul isn't saying this to the believer to say, well just throw caution to the wind. Who cares? You know? Ah, it doesn't matter. I'm just going to do as I please, you know He's not saying that, but he is saying that we are not to allow our cares to control our life. Our cares to control our life. John chapter 11, Jesus met with his disciples in the home of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. Good friends, been married many times, and he found a great delight in joining together in that household. The events unfold, finding the two sisters, Mary and Martha, different parts of the house. You know the story. Here's Mary, and she's sitting at the feet of Jesus with the other disciples, hearing the teachings of Jesus. And where's Martha? She's downstairs in the kitchen, you know. She's working away trying to get lunch already, and she's sweating bullets. She's concerned. Text says, But Martha was cumbered about with so much serving, and came to him, to Jesus, and said, Lord, dost thou not care my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she may help me. Jesus answered and suddenly to her, Martha, Martha Thou art careful, same word, same thought. You are careful, careful, and troubled about many things. Martha, you are full of care. You are full of anxiety. You have so much on you, it's just burdened you, troubled. And that was the controlling factor in her life. And because of that, because she allowed care to control her, she missed the blessing of being with the Lord She missed the blessing of her sister that her sister enjoyed. So for the sake of clarity, I'm probably gonna most all of the time use the word anxious. instead of careful, because it makes a little bit easier sense in our hearts and minds to be able to say, be anxious for nothing. Matter of anxiety, be anxious for nothing. To be honest with you, this is probably one of the most disobeyed commands in the scriptures. Go to our responsive reading. Where do we find Jesus and his disciples calling them out? And all of a sudden they found themselves leaving everything, leaving their nets, leaving their boats, and following after Jesus Their nets and their boats represented what? They're living. You know? We we th this is our this is our bread and butter, you know? This is how we made it. Now we've left it all and all of a sudden, uh oh. How how are we going to make it? What are we going to wear? What are we going to drink? And what are we going to eat? You know, by my In response to their concerns, Jesus comes and tells them and tells their anxious minds, do not be anxious. for your life, what you may eat, or what you may drink, or put on your body, what you may wear. Is not life more than nourishment and the body more than clothing? Jesus' response to the disciples is he's reading their anxiety. He knows what's in their hearts, the things that were going on. His response is that not even the necessities of life should serve as a source of worry for God's people. The necessities of life, and he used three aspects of it, because those were the most obvious. You know, what I eat, what I drink, what I'm gonna wear. But there were others, and he said those should not be the controlling factors. Yet we often do. It may not necessarily be what you're having for dinner tonight. Or what you had laid out for church today. Am I going to wear this? I don't know what I wear, you know. But there are things that sow anxiety We can often feel anxious about our finances. How am I going to pay the bills this month? You know, maybe for some of you it's not an issue, but Maybe we think about how am I going to fix my twenty-five-year-old car that's often breaking down, you know? What am I going to do there? What if I lose my job? What about the kids to go to college? Can we meet our medical bills? Do I have enough for retirement? What if the economy fails? And on and on and on. Finances are biggie in life In one corner or another, anxiety kind of creeps in. We feel anxious about our health, especially as we grow older. What if I get cancer or Alzheimer's? What happens if this is coming to my life? What if I'm disabled and have to go to a nursing home? Who's going to care for me or my spouse It's a reality as we get older, as we move on in years. We can be anxious about our children or our grandchildren. Will they turn out in general terms? Will they turn out okay Will they be able to say no to drugs or to the permissive society in which we live, that which also often controls the young life? Will they be safe in the shoot-em-up banger world that we live in? Will they be able to go to college and get a decent paying job? Will they marry a a nice Christian man or a woman Will they be happy when they're married? Will they be successful? Will it go on? And and so it just carries on. And I think the list can go on and on. And maybe you could be even getting more anxious listening to the different reasons of anxiety. You know, you can come up some yourself that you've experienced. It's part of the process we go through Sometimes we can't identify it, the specific reason for our anxiety, but it's there and it's nagging away at our insides. It's pulling us one way or the other. And if we don't learn to deal with it, it can cause all sorts of physical and emotional problems. Look online or go to a library and see all of the books, all of the doctors, just dealing with anxiety problems. I don't worry about it because my doctor's going to refill my prescription for Zolov or Paxol, and I'm I'm fine. I'll just take some more pills and sleep it off. That's all too often what happens Brethren, the believer who is full of care, who allows anxiety to take over, is simply not trusting God for his faithful provision. He's not believing that God could care enough. Rather, he is saying that God's provision and protection in my life just isn't sufficient. Not enough. There's some things God does. Oh yes, that's clear. And we got through that accident this morning. No sweat. I didn't no problems. But what about the little thing? What about that? What about tomorrow? What about the next day? God, you're not able to handle my situation. God is well able to handle any situation I find myself in. So the opposite of anxiety is peace A contentment provided by our Lord, trusting in his promises. Let me read a couple verses. uh two uh three two out of the old testament and two out of the new testament that we often used in times of s certain situations, but never presumed to the to the to the extent that these are all principles that God says Learn of me, this is what I am offering. This is the contentment I provide. Psalm 37, 5, Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass A commitment to him. Yes, Lord. In this situation, in this day, and every single day, I'm committing my way into you. I'm trusting in you. In other words, I'm believing in you, what you've said, and I know that you will bring it to pass. Bring what to pass? What I want? Know what's best for me. Psalm 55, 22. Cast thy burdens upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. My burden, cast my carefulness, full of care, cast my anxiety, cast my situation to him Why? Because he's not only well able to do it, but he says he shall sustain me. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. 1 Peter 5, 7, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. That's really Peter's grasp of that Psalm. Same principles. A hundred years ago plus, Albert Barnes wrote this. We may go and cast all our care upon the Lord. That is, we may look to him for grace and strength, and feel assured that he will enable us to sustain all that is laid upon us the relief in the case will be as real and as full of consolation as if the burden and the burden and bore it himself He will enable us to bear with ease what we suppose could never be done. And the burden which he lays upon us will be light. Jesus has cast all your care upon me. I care for you. And the burden becomes light for us because he cared for it. No, I'm just going to do it myself. I'm just going to sweat it out. I'm going to worry, you know. I'm going to do it myself. Last one, Hebrews 13, 5. Let your conversation, or your lifestyle, behavior, be without covetousness And be content with such with such things as ye have. Not often m material per se, but the idea of being content with my situation, whatever it is For he hath said, I will what? I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Was he only talking just in kind of proverbial statements? You know, general terms. Oh, I'm not going to leave you, you know. No, an absolute assurance of what God's word is to the believer. But you don't know. No, that's what it is. As a result, what should that give us? Those passages and much more contained within the scriptures. What should that give us? Well it shouldn't give us anxiety, you know? It shouldn't allow anxiety to be there. Jesus promised, peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled Let not your heart be full of care. Let not your heart be full of anxiety. Neither let it be afraid. When did he give those words? What was going on in Jesus' life? What was right around the corner? It was his betrayal, his arrest, his crucifixion. He's telling his disciples, this peace is available because I have this peace myself. comforting words. And six times in the New Testament our God is called the God of peace or the Lord of peace. That peace should be a constant experience of every Christian, even in the middle of trials, the moments when anxiety keeps me from sleeping. Causes my stomach to be turned in nuts, allows me to be able to hide in some hole or to bite off somebody else's head. But we should say, peace be still. And the peace that passes all understanding quiets those waves and allows me to go forward in calmness. And our text today, where is Paul? Remember prison Not a nice situation. Opportunity for anxiety to mound up, and what does he say? In everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. In other words Pray about everything with thankfulness. With thankfulness, pray about every situation in life. Where is he? He's in jail. He has no definite hope of being released. He could be executed the next day And he tells the the the the church at Philippi this very thing, and then the result in verse seven. And when you do that, when you pray for everything with thanksgiving, what happens? What does verse seven say? And the peace of God. The peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. There's three words in this passage that stand out to this particular situation today. First one is careful, the second one is prayer, and the third is peace. First, careful or anxious, that's the problem. The second one is prayer. That's the solution. The third one he comes down to is the promise of God that provides what Peace. The situation that we find ourselves in with anxiety, the offering, the direction that God gives through the apostle, and the end result that is provided that's there. Firstly, we must put off anxiety because it is sin. Be careful or be anxious for nothing. Again, our response of reading in Matthew 6 Really shows to the disciples and shows to us that anxiety is a lack of faith, a lack of trust. Focus on things of this world instead of a focus on the kingdom of God. But seek ye first, first in priority, first in order. Both of those are true. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. That means what I drink and what I eat and what I put on? Or is there anything more included? Obviously there is Everything that could that provides a principle of anxiety, he says, I put the kingdom first, I put Christ first in my life, and he provides for that. What's my excuse? Well, I'm only human. If any of you were going through the situation I'm going through, you'd be anxious too. That's our excuse. We're just saying, God, you don't understand. You don't see When we do that, we're not trusting God and we're not seeking his kingdom first. I don't have peace, I'm weighed down with anxiety, cares, and burdens. I find no peace in my heart by what I'm experiencing. Yet the peace Christ offers is a byproduct of him being enthroned in my heart. As a believer, I'm saying, Save me, Father! Redeem me. I don't want to go to hell. But no, I want Christ to rule and reign in my life. I want the Spirit of God to help me to walk through the Word and allow me to be a follower of Jesus. And a byproduct of that is what? Peace that is offered. For some, Philippians 4. 6 is mistakenly used as a simple formula If you're anxious, try prayer. It works. You know, just kind of flip it off. If you're anxious, full of anxiety, just pray. It'll take it away. And yet he's missing the point of what's being presented here. If you're anxious, examine your lack of faith in the living God. You're missing the fact that he provides all of the answers through his promises. I don't trust you, Lord. No, we should trust him. Or examine your focus, whether you're living for Christ and His kingdom or for yourself. That's what he's saying. When I come to pray and I present these things, everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, make your request be known unto God. I am therefore trusting him to answer it. Again, not always in the path that I know, because I don't know the path that he's got for me. I don't know the direction that is there. So the first step of dealing with anxiety is to examine whether my anxiety is due to my lack of faith or to a wrong focus upon self. I'm just thinking of me. What's good for me Confess your sins and yield to Him. That's the situation we find ourselves in. What's the resource that God gives us? What does He tell us to do? Pray pray. Pray. Yes, pray. Prayer. Prayer. Uh he uses four words in here that in essence reflect upon prayer. We'll look at each one because it is a different angle or a different understanding of it that's presented there. Again, be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer. There's the first one. And supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be known known unto God. Those are four aspects or four different ways of looking at the principle of prayer that He's offering up for us to be able to see. First one is prayer. It's a general word for prayer, and it's always used with reverence to God. When you say prayer, it's a matter of coming before Him When Paul makes his request unknown unto God, the word used in Greek means a face-to-face with God. You're coming in the presence of the eternal God. You're coming in the presence of the sovereign of the universe You're coming into the presence of the holy God, the principle that was laid forth by Isaiah. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The seraphim covering themselves with their wings to they fly. And they're coming before him. When we go to him in prayer, that's what we're doing. We just don't say, well, let's pray. I remember as a little kid, our our uh we we were church people, but we were lacking a lot of stuff. You know, God bless this food, amen. You know? That was the simple had no concept of what we're thinking about. We're entering into the presence of a holy God. Sure, he welcomes us into his presence as the Father welcomes his children through our great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. We can come boldly, and he wants us to, come boldly and find mercy. And find grace to help in time of need. But we have to remember that the throne that we are approaching is the sovereign eternal God. Come to him boldly. Approach his throne boldly with confidence. But think of who we're talking to. Think of who we are approaching in prayer. Obviously this means I have to come with a heart that's right, a heart that confesses and forsakes sin before we come to him in prayer. The psalmist says, if I regard iniquity in mine heart, the Lord will Not hear me. He's not going to hear my prayer. If I position sin in my life, I've not dealt with it. If I'm coming to this time of prayer and I think, oh, I can just come on in, you know, just as I am, I can't do that. He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all iniquity, but I've got to confess my sin to him. I've got to do that before anything else. The second word used here is what? We had prayer, then what? Supplication. Supply. Kind of get an idea of the use of the word there. It gives us a sense of need. specially a specific request. It means desire. It means want. I believe we often fail at this aspect of prayer because we're simply not specific. God bless the loved ones. God bless Pastor Coleman today. What's the overall blessing? It's like sprinkling little dust around it. You just fill in the spaces, Lord. You just you just whatever you think is necessary, we're just asking you to do it. We've often prayed, God bless our loved ones and We're at necessarily even thinking of what God is going to intervene about because we don't ask him about anything specific. It's not wrong to be able to say to pray for the health of people, but if we've got the time and I'm going to go and I'm going to pray for the health of so and so, and this is specifically specifying what that person's need is, or that person's specific uh spiritual need, or however it goes. We often pray without thinking. Our prayer of supplication shows me, though, that I am totally dependent upon him. Meet the supply, why? Because everything else has been done by me and it's failed miserably. When I see a need or I see a want Lord, this is what's being done in the hospital room. This is what's being done amongst my family members. And it's it's absolutely failed miserably. This is what's been done in our country. Look what's happening. So I specifically say, Lord, I need this. We need this. specifically heal here, strengthen this, correct this, remove this, add to this, because it shows my dependence upon him. I have nothing else to do You, Lord, must be the one to supply that need. Be specific, what's worrying you, and expect Him to do something about that very thing. Thirdly, is what? We've had prayer, we've had supplication then the Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving When you're anxious, for whatever reason, thankfulness is not automatic or spontaneous, is it? All of a sudden I'm thinking about the oh we could do this, you know. And and the burden is great and it's heavy and all of a sudden you don't think, well Thank you for this, you know. It doesn't naturally come. Firstly, by giving thanks in times of trials, it shows that you remember how God was faithful in the past. The first thought, during this trial, during this anxious moment, during this situation that you're burdened with, I come to him and I thank him ahead of time. Because in the past, you delivered me. You provided. You were the one. And nothing else could have mattered. You, Lord, supplied at that time. You were the one to help me He never abandons, never forsakes his children, even the most difficult of times. Also, to thank him in the midst of trials is to say, Lord, I don't understand it, but I submit to your sovereign purpose. I trust in you. If he's been faithful in the past, I don't feel it now. I recognize the current anxiety, but I am trusting in who you are. I trust it because you are sovereign over all things. I may not understand it, but you'll be the one to see me through at this time. We're just not going to thank God when we feel like it, but we're also going to do it when we don't feel like it, because He is sovereign in all things. 1 Thessalonians 5. 18, and everything give thanks for this is the Will of God in Christ Jesus. In all things, you've got to be kidding me. No, because of who He is. It doesn't make sense now. I don't know why it's happening. I don't understand the the concurrence of all of these things at this very moment. It would have been so much easier if he had done this. But no, I give thanks. For all things, because it is his will. Then therefore it allows me to be thankful and trust in his sufficiency for the future. A thankful heart rests upon the all-sufficient God, knowing that even though we don't see how it's going to happen, He will meet our every need as we cast our burden upon Him. Thankfulness bound within anxiety says, you did it in the past, I know you're going to do it in the present, and therefore I'm comfortable with what's going to take place in the future. Again, it may not be according to the things that I've understood now or asked for, but he will One of the first verses that Mrs. Maureen Gordon taught our young Jeff when he was just probably four years old was the memorization of Jeremiah 32, 17. Our Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee. And mom and dad had to sit and memorize that with him and go over it again and go over it again. That verse carried us through in the years ahead. our time to leave here in this country, to head into the Philippines, to live on our own in essence. There was nothing too hard for him He made the heavens and the earth by his great power and his stretched out arm. If he could do that, what about me? What about my situation? Nothing too hard for him. The fourth and final reference to prayer is what? We have prayer, we have supplication, we have thanksgiving. Request, request. The word kind of overlaps supplications, and again it emphasizes a specific and definite nature of our petitions to the Lord. This is the word that Jesus uses when he says, Ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. illustrates the points that Jesus taught his disciples and he says, Well, if uh uh a boy goes and asks his father for a loaf of bread, he's not going to give him a stone. He says if he asks for a fish to eat, he's not going to give him a snake. Ask specifically, make their request known unto him. He understands our situation. Out of that, Jesus concludes, and he says, if ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, How much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? Ask the Father, and if it's good, he'll give it to you. Talk with him. Make the request. Be specific. Spend time in your conversation with our dear Lord. There are times when we fail to ask because something seems to be too small to trouble God with. I've did this before. I've gone through this already. It hasn't been too bad, you know. Sometimes we consume ourselves with those little things. But if it's big enough to make me anxious, it's certainly big enough to ask God about. A woman asked British Bible teacher G. Campbell Morton He said, do you think we often pray we should pray about the little things in our lives or just the big things? Morgan retorted, madam. Can you think of anything in your life that is big to God? Is anything too big for God? Teach the little guys that very thing. Is anything too big for God? No. And yet in our thinking, in the seeds that are sown in our hearts that bring about anxiety and burdens, those have often become so burdensome, so weighty So whenever we're anxious, come to God in reverence, humility, and be specific in thankful prayers, and the result is what? Peace. Peace. That is what he has promised. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. This isn't some psychological mumbo jumbo where you sit in a yoga position and go, oh, I want peace in the world, you know. It doesn't work like that Paul is talking about a peace that comes from God who is never subject to anxiety. God gives peace because he's never troubled about things. He's omnipotent, he's omniscient, he's the creator, the Lord of the universe. Nothing takes him by surprise. He doesn't sit up there and bite his nails and say, Oh, how's this going to turn out? I don't know. This is the peace that Jesus promised, not as the world gives peace. I can't explain it. You can't explain it. But it's that which is offered, and we've experienced it. You have many times, you've tasted and seen the goodness of the Lord in bringing peace. Because he accomplishes it in his perfect way. The peace stands guard over our hearts and minds in Christ. When we are intimate, permanent union with Him, and to get us anxiety goes away in Christ Jesus. It's the intimate personal relationship that we have in Christ, because Christ cannot be anxious about anything. Think of his wife. What verse can you find that he says, oh boy, this isn't good. Disciples have forsaken me. All is lost. Father, you've turned your back on me. Oh, I don't know what's going to happen. He found peace and found joy in every situation in life. But let me warn you, what God promises isn't just a quick fix. Prayer is some technique that we use to calm our hearts. Prayer isn't something that we just use and put it on all of a sudden, everything's all done. It's something that has to be, as Paul talks about, is an ongoing, deepening, intimate relationship with the God of peace. You can't put it on one day and say, well, I'm going to spend the rest of the time away because I came to church, I came to prayer meeting, I did my devotions today, and the rest of the time I'm just going to sweat out the little things and sweat out the big things. It is a constant walk with him closer and closer each day. In the time of trial, you draw near to God, the God of peace, and you focus upon the grace of Christ. You pour out your hearts to Him, and the result is the peace that will guard over your heart and mind. And the more you do it, the greater peace you'll have. Let me conclude with something. This is a message from the wife of one of our pastor friends from down south. We were with him in August at Synod. And all seemed to be fine with her. Very active couple. Um following a doctor's visit, which I'm still gonna have to ask them about, uh she they had some health concerns and she writes this. She says, in light of recent health developments, I have some things on my mind that I would like to share with you today. When the surgeon came to talk to Steve and I, that's her husband, about this bypass surgery I'm facing tomorrow, he said something that really struck a chord with me. He said that my artery that is 100% blocked has probably been this way for years. So why did I not have a heart attack? He went on to say that our bodies actually create other pathways around the affected artery. My other pathways were good and allowed me to go on for years without problems. But now the major pathway has been dealt with, hence the scheduled surgery. The thought that instantly occurred to me was that an amazing God we have. Psalm 139, we read the words, I am fearfully and wonderfully made. What other explanation could there be for these other pathways? then my God is in control of all things. A God who is in control of the world, He has created. A God who is in control of our bodies that He created Any other explanation makes no sense. The Big Bang allows for this? No. Evolution allows for this? No. Luck? Chance allows for this? No, no, no. We have a God who creates and controls that which He has created. To the skeptics who might say, well, your God could have prevented your artery from getting blocked in the first place And that's true. We live in a fallen world that includes pain and suffering and even death. But God gives grace for any of those in all situations. God plans all things for his good, for his children, and for all for his own glory, even hard things. The hard things are often what drives us. This old heart of mine is just a small indication of the grand truth for that which I am eternally grateful. To God be the glory, great things he hath done. Praise God, she had uh open heart surgery. Uh she's back home, she's doing marvelously, and she just gives credit to God I say that simply because this is one example of many, and you've experienced sometimes also, but one example of many of how there is a potential for great anxiety. And I don't mean to say that she and her husband were worried. They send out an email to all of the pastors and says, pray for her. She's coming up coming to this. But it was a prayer of entrusting her needs into the hands of God And she could support that with prayer. The Psalm 139 becomes real to her because she says this addresses what was confusing to anybody else, but addresses it to the fact that God is still working in me That's where the scriptures and the promises of God are so real to us when we feast upon them and draw upon them day by day by day by day. And if we find her source and comfort in anything else other than the Word of God, then we're not trusting in the promises of God. Praise God for her bypass being done a month a month ago And the thing wasn't overnight, but it was the truth that peace overruled anxiety May the seeds of this one admonition for the apostle presents us to us today assist you today and tomorrow and in the weeks and months and years ahead, because anxiety is real. There's somebody who goes around and he says, but you don't know what's happening. You don't know about tomorrow, do you? You know The whisper in the ear, and all of a sudden you wake up and your stomach is turned and turned and I can't sleep. No, the Lord doesn't provide for that. The God of peace Which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for uh addressing real practical situations. by your spirit through the pen of Paul to the church at Philippi. And the things that they were facing were real to them. The anxiety that they felt in uh dealing with with uh uh the Romans and the unbelieving Jews and and just life in general as Christians in an unbelieving world was real to them. And yet your example uh from this man in prison saying that that you provided him with peace, they could also obtain the same thing is real to us today. Bless Father, this seed thought, may it continue to grow in our hearts in Christ's name. Amen.