Good morning. Read verses twenty to twenty-nine. Exodus chapter ten, verses twenty to twenty-nine. But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart so that he would not let the children of Israel go. The Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt. And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt, three days They saw not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days. But all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings. And Pharaoh called unto Moses and said, Go ye serve the Lord, only let your flocks and your herds be stayed. Let your little ones also go with you. And Moses said, Thou must give us also sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice unto the Lord our God. Our cattle also shall go with us. There shall not an hoof be left behind. For thereof must we take to serve the Lord our God, and we know not with what we must serve the Lord until we come hither But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let him go. And Pharaoh said unto him, Get thee from me, take heed to thyself. See my face no more, for in that day thou seest my face, thou shalt die. And Moses said, Thou hast spoken well. I will see thy face again no more. Our Heavenly Father, open our hearts up to these words. Guide us and direct us in the way that we should go. And Lord, give us the love of the congregation and the love of Christian unity as Moses had. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. What were the first eight plagues? Anyone remember 'em? What was number one? Anybody? Number one. River turning the blood. River turning the blood. What was number two? It isn't easy being green. Frogs. What was number three? Yes, lice. What was number four? That's a tough one. You're getting close. Number four. They kind of were like gnats. Number four. Lord of the flies. Swarm of flies. Number five. I love the word. Number five. Yes, a grievous moraine that came over the cattle. What was number six? Yes. Boils with blames upon men. And then number seven, that's a tough one. Go close. Anybody remember number seven? Huh? Grievous hail. Grievous hail. Now number eight. The locusts. It's easy to get them mixed up and I like to bring them together to kind of get us going because here I somewhere incorporated in my notes I have a Christmas message I wasn't planning on having a Christmas message. But all of a sudden I'm praying about it and I'm looking at this darkness. There's a Christmas message in here Now what we have are ten plagues of Egypt, which is not necessarily the twelve days of Christmas You don't want to think about the plagues of Egypt during Christmas, but it has very great, incredible substance regarding redemption. You want to get a real good Christmas message, and this is probably going to have to happen after Christmas, is the tenth plague. And I'm not going to tell you yet how that'll that'll unfold, but that's a good one. That's an incredible one. Here we see that the Lord promised to manifest the plagues as signs to future generations, a literal prophecy of the end times to come. Here we see that the servants had regarded Moses and Aaron as a snare and they implore Pharaoh to let them go. Here we see the people of Israel. We see Moses and Aaron. Basically they were considered to those in Egypt. They were a snare. And Pharaoh was furious. Moses, Aaron, the elders, they may go, Pharaoh says, but the last time we saw the plague of the locusts, the children had to stay, and the women had to stay. Moses says, uh-uh. Now, this time, Pharaoh says, All right, take the women and the children. See, he's trying to barter with God. When you're bartering with Moses on this level, you're bartering with God because he's speaking through Moses. And he says, Alright, you go ahead and take the women and the children. Moses goes, uh uh. He goes, no, he says, you go ahead and take the Moses you you take the women and the children. And Moses still says, No, because we're not going to just take the women and the children and leave all of our cattle. He says, not one hoof is going to be left behind. Think about that a minute. Could you imagine getting on a plane today and standing in front of what's his name, Xi Jinping, or are these murdering, horrible, murdering dictators, and standing in front of Kim Jong-un or Putin and sitting there and giving them some spiritual godly restrictions. Can you imagine doing that right now? You know what Kim Jong-un would do. He'd probably wind up like his uncle, you know, being thrown to the dogs or something like that. Moses has such boldness and has such godly confidence that he stands there and he's mandating Pharaoh. And Pharaoh finally says in the eighth plate in this ninth plate, he goes, I'm going to kill you. Get out of my sight. You're starting to really get under my skin. Well, he already had with gnats and flies and everything else. I mean that was pretty bad. Boils, that got under his skin But he was really starting to annoy Pharaoh, and Pharaoh says, I'm going to kill you. He goes, get out of my sight. Moses says, No problem. I'll get out of your sight, and I'm going to keep praying against you. That's what that's basically in essence what he was saying. Moses refuses. Pharaoh then then sees through the plagues he starts begging for help again. Then all of a sudden the help comes. His heart, his heart gets hardened over and over and over again, and we see here the plagues of darkness Here we see in Genesis chapter 1 through 4, if you go back, where it says, God created the heavens and the earth, remember there was a great darkness over the face of the earth and the face of the deep. And God said, Let there be light, and there was light. Just always remember In the beauty, in the beauty of the beauty of the light, darkness remains as a backdrop that actually enhances and it shows and it shows how great light is because light overtakes the darkness and it's the same thing with good and evil When you have evil, evil hangs in the backdrop of the fact that the only way you know that there's evil is because there's good. It's there, and you can't miss it. That's always been the eternal fight here on this earth is the battle between good and evil. You go down our road and there's this guy he's a buddy of ours, his name's TLO, he loves Trump, and he's got a big sign up and it says This campaign is not about left or right. It's about good and evil, and we're the good guys. I like that. I think that's very very very profound. The earth was without form and void. Darkness fell upon the face of the deep. It was barren, lifeless, and dead. And then Christ spoke through the power of God, and he said, Let there be light. There was an explosion, a big bang, lights came billions and millions of years ago? No. God spoke and said, let there be light This plague was unannounced to Egypt. It came out of nowhere, and Moses stretched out his hand toward heaven, and here God would turn the lights out. Isn't it amazing? of the time frame? Do you see any significance with maybe a messianic prophecy there? How many days were the lights out? How many days was Christ in the tomb? The light of the world was out. By his own power, of course. Three days. I find that very fascinating. It's wonderful. It's wonderful to interpret that God is light. Darkness is the withdrawal of light. Temporarily. There's there may be a darkness over the land of Egypt. There was a darkness that literally could be felt. It was so thick. You know, in Egypt, the sun was worshipped under the title of Ra. This name is forwarded in the title of their kings named named Pharaoh or uh uh you you take p-hra you see pharaoh with ra it means the god of sun basically pharaoh thought of himself as a deity of a god over everything he thought he was deity but now he finally met and match It was like when Paul, when he was Saul Tarsus going on to Broad to Damascus, and he had been persecuting the church and finally, he finally hit the church head-on. He had a head-on collision with the church. And he found out what it's like to lose to Christ. And Christ said, I've had enough. You come to persecute my church, now you're going to go through me. And instead of annihilating him, he appoints him to one of the greatest missionaries he could have ever been. What an incredible power. We see here basically in these verses, we go to verses twenty-one. The Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thy hand. Many times he had done that. And bring the darkness. And Moses stretched for his hand, and there was darkness. It's incredible how that happened. He stretched his hand toward heaven, and the darkness was thick, and it lasted three days. You know, this dreadful plague is magnified in Psalm 105. 28, where it says, He sent darkness and made it dark, and they rebelled not against his word. It is listed first in the account of all the plagues. Basically, I think that's fascinating, that second phrase that says that they rebelled not against his word. Because basically what it says is, you will lose. You will eventually not rebel against my word. You can continue to keep trying, but you will you will lose You see, if you go throughout Scripture, we see it produced in the fifth vial poured upon the seed of the beast by the angels of God in Revelation chapter 16, 10. And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seed of the beast, and his kingdom was full of darkness, and they gnawed their tongues for pain. We see that Christ basically for a very short time was darkened by the wickedness of this world, by his own power. Job hadn't been talking with friends that weren't very encouraging. He was in utter despair, and he was telling him how dark was darkness was in his home. And how the worm is his mother and his sister and the corruption was his father. He was in such abject sorrow, he just thought that his whole life was darkness. You ever been there? You ever been there? You're stuck in such depression, maybe, or you're ever something that's really hard, you just feel you're in constant darkness Well, I like what Scripture says here about Christ being the light, but if you want to go a little bit, just a little bit secular on this, I like what Donald Trump says. Because when you're suffering from depression Work, work, work, and work hard. You want to rise above that? Get moving. Get working. And I love that because anytime you saw the prophets struggling, Elijah's sitting there and he says to the Lord, Lord, I've had enough. I want out of here. And he says, seven thousand men have not bailed their need of bail. And he sent the ravens with the cakes and he fed them, get back out there. So what does he do? He listens, he works, and the Lord sends them off in chariots of fire See what happens? You know, we see how Paul Paul suffered from depression. That's actually written. the Pharisaical some of the writings, but when he peered into heaven and he came back, he suffered from this horrible depression. Number one, he was a very, very ill man. By the time he read the prison epistles, he was very ill, but he worked and he worked. He'd worked in jail Bildab the Shuhite lashes back at Job, Job was in darkness, and here he gives his definition of the wicked In Job 18, 5 he says, Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of his fire shall not shine. The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall be put out with him. The darkness was so thick here in Egypt that a knife could cut through it. It was so horrible. It was i it was it was that bad. Three days the darkness brooded over. We see that the land the land drop of our picture was nothing but absolute blackness. And it was a window into the future darkness what would befall the earth upon the time when the hour of our Lord Jesus Christ would come for three hours. Always remember, and this is part of that part of that message that actually goes, I'm going kind of like backwards here a little bit. Always remember that that darkness that hit when Christ was on the cross Some even really good translations of the scripture call it an eclipse. It was not an eclipse. No more than this was an eclipse here. That this was not an eclipse where all of a sudden you know some clouds were rolled over in front of the moon and all everything got real. All the lights went out. The Lord hit the switch. You know, he he pulled back on the BG and E bills. Gone. There was no light. We see darkness fell upon the face of the earth that day, and darkness was a symbol of God's abandonment. But wait, darkness preceded an incredible visitation of Christ descending from heaven And here's a Christmas message. Darkness. Think about the wise men when they were speaking in the beginning of Matthew chapter 2 about that beautiful star from the east that they wanted to follow. And Herod tells him, all right, you could follow the star. You do whatever you want. I have gifts to send, but I want you to find this Jesus. And when you find him, bring him to me. And the wise men weren't stupid. This was that Herod that was just killing babies. And they knew what to do. And if you think it was only three wise men, that's not right. Darry, we don't even really know, but it was way more than three wise men if you talk about the journey that came over from such far distance. People would travel in caravans, and you know it was darkness. And what happened with the darkness? Matthew chapter two verse seven Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for the young child, and when ye have found him, bring me word again that I may come and worship him also. When they had heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. Look at that. They were in darkness. They were got they were at night. They were trying. They were going to find this Jesus child. They were in darkness. And what was it that lit 'em up? It was a star. It goes right back to that pillar of cloud by day and that pillar of fire by night that led the people of Israel out of Egypt. And it was that light of the world that overtakes darkness. I loved the Bible conference years ago down at Ligonier and the Bible conferen the Bible conference was called Out of the Darkness Into the Light. And the whole week was nothing but this theme about Christ overtaking the darkness Now, this is one of my favorite parts of the of the infancy narrative in Matthew. Think about how dark. They say that it got so dark in Jerusalem for the shepherds at night. It got so dark. It was like this darkness back in Egypt And it was dark. Now think about being in the darkness. Put yourself there. You're sitting there, you're tending over all these sheep. You're sitting there probably with your buddy or whatever, maybe one or two shepherds, and you're sitting there just talking or whatever. It's late at night and all of a sudden this happens. Luke 2, chapter 8. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night in the darkness. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, that they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. We see that the darkness in the fields of Deluk Der Jerusalem were staggering. Can you imagine the reaction of the shepherds with the light, the light this light of the world? And you think about the refulgent light beaming from the planets that we were able to see last year in the summer. Remember, you see that red light that came out? Wasn't that incredible out of nowhere? And remember a couple summers ago you could see Mercury uh Mercury and Venus, when it was a clear night, you'd see them, the system revolves into beautiful white light coming from them And you look at it and you're like, wow, that's something new. That's kind of something different. And that's awesome. Now can you imagine being one of these these shepherds and sitting there and all of a sudden it's just darkness and the angels light up the sky with all the beautiful lights? That's what I think of when I see the lights all over the place. That's the first thing that comes to mind when I see all the beautiful lights lit up for Christmas. It's a shame most people don't even begin to know that It was the Holy One of God who was made sin for us. That's the Christmas narrative. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him He's the purest of the pure. It was the Lord that can turn on that light and overtake the evil. And in Habakkuk 113, talks about turning, the Lord turning away from his face. Who is the one punished in our stead? And we can see so many messianic prophecies that looked at how when Christ was on the cross, the Father turned the lights out. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Can you imagine the whole in the whole history of eternity past and eternity future? This is the one time that Christ Himself was separated from the Father, and how horrible that might must have been. You can see the horrible abandonment is what our Savior cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? We see in Luke chapter 22, verse 42, tells us of the prayer that our Lord offered to the Father in Gethsemane. And of course, with Christ bleeding, a very hard, bloody prayer that would have killed most human beings from thrombosis with blood coming out of his pores He was in darkness in Gethsemane. We know that because the disciples had all fallen asleep. Certainly wasn't in the morning, or they'd have been wide awake. Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done Luke chapter 23 verses 44 to 46. And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst. And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And having said thus, he gave up the ghost. What was inside that cup, metaphorically speaking? What did he see? The darkness of this world? Did he see the darkness of hell? Was it so hard and it was so impossible? Because it's so impossible for us. Is anything too much for Christ? He begged the Lord, Lord, let this cup pass before me. And his humanity, can you blame him? What did he see inside of that cup, metaphorically speaking? What did he see? People dropping into hell? Did he see people rejecting him? Did he see how hard it is for ministry when people stand and they beg people to come to Christ and they mock him and people mock and laugh at him? Is that what he saw? Because that's what happened to him. Or was he looking in that cup and he saw how the disciples turned their backs on him? And what had happened, how dark a time it must have been for our Savior. What was inside that cup? We'll find out one day. The number one reason Jesus prayed, if thou will remove this cup from me, was that Christ knew he would suffer abandonment from the Father on the cross, and he knew that he was going to fulfill this prophecy. Three hours of darkness signify this abandonment. We see that darkness utters a significant warning to all unbelievers who are outside of Christ. That eternal darkness and eternal abandonment are the only rewards given to the unrepentant sinner. Matthew 8:12 says, But the children of the kingdom shall be cast into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. In Jude chapter 1, verse 13, raging waves of the sea, foaming out of their shame, wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever. No, it's not fun to talk about hell. It's not fun to talk about what the results of darkness and hell and sin really are. You don't hear that much anymore. There are many different translations referred to the three hours of darkness during the crucifixion of Christ as being an eclipse. There was no eclipse. It was just like here in Egypt. And we see here moving forward, we see here that in verse twenty-three, and we see here in chapter ten, they saw not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days, but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings Wow. That's power. The people in Egypt who basically they were the basically the primary owners of all the land and all the houses, all of their lights were out. But if you walk past that little part where the Israelites were, the slaves Boy, how did that make Pharaoh and the Egyptians feel when all of their you ever you ever had that? Remember that great big hurricane we had years ago All the lights were out, and all of a sudden for days, and all of a sudden you drive home, and there's a house with the lights on. And what are you saying? Boy, I hope my electricity's back on. Of course ours wasn't. It took another couple days because they forgot us, but we we finally figured it out. And but isn't that a good feeling Can you imagine what the people thought when it was so dark and they saw a little bit of lights flickering in the Israelites' windows in the slave quarters? That must have been an interesting thought there We see here that it was so thick, but all the children of Israel once again they were they were protected by the Lord. There was that land of Goshen around them. We see Pharaoh called unto Moses and says, Go ye serve the Lord, but you're not taking your cattle. Uh-uh. Well, that's interesting. Moses says, well How are we going to sacrifice to the Lord without our animals? He told us this is what we're supposed to do. And Pharaoh said, I don't care what he says. That has nothing to do with me. I don't know what his objective is for you to sacrifice. Moses is saying that's not a good thing at all. That's not good. We see how darkness basically That it was not an eclipse. It was so dark they could not see from the chair to the bed or the bed to the chair. They just sat in utter terror, and their son God Ra could not save them from the terror of darkness And these people were so superstious that they were terrified of darkness. And they were worried about evil demons coming upon them in the darkness. You know what Hannah sings out in praises to the Lord, putting all her trust in him, where she says in 2 Samuel 2 9, He will keep the feet of the saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness, for by strength shall no man prevail. Even in the darkest parts of our life there will be light. The Lord will give us that light. He'll shed it on us, and he will definitely be there for you. Isn't it amazing Egypt was silent in darkness and therefore regarded by God as wicked? Pharaoh's mission was to put out the light of Israel by removing their freedom and beating them, so God struck them with darkness so that they couldn't even see each other God took the sunlight away. There was no scientific explanation from this frightening plague. Spiritual darkness is the emphasis of this plague, and it's amazing how so much filthy sin is done in darkness. Isn't it amazing how the lights of the bars have to be turned on at 2 a. m. in the morning? If the bars are dark, they're dingy, it's where all the filth happens, bars are dark. You see all the what was it what was the the the statement for sodomy basically years ago? What was it called? Where were they? Where were the sodomites and then now they're out on Main Street? Where are they where were they first They were in the closet. They were in darkness because they were ashamed of what they were doing. Now there's no shame anymore. And now basically what was in the closet is now out on Main Street. Isn't it amazing how the darkness has such an absolute peril with filth and sin? What about the two angels came to Sodom and Gomorrah to extract Lot from the wicked city? than to destroy it. They came to Lot's house. The Sodomites came to Lot's house to pursue these two angels who are referred to as men. When did they come? In the darkness of the night, what was the result? The angel struck them blind so that they not only had darkness, they couldn't even see anymore, they were totally dark. Genesis 19, 11, and they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great, so that they wearied themselves to find the door. We see how how this wickedness is synonymous. Look at the drunkard that thrives on booze in the dark evening hours at the bar. How about the drug dealer that makes these clandestine meetings in the dark to sell his product How about the harlot, the prostitute? The Lord speaks about in Hosea. In the night, they're called ladies of the night. What is the transformation of the repentant sinner to Christianity? Let me tell you something. When out of that darkness there's light, you always remember that light is the Son of God. Isn't it amazing how the beautiful light that comes over our heads in the morning is called the sun? Remember the Son of God. John 8:12 says, Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. John 12. 46, I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness Ephesians 5. 8 says, For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the world. Walk as children of the light. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 5, ye are the children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night nor of the darkness. Here Paul raises the questions about being unequally yoked together with unbelievers in 2 Corinthians 6. 14. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers for what fellowship with righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? Darkness coming down on Egypt was showing that what they were doing was wicked. It was against the Lord. God makes this difference between the Israelites and the Egyptians. Who would have preferred the finest cottage of an Israelite over the lavish palaces of Egypt at this point? Only the Christian can really understand this. Wouldn't you have rather been in the slave quarters at this point in the tent in the ninth plague? A God had withheld sunlight from the people that rejected him. There were those that worshiped other gods. They blasphemied. This angered God. He was furious and and he he was rejected. He's brought darkness many times on that. It's amazing how we go to verse 24 and 25. It's common for sinners to try to bargain with God. And they will leave their sins for a time to try and get what they want, and they will return right back to them. Oh, if you save my dog, my dog's dying, I promise I'll go to church for a month. If you save this or you save that, you give me my job, I promise I'll go to prayer meeting once in a while. Isn't it amazing how we're there's so many people you see that bordering with God? Isn't it amazing how this country basically can just hates God? But when the Dear precious poor people were jumping from the twin towers all of a sudden it even came on CNN. We need prayer. All of a sudden now we need prayer. There's always a barter with God, and then when it's all over with, you don't hear about him anymore. Some will say anything for immediate comfort, as was the case with wicked Pharaoh, who knew that he had a problem. Once again. What a stubborn. What has the Lord called him? Stiff-necked and stubborn? Talk about strong-willed. We're still in the ninth plague and he's still shaking his fist in the face of God. He's still furious and he's still fighting God. At this time you would think, I'm done, I'm done Pharaoh now allows the little ones to go, uh allowing the families to depart, but he says, I'll keep the livestock. Moses wouldn't concede. He knew all too well that sacrifices were part of the commandment given by God. That's why as Christians we're not to concede. This is a very good example of that. Moses wouldn't give in. Okay. He could have said this. We'll find other cattle. The Lord is just and the Lord can give us new cattle. At least we can get the kid the women and children first. At least we can get them out of here. At least we can just get out of here. We'll go to worship God in the wilderness and forget the livestock. But Moses was told not to do that What better reason should we obey God and listen to Him than the fact that He tells us to do it? That should be the primary source for it, shouldn't it? We should come up to demand God's will always. Everything we possess must be available for God, and we must devote our worldly possessions to the service of God. We know not what God will use. Moses said, Thou must give us also sacrifices and burnt offerings that we may sacrifice unto the Lord our God. Moses had this right. He could have taken the family, he could have been gone, he could have been out of there, he could have taken the numbers of the people and just gone, but he honored the Lord and says, I will sacrifice unto the Lord We see in verses 27 to 29, darkness would have been lifted by now. Pharaoh's net heart was now hardened yet again, and now he drives Moses and Aaron out again, and his madness and his obstinacy they were heightened as he would cast the men of God. Out. He did not want them there. Does that sound familiar? I can't stop thinking. I didn't even put this in any notes on anything, all the stuff here. I didn't even think about this until a couple minutes ago. Two darknesses in John chapter 9. There were two darknesses that that precious 38-year-old blind man had. He had the darkness in his heart, he was not saved, and he had the darkness in his eyes, he was totally blind. And the disciples come and they ask Jesus, why is this man blind? Is it because of the sins of him or the sins of his family? Christ says, you know, it's not always that way. The Lord has will. The Lord has a reason. And now he's about to show him what this blind man, what he's going to do. He takes the spittle, he takes the clay, he puts it into the blind man's eyes, and all of a sudden his heart's opened up and his eyes are opened up This precious man now sees the light of the world. And he don't ever forget this. Go home and read it. Read it. That's a wonderful. I love that story. The blind man has now everybody against him in the world. His parents turn on him His church turned on him. He goes in and he says, This man that you hate, he gave me my eyesight back. And he went into the synagogue And what did they do? Exactly what Pharaoh did with Moses and Aaron. He cast the men of God out, and that's what these wicked Judaizers at the synagogue. They cast the blind men out. He walks out And can you imagine the dejection? His parents would they they basically were just kind of like so worried about the Judaizers they didn't want to offend him, so they turned their back on this poor blind man. He walks out And at the end of the sidewalk, there's the light of the world. There's Jesus. That's a that's a metaphor for life. That's what's going to happen You got everybody in the world against it. You have Jesus on your side. When it's all over, you're going to walk, and there he is at the end of the sidewalk, metaphorically speaking. Much better, but he's going to be right there in front of you in heaven. And there's Moses and Aaron. Get out of here. Go. But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart and he would not. He would not, he would not, they would not. Christ said, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, and they would not. And Pharaoh said unto him, Get thee from me, take heed to thyself, see my get out of my face. See my face no more, for in that day thou seest my face, I'll kill you. Thou shalt die. And Moses said, Thou spoken well, I'm gone. I will see thy face again no more. And that was it. Moses wouldn't concede. And Pharaoh would not concede. And his madness and obstinacy, they were heightened. He was furious. He could not stand that he was so mad. And he was it was a warning. Not to give it away, but why not? What's the tenth plague? We already said we k we know what the first nine are. What's the tenth plague? Teresa? Yeah. What was the cure for the death? Huh? What was the cure for the death? How could you save your firstborn? And by the way, I'm sorry, this is for this is for our stance on baptism here at this church. The door was not immersed. It was sprinkled by hyssop. It was sprinkled with blood all around the door. That's the tenth pig. And you want to know where the Christmas message is there? Well stay tuned. I'll tell you next and now I'll tell you The blood of Jesus Christ that washes away our sins, that blood, if it's on the door of your heart, The death angel will fly over it and you'll go to heaven. If that blood is not on the door frame of your heart, metaphorically speaking, you're going to hell. And you're going into darkness, and that's where Egypt was. It was that blood. So isn't it amazing how the Lord brings the ninth plate darkness and he puts it right next to the one where the death angel will fly over if the blood's Boy, what a dark day in Egypt that was. You have no idea how far God can go to rip you to shreds and he has every right to do it. But he says, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I remember that you're dust. He doesn't want anybody to have to go through this But once again, don't ever forget that the backdrop of evil is good. And that's what shines, that's what shines, and it overtakes the bad is the good. So he now casts Moses and Aaron out, and he sends them off with a death threat. And Moses agrees not to come back again. But he'd be back. He'd be back to defeat Pharaoh. He didn't give up. And you go back and you have to go all the way back to when he was putting his the rod down and it was turning into a snake. And I think at this point, I think what's what we're missing, a real big part of this, where are the magicians? Whatever happened where's the sorcerers now? Well the last time we saw them, they were basically in agony with blames of boil, and they couldn't even try to even copy that because they couldn't even move. They had boils all over their body. The Lord had been done with them. He gave them a little bit of time in the sunlight metaphorically speaking, and all of a sudden when that hit him, you don't even hear about them anymore. It's amazing how our our our great our our great creator and judge of this earth Never backs down, he never gives in, he never disappears, and he's the very same God that is with us this morning in the sanctuary. We as Christians need not fear darkness. Christ is that light. John 8. 12, I want to read it again. Then spake Jesus unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. Then you go back to John chapter 1, verse 5. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. Well, before we go to this next one, which is awesome, always remember this. It is the Lord God Almighty that holds that light. And what that means is you can't hide from him. You cannot hide in the darkness from him. What did David say? David says he's in Sheol He said, if I'm in Sheol, that is where he is. If I am in heaven, that is where he is. If it's in the abyss, way in the middle of the over the deepest part over the ledge of the ocean, he's there. He can see everything. For the Christian, that's a wonderful belief. For the wicked French existentialist, John-Paul Swart, who called God nothing but a constant voyeur trying to peer into our lives and ruin our lives For the Christian, that is the most wonderful blessing that when we pray, the Lord hears our prayers, and we can pray for those that we can't be near. You know, we have friends, we have family that go away and we're we're saddened about it and we're afraid for their safety. You can go to God and He can rest assured. He knows every part of their body. He knows where they're going. He knows what's going to happen to them. And we can pray for them because he sees everything. He sheds light on all the darkness. And look here in John chapter 3, verse 19. Of course, this is the narrative. We were talking about it in Sunday school class. I just love it. Nicodemus, this dark, he comes to him in the dark in Christ, and he says, What must I do to be saved? Just like just like basically the uh Philippian jailer. He goes, What do I need to do And Christ, all the way up to verse 19, he tells them, he says, You must be born again. I have to enter into my mother's womb? No, you have to be born of the water, of the spirit. The wind bloweth up where it listeth, and thou can hear the sound thereof, but cannot tell whence and cometh or whither it goeth, so is everyone that is born of the Spirit. John 3:8. And then as he goes, he tells him, first of all, he asks him in verse 10-11, I'm doing this trying to try this by memory, he says, you're a Jewish ruler? You don't understand these things? Where were you when Isaiah 53 was written? Then he comes back and he says this John 3. 19. And this is the condemnation. Whenever I hear that word, my ears perk up because I want to know what's condemnation. That's not a good thing. And this is the condemnation that light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest that they are wrought in God. People people love the Lord, they want to come to the light. Isn't it amazing? What is when somebody's dying where they're always told What do they say? Go into the darkness? No. Go into the light. Go into the light. What light? Sometimes it could be if you're not saved, it's an oncoming train. That's the light at the end of the tunnel. But that light of the world is Jesus Christ. And I'll have to say this. I have to say this. You know I've been watching Phil Robertson now for years. You know who I'm talking about, Phil Robertson, Duck Dynasty? I've been watching him and I've been reading about him. He's a fascinating person. He played football with Terry Bradshaw, Louise Louisiana State, and according to his wife, he was just he he he he was just absolutely uh uh precalcitrant. He was horrible. When they were first married, she did everything herself because he was always doing stuff that he shouldn't have been doing. Then all of a sudden he comes out and the Lord saved him. And there's Phil Robertson. I've been watching him and you know what I love about him He's never been trained how to preach, but he tries to preach. And it's very raw. But I love it because every word when he says it, it just comes out of his pores. He loves it. He loves talking about Jesus and now he has this little thing on call unashamed. It's a few minutes, you can watch it, and he and some of the boys are on it, and he sits there He's reading the scriptures. He's almost in tears. And he's reading the book of Matthew. He's reading one of the miracles. And he says, why doesn't anybody want to hear about this? I love that. I don't love the fact that people don't want to hear about it, but he recognizes that. He really loves Jesus. And he's dying. By the way, he's dying I don't know that he's dying immediately, but he's in really bad shape. He has Alzheimer's. He's got a blood disease. But he just came out a few weeks ago reading scripture. talking about Jesus and talking about how wonderful what he talks about what Jesus did to him and how he changed him. And then he always does the first thing he does, and then he praises his wife for putting up with him. That's a real penitent heart. Yeah, that's the kind of stuff I love to see. I don't know about you, I'm sure you do. I love to see that kind of stuff But we see here in the ninth plague, basically the Lord Jehovah Elohim here is getting ready for the Magnum opus. Number 10's coming up. And that one is a big one. That is a real big one. Because here we were talking about the riches and we're talking about how we need to be careful with that. It's amazing how he tells the Israelites. Start gathering all the wealth and the riches of Egypt because you're going to be taking it with you. I'm going to not just give you your cattle. I'm going to give you your family. I'm going to give you Moses and Aaron. I'm going to give you signs and miracles. I'm going to give you a pillar of cloud by day, a pillar of fire by night. I'm going to feed you. And even though you're going to be complaining so bad that it, you know, when I give you quail, it'll be coming out your nostrils Even though you're gonna I'm still gonna do it, but you're also gonna take their gold. Isn't that incredible? It kind of reminds me of that great big onslaught by the Assyrian army. Where 185,000 of these God-hating rebels come up against Israel with Isaiah. Well, they wouldn't mess with Isaiah. He and Hezekiah were in the camp, and they came to kill him. One angel slew them all and they're all laying there dead. What did the Israelites do? They went and gathered all their gold. The Lord gave it to them. He said, Go ahead and take it. And they had tons and tons of wealth. And that's how the Lord takes care of his people. But here, always remember who that light of the world is. That Christ is the light of the world. Our Christ, our Lord Jesus Christ. He is that light of the world. And you remember no matter how bad it gets. You get on your knees, you pray to him, and he will illumine your hearts. That's the greatest light you will ever have. That is so wonderful Let's let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we just thank Thee and praise Thee for these verses. And we thank Thee, Lord, that darkness tries to overtake the light. Satan tries every way to have darkness overtake it, and it's not possible. Thou art the light of the world, and thou said, and Lord, this wonderful verse. These things I speak unto you that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world, because thou art the light of the world, thou hast overcome it. So Lord, I just pray that these words that thou hast taught us, that we've learned together, Lord, that thou hast taught us this morning, that we will share them together, that we will grow together, and it will build our hearts up to read these wonderful scriptures. And in the name of Jesus Christ, Lord, I just pray first and foremost, Lord, for those that are hurting in this church. I pray, and we all are, I pray that that would heal us and help us with our unspoken prayer requests, our unsaved loved ones, and so many that we've been praying for. And a special prayer this morning for our missionaries, Lord, that thou would bless them. And then I do pray a special prayer as well for for Brother Phil Robertson, Lord, that he's in pain right now as the account is. Pray that that would just comfort his heart, but we know that where he where he's going, and we just pray that that would comfort his family. Lord bless us and keep us from falling. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.