Correct? Does that sound familiar? Yeah. Palm Sunday and Easter Sunday, and let me get back on some routines. See what the Lord has for us. Let's pray. Father, we'll pause before we approach your word. We want to handle it carefully and we want to receive it properly, for it is here to instruct our hearts. To teach us in every aspect of life where we are to be and where we are not to be. We're thankful for its clarity. Thank you for its preservation. Thank you for providing it as again a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. Thank you that it shows us who we are in this world, but it shows us who we are more so in Christ. And we pray, Father, that as we again approach this letter by the Apostle to people who were dear to him, that we might receive his um insight uh as it is even as he was speaking to us by your spirit. Bless these thoughts in Christ's name. Amen. I think one of the greatest detriments to the growth of the church today is the absence of authentic Christianity. I say that, what I'm trying to mean is that those who claim the name of Christ, but there is no difference whatsoever between the people in the world and what they say they are in Christ. They've become the poster child for the zombie church, church of the living dead. But what we want to look at today is an authentic version of Christianity found in two men. Two men in the sections of the passages that we'll be looking at today, we find that these two men were transformed as many. And as I trust we all are by the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul has this sincere desire that the believers at Philippi would look to these men or hear them or understand them as examples of authentic Christianity He told us back in chapter two, verses three and four, Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in loneliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves Look not on every man his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Paul saw within the church there at Philippi rivalries, contentions, factions the lack of humiliation and no servant heart. So he's holding these men up as examples of what they ought to understand and see. Yet here was Timothy and Epaphroditus, humble servants, who were focused not on themselves, but focused on others. You remember the three-letter phrase that we use for the book of Philippians? J-O-Y. Remember that? True joy comes when Jesus is first, when others are second, and when yourself is last. One person said that as a reading through this section, actually a lot of the book, it's only Job. It's only Jesus and others. In the lives of Epaphroditus and Timothy, and in the lives of Paul, themselves, or yourself, was strangely absent. And I think it showed forth a great understanding of their walk. Yet I don't want us to elevate these men beyond reason, but I want us to see them as Paul saw them. I want us to see them as examples to understand and examples to follow. Chapter 2, verses 19 through 24. The Apostle Paul writes, But I trust in the Lord Jesus Christ to send Timotheus shortly unto you. That I also may be of good comfort when I know your state. For I have no man like-minded who will naturally care for your state For all seek their own, not the things of the Lord Jesus Christ, but ye know the proof of him that, as a son with the Father, he hath served me in the gospel. Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see how it goes with me But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly. I don't think Timothy's a stranger to us. If you're a New Testament reader, we went through the book of 2 Timothy. We've come up with Timothy's name a number of times because he's in New Testament epistles. He's a good understudy. Verse 19, Paul says to the church that he's not sending Timothy right away. And I think he explains that simply because They sent Epaphroditus to Paul and he says, uh, like how about sending Timothy to us? Kind of an exchange student type of thing, you know? We want him to come, and he says, I can't do it right away But I trust in the Lord to send Timotheus shortly unto you. This is more than saying Lord willing. I trust in the Lord. He's the confidence. God's going to do this. I'm confident. I have a hope, a confidence that God will do that. that I also may be of good comfort when I know your state. Timothy returns, it'll be me great joy in telling me what's going on at Philippi. I think letter writing in our society has for the most part disappeared. But some of you and myself also remember the days when we wrote letters to people And we would wait X number of days or even weeks in anticipating a letter come back. You wanted to hear about their information. It was costly to call, so you'd write a letter. Right, sweetie? We had our times of writing letters back and forth, especially when I was on the ship, and and waiting for those letters to come back. And you couldn't couldn't wait for the good information. Well, I think that's what Paul is saying He says, I'm writing this letter to the Philippians, the Philippi, and I'm sending it to you, but I can't wait to hear of the good information. I'm excited to hear the things that are going on with you. It will bring me great joy. Then the next two verses, we see the apostle throwing some light on the character of Timothy, and specifically his heart of passion, his heart of compassion. Paul says, I have no man like-minded as Timothy. Literally, he's saying, I have no person that I know of is the same soul as me. There's nobody that I'm aware of that has the same feelings and compassions that I do. Paul knows other believers in Rome, but he says nobody is like Timothy in attitude in character, in closeness to the apostle. And I read that and I kind of wonder what made Timothy special about all the others in Rome. Uh we're going to look at a passage in Romans later on, but he says, of all of the folks that I know in Rome, the Church of Rome, the leaders and uh I have nobody like him. Nobody is of the same thing. And the reason he says that, he says we will naturally care for your state Timothy was genuinely caring for the well-being of the believers. His heart, knowing them as Paul knew them, he would genuinely care for them. He is a compassionate servant, one who loves the church just like Paul did. And I say the church, and sometimes we go off and say the church, well, it is the church, you know, first Presbyterian church in Rome. No, it wasn't that It was the believers. It had nothing to do with the building. It had nothing to do with the denomination, nothing to do with anybody else, but he says, I have such a compassion and love for you believers in there Shouldn't that be the case of all pastors? Shouldn't a pastor have a heart sincere of the nature, of the the state of the well-being of the church? Well apparently it wasn't the case back then. Because Paul wrote, he says, they seek their own. Others in Rome are seeking their own interest. And we talked about this when we were back in chapter one. Paul says that they were serving out of strife and envy. They were taking advantage of Paul being in prison. Remember, we mentioned that? He says he's in jail? Hey, come over to my church. Paul's, you know, he's kind of a loser, you know, he's kind of a imprisoned type of guy. Come to my church. And so out of strife and envy they did that They were seeking their own interests. They were seeking their own agendas. And that's kind of the way they lived. Sad to say. I think today, as a discerning heart, we can see and we can hear a dangerous pattern as such, not only in the pulpit, but in life in general. People not seeking their the interest of Christ, but their own. Read a little paragraph one pastor wrote. He says, Every culture and period of history presents its challenges to living the Christian life. And they're different when you go through history in various sections of of church history. They're different. Today's different from when we were kids and so forth. He says, right now, we live in an age that feeds the idol of narcissism. Social media gives just one window into the self-centered Western culture that's here. The selfie has entered into our cultural lexicon. We want the world to look and revolve around us. I think today more than ever before, there's an interest in having me look at me, everybody. No. See what I'm saying? Do you hear what I'm doing? Do you see what there's an interest in that in the pulpit, in life in general. And I think it's easily sprinkled around through society as well as churches. Seeking their own interest rocks against the words of Jesus. He says, if anyone would follow after me, what should they do? Deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. You're going to be a follower of Christ. The first admonition, he says, is to deny self. I'm not the position of of of of of interest. Take up your cross and follow me. Timothy said, Paul said, served Christ out of goodwill and out of love, not of his own self-interest. And I think that was the attitude that Christ, probably more than anything else, laid before his disciples when he was here on earth, the matter of servanthood. What it is to be a servant. Remember his last act of washing the feet of the disciples, you know. This is my my attitude towards you, what I'm showing you, and this is what I want you to follow that it is in our own agenda. Serving Christ Church flows from a love for Jesus and not our own agendas. Throughout the century, the Christian church has had many shining examples of selfless, Christ-centered service. Very interesting one I found between the year 251 and 262 A. D. , there was a plague that hit the Roman Empire. Horrible plague. Plague that was disastrous in all areas. Specifically including the city of Carthage. People were leaving the city because of the plague, and they were afraid of contamination and losing everything that they had. At the height of the plague, and this is again going to be speculation, they said some 5,000 people died a day in the Roman Empire. You read its symptoms and they're varied, but they says it could have been any type of of what we would have various uh viruses today plus other things that that were not. But in any case Through his sermons and letters, Cyprian, who was the bishop of Carthage, which is in North Africa, he challenged Christian believers to reach out to the whole city of Carthage. And it's interesting, he says, we want to show the love of Christ to those that are around us, but they were being blamed for the plague. You Christians, you're responsible for this plague. So therefore they were being persecuted themselves. The city of Alexandria, which is about 2,000 miles away from Carthage The bishop there was named Dionysus, and he wrote about the plague, and he wrote about the things that that uh uh what were being said there in Carthage and the things that were being done uh by Cyprian. Quote, Most of our brethren showed love and loyalty in not sparing themselves while helping one another. tending to the sick with no thought of danger, and gladly departing this life with them after becoming infected with their disease Many who nursed others to health died themselves. The best of our brethren lost their lives in this way. Some presbyters, deacons, and laymen. A form of the death based upon the strong faith, piety, that seems in every way to equal martyrdom. They would also take up the bodies of the saints, close their eyes, shut their mouths, and carry them on their shoulders. They would embrace them, wash them, dress them in burial clothes and soon would receive them same service to themselves. Dionysus said that was not the case of the heathen. He's observing the actions in the most difficult times of life, and he said, the self-sacrificing servant heart of those believers within the city of Rome, within the city of Carthage, throughout the Roman Empire. Showed forth a tremendous testimony. What were the results? The church grew in the empire. Third century, it was said that around 10% of the Roman Empire were Christians By the fourth century, it was the official religion of the Roman Empire. Constantine obviously made that, but it had grown such. I draw a conclusion with that of saying humble servant leaders can speak much without words. Humble servant leaders can speak much without words. But you know, brethren, that's the same true of every believer. Christians throughout history can speak much without words. So not only was Timothy noted for his compassion, but in verse 22 But ye know the proof of him that, as a son with the father, he hath served me, w served with me in the gospel. He's saying Timothy's character has been tested. Paul walked with Timothy. He was probably the one who led him to Christ himself. And he walked with him in many areas of life, took him on missionary journeys and so forth. He says, this young man had been tested even as I had been tested in ministry, even in challenges of the spiritual life. Paul says, I witnessed it all, and you know it as well, you and Philippi. You know Timothy's station in life and how he stood strong. People who own their own business and managers of business can say there's probably nothing else you would look at in the quality of a pro a worker or whatever than saying somebody is strong in character somebody that you can trust and he's saying that is how Timothy is. Let me ask you a question. Are you a friend like Timothy? Do you have a friend like Timothy? Do you have the heart attitude to be a friend like that to serve and care for you? And I hope you do. Would you serve and care, even as Timothy did, to the Church of Philippi, as Christ would have? I was thinking of characteristics, being present, speaking the truth in love. strengthening the person in weakness, timing of prayers, providing for them and their needs. Those are various ways that the Lord can open up for us to be able to be like Timothy in servant's heart. Second character is Epaphroditus, chapter 2, verses 25 to 30. Paul says again, I'm not sending Timothy to you because I'm kind of waiting for what's going on in and my situation here, whether my court, my trial, my execution, or whatever it is is coming up. But he says, I'm sending Epaphroditus, and we mentioned him back in chapter one. His name means lovely. Others have translated it coming out of uh Aphrodite, uh, and therefore his family could have been very pagan worshippers But nonetheless we read of his character as being a very lovely person. Verse 25. Yet I suppose it necessary to send to you a Paphroditus, my brother, my companion in labor. and fellow soldier. But your messenger, and he that ministered to my wants, for he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that he had heard that he had been sick. Ye had heard that he had been sick. For he indeed was sick nigh unto death But God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I sent him therefore the more carefully, that when ye see him again ye may rejoice, and that I may be less sorrowful Receive him, therefore, in the Lord, with all gladness, and hold in such in reputation, because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death. not regarding his own life to supply your lack of service. For what we know up to this point is that Timothy uh was there with the Apostle Paul. He's mentioned in the very first verse, Paul and Timothy. And Epaphroditus came from Philippi with uh a financial encouragement. Uh whatever else he brought, letters, uh but I think money was probably the most important thing that he brought with him. And he was there to minister to the Apostle Paul Paul tells him that it's sending him back because he had fallen ill. And he says, You people were very concerned for him, and Tim or Epaphroditus says, I'm worried about them because they're worried about me, and I don't want to think that's a very bad situation. Church heard about his sickness of concerned, and maybe they were saying, well, yeah, there's apaphroditis we sent him to minister to Paul, and now he got sick. What type of testimony is that for us sending somebody who couldn't even do the job? And therefore they were concerned about what was taking place. The idea that we have to send him back. But Paul covers for him. He infers that he's far more than a burden. He needs to be looked upon as somebody who is a hero. Welcome him back, encourage him. And then he gives this example of the character of Epaphroditus. He says, he calls him my brother, my companion in labor, my fellow soldier, but your messenger, and he that ministered to my wants. What a description. What a testimony of having those on your tombstone, you know? Um brother in the Lord, companion in labor, fellow soldier, a messenger, um, a minister. You know. What would be on your tombstone? What would others want to see of you on your terms tombstone? What would it say that describes you? He calls him brother. At times as Christians we kind of use that when we don't remember somebody's name Oh, brother so-and-so, you know. Can't quite get the name. Oh sister so-and-so, you know. We kind of do that. But it was much more than that. It shows a relationship that God had brought them into a family, brought through the blood of Jesus Christ. by faith, adopted into God's family. And that wasn't his choice. It was God's choice. It was God's choice to bring him into that family. Paul doesn't look down on epaphroditus. Oh, he's just the delivery guy. He's the guy who brought the money. He's the guy who brought the the care package. He looks at him as an equal. He refers to him as my brother, the background of what he had given by the gods However, he had lived as a f in his former life before being a believer, whether it was following after Aphrodite, uh Paul says, no, all of those things are gone. Now he is a Christian, he's my brother in Christ When you think about it, going through hard times with the Christian brother or sister at your side is a blessing, isn't it? This is a brother in Christ. I can trust in them. I can pray with them. I can assist them. Going through the hard times can bring a person closer with a brother or sister in Christ. And I think that's been the case here. I think the times that Epaphroditus spent with Paul during his times of illness, during Paul's imprisonment, I think brought them much closer together. And therefore he refers to him as the dear brother. Praise God for brothers and sisters in Christ. Then he calls him a companion in labor or a co-worker. Paul's epistles are full of such people, a lot of references to names just like that, men and women sorts. We have Apollos and Aquila and Priscilla and Arstarchus and Clement and Timothy. Paul labored with all of them, but he labored with Epaphroditus and he says, we are all co-workers. We work together for the same cause. Paul writes to the church in Corinth and he reminds them, Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one. And every man shall receive of his own reward according as he has labored, for we are laborers together with God. The apostle writes of the church in Corinth and he says, we all have various labors under the umbrella, under the banner, under the working of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he says, we labor together We labor together for the same cause. We are co-labourers. I think Paul could have easily taken and used the position of leadership. He could have said, Hey, listen, I'm an apostle. Uh we're we're laboring in the fields here, but I'm in a position to be able to say I'm a little over you, but he never did Because he saw in the eyes of the Lord Jesus Christ they were equals. They worked for the same things. And it's hard, I believe, to call somebody a better compliment than saying we're co-workers together for Christ. Fellow soldiers is the next one, the third description that he gives, or a companion in arms. I think Paul used this il uh illustration of being a soldier or a spiritual battle probably more than any others in his letters Uh they shared together in dangers, they shared together in spiritual warfare, they shared together in all areas, and even as he had done with Timothy. Those were situations that Epaphroditus stood firm. In 2 Timothy, we read where Demas, Kreskins, and Titus abandoned Paul. Paul was in prison. And he says, all of a sudden these three men, they no longer visit me. They no longer come. The the spiritual battle is strong and powerful and and they're no longer here. They weren't fellow soldiers with Paul. But Epaphroditus was. I think he stayed the course and he probably paid for it. Verse 30 says, because of the work of Christ was he was nigh unto death. not regarding his life to supply the lack of service for me. His devotion to Christ, whatever it was, however it could be seen, brought him to a place where he was nigh unto death. And like Paul and Epaphroditus, I think we too are called to fight a good fight of faith against the flesh and the world and the devil. And that may bring us into situations where we too may suffer. The last two were put together, messenger and minister. With these words, it shows that he was a messenger. uh an apostle, one bringing a message. But his message was the good word that came from the church at Philippi to Paul. But he also brought the money I think in this particular trip that he had gone on, he was there to be able to minister to the Apostle Paul and his needs One man had written he says it speculative, but uh he said that the ch the distance from where uh uh uh Philippi was to Rome was seven hundred and twenty-nine miles. He said it would have taken fifty-seven days with a rest on the Lord's Day and therefore uh uh travel with other people to be able to uh provide protection for the money and and encouragement along the way. And he says probably in those trips he probably picked up pneumonia, especially it was during winter. Uh there's also rotten foods and stuff along the way. You could have gotten some other virus or anything that takes along his particular path. But those conditions might have explained why he had almost died. Paul writes in Romans 12, 1, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a A living sacrifice. What's a sacrifice? Usually when we think of it's death, you know. An animal sacrifice, a person I'm sacrificing, I'm just giving it all. But he says this is a sacrifice that is living, which is holy and acceptable unto God, and it is reasonable service. It's what the Lord expects. Giving of such. And I think both of these men, Timothy and Epaphroditus, gave such. I think first of all we see in these characters serving the Lord Jesus Christ will cost. But it's worth it. It cost Timothy, it cost Epaphroditus, it cost Paul, but they were modeled servants to follow. Following Jesus' example, I think we now recognize that sacrifice involves in our own life how we will stand and glorify the Lord Jesus and what we do. But I think also looking at these two men, the church has always been sustained and enriched and built up by unsung heroes. The names of Paul and Epaphroditus or Timothy or Aristarchus or Clement or some of these others are a little more familiar, but for the most part they are not known If you would look to Ro Book of Romans and chapter sixteen. Romans sixteen. And what I want you to think about I'll probably murder some of these names, but they won't know. I want you to see how the apostle refers to them. The church is dear to him. He loves him. I commend unto you, Phoebe, our sister. Okay? We talked about brother-sister relationship, which is a servant of the church, which is at Centratia. that ye receive her in the Lord as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatever business she hath need of need of you, for she hath been a succour or a helper of many, and of myself also. Verse 3. Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus, who have, for my life, laid down their own necks. You can imagine what that meant, unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all of the churches of Galatia of the Gentiles likewise greet the church that is in their house. Salute my well-beloved Padeas, who is the first fruits of Achaea unto Christ. Greet Mary, who bestowed much labor on us. Salute Andronicus and Juliana, my kinsmen, my fellow prisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me. Greet Ampelius, my beloved in the Lord. Salute Urbane, our helper in Christ, and Stachis, my beloved. Salute Appleus, approved in Christ. Salute them, which are of Aristobulus household. Salute Hedron, my kinsman Greet them that are of the household of Narcissus, which are in the Lord. Salute Trifana and Triphosa. um somebody maybe brothers or sisters, you know, who labor in the Lord. Salute to beloved Paris, who laboreth in much in the Lord. Salute Rufus, chosen of the Lord, and his mother and mine. Salute Yes. The names that are there. I'm gonna I'm never gonna murder them. Kiss each one of the holy kiss of the Church of Jesus Christ, Salutru. Do you see the beautiful descriptions that he gives there? Mother, brother, sister, co-worker, servant, those who work very hard. Let me ask you, based upon those names, did the apostles do all of the work for the church? No. They had servants' hearts. They were the people who are worthy of honor, but maybe not recognized here on this earth. The church is filled with missionaries, with fellow servants of Jesus, who were laboring in their own ways to build the church and to reach out. So don't get the impression that you don't have an important role in the church just because you don't have a whatever. You're part of the body of Christ brought in by the Lord Jesus Christ. Unsung heroes. What he wants us to have is a heart that is a servant heart, a heart that's willing to be a friend, to be like Timothy. To be one who is willing to do whatever it takes because you love the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think that will profit the church, show forth the church more than anything else. What is an authentic Christian church? One that would live and act like the Lord Jesus Christ would live and act. May he encourage us even in the days that we live. facing the things that we face, even the unknowns, in Christ's name. Blessed Father of the things that have been sown here by the Apostle Paul. these list of names, situations that he knew by heart here at the Church of Rome. For these two men, Paphroditus and Timothy, for their love for you and that which is given in sacrifice in order to see that the gospel of Christ go forth. Help us, Father, to see ourselves as we ought, not as people of doing anything of our own for raising up our own interest or own name, but to do it for Jesus' sake Thank you in his name, Amen.