Happy Father's Day to everyone today. Well the Fathers, everyone, everyone, we're all connected to a Father somehow, one way or the other. Hopefully we're all connected perfectly to our Heavenly Father. Let's go to Genesis chapter 24. The motif basically or the theme of the message this morning may not be perfectly expositorily But it's going to show really what this seed was that God had, that he had planned, and what did it take. And we as we read these verses, this is kind of like the opening to the love of the Father. Right now, as we enter into this, and we'll be talking about this a little bit later, Sarah has died. Abraham is now a widower. He now has had the most hard, the most difficult thing that can happen is the love of his life is gone. Does he give up? Does he hide? Does he crawl into a hole? No, look what he does here. Genesis chapter 24. And Abraham was old and well stricken in age. And the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house that ruled over all that he had Put I pray thee thy hand under my thigh. Once again we're in Genesis twenty four. We're now reading verse three And I will make thee swear by the Lord, the God of heaven, and the God of the earth, and thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell But thou shalt go unto my country and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac. And the servant said unto him, Paradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me unto this land, must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest? Keep in mind, paraventure means per basically perhaps Verse six, and Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again The Lord God of heaven, which took me from my father's house and from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and not swear unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land He shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto thy son from thence. And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath Only bring not my son thither again. And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and swear to him concerning that matter And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master and departed, for all the goods of his master were in his hand, and he arose and went to Mesopotamia unto the city of Nahor And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out to draw water. And he said, O Lord God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send me good speed this day, and show kindness unto my master Abraham. Behold, I stand here by the well of water, and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water. And let it come to pass that the damsel to whom I shall say Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink, and she shall say, Drink, and I will give thee thy camels drink also. Let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac And thereby shall I know that thou hast showed kindness unto my master. There's over sixty verses in this chapter. But we've got other things to do here because we're looking at something. There's a binder. There's always a word that the Lord uses to bind together an incredible message that He's trying to send us even this morning. The word seed. Very small little word. This word seed comes up many times. And we're going to look at this. You can see here the love of a father that after the death of his precious wife He is so incredibly inclined to pray for his son and beg for not just a wife to be Isaac's helpmate But to be a wife that is a godly woman, a woman not of the pagans, a woman where God has directed him to find that woman. And I believe that it's incumbent about the father of children that they should spend every day praying for the future spouses of their children, whether it be male or female. And this is the heart of a father. This father cared for his son. And look how incredible this is. Fathers play such a role, a vital role in the home, the church, the family, extended family, and in the government. Godly forefathers built our great country and relied on the scriptures to learn how to be great fathers. Namely, one of the most prolific prophet fathers in Scripture, as we look at this morning, was Abraham. We see a progression of his role as a father throughout his reign in Scripture. We see the first proclamation of Abraham as a father is the Lord told him something. Now, how would you love to have been a fly on that wall to watch this conversation by God Himself and Abraham Who is such an incredible figure? If you have any connection to Scripture, which I hope you have a lot of it, you will know that Abraham was an incredibly important figure in Scripture. This proclamation was made by the prophecy of Jehovah to Abraham, who he designates as a prophet. We go back and in Genesis chapter 12, 7 If you'd like to try to follow me and go and keep flipping, you can. You don't have to be Bible flippers this morning. There's going to be some longer, there's going to be some longer like um texts we're going to read, but I'm going to be going through this kind of quickly because I'm going to try to fit this all in But in Genesis chapter 12, 7, going back, and one more thing, I'm cheating. I have it all perfectly copied and pasted on here so you don't hear me flipping all morning. So that's why I'm kind of a little bit quicker than you will. So I'll try to slow down. If I'm going too fast, just throw something at me or not too hard. Anyway, Genesis chapter twelve seven says And the Lord appeared unto Abraham and said, There you go, there's that word, unto thy seed will I give this land. And there builded he an altar unto the Lord, who appeared unto him. We see here land promises were a constant part of the construct of God Almighty's covenantal prophecies of blessings, where ultimately the promises would include at the end of all of this on this earth Isn't it amazing? Land was always promised, but there's going to be an ultimate guarantee of a wonderful property and estate, and that is a new heaven and a new earth which the Lord promises his people. And right now, good old Abraham's probably up there maybe planting some gardens in our mansions. Who knows? He might be helping with that. He's been there a while and he I'm sure he loves every second of eternity. And that's not that there are seconds in eternity, but you know what I mean This just can't be measured. You think of eternity and it's like you don't have the bandwidth in your brain to even begin to contemplate what is eternity You know, as it's wonderful to know that it's there, but we're so clock oriented, you know. But land provinces were very important And a seed is mentioned. Who is the seed? What's it going to take to have a seed? What is so important that is such a a a pivotal foundational principle of what a seed is going to be to be the future generations of godly people all the way till the day where God's people are part of that seed. Well, we see in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 17, by faith Abraham. when he was tried. He offered up Isaac, and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son, of whom it is said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called For there to be a seed, there had to be a father. To be a father is an incredibly important position. Can you imagine Abraham? He right now is in the grip of befuddlement, and how am I ever going to be a father? I am already aging quite rapidly, and how will my wife carry a son that from my body, from my loins, and carry on my name? Here, he's already in his 90s How many 90-year-olds lately have you seen been carrying babies? I think the rate of that is a very stiff 0% for a long time. Look at go turn back if you want, if you would like to read. This is more of a lengthy passage. We see here, and here comes, here's the covenant. And it's incredible how the Lord makes covenants and he makes these embargoes and these agreements and these accords with his people. That's how loving he is. He doesn't have to do that, but he does it. Genesis chapter 15, verse 2. And Abram said, Lord God What wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus? And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed, and lo, one born in my house is mine heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying This shall not be thine heir, but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowel shall be in thine heir. And he brought him forth abroad and said, Look now toward heaven and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be. And he believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. There's a g there's a faithful and a godly father. Because the Lord is telling Abraham something that from our very limited knowledge It's impossible. How many things in your life do you think are totally impossible that the Lord cannot rise above? It's amazing how one way or the other He always seems to fix it. One way or the other, whether we like it or not, the Lord knows what he's doing. He always knows what he's doing. And Abraham is saying, now, wait a minute. You're talking about me. I am Abraham and I am in my 90s. I'm not the one that's going to be carrying this child for nine months. My wife, Sarai, if the name Tatime, her name is Sarai, S-A-R-A-I. Sarai, my poor wife, she's She's ready for possibly the old folks home. She's ready for maybe hospice pretty soon. She's breaking down. She's older. She, as Sarah I said herself, As a woman, how could I have this pleasure? How? She's older now. Can the Lord do it? Of course he can. Well, we read this, and then we see our Lord God Jehovah, Nesai, who is invincible. In essence, he put his signature on this. He doesn't just say it. See, I love this. He doesn't just say it and say, all right, sit back, I'll come up and I'll I'll visit you down the road somewhere. You won't know when it's happening, but all of a sudden you'll find out that Sarai is pregnant No, he gives him an accord and an oath, and he shows him by a physical representation how he's going to do this. And it's such an incredible covenant. That Abraham doesn't even ask a question. Look at this. First of all, before we get into that part, creeds and covenants, always remember this. Creeds and covenants, confessions and oaths and promises have always played a vital role in the historicity and the authenticity of Scripture What is incredible is how we need to keep them. But we don't, as people, we don't keep our word perfectly. We don't. That's part of our problem. But God does. And that's who we rely on. Romans 15:8 says, Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God to confirm the promises made unto the fathers. 2 Corinthians 1. 20 says, For all the promises of God in him are yea, and in him, amen, and the glory of God by us. You flip over to 2 Corinthians 7, verse 1. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh. spirit perfecting holiness in the fear of our God. Our Lord confirms these promises. He does them perfectly as he's done to Abraham. This is what's called a unilateral covenant. I don't know if you've ever heard of that or not, but it's extremely important to know that, especially as a Christian. See, a unilateral covenant comes from a supreme being that does not allow his people to change his mind and to take the covenant and to abrogate it and to put a wax nose on it and make it something that it isn't. Sadly, that's what's really the problem with churches today, because they're taking the covenants They're taking the Old Testament, ripping them apart or completely pushing them away, and they're basically saying, by their own unilateral agreement. That this is no longer authenticity. It's only history. We don't need it. We can now go to our own ways of doing things. As we learned today in the adult Sunday School class. And if you missed it, you missed something really special. But it was really incredible. The bottom line is God deals in unilateral covenants, and the bottom line is they will not be changed Now we're different. What do we use? We use bilateral covenants. You scratch my back, I'll scratch your back. One of the bilateral covenants that we're learning right now in the Wednesday night prayer meeting is the bilateral covenant between Rahab and the spies. Rahab has been cleaned up by God. She loves the Lord now. She's wonderful. She now works in her house And now the spies come up and the spies come up and she says, Listen, and you don't read about her having a a husband or kids. It's kind of sad because that was a lifestyle in her former lifestyle that may have prevented her from having that But she tells the spies, you, I will hide you. Not only will I hide you, but I will give you the intel to be able to go over to Jericho and knock these walls down in essence. I'll show you what's going on inside and what's going to happen But I need to ask you a favor. And she asked it in such a beautiful way. Will you take care of my mom? Will you take care of my family? If you, because I know that God is who you say he is And I know that all the pagan nations faint before God, that He is the one that opened up the Red Sea. He is the one that brought you out of Egypt and had an exodus and brought you out. I know him. I love him. I will follow him. But I can't if they're going to butcher me to death. I need your help She says she makes a bilateral covenant in Joshua chapter 2. It's an incredible read. You sit down and start reading it, you won't be able to stop. Rahab the harlot is an incredible, incredible piece of history for the Christian church and she winds up being Christ is of the line of her. Matthew chapter 1 verse 5. If you want to read that But there that's a bilateral covenant. Many times in scripture you had bilateral covenants. Saul had them with David. Paul had them with Peter. You had that But with the Lord it's unilateral. It's Him. He calls the shots, and it will not be changed. And here he tells Abraham You're going to have a baby in an old age. You're going to take this child, and this child is going to be my seed. You're going to be a father of many nations. Here's the covenant, Genesis chapter 15, verse 8. Go ahead and turn to that if you'd like. This is, I think this is incredible. I really think this is incredible. Genesis chapter fifteen and eight, and he said, O Lord God, whereby shall I know what I that I shall inherit it? And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old, and a she-goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. Oh, we could stay in that for weeks. There's so many, so much doctrine in just what happened here with these animals, but you know where we're at. And he took unto him all these and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another, but the birds divided he not. And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abraham drove them away. And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abraham, and lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him. Notice this. Faithful followers of our Lord Jehovah will receive the assurances of God. The Lord will give favor. Here What's incredible is Abraham did not question God other than just asking him a general question, what am I going to inherit The Lord answers him. And he gives him this, he said, You will inherit everything you can see. But like the sand of the sea and the stars of the sky, I am going to bless you so much you won't even be able to begin to believe it. It's so much. And I am going to make a unilateral covenant and I am going to take these animals and I am going to divide them. I am going to take their carcasses. They're going to be bleeding. They're going to be dead. And what it means is something very significant. He said this faith is confirmed by an instituted ordinance given by God. And it's amazing. This is an incredible teaching to us why we come and we worship God on the Sabbath day. The Lord operates in ordinances and he shows us that our faithfulness, he will show us faithful things, and we are to do and we are to respond by honoring him and worshiping him the way he tells us. And he told Abraham exactly what to do, exactly what animals to bring in, and Abraham did it and didn't question him. He lined those animals up Like say both of these rows of chairs were all lined up with dead atoms, and all of a sudden the smoking flax and this burning lamp go right down the middle. He was not allowed to enter in that middle aisle. He couldn't do it because that was God speaking. And he was showing him, I am making this covenant. Abraham knew not whatsoever what God was purposing to convey, but he still prepared these carcasses according to the divine instruction. Abraham will be called on to follow a follow another plan of sacrifice much more costly as an obedient father. You think these animals are something? Where do we get to the part where the Lord tells Abraham now? He says, how am I ever going to have a child? We're way up there in age. Well where do you hear we where do you hear this, Abraham? You're going to take that child and you're going to put him up on an altar and you're going to sever him in pieces just like these animals and you're going to offer him up to me out of obedience. That's the next part. Here is another heart of a true and obedient father. Jacob, look at some of the other, real quick, I'd like to look at some of the other characters in scripture. That were incredible fathers while we're looking at this. That that that had loved covenants. That Jacob knew his family. He knew Abraham was family. He kept the ordinances. And look what happened here Look at the heart of a father here. Jacob learns of his son Joseph, not only being alive, but being second in command over all the land. I'd like to read this real quick. Genesis chapter 45, verses 26 to 27, here's Jacob's reaction as a father. And it says, and told him the brethren that Joseph sent back, saying Joseph is yet alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not. And they told him all of the words of Joseph which he had said unto them, and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived And Israel said, It is enough. Joseph, my son, is yet alive. I will go and see him before I die. Joseph had had a hole in his heart so big that he couldn't even breathe all those years. Joseph, he loved Joseph. Because Joseph and Benjamin came from his wife Rachel, who he adored. And he thought Joseph was dead. They had lied to him. And when he hears that as a heart of a father, he hears his Joseph is alive. He was totally revived And he was so revised, if you go on to read that, he is literally speaking to Pharaoh with just adulation and just love in his heart and preaching to Pharaoh, and now it's like he's a whole new man What about Job? We see here that Job was perfect in his generations and he walked with God. Didn't mean he was sinless perfect. What it did mean though is that he had perfect worship. There is another, Genesis, go back to Genesis 6. 9, there's another father. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. Perfect in his generations. He loved God. He had perfect worship. He did not present pagan idol worship to his children and ruin them. He gave them the Bible, and it's never changed in all these years. If you give pagan worship to your children, you're destroying them. You are destroying them. They will have no concept of what the joy of having Jesus Christ in their heart and having God the Father look down on them. They need scripture. But going back to Job, as we talked about Job and Noah real quick, and I'll go forward. You know, Job lost ten children in that first chapter. Satan went after him and he just mocked Job. It's an inception of how good fathers are mocked horribly even today. Satan said to the Lord, all right, he's a good father, but take away everything he's got and he'll curse you to your face. And then Job comes back as the good father he was, though he slay me, I will not curse his name. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. We've heard that many times at funerals. What incredible That's an incredible statement. I guess Isaac is coming to Abraham, who is he is now he is going to be coming to Abraham, who now is called Abra he's who Abraham who is next Abram, who is now called Abraham, and Sarai is now given the name by the Lord God Almighty as Sarah. Abraham is curious. When? How will my 90-year-old wife have a son? He actually left. He laughed and then Sarah herself laughs in her heart. They both laughed. You know, I do not believe in a disproportionate mocking visage, but I believe that this was just not a laugh of mocking God. It was a laugh of just uh uh befuddled bewilderment. What? I I love my wife, but she's 90 years old? How can she carry a child? How? You go to Genesis chapter 17, verses 3 to 19. We're going to read that now. And here's what happened. Genesis 17, 3. And Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations. Neither shall thy name anymore be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham, for a father of many nations have I made thee. And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make mention of thee I'm sorry, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee. And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee and their generations for an everlasting covenant to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. And I will give unto thee and to thy seed after thee the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. What did Abraham just said? Do not give me a wife. for my son out of Canaan. At that time it was pagan. The Lord said, You're going to push them back. You're going to take it from them and you're going to be a father of many nations out of there. Here we see Jehovah Jireh, he's the great provider of all things. He once again pronounces a seed. Go to verse 19 and you read And God said, Sarah, thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed, and thou shalt call his name Isaac, and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant and with his seed after him. Then Isaac is born. Our Lord keeps his perfect covenant. And Sarah laughs from the inside. It's funny though. Abraham's not laughing now. He knows that the Lord, everything he says, is perfect. Do we? That's a good question. Let's go to Genesis chapter 21, verses 1 through 8. As we move forward and see the greatness of this Abraham and how wonderful of a father he was. We go to Genesis chapter 21 and we read verse 1. And the Lord visited Sarah As he had said, once again his promises are perfect. And the Lord did unto Sarah as he had spoken. For Sarah conceived and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the time of which God had spoken to him. And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him Isaac. And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac, being eight days old, as God had commanded him And Abraham was an hundred years old when his son Isaac was born unto him. And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh so that all that hear will laugh with me And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham that Sarah should have given children suck? For I have borne him a son in his old age And the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned. And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had borne unto Abraham mocking She was still laughing. They were mocking. They were laughing at this. But the Lord brought this incredible promise to fruition. And here is the seed. You know how old Sarah was at the time of her birth. You go to Genesis 17, 17. Then Abraham fell upon his face and laughed and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old, and shall Sarah that is ninety years old bear? Abraham is ten years older than her. She's ninety Here's the test. Was Abraham being a good father following the order and listening to the Lord? Was he being a good father by honoring the Lord and listening to him? That is the basis of this message this morning. Abraham obeyed God first in everything. He always obeyed Abraham first. I mean, Abraham always obeyed God first. You know that when this happened, this was not a temptation of what we're about to read here. God reserved the right, there was already one sacrifice, now here's another sacrifice, and then we'll see the progression. Genesis chapter 22. I would like to read verses 1 through 12. We've got a few more minutes here left, and then we'll be closing up. But look at what happens. The Lord keeps his promise. Isaac is alive. Sarah has this baby at 90 years old, and then all of a sudden something happens. And I find it fascinating here that there is a division. Abraham right now is not with Sarah. Somehow there's a division there. I don't believe it's some kind of a fight or anything, but I believe the Lord separated Abraham for a reason. Could Sarah even begin to process and have the the the capability even to understand what the Lord was doing here. Genesis chapter twenty-two, I think verses one to twelve And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of And Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and claved the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up And went unto the holy unto the place of which God had told him. Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place for afar off. Can you imagine how he felt And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand and a knife, and they went both of them together. And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and said, My father, and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold, the fire in the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together, and they came to the place which God had told him of And Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order, and found Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood, and Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. Then he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me. What was going on here? What was the Lord trying to do? Just make Abraham into an absolute nervous wreck. He was trying to show us something here. Abraham could have said, I've had it You already completely pushed me back years of my life by telling me my 90-year-old wife is going to have a baby. Now you want to take her baby? That was totally impossible. You give her a miracle and you're gonna have me cut that child up in pieces? I'm done. I've had it. I'm out of here. Bye. Shut the door. What does Paul say in Galatians 6? Incredible things happen if we faint not. And he goes and he comes back and he says, Lord, you can even count the sticks that I have to put on my son. I am not going to blaspheme you. I trust you. And this is what I believe. This is what I really think. This was a test. It was not really a temptation. If you go into Hebrewisms, this was a test. It wasn't temptation. The Lord was not playing with Abraham Abraham was being a good father because he he he honored God before he honored his desires. This wasn't a temptation. He reserved that right, the right to examine the heart of Abraham, and Abraham was told to take Isaac to Mount Moriah. By the way, Mount Moriah is Jerusalem. Mount Moriah is where Solomon builds the temple, and it's where Jesus Christ Himself is crucified. But there was no ram in the thicket for him, was there? Remember that. Notice how there was no reluctance in Abraham whatsoever. Just as God commanded Abraham to prepare the animals for the burning The burning lamp and the smoking flax immediately, immediately he stepped forth, there's not one pause of him Set for that journey. He didn't say, Lord, well, I got some business to take care of, or I gotta check my finances, um, I gotta go check my email, or I gotta go check my stocks. Uh, you know, I'm gonna need a few weeks. My favorite team's playing on television. I'll I'll get to you sometime down the road. He immediately left. He didn't think of nothing. Isn't that incredible? He went and he's going there to butcher his son. It is believed, and many commentaries have said this, that Abraham trusted in God. MacArthur's Henry Calvin. I didn't get the pink. I don't have his book yet. But there was other ones. All of these agreed was one thing, credibly, in one form or another. It is believed and written in many commentaries that Abraham trusted in God as an obedient father, so much that Abraham constantly assured his servants that he and Isaac's return was imminent, even if the Lord killed Isaac. He knew Lord the God Lord God Almighty said he would be the seed of many generations, and even if he killed him, he could raise him from the dead. And bring him back and put him right there where he said. He believed that. Look at Hebrews chapter 11, verse 18. Of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called Accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, from whence also he received him a figure. You know, we see this is the godly faithfulness, the godly faithfulness of Abraham. And Sarah died after this happened. Not long after this, Sarah died. Just a few years later. She passed away. But could you imagine what her reaction would have been if Abraham would have come down off of that mountain and said, Isaac's gone? What if he would have said When I say he's gone, I mean Sarah, he's gone. The Lord's taking him. And the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Can you imagine what Sarah would have would it would have been like for her? The Lord separated her and had her perhaps tending home or being with family and being comfortable while the Lord was taking Abraham to school. This was a training session. Basically, he was in a theological class learning about covenants and sacrifices, is exactly what he was doing. I just think that's incredible. It's the same mountain that our Lord God Almighty took his son. Second Corinthians 5 21, for he hath made him to be a sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. There was no out for Jesus God's only son, his precious son, who he loves, and he says, through his son, believe on him. You want to know how you can miss heaven? Just don't believe on a son. How would you like it if you had a son and people didn't believe on them or didn't like him or treated him horrible or spit on him or beat him, threw rocks at him, tried to throw them over a cliff? How would you feel about that person if that was your son? Would you want them to come to your heaven? I mean, look at it like that. He says, Love my son, to prepare your hearts and worship him. He died for you. And I didn't put anything in his place. I said, that cup will not pass before you. You're going to that cross. And my son cried out to me, Father. Forgive them for they know what they they do. Father, Father, why hast thou forsaken me? Well, to finish up, Sarah died. She was 127 years old. Can you imagine what Abraham went through? I mean you read you read the chapter, I think it's chapter 23, and you see how Abraham just, he was in abject sorrow. He even bought a special grave for her from Maxila. He then prays that the land will be given to his son Isaac, and he prays for the future of his son. We see here, and you go over to Genesis chapter 24 where we started and we'll finish up. We already read the beginning. Abraham prays. He prays number one that his son would find a godly woman, that he would have land, that the all of the accoutrements and all of the little things would perfectly come together. that somehow Rebecca would take the water, give it to the camels, give it to the camels, and that would be the sign to the servant that she's the one. But the servant says, paradventure, what if she doesn't want to come? Abraham says, leave him. You wait on the Lord. I don't care if it takes a hundred years, wait on the Lord. Let patience perform her perfect work. That's the work of a father. It's not easy to see your children hurt, but you get up in the morning, you get on your knees, and you pray, and you know the Lord's got this. You get to the point, it's taken me years, but I've gotten to the point, if I can't lay my burdens with the Lord before I walk out the door, I'm a wreck all day. I just feel weird It's like I didn't do my job. You pray for your kids, you pray for them, you pray for their friends, you pray for your wife, you pray for your con the congregation you're there with, you pray for them And that's what Abraham did. It didn't just stop at Isaac. Everybody was looking at Abraham, even thousands of years later. We're still looking at him. And look at what an example that he is. A father, seed of many nations. So what happens? What happens to the sun? Look, what we can't we can't leave here without finding what happened. I mean, what would that wouldn't be any fun? Look at this So move forward in Genesis chapter 24 and we'll bring this all together. 15 to 2 No, no, we gotta go further than that. 61 to 67. Here you go. Well let's go back and read 15 to 20 real quick. Let's see what Rebecca does. Genesis chapter twenty-four, verses fifteen to twenty, I'll read that. And it came to pass before he had done speaking That behold Rebecca came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milka, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder, and the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin neither had any man known her, and she went down to the well and filled her pitcher, and came up. And the servant ran to meet her and said, Let me, I pray thee, drink a little water of thy pitcher and she said, Drink, my lord, and she hasted. and let down her pitcher upon her hand and gave him drink. And when she had done and when she had done given him drink, she said, I will draw water for thy camels also until they have done drinking And she hasted and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again into the wells to draw water and drew for all his camels. Not only did she get the water which was the sign She did it over and over again, and she referred to the servant as my Lord. Look at the respect and the godly wisdom the Lord's given her. And here's how it ends. Verse 61, Genesis 24, 61. And Rebecca arose and her damsels. And they rode upon the camera. She's she's leaving her family. She's going. She's gone. And followed the man, and the servant took Rebecca and went his way. Oh, real quick, commercial here. Where is Isaac? What's he doing? Is he down at the local gambling hall? Is he down there playing the slots and sitting at a football game somewhere? Look at what he's doing And Rebekah arose and her dandels. That's verse 61. I'm sorry. Verse 62. And Isaac came from the way of the well of Lahiroi, for he dwelt in the south country. And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide, and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and behold, the camels were coming. And Rebecca lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel. She lit up. For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master. Therefore she took a veil and covered herself And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done, and Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife, and he loved her. And Isaac was comforted after his mother's death. What a way to end. What a wonderful romantic novel here. Not like all this junk that's been written for the last couple of couple of hundred years where everything always ends in a tragedy. This is an incredible romantic novel where they come together. She has the veil over her face to honor him, and he looks at her and he just melts for her. She's beautiful. He can see that with the veil over her face. And he comes in, but what was the caveat here? What lifted his heart up? He was mourning over the death of his mother. Says that. He was mourning over Sarah. He loved her. He just loved his mother. And all of a sudden, here's the help meet that's been brought by God. And look how it all comes together. By a godly father who trusted in his heavenly father. And everything came together like that. You know, Hassara had died, and here's what had happened. But You know, it's incredible how Rebecca appears, she fetches the pails and fulfills the sign that she is the one for Isaac. Abraham prayed for a godly wife for his son. This matter to him to have a wife chosen of God of like faith and a like mind in Christ. Today, sadly, anything goes. I've been looking up wedding vows, and there's wedding vows for every type of religion in person you can imagine. Christian is somewhere in there, but you have mixed marriages, you have gay marriages, and there's all kind of wedding vows The Lord directed Abraham and he stayed very faithful. You know, you go, Amos 3. 1 says, Hear this word that the Lord has spoken against you O children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up from the land of Egypt, saying, You only have I known of all the families of the earth, therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities. Can two walk together except they be agreed? That is the most important, one of the most important foundational principles of marriage. Can two walk together unless they be agreed? They must both love the Lord. It's very important. You know, what's very sad is it's good to look at Abraham as a good example for a father, because I saw this thing on the news. It was a it was it was a presentation given on the fathers that raised us in the 80s, the 70s and the 80s and the 90s. Sadly, the fathers that basically raised many were in the 70s Archie Bunker, George Jefferson, Howard Cunningham. He was actually a pretty good one, actually. I like Howie. Howard Cunningham, Uncle Phil. from Fresh Prince of Belair, Tim Taylor on home improvement, Al Bundy, Homer Simpson. This is what fathers had become. Do you realize why Leave It the Beaver was put on in the late fifties and early sixties? Because you think it was the sixties or the seventies, but that's not it. Single mothers started the S it started escalating in the fifties that men were leaving their wives and women only they they raised the child children themselves. And these syndicated programs figured this out that we could start putting on family television shows and the fathers can be their fathers. Word cleaver was used for that very reason. So was Robert Young and some of the other ones. The sad thing was they were good examples. But they did not give the gospel of Jesus Christ. I mean I loved watching Levit the Beaver growing up. I loved watching Father knows best of my three sons and all. I think they were great shows. But you know, that's what's raised people. We need to go back We really need to go back to the forefathers. Alright, I'm out of time. I'm going to finish this up. This is incredible. Look at the dependency that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ put on his Father and how important the role of a Father is. John 17, 1 to 5. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come Glorify thy son, that thy son also may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do, and now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. We see here that the seed of Abraham meant he would have to be a father. Look at how important the role of a father is. What would have happened if Abraham would have been a deadbeat dad, ran away or worse, aborted his little boy? Sadly, this is an epidemic today. Fathers are awesome and play a vital role in the lives of their children, other children as well. Perhaps a father teaches the church and has Bible studies at his home, which is so important. How many of the friends of his children's life does he impact? Or the children he could teach at church. Fathers are mocked and ridiculed today, especially godly fathers. You do not see the impact on Father's Day like other holidays anymore. Lisa brought that up and I think it's brilliant. You don't see the patriarchal. How many advertisements now have you seen for Father's Day? Especially in the liberal ranks, a godly father is now basically a cult leader and a Christian terrorist. Thank the Lord for faithful fathers and always be dependent on your Heavenly Father. He'll never leave you or forsake you. Our Lord and our God, we thank thee for the faith of our fathers, we thank thee for the forefathers of this nation, and we thank thee for the patriarchal fathers in the Old Testament that they followed their example. Our forefathers like George Washington and Patrick Henry, men like Samuel Davies, Henry's pastor, all of them, they loved Abraham and they loved Isaac, they loved Jacob. I pray that we will remember them. I pray that thou just bless us and keep us from falling, give us a wonderful day together, to have fellowship and to be able to say it's been good to be in thy house, Lord. Thank thee and praise thee in the name we pray. Amen.