Well this is not me starting my thanks testimonial thanksgiving, but I will 13 to 16. And after I finish, if you still think of something, you're welcome during you know before prayer, you're welcome to chime in if the Lord leaves it on your heart as well. But at Hebrews chapter eleven, wow, we went to this is a record. We went to twelve oh one. This is a record in testimonials. So ready, just be ready. I had a two-hour message prepared today. Just kidding. I don't know how I'm going to do this, but we're going to get through it. I'll get to the main points anyway. Hebrews chapter eleven, verses thirteen to sixteen, if actually if we just read these verses and walked out the door now, I believe it would be sufficient. Look at the look at what it says here in Hebrews 11, 13 to 16. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers. Alright? It's in the Bible. And pilgrims on the earth. What's the name of our church? Pilgrim Presbyterian Bible Church? There's the word pilgrim. For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they had come out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country that is in heavenly Whereof God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. We're called pilgrims. We're called Pilgrim Presbyterian Bible Church. A pilgrim not just the historical name, not just the claim to the new arrival to Plymouth, Massachusetts, and Strangers in a Strange Land here Also in America, but a biblical word and one that greatly describes those that are listed in the hall of faith here in Hebrews 11, the definition of the word pilgrim. in Middle English or from the Anglo-French is pelarin or pelagrine, or from the Latin pelagrinus, one who journeys into foreign lands What I don't have written here and what I just said the Lord really laid this on my heart earlier today is the most ultimate pilgrim that we've ever seen, and he was definitely a pilgrim, is the one that left glory to come down here as a pilgrimage on this earth. to bring the gospel, to bring salvation, and to die for our sins, as Katerina said so wonderfully about how the Lord shed his blood on the cross to die for our sins. What a pilgrimage to come down here where he had left glory. He left everything anyone could even imagine. We can even begin to believe what he left to come down here for us. We see the foundational principles, basically, of the pilgrims was the basis of courage, that they had faith in the Lord. And that's what drives a pilgrim. And we see that found in the passage this morning. It's a we have an inheritance that is heavenly. It's not just earth earthly, but it's also it's it's Faith is what allows us to see it and to pursue it, and the Lord puts that in our hearts. We have Christian patriarchs here that we read about. If you go back to Hebrews 11, 3, we see through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. That is faith. And there are two types of faith. There is a common faith and then there is a saving faith. That common faith is all what we all know is things that you do that you don't know you don't see coming. Just driving on the road, you have faith that you're going to be safe, or flying in an airplane, or getting so whatever. That's a common faith, but a saving faith is knowing that there is a Christ, a God, a wonderful Christ. Most people think that the what the name Jesus Christ. Is Jesus' first name is Jesus and his last name like we have Charlie Braun or Lisa Everett? That's his last name, Jesus Christ. No, that is his ineffable name, and you can see why people are so offended by it, because Christ means He is deity, he is the Messiah, he is the messenger, and he is God. And that's exactly who we worship. And what a pilgrim. Why do we have faith? Why do we believe in the Lord? Why do we believe in these things and his inheritance? Because they are heavenly. Things that we must trust God for, we can't see. Faith is substantive of things hoped for by the apparent evidence of things that cannot be seen by the human eye, but are there without a shadow of that so the question is this morning. Do you have faith? The evolutionists swears and sadly by God's name, even though they say they do not believe in Him, and that listed that life is just shot out of nowhere millions of years ago, they have a blind faith. In something that doesn't even have any empirical evidence. That's what the evolutionist says. I saw someone or heard of heard it a few weeks ago, someone say that I'm 60% atheist. and 40% agnostic. Well you just claimed it. You totally you actually believe that there's a God. No empirical evidence. Look at the faith that the Lord's given us. I love Hebrews 11, 7. By faith, Noah, being warned of God of things not seen, is yet moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. by the which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. And then when you go back into Genesis chapter 6, verse 2, and God looked upon the earth and behold it was corrupt for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth and moving from Genesis chapter 6, 2 to 13, you don't have to keep turning to this. I'm going through this the best that I can Verse 13, and God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Noah had faith. That man preached while he was building that ark for over a hundred years and nobody would listen to him. We often feel very, very, maybe in kind of solitude where we ha we worship in our little Bible-believing churches with a handful of people. I can be honest and say to you, it doesn't bother me at all. I s maybe I sound like a horrible elder, but it I love having small congregations. I think it's it's intimate. I think the Lord brings people in that want to hear about the Bible. I think it's wonderful But Noah had no one. He had no one. He had his wife, he had his boys, and he had their those wives. And they he those were people I'm sure he was with all the time. But he had no one, and by faith he continued to preach. He built that ark when there had never been a drop of rain. They've never seen rain. And he built that ark. That was a saving faith. Out here, I've spoken about it before, but if you look out here, I for those that have never heard this before, I think it's important for the history of our church. The picture out there in the foyer is a very, very important picture That was taken from the rotunda. Am I right about do you all remember? It was taken from the rotunda in Washington, D. C. I'm pretty sure I'm right about that. And there's only one representation, the original painting from the speed well from the pilgrims that's after Rotunda in Washington DC there's one picture taken of it made into a portrait it's the only one out here and one of the requests was that no other representations of it be made And it's out there and it actually contains a man standing up with his hands out, and he's looking up to heaven, and that's Elder William Brewster Born in fifteen sixty-seven, he died in sixteen forty-four, Plymouth, Massachusetts. He was a leader of the Plymouth colony in New England, and it's this incredible, incredible history there. There's a gentleman that I do business with and his name is Jim Brewster in Long Island, New York. I still talk with him basically, not weekly, but a lot of times, and he is an absolute 16th generation direct descendant of Elder Brewster out there on that painting. And I've had a chance to witness to him and talk to him about this incredible story about Elder William Brewster. He's an elder Brewster spent his early life at Scroby, Nottinghamshire, and acquired his first separatist ideas while at Peterhouse College in Cambridge, which he attended for a short time. 1589 in the sixteenth century in Scrooby. There from fifteen ninety until September sixteen oh seven Brewster held the position of post or postmaster responsible for relays of horses on the post road, having previously for a time assisted his father in his office. About 1602 his neighbors began to assemble for worship at his home, the Manor House, and in 1606 he joined them in organizing the Separatist Church of Scrooby. They worshipped in homes and they were separatists. They had these tiny little congregations that got together. It was a Christian church and very much like the present Presbyterian Bible-believing churches today. Brewster had accompanied the first group of pilgrims on the Mayflower in 1620. He was the only university-trained member of the Plymouth community. He was the real leader of the church. As its senior elder, he dominated the formulations of its doctrines, worship, and practices. He was not a magistrate, but by virtue of his close association with Governor William Bradford He played a major role in civil as well as religious affairs. And here we see a couple more things with a history here One of the original members of the Separatist congregation at Scrooby, which became the nucleus of the pilgrim church, he emigrated with them to Holland in 1608 and became elder and teacher of their church in Leiden. With no minister at the Plymouth Church for most of the years before Brewster's death, he was the layleader and preached to the congregation regularly and continued in this manner after his move to Duxbury in the course of relating the controversies surrounding Uh John Linford Bradford recounts now our Reverend Elder had labored diligently in dispensing the word of God to us. And that's what he wanted to do. It was getting very volatile over in Europe. So they got on these boats, they came over, they sailed for weeks You'll see the screw. It's in the middle of the picture. They took that great big screw and they used it to hold the center of the ship together because it was breaking apart. And only 50% of the people made it over here. We'd be here for hours if I told you everything that went on, but the history there is incredible. Here they believe that every church congregation should have the right to choose its own pastor and officers and discipline its own members. That's church government. And basically what they did not want is some type of um dictator to tell them that they basically are not to read the Bible and then only the laity of the church, or the, I mean the polity or the leadership, only they could interpret Scripture without their people actually reading Scripture. The 102 passengers were made up of fifty saints, the pilgrims, strangers, non-separatists, and the crew. In view of the independent spirit of some, it became evident to both saints and strangers that they needed to cooperate and sign an agreement. to rule themselves as they were going to settle in an area that was not within the purview of their patent. This elder William Brewster and William Bradford, who too was a Christian, Edward Winslow and the pilgrims along with the soldier Miles Standish and the strangers agreed to sign a covenant before they landed to ensure to ensure representatives self-governed by which all of them would be bound. Signed by the forty-one adult males aboard on November eleventh, sixteen twenty, just nine years after the publication of the King James Bible, the Mayflower Compact was the first charter of freedom in America and it reflects the Christian heritage of our nation. And is it any wonder why the sermon today is called Fight for Thanksgiving? That is a Christian background and they're trying to eradicate it. Here's what it said. I hope you can give me just an extra couple minutes so that I can read this and I'll try to bring this to a conclusion Because I have one more thing I want you to read. And I found out it's a very, very popular and incredible s it was a speech given that was a real catalyst to the to the formation of our country that we could have liberty, not just freedom. Freedom's one thing. Liberty is a whole other ballgame. But here the Mayflower Compact said, In the name of God, Amen. We whose names are underwritten the loyal subjects of our dread sovereign Lord King James, by the grace of God of England, France, and Ireland, King defender of the faith, having undertaken for the glory of God an advancement of the Christian faith and the honor of our king and country, a voyage to plant the first colony in the northern parts of Virginia. Do by these presents solemnly and mutually in the presence of God and one of another covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body politic for our better ordering and preservation and furtherance of the ends aforesaid. This is the Mayfeller Compact. This is what was written, predicated on Scripture. We see how this painting embarks on the pilgrims, and we see it came, actually I've got it written here, 1843 came into the U. S. Capitol, Rotunda. the name of the ship speed well and that's what's on that picture out there. But there is another speech. And I'll read this quickly so that I won't I don't want to hold you too long. I've read that speech of Patrick Henry, that give me liberty or give me death speech many times. And I read it and I read it and I read it and I think to myself That was a speech of thanksgiving. You have to read into it. Patrick Henry loved this country. He loved the Lord. He loved Christ and he would not bend, bow, or burn when they were down there at the governor's mansion, actually down there and they were in Congress. And there were so many colonialists that were still crying out, we need to somehow make an embargo with the king. Somehow we gotta work this out. We need the textiles, we need all of their stuff coming over in ships, we want all of the all of the freebies, we want the food, we want the tea. Of course, as Patrick Henry is writing this and reading this, they're already throwing tea up in the Boston Harbor and pulling out muskets. And then here's what Patrick Henry says. Maybe I just I think that this is a wonderful, wonderful statement of Thanksgiving. He says, Mr. President No man thinks morally high than I do of the patriotism as well as abilities of the very worthy gentlemen who have just addressed the House. But different men often see the same subject in different lights, and therefore I hope it will not be thought disrespectful to those gentlemen If, entertaining as I do, opinions of a character very opposite to theirs, I shall speak forth my sentiments freely and without reserve This is no time for ceremony. The question before the House is one of awful moment of to this country for my own part. I consider it as nothing less than a question of freedom or slavery. and in proportion to the magnitude of the subject ought to be the freedom of the debate. It only in this way then we can hope to arrive at truth and fulfill the great responsibility which we hold to God in our country Should I keep back my opinions at such a time through fear of giving offense, I should consider myself as guilty of treason towards my country and an act of disloyalty towards the majesty of heaven, which I revere above all earthly things. There's your thanksgiving to God right there, thanking him for liberty. Here's his closing statement. It's long. I'd love to read the whole thing, but I know I couldn't do that to you. But here's the closing statement from Henry. Sir, we have done everything Trump says that a lot. Sir. Yeah, you still love that? Sir, we have done everything that could be done to revert the storm which is now coming on. We have petitioned, we have remonstrated, we have supplicated, we have prostrated ourselves before the throne, that's the throne of the king, and have implored its interposition to arrest the tyrannical hands of the ministry and parliament. Our petitions have been slighted, our remonstrances have produced additional violence and insult, our supplications have been disregarded, and we have been sterned with contempt from the foot of the throne. In vain After these things we may indulge the fond hope of peace and reconciliation. There is no longer any room for hope if we wish to be free, if we mean to preserve and violate those inestimable privileges for which he has been so long contending, if we mean not basely to abandon the noble struggle in which we have been so long engaged, and which we have pledged ourselves never to abandon unto the glorious object of our contest, shall be obtained. We must fight. I repeat it, sir, we must fight. And appeal to arms and to the God of hosts is all that is left us. They tell us, sir, that we are weak, unable to cope with so formidable an adversary. But when shall we be stronger? Will it be next week? Will it be next year? Will it be when we are totally disarmed and when a British guard shall be stationed in every house? That was Pastor Kenry's main reason. Shall we gather strength by resolution in action? Shall we acquire the means of effectual resistance by lying subliminely in our backs and hugging the delusive phantom of hope until our enemies shall abound us hand and foot? Sir, we are not weak if we make a proper use of those means which the God of nature hath placed in our power. The millions of people armed in the holy cause of liberty, and in such a country as that which we possess are invincible by any force which our enemy can send against us, besides Sir, we shall not fight our battles alone. There is a just God who presides over the destinies of our nations and who will raise up friends to fight our battles for us The battle, sir, is not to the strong alone, it is to the vigilant, the active, the brave. Decide, sir, we have no election If we were base enough to desire it, it is now too late to retire from the contest. There is no retreat but in submission and slavery. Our chains are forged. Their clanking may be heard on the plains of Boston. The war is inevitable, and let it come. I repeat it, sir, let it come. It is in vain, sir, to extenuate the matter. Gentlemen may cry, peace, peace, but there is no peace. The war has actually begun. The next gale that sweeps from the north will bring to our ears the clash of resounding arms. Our brethren are already in the field. Why stand we here idle? What is it that gentlemen wish? What would they have is life so dear or peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and flo and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God, I know not what course other may take, but it's as for me Give me liberty or give me death. Pastor Henry loved the pilgrims and he loved the Puritans. Okay, in closing. I can keep going on, but we used to go down and watch a hockey games when I was a kid down at the Baltimore Civic Center. It was the Baltimore Clippers The Farb system of the Minnesota North Stars. I always loved ice hockey. And they used to have this fight song and I remember they would go yelling and the guys would come out and skate. And they would go for Baltimore and Maryland, every Clipper fan will yell, fight, fight, fight. Now think about that. That was a fight song. Now think about fight, fight, fight. How many times did Patrick Henry talk about fight here? And then we see back in June, July, here our dear president elect coming up He's looking at a chart, turns to his right, bullet hits his ear, misses him, kills another precious man, and he gets up bleeding. Fight! Fight! Fight! You know you've heard that all summer. It's great. We need to fight for Thanksgiving. And here's why. Now becoming eradicated, USA Today says the contemporary holiday perpetuates the myths of the Wampanoag and pilgrim relations. It further buries the truths of kidnaps kidnappings, pestilence, and subjugate subjugation, and ignores the scant details of the tense encounter while it conjures up hallmark images of happy natives and pilgrims. Feasting on a cornucopia of corn pies and meats including a fully dressed roast turkey. This is from USA Today, Why to Eradicate Thanksgiving? Here's from The Nation. It's another big press The journey to decolonize Thanksgiving is also an opportunity for a broader movement to decenter colonial perspectives around the world. The University of Saskatchewan is possibly the most succinct definition of colonialism, the policy or practice of acquiring full or partial political control over another country occupying it with settlers and exploiting it economically. Western colonization has often exhibited a complete disregard for indigenous customs and cultures that value diversity and a harmonious relationship with the land. Decolonization in this context would mean resisting the dominance of colonial influences globally and reclaiming indigenous knowledge, values, and of course food waste. You know, it were those colonials that gave their lives and were shot in the head with bullets and muskets. and laid on the fields dead that gave these people freedom to be able to write this this baloney. It was George Washington that was in that boat and it was freezing cold, came over with his men with their feet freezing off of their legs, and he went in there to clouster. And they fired down the streets and they won that battle and they were dying. These men were dying left and right. And this is they sit there and they blasting the colonials This is the stuff that's being taught in college. I'm going to tell you right now, you know what it's been like in past years. You never saw Christmas like Thanksgiving was always a a a stopping point. You didn't do you didn't blaspheme Thanksgiving and just go into another holiday and you didn't put your Christmas lights up normally until after Thanksgiving Now look at it now. Christmas lights have been off of people's yards and all over the place right after Halloween as if Thanksgiving doesn't even exist. And they've tried to do this. They're trying to eradicate it. These are ancient landmarks that the Lord has given us. Proverbs 22, 28 says, remove not the ancient landmark which thy fathers have set. Jeremiah 6, 15, and I will end here, end with scripture prevailing. Jeremiah says Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? Nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush. Therefore they fall among them that fail at the time that I visit them then they shall be cast down, saith the Lord. Thus saith the Lord. Stand ye in the ways, and see and ask for the old paths. Where is the good way? And walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk therein. And I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken Therefore, hear ye nations, and know, O congregation, what is among them. Hear, O earth, behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words, nor to my law, but rejected it That is the opposite of the pilgrims and the puritans. They brought God's law and they brought his word into this country, and he blessed them. Those that do the opposite will be rejected. So that's where our thanksgiving lies in the God that has preserved us. And then all of you wonderfully have infiltrated praise to the Lord in your testimonials. You're among a very, very incredible remnant. Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee and praise Thee. We thank Thee for this congregation. Thank Thee for the unity. Thank You for the testimonials. And we pray, I pray that thou will bless every one of them and their families Lift us up, give us a new age here in this country, and I pray, Lord, that this White House will never go back to the filth that has been brought in, especially into the White House And into the congregational halls, into the church over there, and all these places, I pray that thou just pull them up by the four corners and just Empty them out of all of the sin and the filth. And I pray that thou give our nation back. Bless us and keep us from falling as we leave this house today. And remember Where we read in Psalms, until I entered into the sanctuary of the Lord, then understood I their end. And just bless us and keep us from falling. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.