All right. Let's open our Bibles to Hezekiah chapter seven. Just checking to see that you know what's going on, all right? I did that once and somebody's really looking through very intently found out there was no Hezekiah. Philippians 1, and we begin or we'll begin again as we had left off from last week. Chapter 1, verse 20 through 26, a continuing of the apostle's epistle to his dear friends in Philippi. According to my earnest expectation and my hope, then nothing I shall be ashamed. But that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I choose, what I shall choose, I want not, for I am in a strait between two, having desire to depart. And to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for the furtherance and joy of faith. That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again. May God bless reading of His Word today. Let's pray. Now, Father, as again we open up this beautiful epistle of the Apostle Paul, we rejoice that you have provided it for us, for our understanding, for our edification. The apostle had written Timothy and reminded him that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be Complete, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. And so, Father, may we consider all Scripture, the blessing to our hearts, as we feast upon it, even small bites and as it's digested, that your spirit would bring forth understanding and truth. You're a gracious God, sovereign in all things. We thank you for not only bringing us to yourself, but bringing your word to us daily. In Christ's name. Amen. Let me begin as I did last Lord's Day and then ask you Did you read chapter one of Philippians? Sure it was Philippians, just not Galatians? All right. She confessed last week. Oh, I forgot Philippians. I trust that you'll continue to do so And for others with that painful admission, let's drift back to set the stage of our text today. Again, the apostle finds himself in a Roman prison He had been there because of his testimony for Jesus Christ. Charges had been brought against him. He had been taken, locked in what is often called a house arrest chained to a Roman soldier, sometimes two, possibly. And for the situation he found himself in, the dear friends, the dear saints at Philippi were logically concerned However word got from from Rome back to Philippi, we don't know, but it was there. And they sent, as we had read, Epaphroditus with a care package and some uh thoughts, concerns that they uh were expressing to Epaphroditus, and that Epaphroditus could see. And so the letter that you have there, Philippians is Paul's response to what's going on at Philippi, their concerns, their cares, or maybe just uh a number of sermons that he presents and ideas of things that they needed to be built up in or to be strengthened in or to understand even better. They were concerned, no doubt, that will he be executed? Will he be released? And Paul's understanding was, God only knows. There's no understanding of assurance of one way or the other. But Paul wants to assure them that he's more than okay. He's content. He has absolute assurance in God's sovereign control over his outcome. Such an expression of trust in God should be ours at all times, shouldn't it? There are times when the Goliath looks upon us and he says, we here are afraid. What'll happen next week, or what'll happen tomorrow, or what's going to happen to my life in general, or our country, or the world? Even as Paul faced a very dire situation His sovereign God was in control, and he found assurance in that. Again, in verse 20, he says, according to my earnest expectation and my hope. Again, think of the situation he finds himself in. No assurance that he's going to be released. Execution could be right there. But he says, I have an earnest expectation, and I have a real hope that nothing I shall be ashamed of it. And he says, Whatever takes place in me, I'm not going to bring shame to anybody, or especially to the Lord. But that with all boldness Strength of character. As always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. If I die, Christ will be magnified. And he says in his body, you know, that's Paul as people know him. He says, if I live, Christ will be magnified. Christ will be honored. Christ will be lifted up. And it's hard to understand for him to say that, but he has that great assurance that God's going to be honoring his prayer request in honoring Christ in this all. I will honor Christ whether I live or die. Why would he say that? How could he say that? God tell them something? Well, look at the beginning in the next verse. Verse 21 explains, For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. This is the theme verse of the entire book, okay? The principle of that, those three letters, which were Think three letters. J-O-Y, not in the word. J-O-Y, okay? Jesus is first in his life That's what he's telling the Philippians, others, the relationship that he has with others, and then himself. Paul's putting himself last in this. I have one passion. It's Jesus and Jesus alone. To me, Paul says, living is Christ. That's in essence what the first half of that verse 21 says. Living is Christ. For me, it's it's everything, my single most passion in my world. This one verse reveals why Paul did what he did, why he said what he said, and how he could have gone through all of the sufferings as he we expressed last week in 2 Corinthians, remember. uh shipwrecked, uh beaten, whipped, uh uh angered all types of people, imprisoned, all of these other things, starving, cold, uh, nakedness, all of this, he says, I could do that because of what? Christ is his life. Doesn't mean he was some martyr's attitude, you know, I can give my life because of the cause, because of my precedent or whatever it is, you know. He says it's Christ, that's all. This is his personal testimony. And if you also remember last week we talked about there were other preachers in Rome And they said, Paul's in prison, let's go out and start preaching. He's in prison, therefore he must have done something wrong. Therefore they were self-ambition overruled their lives and they They were saying, let's take advantage of Paul's jailing. Paul says, I'm not like that. The whole purpose for all that I do is Christ and Christ alone. But what did it mean that when Paul says, for me to live is Christ? It wasn't just a phrase that he put on his Facebook page, you know. Apostle Paul, for me to live as Christ. Or he signed at the bottom of his emails. I get a lot of them at the office and there'll be so-and-so address and then they'll have a Bible verse. That's me, for me to live as Christ. Or it wasn't a verse that he used to be able to show that he was more spiritual than others. You know. None of those things are true. But if there was one key phrase in his life that you would say emulated who he was, it's that. And it's found, in essence, not in those exacting words, but the principle behind it, living is Christ, is found all through his writings. And Austin wondered, how could Paul do what he did, act like he did, and it didn't mean he didn't have times of concerns or doubtings or or just disappointments. There were arguments and other things that went on. But the overall encompassing picture of Paul's life was for me to live as Christ. So what did it mean for me to live as Christ? I think it's easier to be able to see some other passages, and we'll only look at a couple of those in Philippians because that's the particular letter we're using. to help us to understand what Paul meant. Look over in chapter two, verse five. Let this mind be in you which is also in Christ Jesus. And that passage will go on through verse 11 2, chapter 2, verses 5 through 11, and we'll deal with that. And it would have been a great passage at Christmas time, but nevertheless. Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. What was the mind of Christ? He left the glories of heaven. He left his privileges, his rights as the second person of the Godhead. And he came to this earth in such a humble situation that he took on this flesh, which we're so proud of, you know, that we that we delight in. You know, I I I can do these things. You know, Paul says, Jesus left the glories of heaven. to come and be in such a fashion. And he suffered, just like we, but even worse. And yet the whole picture is that Jesus was humbled. His humility overruled anything. And you go through the Gospels and you read of Jesus' life and you see how humility defined his mission, his nature. Humility was there. So Paul says, for me to live as Christ, humility is that. Paul couldn't have done all of the things that he did for any other reason. suffered as he did, uh, humiliated by all of his his uh enemies, uh, and and not found his purpose and cause in something other than Paul. If it's for me, I'm going to get revenge. You know, I'm going to get my eye, an eye for an eye. Paul says, no, what was Christ? Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. It's the whole principle of humility that defined Paul's life. Second one, flip over to chapter 3 and verse 8. And again, there's probably many other passages, again, defining for me to live as Christ. Chapter 3, verse 8, Paul says, yea, doubtless. And they count all things but lost for the, note, excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I may win Christ. He knew that Jesus was the very source, the very abundance of treasures of knowledge and wisdom. Paul says, to know Christ. all of a sudden puts everything else in perspective. It helps me to understand why people do this or that and why countries or governments do this or that, why the sinful nature of man does this, why the the believer does this. Paul says, in Christ are all of these things, and the more that I get to know him, the excellency of the knowledge of Christ my Lord. He says, I strive for that. Some people go will go I had a an uncle one I'd finished uh college and and went on to seminary and he says, Well you are you just some per professional student? You're gonna just go to school all the time, you know Uncle Jim was not the sweetest man in the world, uh, but nonetheless he would always say that. And sometimes We think that. We can go to this school and continue my studies and my education, two or three PhDs and all this other stuff. But what does it gain me? It doesn't gain anything in perspective of eternity. It can be profitable, but Paul says all of these things are there. And then he finishes out the verse by saying, to whom I've suffered the loss of all things. What did he suffer the loss of? Well, the prestige and the power and and and the uh the evidence of being a Pharisee He was a Pharisee of the Pharisees. He was uh top grade in in that particular position in life. And he says, I gave up all of those things. I gave up all of the power and prestige that I had And he says, and I count them as dung. Whatever was me in the past that was Paul, he says, I count it as refuse. I counted that's that's the value of what I was before I came to Christ. So was for me to live as Christ That's the great challenge, but Paul says, I've done these things because Christ is there for me. Not knowing about him, but really knowing him. Then the fourth one is in the next verse. and be found in him, meaning Jesus, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through faith of Christ. The righteousness which is of God by faith. This very verse came to John Bunyan as he was walking through the cornfields one day. I'm wondering how he could stand before God, how he could see himself standing before a holy God. He said he suddenly saw himself not as a sinner. but as sin from the crown to his head, the soles of his feet. He says, I saw myself completely as a sinful man. But he realized that he had nothing and that Christ had everything. John Bunyan's righteousness, Paul's righteousness, what will I hold up before God to say, this gains me access into heaven? All of the good things that I've profited in life, all of the contributions that I've made, all of the people that I've talked to about God and all this other stuff, it's nothing. He says, I count them as dung But he says, it is the righteousness of Christ that comes and stands before me. He says, there's nothing good in me. Bunyan says, All I see from the top of my head to the soles of my feet is sin And we think of ourselves, be honest with ourselves, that's what we are. But it's the righteousness of Christ. Such was Paul, he had no righteousness. Christ has all righteousness. So Paul gained by faith, hence he could say, For me to live is Christ. He says, I am nothing, but because Christ is in me, I am Christ. And that is the righteousness that God sees. Last one, chapter four, and verse thirteen. Paul says, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Nothing to do with physical strength or stamina, you know. All strength had to deal with the indueling Christ enabling him to face every challenge, every situation, face every day to day, whether it was in prison or on the road with his uh friends or witnessing in the church or standing before the the the the pagans in in Athens, Paul says, I can do this, I can be what Christ wants me to be because of Christ And nothing else at all. Whatever was accomplished was accomplished in the completeness of his ministry because of his natural ability. Because of his education? No, it was because of Christ. For me to live as Christ And then he adds on there, and to die is gain. Paul's advantage There's no more sin and temptation and enemies and trials and so forth. When we leave this earth and s sometimes, you know, I kinda sit and think, I can't wait Certain amen to that. You know, I can't wait to leave this earth. And so for Paul says, to die, execution, this is gained to me because all of the things that have been a A pain in this earth? The burdensome of of of the heart, uh the physical strain and trials that all of the things that we read about in Second Corinthians All of the those things there are the disappointment seasons, they're going to be gone and never be looked on before. God's provision. Verse 22, but if I live in the flesh, meaning if I am not executed, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose I want not. I don't know what to choose. He says, uh to live or to die. Not that he had a choice about it, but how does he feel about it? I I I'm I don't know. This is how it is. And to be and I'm sorry Verse 23, for to me uh for I am a straight betwixt, or between two, having the desire to depart, meaning go to heaven, and to be with Christ, which is far better. Dying now and to be immediately with God, or staying with you and preaching the gospel. He loved the Philippians, and we talked about that when we began this book He loved actually every church that he ministered to. And he says, For you it is profitable that I stay with you and I help you. This letter is evidence of that help. The letter to the Ephesians, the letter to the Colossians, all of these epistles are evidences of Paul's desire to walk with them Letter to the Galatians. You're a troublesome people, and I have to call you out on this, but he says I do that because this is profitable for you. And as long as I stay, it profits you This is the call that God has given me. Verse 24, nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. For the sake that I live. 25. And having this confidence, I know that it shall abide and continue with you all for the furtherance and joy of faith. That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Christ Jesus, or Jesus Christ, for me by the coming to you again. So there was an understanding in his heart that I may die, but there is a potential that God would release her from here and take you uh and take the opportunity to bring you back again with me Before going on, I'd like us to take a quiz. Not on what you read in chapter one. Okay, don't worry. How would you complete the following sentence? For to me to live is we're not going to write it up, but this is between you and your own heart. What word, what phrase, what passion would you fill in the blank? LeBron James, and I ask him, LeBron James, for me to live is basketball. It's who he is. His life is centered around basketball, you know. It's the provision that he has. If your name is Tom Cook, the word is Apple. Everything that centers around Tom Cook's life is all of this industry of Apple. And I would generally think that he would say For me to live is, or my living is, Apple. If your name is Vladimir Putin. The phrase might be world dominance, you know. For me to live is world dominance, control, you know. Other situations. Don't miss the point. Nobody leaves the sentence blank. Everybody fills it in with something. Maybe you could say it in your own way. What makes me, what makes my life worth living? Family, reputation, your work What makes my life, what makes me, what makes it worth living, what makes it about me? So I'll ask you again, what do you put in there? For me to live is. I have four questions that I want to ask you to help you fill in these spaces. Because I'm asking myself this very principle. First question is, where do you tend to spend your spare time and money? Where do you tend to spend your spare time and money? It says a lot about us, doesn't it? those things, the the the spare time and and just looking that up it seems that we would have approximately four to five hours in the day for sp spare time Some of you might argue, uh, you know, I've got a lot more, or I don't have even that much. But not sleeping time, not the time in the day that you're at your regular employment or work or school or whatever it is Eating, none of those things, but the free time. What are you engaged in? What goes there? Also, money helps us to be defined, our interests, our passions. And it's possible that you may not know it necessarily know it, but it could be others can see that, you know I can evaluate in your life, uh you know, oh Keith, he's such and such because I see him doing this, you know. That helps. For to me to live is. Jesus had some sage advice when he said, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, for moth and rust doth corrupt. For thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt And where thieves do not break through and steal, for where your treasure is, there will be your Your heart also, your treasure. In other words, who am I? Where do I focus my spare time, not other obligations, where do I focus that which is possession all my money? For to me to live is. A second question. I ask myself, what objects or persons bring me joy and delight as I think about them? What object, what thing, or person, or persons. When I think about that object or when I think about that person, man, it just it just brings happiness to my soul. My wife, my husband, my boyfriend, my girlfriend, that fishing pole, that vacation time. Something that brings me joy and delight as I think about those things. Maybe a good book sitting there, maybe a relaxing time by the ocean, you know, down at the shore, maybe a favorite food. Kind of helps us to understand where my heart goes to, what it can be there for me, defining me. The third question. Where do my thoughts go in my spare time? Now this should almost accompany my free time or spare time before, as we ask, but where do my thoughts go? Sometimes, I don't know if you for me, I find it at times when I get in the car and I get the car going and so forth, what do I do? I click on the radio. The spare time, I just don't necessarily I like something else to talk to me, to fill in my my my brain, you know, to allow that to be there. Thankfully, there's good Christian programs and radio and music that helps fill in the empty spaces between my ears. But spare time can be rough. It could be fifteen in fifteen minute increments throughout the day or maybe a six-hour period where there's simply nothing that's going on. Maybe you find it hard to deal with spare time. Maybe you hit the social media button or turn on the radio or the TV. Let them fill my heart. Let them fill my brain with what I should be thinking. That helps define me. It helps me understand where I've come from and where I'm going. Bring me to those places. Last question. Ask yourself to what or to whom do you turn? During times of crisis and maybe when your emotions are off the wall. You know, what do I do? I've never felt this before. You know, the the diagnosis or the the the words that came out of that person's mouth or the tragedy of the loss of this or whatever. I just it just where do I go? Who do I call? You know, I'm finding it interesting that as Christmases go on, there are fewer and fewer relatives that are older. Actually they're I don't think I have any older relatives. I don't know, there may be some out there, but not that we necessarily communicate with, you know, and I thought in the past in the past I've said, boy, I wish I could talk to my dad I wish I could have talked to my mom, you know, or my grandma or whatever. During those days I never thought about talking with them, you know. What would you do? How would you do how would you handle this? But now there isn't necessarily people like that. Where do I go in those situations? Does my life afford me anchors where I feel safe to go in such times? Or am I just shooting up flares, putting the rocks out on the s on the on the shore? SOS. Help me! I don't know what to do. Those four questions will help us see a little bit more clearly who we are and where we find our security and peace. For me to live is what? You have to define that. Because again, there are no blank spaces. I can be maybe sitting on this side of the fence sometimes or on this side of the fence, and that wasn't Paul, was it? How could Paul have done all that he did for the gospel and come out and say under these abusive situations For me to live is Christ. For me, Christ is my living. Again, it wasn't just a one-phrase thing, it's something that he grew with. that he walked with. Let's all be honest. If you filled in the blank with Christ, praise the Lord. If it's your mind for me to live as Christ, I think that's what Pastor would want me to say. You know? No, that's not what I'm saying. But the truth is, very few of us are at the point of our spiritual maturity described by Paul. And how you told yourself the answers to those questions helps you to see who you are. But that should not keep us from striving to fill in the blank with Christ. I'm far from it. In preparing this message, I had to ask myself, for me to live is, and I'd love to say Christ. And a lot of the time it is, but a lot of the time it's not. Because of the decisions I make, because of the path I the road that I go on. It's not always there. But I want to, I strive for that, I ask the Lord to help me with that And I can't help but believe that's the direction that he's working in me to do. Still, what does it mean, living as Christ? Is it about becoming a Christian? Responding to something where he says, would you like to ask Jesus into your heart to save you? Is that for me to live as Christ? I know some people would have done that very same thing in order to get their ticket out of hell. I don't want to go to hell. What the pastor said or that tract that I read, I'm on my way to hell, and maybe people are, though those who have read those things. So I ask Christ into into my heart in order that I don't go to hell. That's all. Franklin Grimms, have you seen his TV commercials? There have been a bunch of them. I think even back in the 2023, I saw a number of them during the elections and during I think the Olympics they had them on, you know, different things like that. He would get on and he would address the pandemic or the election or whatever it was and he'd ask viewers to pray, God, I am a sinner. I'm sorry for my sins. I believe Jesus Christ is your Son, and I want to invite him to come into my heart, into my life. I am willing to trust him as my Savior and follow him as my Lord. And I pray this in Jesus' name. And then Franklin Graham goes on and he says. If you have prayed this prayer, call the number on the screen and someone will talk with you and walk with you and pray with you. Is that what it is? Is that any more? What Paul did Means that he testified that Jesus Christ is living. He is living his Christ Well, it wasn't something that immediately occurred on that road to Damascus, and he comes along and there's a blinding light and you know the voice speaks out and fall, fall, why have you persecuted me? You know It wasn't that exacting moment in his life, and all of a sudden he became this new man in Christ. But for those 30 years, Paul grew. From the the hard-headed Pharisee to the compassionate, humbling, loving, dominant Paul Jesus Christ was a picture before him, daily surrendering to him in his will. The words that Jesus gives us, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross, how often? says daily to deny himself. In other words, my approach to Christ in me or living is Christ is that I have to daily deny who I am. And it is not easy. It's not easy because I can do it myself, but when I get in situations that I've been in before, I'm still dealing with those same people, those same situations, and I go back to my my old self. I didn't deny myself He says to deny myself, take up across daily and follow me. For whosoever shall save his life shall lose it. But whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. The relationship of Christ, there is none other than being totally within him being bound within his will to do his desires. Again, it comes back to knowing him, uh, about him, and all that often f fills within the pages of the text here. But it's knowing him personally. And that's his promise. Daily to die to self. Daily to turn to him and say, Lord, fill me today. Help me to know you. And then we all of a sudden become closer and closer. I don't know if you can go back ten years. What was your walk with the Lord ten years ago? Or fifteen or whatever, you know. Have we changed? We matured? Are we still in diapers? Are we uh still barely walking? Are we running around uh you know or or There ought to be progress. There ought to be something. Only you can answer that. We're not all the same. This horizontal relationship, we're not comparing each other with each other You know, I'm better than you, and I'm better than you, and I'm better than you, I'm not better than you, I'm not you know, a lot like that. It's what he has brought to my life. For me to live is Deal with that today, would you? Throughout this coming week. Ask the Lord to give you direction, what is going to take in order for Him to be the most important feature in your life. And I'm sure he will. Let's pray. Father, we close this portion of this beautiful letter with an understanding of your desire for us. You've revealed to us in Philippians and in other places the very character and nature of the apostle. And as the years progressed, he drew closer to you, and it was by his own testimony. And he challenged those who followed him to imitate Paul as he imitated Christ, to be a follower of Paul as Paul followed Christ. May Father we uh understand more fully each and every day as we look in the mirror of our souls, as we look in the mirror of the scripture and see that we're not the people that we ought to be, but by your grace. We are enabled to be those people day by day, slowly by slowly, step by step, precept by precept. Phyllis, Father, we pray in Christ's name. Amen.