Build on where we were at last week, Lord willing, chapter 14, verses 7 through 13. That's John chapter 14 verses 7 through 13. And here last week we looked at the fact that Christ had said, Whither I go, ye know, and the way you know. And he said, if it were not so, I would have told you. So he doesn't tell them when, but he surely tells them how and where. And here we see the incredible components of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Comforting his disciples, and as you read through the consolidory discourse of Jesus, he comforts us. So in John chapter 14, let's pick up in verse 7. If ye had known me, ye should have known my father also, and from henceforth ye know him and have seen him. Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us. Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet thou hast not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father. And how sayest thou then show us the Father? Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I speak unto you, I speak not of myself, but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, or else believe me for the very work's sake. Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that believeth on me the works that I do shall he do also, and greater works than me shall he do, because I go unto my Father And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. O Lord and our God, I pray, Lord, that these words would fill our hearts with gladness and joy. To know that there is something much larger than our everyday lives here on this earth, that there is a heaven to gain. A wonderful Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior, that thou that we pray to, that thou fills our heart with gladness and joy. And I ask, Lord, that everyone would taste of that beautiful heavenly gift where Thou just says to believe In the name of Jesus Christ, guide us and direct us as we discuss these wonderful verses. We pray. Amen. Here we say that here we see something that's credible. Be honest with you with these verses. It's not even like standing up here and preaching and like being in kind of like a corporate setting. And what I mean by that is these verses are so wonderful. See these are the kind of verses that we could just sit down like downstairs at lunch when we have lunch or on the phone when we've talked. Many of us have discussed the Bible back and forth. And this is just more than just a series. It's a wonderful discussion. And here Christ is doing that very same thing with his disciples. They're all sitting around. They're they're in the upper room and he's talking to them. And before we get into this, I just love this because he's talking to them and he's saying to them, Listen, I've told you my hour is going to come. Now it's here But don't be upset. Don't go inside yourself and then hide and just forget about all the wonderful things that the Father has shown you through me. And me here on this earth. Don't forget about the gospel. Don't forget about the doctrine. Don't forget about the miracles. And don't forget that Satan would have you sift you like wing and would like to destroy you That's what he's telling. Because here, what we just read here in verse 7, if he had known me, he brings that up and he says, You should have known my father. What is that teaching us? The disciples are still confused, and so are we. We're still confused a lot of times Those confused. And he speaks to them. And right now we know that Peter, he's kind of in the group of ambivalence because he's about to go right out of there and deny Christ three times Thomas Thomas said back in verse 5, Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest, and how can we know the way? He's confused. We see that. And we see that basically he's the one that said, Until I see the holes in his hands, I won't believe that he was crucified and resurrected. But then he comes back and he says, Later, my Lord and my God. And then but he's saying here, how can we know the way? Well, Jesus could have said, look, I'm done. Okay? You know we get like that. I'm done. I've told you enough. You know, this is getting old. I'm just going to go to the cross. You know, do what you want. That's it. I'm done. Yeah, I've been telling you, I've been showing you, and this is all you can come up with No, if you look at your Bible, do you have red letters in your Bible? Some of you have red letters. He comes back, and not just here, but verse after verse after verse after verse after verse after this Genuine love that he has goes through it all over there again with them. I think that's important. Here he says, he says here We just read the statement last week. It's actually the sixth I am statement that's in Scripture. I am the way, the truth, and the life. That's I should say this. It's the sixth primary I am statement that you'll hear. There are a lot of I am statements. There are a lot of ones that may not seem as as direct, but this is basically one of the main ones. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh under the Father but by me. And let me just addend that. They're all important. They're all wonderful statements. Remember back in John 6. 35, the bread of life. I am the bread of life. John 8. 12, I am the light of the world. John 10. 7, I am the door to the sheep. I am the Good Shepherd, chapter 10, verse 11, and chapter 11, verse 25. There at the tomb of Lazarus, I am the resurrection and the life. But he says, I am the way. The Father, here in verse 8, Philip asks him. He says, Show us the Father. And he's saying, I'm showing you the Father. I am the way, and that's what the people were called. As you see the church form and coming together You see here how Jesus Christ himself, before he is about to be brutally murdered in the worst way that anyone has ever been murdered here on this earth. He gives them this what's called the consolatory discourse. That is consolation testimony is what it really means. He's giving them consolation. Here, he's the one going to die, and he's consoling them. which is what we need. He's consoling them. And he says, I am the way. He's that's so hard for us to believe. All I can say is this. You've got a destination basically when you drive somewhere. Now there may be other little peaks and valleys and other ways, but there's only really one way to get to your destination, isn't it? There's a what is the shortest distance between two points is a straight line? And you're trying to find on that GPS the straightest line to where you're going to go. And when it all boils down to it, you want to get there one way. Do you get out in your car and you say, Well, I have to be to Pennsylvania by to a meeting by four o'clock tomorrow afternoon? But there's so many ways to Pennsylvania. I think I'll start and I'll go to California first, then I'll go to Montana, then I'll go up to Ohio and come in. And I have all these ways that lead up to the mountain No, there's one way. There's one point. And that's the same way it is Christ. There's one way Always remember from a very task theologian, and I always loved hearing him preach for years, and he said this. He says, many people don't believe that there's one way to heaven. But there is only one way to heaven. But there are many hundreds of ways to hell. And that's, I think, that's a riveting statement. We see many other we see many other religions out there that offer so many ways to heaven. And we've we've talked about those. I I I this is a statement that really bothers me by One of the pastors that's been on the radio for years is David Jeremiah bridging the cap, and he says his ministry is to bridge the cap the the gap between Calvinism and Arminianism At God's sovereignty with man's free will, his conclusion is somewhere between them lies the truth. Man's free will. But here's the problem with that. I agree that we have a free will. Okay? You have a free will to walk out that door and choose what vehicle you're going to sit in and go home. You have a free will to decide what you're going to eat this afternoon, all those things. You have a will inside of God's will, and it's also and it's ultimately his providence. And that is the difference between what people call, and they use it also today, it's almost like a dirty word, is Calvinism, all that means Calvinism believes that God is sovereign and God knows everything. That's basically what he believes. And there's so much more to it, but there there is no joint venture that we have between what Christ did on the cross of Calvary when he said it is finished, and what we could do as human beings as the basis of our salvation. It's of him, through him, and to him are all things. Isaiah 62 10 says, Go through, go through the gates, prepare ye the way of the people, cast up, cast up the highway. Gather out the stones, lift up a standard for the people. Behold, the Lord hath proclaimed unto the end of the world, say ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh, behold his reward is with him And his work before him. You know what I see is everything that talks about salvation that Jesus is speaking about here is It's uplifting. It's joyous. It's something to work for. It's something to die for. And it's so wonderful. He even tells us, you can't even begin how wonderful it is to be with me, but you will be with me. No man cometh unto the Father but by him. And at the end of that verse confirms and confounds that there are many man has many miserable schemes to try to get into heaven by their own means. But it can't happen. Remember the Tower of Babel in the Old Testament in Genesis. Remember that? All the men got together and tried to build this great big tower that went right into heaven. And the Lord fixed that, didn't he, with all his languages? Remember that? Well, here we see knowing the Father and knowing Christ. Here Christ is the high priest. He is the judge. He is the judge of our profession of faith. And we're drawn to a profession of faith by him through the throne of grace. By the Father. It's through the mediatorial work of Christ. And he is our advocate, and then he will send us a comforter, a consolation. And always remember what I love is an old statement, a good executive knows how to delegate authority. And that's what I love about Christ. When he delegated authority, even the people that hated him said, John chapter 8, you get towards the end of the chapter. I can't remember the verses 46 or 46, something like that. Even the scribes and the Pharisees He speaks. Remember what they said about him? I've never heard anybody speak like this man. He speaks with authority. He speaks with clarity. He speaks with encouragement In essence, here the Triune God is in session now and has always been, and we can see the presence of the Triune God. We see Christ here doing his mediatorial work on the earth Through the Father, who the Father speaks to him, and by the end of the chapter, in chapter 14, he says, I will send the Holy Spirit. They're all three present right there. He is the Father of all living. He Christ on this earth, he perfectly brought down from heaven a physical and spiritual demonstration without flaw or error of all the attributes of Jehovah. Boy, it sounds to me like these attributes that I'm going to list, they're good attributes. I mean you think of the antithesis of some of these, and then you can see some of the world leaders But here are some of the attributes that we can wrap our arms around that describe Jehovah, God Almighty, infinite in being. Glorious, blessedness, perfection, all-sufficient, eternal, unchangeable, incomprehensible, everywhere present, almighty Knowing all things, most wise, most holy, most just, most merciful, and gracious, long-suffering. Wow, look at this one for a good leader. Abundant in goodness and truth That's who I want for a leader. You know, these are just a few attributes that are manifested through Christ here on this on this earth. Here he is the Lord, begotten of the Father, and reveals all to his creation and manifests his transcendent majesty through goodness and truth. First Timothy six fifteen says, which in his times he shall show who is the blessed only potentate. The King of Kings And the Lord of Lords. There's other verses to show its perfection all throughout Scripture. I'll read a few here. That we see here that through the life of Christ manifesting it on his earthly ministry Christ was here in Matthew 5. 48. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect, he says Go all the way back to the Old Testament, which many prophecies manifested the coming of our Savior. Genesis 17:1 says, And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the Lord appeared to Abram and said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me and be thou perfect. The song of Moses, Psalm chapter 90, verse 2. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. So we just read Malachi chapter 3, verse 6, for I am the Lord, I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. And there are many more. Psalm 139, verses 1 through 13, I'll read a few. O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my downsetting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thoughts afar off, thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways, for there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. Thou hast to set me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain unto it. Whither shall I go from my spirit, or whither shall I free from my presence? If I ascend up into heaven thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, but the night shineth as the day. The darkness and the light are both alike to thee, for thou hast possessed my reins. Thou hast covered me in my mother's womb Does the Lord possess your rings? Here's two different views that are absolute only two people in the universe since day one. Those that hate their sin and those that abide in their sin. As a Christian, we may sin, but we don't want it defining us and we don't want to abide in it. We're asking the Lord to get us away from it. And this is the Lord, what He does with His goodness and His mercy. He takes us out of that darkness, and darkness and sin are synonymous. Christ said, If you know me, you'd know my father. You want to know my father? You want to see him? You want to hide in the cleft of the rock like Moses? Remember what Moses said? I want to see him. I can't wait to see him. And God said to him, You can't. You look upon me, you'll die. You can't look upon me. He says, you hide, I remember the old Baptist song, He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock. Remember that? You guys remember that? That's a good song. And he stands at the rock and he turns his back and the Lord goes by him. He couldn't look upon him. Christ good. Don't ever listen. You ever hear any message? I hope you listen to messages. There are some pastors out there that said Christ and his humanity could not see the beatific vision. What's the beatific vision? A direct line of our eyesight right to the throne of God. We can't do it because of our sin. It's not a problem with our eyes. It's a problem with our hearts. But Christ Himself is perfect and He can see My question is, if they could say something like that, how could he immaterialize? How could people want to try to throw him off of a cliff and he walked right through them in his own hometown? How could he raise people from the dead? How could he over and over and over? And not only that, he grew back limbs. There's perfect proof of that in scripture. Ten lepers, they were all dying. You know what leprosy does? Your nose falls off of your face, your ears fall off of your head, your skin disintegrates, and your bones are showing, and you just die slowly. It's horrible. Ten of these men had that, and not only that, you've got to be quarantined away from your family, you've got to be put in this cave. You all saw Ben Hur, you see what it looks like. That's what it looks like. And they were all in that cave in Ben Hur And Christ brings ten of them out and he heals all ten of them. Sadly, only one of them thanked him. Confusion here was a major factor to the disciples. We're no different. It's easy to read this and say, oh, this disciples, they were idiots. No. They're us. I love the fact that they cared. And what I love about them is they were confused. They asked questions. You can't get people to ask questions anymore. They ask questions. It's no wonder in their natural habitat that they were confused. We see here in verse 9. Jesus saith un I have been with you so long time with you and yet thou hast not not known me even Philip. Philip was very faithful. He was a good man. He really was. He loved the Lord, but he had questions Thank the Lord he had questions. Their natural habitat of them and they worked in a really works-oriented, they worked around while they were building their churches around very religious and very philosophical works-oriented theologies with the Pharisaic order and the Roman Empire, and you had Greek mythology all around them. And they even questioned some about some other things. They had asked them about his parables. You go back to Mark chapter 4 verse 10, and when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked him of the parable. What is it about? It was the parable of the sower, and then Christ sits there and he sits there. He doesn't tell them to shut up. I already shows you. I'm not talking anymore. No. He tells them exactly all over again what it meant. What about the disciples did not understand one of the parables about unwashing hands and about breaking them by eating of those, breaking bread with those of unwashed hands? And Christ had said, it's not what goes into the belly, but what comes out of the heart that is evil. And the disciples asked him back in Mark 7. 17. And when he was entered into the house from the people, his disciples asked him concerning the parable. They even finally came back and they asked him and they said, Why do you speak in parables? Even after all of that, why do you talk like this? And he says, that those that have eyes cannot see, and those that have ears cannot hear. And it's no wonder that he always, many times when he was speaking, he said He who hath ears let him hear. I thought that was incredible. It means open your ears, keep your mouth shut, and open you said, listen to me, because I am going to show you how to have go to heaven. In my opinion, with all the education we have today in this world, what can be more important than where you are 100 years from now? Think about that. Well, one of his manifestations that Christ gave about himself, which you will know it's me. There's going to be many false prophets. There are going to be many that claim to be me And be careful, a lot of you, even the very elect, could be deceived by them and you could follow them. But he said, When I cast out demons, I can promise you nobody else can do that. Here Mark chapter 9 verse 21 to 28 says, and he this was of a young man who was riddled with demons And if you believe that the demonic forces are not out there, then you're very deceived because they're there. They were there in this day And this man had a son, and his son was overridden by demons, and basically no one knew what to do. He was distraught. Always Christ knew what to do. I love this. And he asked his father, how long is it a go since this came unto him Christ asked him and he said, Of a child, and oftentimes it has cast him into the fire and into the waters to destroy him. But if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. Wow, what a mission statement. Anything's possible if you just believe in him. He says that. Verse 24. Mark chapter, it's Mark chapter 9, verse 24. And straightway the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help thou mine unbelief. What a beautiful prayer. When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him and enter no more into him. And the spirit cried and rent him sore and came out of him, and he was as one dead, in so much that many said he is dead. But, verse 27, Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. And when he was coming to the house, his disciples asked him privately, why could not we cast him out? Christ said in verse 29, and he said unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing but by prayer and fasting. He pulled the demons out of this man. I mean I watch some of these television shows and some of the crazy things people are doing. And I can guarantee if they're not riddled with demons, I can't imagine what gets them to do what they do. And Christ could stand there and look at him and just yank those demons right out of him, and then that little boy the rest of his life had peace and joy in his life They had all kind of questions that they had asked them about. Philip then gives Jesus an imperative of his own. He steps up. He's the disciple who Jesus found in Galilee with Peter and Andrew and said, Follow me. He was from Beth Sida near the Sea of Galilee He brought Nathaniel to Jesus and told him that the one whom Moses and the prophets wrote about is here, and he comes back And he says, all of a sudden, after everything that Jesus has done, he's getting ready to go to the cross. He goes, show us the Father and it sufficeth us. I mean that had to hurt for Christ. He's been showing them the Father. He's been showing them everything. Not only been talking about it, but he's been showing it through miracles. Quoting scripture, he he quoted Psalm 1101 about I don't know how many times in the new in the old t New Testament from the Old Testament, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. He he quoted Words of Moses, he quoted Isaiah 53, he told them all these things, and they come back and say, show us one more thing and it sufficeth us. How much more could he do? How much more does he have to show us? When are we going to believe? You gonna repent today? You haven't repented? You don't believe in Jesus? What happens if you walk at the door and your heart gives out? You want to see him? Believe on him Repent. He says repent for the kingdom of his hand. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. The axe is laid at the root of the tree. One more blow. Could be any minute. Don't lose that opportunity. Well, Christ is God in the flesh, and only he could come down from heaven, and he tells Philip. He tells him what's going to happen. Did he not read what would happen if he saw the beatific vision? God had warned Moses in Exodus 33, 19, I will show mercy upon, I will show mercy to be gracious among whom I will be gracious He told him, you found grace in the sight of, you've seen grace in the prophets of the Old Testament, you've heard me preach. What are you missing? Isn't it amazing how Christians have an insatiable desire to see God Almighty as frightening as it can be? I personally cannot wait to see Christ and have him escort me to the Father while I'm here on this earth and and and and as a wicked human being it's very frightening to think of death Moses was incredible, and Moses left a great testimony for the disciples. Philip is being generous here. He does not ask this just for himself, but for his associates. His companions among the other disciples. I believed that Christ was constantly with the Father. He was always praying to him, and I think that was incredible You know, those that would see the beatific vision would die, and here basically Philip says, show us the Father. Christ says, you're looking at him. And if you were to see into heaven, you wouldn't be able to handle it. You couldn't do it. It's a great application here is that Christ, He taught them who the true God is. We see here as we move down to verse 10, the Lord says, believest thou not that I am the Father? And the Father in me? The words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself, but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works, and that brings up an incredible, pivotal part when Christ is actually on the cross And he says, Father, why forsakest thou me? That is the only short increment of time in the history of the universe and eternity. That there was a separation between Christ and God. That's it. So if that was the only separation, then that would mean all the other time here on this earth, they were together. They were in contact. They were in session. They were talking back and forth. Christ was praying to the Father, and the Father was working through him, and that is the only time. You know that those those that say they are Christians and they defy dominion mandates They're on our campaign to be profoundly defined by Scripture as what can happen to those that call themselves Christians but have nothing to do with the Father and nothing to do with what He tells us. There's ten things he tells us right here. These are very important things back here that he tells us. Malachi 3. 5, which we read earlier, and I will come near to you to judgment, and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers And against the adulterers, and against false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow and the followers, and that turn aside stranger from his right, and fear not me, saith the Lord of hosts. But you know what I see? Well you know what I see in Malachi chapter three, and we read this verses one through seven? I see an incredible messianic prophecy right there speaking about the coming of Christ. Right before Malachi turns and talks about not only is Christ coming, but there also will be a forerunner coming. That's incredible detail, hundreds and hundreds of years. before Christ chose between there's 400 years between the Intertestamental period. Between Malachi and Matthew, there was 400 plus years there. And then there's many other years. And then all of a sudden this detail comes in. Sure enough, you go to John one and exactly what Malachi says about the forerunner of John the Baptist coming who is a priest Of the Levitical priesthood, he's there in John chapter 1, and he says, Behold the Lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the world. And then he says, A man whom Many thought John the Baptist himself was the Christ, and he says, No, not me. He goes, I'm not even worthy to tie the latch into his shoe. He must increase, and I must decrease. And all of this comes together. And look at the perfect fruition of the prophecy. We see all these witnesses right before the eyes, and and that that not not only is Christ the witness himself, but many around him. We can see his intercessory work and his mediatorial connection to the throne of God, Jehovah. And we see that Philip and the disciples, they should have been totally comforted Remember back in John chapter 1, 45, Philip directly referred to Christ as Messiah. We have found him, of whom Moses and the law and the prophets did write. The more we are with Christ in His Word, the more knowledge that we have. He gives us, as we spoke about this morning in the Sunday school class, He gives us grace, which is something we don't deserve. But the more that he gives us this grace, the more inexcusable we are when we question him and attempt to sidestep his office. Luke 12, 48 says, For unto whom Whomsoever much is given of him shall much be required, and to whom men have committed much of him, they will ask the more Here we see in verse 11, believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me. I'm telling you, He is. Believe me. For the very work's sake. I love that verse. You know, there's a lot of problems with today with work in the church. And a lot of people, there's a big falling away of b of And one of the chief top three reasons, and I believe now it's number one, is discouragement. A lot of pastors leave and all they leave their churches and other types of discouragement Well you know what Christ said? Don't be discouraged. If the people hate you, of course in John 15 he comes back and he says, just remember if they hated me, they're going to hate you, so just get ready for it if you love me. I'd rather love Jesus. I I would. I'd much rather be stuck with Jesus on the day of the judgment day than all the people that hate me on this earth. If they hate me, if they do, if they hate him, I'd much rather be with him But he talks about if the people hate you, if it's a thankless job, you feel discouraged, whatever you do, do it for the work's sake. Because the work is wonderful. He says, What does the Lord say? My yoke isn't heavy. He goes, it's not a burden. My commandments are not grievous. He said, But sadly the harvest is plenty, but the laborers are few. We saw that in John 6, when over a hundred of them just left them and said, This is a hard saying, Lord, how can we know it? And they just went away It's very sad, but for the very work's sake, he said that several times. He told the disciples to come and see where he abode, his ministry, his parables, and he worked with them. What about for the very work's sake? I think this is an awesome reward that he's going to give. And he tells them when he first sees them. He says in John 1. 51, and he saith unto him, That's back in John 151. And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, or truly, truly, I say unto you, hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man. Boy, I think that's worth seeing, don't you? Here we are to believe. He says, I am in the Father. Father's in me. And he said in John 10:30, I and my Father are one. He speaks of the Father and in Himself in two persons. But it's incredible how he refers to himself as the one that the Father works through. So that leaves a problem. That problem arose. I'm going to read you a passage that I think is the most incredible passage. They're all incredible. This one has its uh a different type of meaning. See When Jesus was going around preaching, and he went back in his own hometown and he started talking about two Gentiles, and that was Naaman and the woman of Serepta, the son that was healed, and they wanted to throw him over a cliff. Basically, what was happening is the Pharisaical order with the Sadducees and the Pharisees and the Council, they were going after him and saying, Why does he keep talking like he's the father? Why does he keep talking about being God? They hated the IN statements, we just read six words that theirs are the ones that threw basically Annas and Caiaphas and all of them into a frenzy and said, We got to get this man and kill him when he said, I and my father are one, saying that we are one. They were basically saying, Jesus is saying he's better than us And they had no idea that he was the Messiah. And then they heard the I am statements all throughout Scripture, thus taking Jesus back to Exodus chapter 3, where God himself said to Moses, I am that I am, I am have sent you. You tell the people of Israel, I am, I am the God of your fathers. And so when he says I am, they're saying there's only one God. Who does he think he is? He basically is saying, well When he brings this up that basically God is talking to himself in heaven, that's what they were saying. Listen to this. Matthew chapter 22, verse 41. While the Pharisees were gathered together, while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, Whom think ye of Christ? Whose son is he? They say unto him, the son of David, he saith unto them, How then doth David in the spirit call him Lord? saying, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. If David then called him Lord, how is he a son? And no man was able to answer him a word, neither durst any man from the day forth ask him any more questions. Because what he said there is that Psalm 110. 1 says that there are two that are on that session. Jehovah and Adonai. And if you look, if you look and you see that verse, And if you look in certain verses in Psalms, you see Psalm 110. 1, and you see Isaiah, you will see Lord spelled in big letters, and then you will see Jesus' name is spelled with a capital L with little O R D. That's a Hebrewism. And that's showing Adonai and then certain Jehovah. And if you go to Psalm 2, you see them talking together on Psalm 2. That is an incredible session meeting there. And that's why he's proving to them that he is God when the Jews said he's not. That's very important. He says, believe me that I am in the Father. He says, believe me for the very work's sake. And I'd like to talk about that a little bit more before we finish. In knowing Christ as the God of God and the light of light, the very God of the very God, he is begotten. He's not created. And as being of one substance with the Father, by whom all things were made, we know the Father, and seeing him, we know that the Father is exactly who he says he is, and Christ is with the Father. And we see that glory. So we see these inducements that are made. He says, the words that I speak to you, I speak not of myself. We see if you go back to go up forward in, I mean back to John 7. 16, Jesus answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. And so this brings up a very, very important, extremely important part of what he said for the very work's sake. A lot of people have gotten confused what he meant by that. They believe it's all the works that we do are for the work's sake, and that's what we need to do. A lot of people have said to basically look at Jesus for the very work sake of the miracles that he did. But that's not what happens. Let me read you something that John Calvin said that was very important. He had a great theological manifestation of what many believe about the works, but they miss this precious principle. For the very work's sake In the latter part of the verse, for the very work's sake, what must be understood is if this statement hadn't only been confined to the miracles of Christ And that's the only work that is being spoken of here, that there is a mighty chance there there would not have been such a great falling away as Christ approached in Golgotha, even at the disciples. Look at Philip. Here he is confused. Remember how bold he was back in John 1, bringing Nathaniel to the Messiah. Now all of a sudden he's in the group of an grip of ambivalence of what it means for Christ to be leaving. For the very work's sake, it's a beautiful poetic phrase. This is an encouragement for the scepters of the church Because even at the pinnacle of discouragement, it's for them to not rest on just the works of Christ as a prophet parmixum. A prophet amongst equals saying that Jesus is no different than Moses. He's no different than Paul, or he's no different than some of the other false gods out there. What they're saying is, look at his works But whatever you do, do not breeze over his doctrine. You want to know what the statement is today? I was listening to actually I've heard this with two different pastors that I live listened to. In the last few weeks, and they've been around for a long time. They said one of the most prevailing questions that they're getting is Why can't we just look at Jesus and forget about doctrine? Doctrine can be so deep, it can be so hard to understand. Why can't we just love one another and do his works? You can't do his works unless you understand his doctrine. What is the doctrine? What does that mean? That means that his teachings That means, in essence, really, it means getting inside of his head in essence. And what was it that drove him? What is his doctrine? His doctrine is this gospel. We have so many incredible doctrines of Christ, with a doctrine of justification by faith, the doctrine of our sanctification. The doctrine of his gospel. There's so many, they're endless, and when you learn them, what it does is it brings you closer to him to understand who he is. I fully agree with Henry and Calvin, Matthew Henry and John Calvin, very prodigious writers and commentators. This is a direct and incredible observation and manifestation of the doctrine of Jesus Christ. When we read these words, we're reading the doctrine. That's what we're reading in John 14. What we're studying. Why is it so important? Well, we see that these these questions that these men had, they had very necessary conclusions. You ever notice how on the news and in a lot of times when there's all kinds of problems that come up, you have a lot of news stations, I don't care what it is, they always have the problems, but they never have the antidote. You notice in scripture Christ always has the answers. He always has the antidote. He always has the end game, the necessary conclusion. I'll finish up here. Why did cre why, if his works were all that mattered, why did he preach so fervently? Why does he ask us to preach so fervently? Here we see the majesty of God is clearly exhibited through Christ's doctrine and the Father's manifested through him by the works. And it is the proof of the power of God. I want to finish by reading some more of John fourteen and finish with that and let Scripture prevail. I think that's important. But look what he goes on to say. We see in verse 12. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also, and greater works than me shall he do. Because I go unto my Father. And whatsoever ye ask in my name, I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. And here in verse 13, he's teaching us about prayer Verse 14, if ye shall ask anything in my name, I will do it. If ye love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you, and here's the third person, another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him. But ye know him, for he dwelleth with you and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless, I will come to you Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more, but ye see me, because I live, ye shall live also. And that day ye shall know that I am in thy in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. Verse 21 He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he that is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved of my father, and I will love him and will manifest thyself to him Look at the promise. Remember, once again, chapters 13 to chapters 17 are regarded as the consolatory discourse of our Lord Jesus Christ. That is his prayer and his testimony before he goes gets drugged to the cross unmercifully and totally unfairly And so when when you see this, I I just I'm praying that this lifts you up and and this this this encourages you to know He says, if you love me, keep my commands, if you shall ask anything in my name, I will do it. You just have to remember the secret to that. It's not really a secret. You you have when you ask him in his name, you be ready to receive what he has to offer you, no matter what it is. You're gonna get wonderful things, but you almost yeah I mean you you you almost and many times you might get things you might have asked Jesus for. And they don't happen and they don't turn out the way you think that they should. Always remember He has a greater plan. He knows what's better. And down the road, no doubt, if you don't see it here in this life, you will see it with him. why some of the prayers you had, he may not have answered the way you thought that he should, because he knows better. Give him all the credit. Our Lord and our God, we thank thee and praise thee for these wonderful words of life That thou would give us a consolation, a comforter, to lift us up. Lord, keep us from falling. We're a weak people. Lord, we know that when thou hearest our prayers, thou Condescends to our lowest state, but thou art always there, and promises that thou wilt hear our prayers, and if we ask in thy name, that thou wilt do it. So we ask in the name of Jesus Christ. I pray for each one of these families, everyone here. Bless their hearts, lift them up, give them encouragement, and I pray, Lord, that thou wouldst answer their prayer requests Speedily and not that not our will but thy will be done, we pray. Amen