That will extension by the last message. We're now picking up with the seventh plague and this morning basically we have as the title is the forecast for today is hail and fire And that is what the forecast for this message is as well. And as we get moving, let's see where the Lord leads us. In verse 13, Exodus chapter 9 And the Lord said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh and say unto him Thus saith the Lord, God of the Hebrews, let my people go that they may serve me. For I will at this time send all my plagues upon thine heart, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people, that thou mayest know that there is none like me in all the earth For now I will stretch out my hand that I may smite thee and thy people with pestilence, and thou shalt be cut off from the earth. And in very deed for this cause have I raised thee up for to show in thee my power And that my name may be declared throughout all the earth. As yet exaltest thou thyself against my people, that thou wilt not let them go? Behold, tomorrow about this time I will cause it to rain a very grievous hail, such as hath not been in Egypt since the foundation thereof, even until now. Send therefore now and gather thy cattle and all that thou hast in the field, for upon every man and beast which shall be found in the field and shall not be brought home, the hail shall come down upon them, and they shall die He that feared the word of the Lord among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his cattle flee into the houses And he that regarded not the word of the Lord left his servants and his cattle in the field. And the Lord said unto Moses Stretch forth thine hand toward heaven that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt upon man, and upon beasts, and upon every herb of the field throughout the land of Egypt. And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven. And the Lord sent thunder and hail, and the fire ran along upon the ground, and the Lord rained hail upon the land of Egypt. So there was hail, and fire mingled with hail, very grievous, such as there was none like it in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation. And the hail smote throughout all the land of Egypt all that was in the field, both man and beast. And the hail smote every herb of the field and broke every tree of the field. Only in the land of Goshen where the children of Israel were was there no hail. And Pharaoh sent and called for Moses and Aaron and said unto them, I have sinned this time. The Lord is righteous, and I and my people are wicked. Entreat the Lord, for it is enough that there be no more mighty thunderings and hail, and I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer. Moses said unto him, As soon as I am gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands unto the Lord, and the thunder shall cease, neither shall thee be any more hail, that thou mayest know how the earth is the Lord's. This is incredible what Moses does here But as for thee and thy servants, I know that ye will not yet fear the Lord. And the flax and the barley was smitten, for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was bold, but the wheat and the And the rye were not smitten, for they were not grown up. And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh and spread abroad his hands unto the Lord, and the thunders and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured upon the earth. And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his servants. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened. Neither would he let the children of Israel go as the Lord had spoken by Moses. I'm standing here. It's it's incredible what's going on here and what the Lord's doing. We see how the last basic uh the last menu of of hard Uh plagues consisted of the moraine of beasts, terrible emrods, boils, the botch of Egypt it was called, were the last two plagues inflicted upon Egypt. And this would really hurt the economy per and personally. This other one would hit their health horribly, but it wouldn't move the heart of Pharaoh. Wouldn't move him Is that unusual for people to be unmoved? Think about that. The magicians were punished with boils, they were driven away and found out the hard way who the real magician is. Moses and Aaron received no boils, and Israel's cattle remained unscathed. Didn't that send a message to Pharaoh? Isn't there a difference between God's people? and my direction to the people which I'm basically grinding in the powder, as it were, because I won't listen to God. Do you think that ever occurred to him? We see here, basically, the magicians tried to once again copy this incredible plague. They tried to give moraine and boils to the people But now they had the moraine and boils and they were so sick they couldn't move. That's a powerful God. He was over all of that. He's go as moving forward, going to verses 13 to basically 18 here. The warning is heightened and God lays out the consequences. This is the first plague out of all the plagues where the Lord gives such detail about what's actually going to happen. He gives detail in other words, but this one has a lot more detail. And basically here This plague is the perfect number seven. It's the seventh plague. We were studying in uh Wednesday evening in Proverbs 9. How wisdom hath hewn out her house and hath built or no, hath built out her house and hath hewn out her seven pillars. Seven being a perfect number. And here we see that this number seven, this plague takes on a whole nother meaning. This is a general declaration that was aimed at Pharaoh. Thus saith the Lord, and it defines the author of this pronouncement. And the God of Hebrews, he defines a chosen people. We see all through the Old Testament the words, thus saith the Lord. What does this mean? What does it mean to us as Christians? What is it saying? Thus saith the Lord. That's what it says. That means God is speaking. So if you believe that there is a God, and I believe everyone here actually believes that, which is wonderful When he speaks, I believe that we need to listen. Let my people go is the commandment. They may serve me, that they may worship me out of my temple, that they may be in my sanctuary. And the reason that God did this was a mercy, to make Pharaoh understand why this commandment is administered and why Pharaoh needed to listen. What does this mean? This is now a fierce call for Pharaoh to repent. Later we're going to see what God did not call him to do. And I believe that if we look at the antithesis of what he called him to do, it'll really bring out the luster of what responsibility we have as Christians and what the Lord expects of us. Moses is commanded once again to rise up early. This means he no doubt would be heading down once again back to the Nile, where Pharaoh would worship the river again. I'd say by now Uh Moses probably has his own little platform above the river where now it's like his own pulpit where he he's going down there Well time after time and time after he knows exactly where to go, he knows exactly where to stand, and once again he's on the high ground and he's talking to Pharaoh and he's saying Here we go again. This is what the Lord told me. This is what you need to do. But I love it says how he rose up early. Isn't that very important in our work lives? We need to rise up early. Remember what time did the Lord get up in order to rise from the dead out of the out of the tomb? Did he just lay around till that afternoon and get up whenever he decided to until the alarm clock went off? He was up at sun up. He was up immediately To give redemption and salvation. That seems incredible. And Moses was to rise up early. The warning is pronounced to Moses by God in a more full range of detail and assurance. That Pharaoh's abject obstinacy will result in further destruction. And we see here in verse 14, I will at this time send all my plagues. What does that mean? You know, at this point he's not talking about doing them all up till now. Now he's saying, this is getting ridiculous. The Lord is saying Pharaoh will not listen to me. By my providence, by my decree, I am now. Watch what happens, Moses, because this time Moses is actually going to pretend to repent He's going to turn around, circle back, he's going to defy me again, and I'm carrying out all these plagues. That's what I'm going to do. You notice how many times when you read about Moses, how he asked the Lord to repent of what he was going to do That doesn't mean he's asking the Lord to ask forgiveness for his sins. God doesn't sin. But repent in Hebrew meant to to basically back off Maybe maybe change. Maybe maybe do something a little different and not destroy everybody in that was it that that was it present. Moses doesn't do that. This warning is pronounced. It's amazing how God reveals all the plagues now that will come to pass. Had had Pharaoh repented By now, perhaps the devastation would have ended, but this is a lesson to reveal just how truly wicked and impenitent Pharaoh's heart really was. Thus, further magnifying the glory of God. All of this magnifies the transcendent majesty of God What's the what is so people could look at this and say, well, that happened 3,800 years ago. That's just old, archaic, means nothing today. I don't think so I see the same thing right here in our own polity, in our own politics. People that hate God, they won't listen. They won't, they won't do anything. They won't honor the Lord. They have all these ways of making the country better, just like Pharaoh did. Pharaoh said, Well, worship the river. That didn't work out too well, did it? Because that was an instrument. And all of a sudden the frogs came out. All of a sudden we see lice and flies and we see all these other plagues. And he tries all of these things around God, and every single time he failed. This is a perfect example of what happens. You go up against God, you're going to lose. So give up. Give up and trade in your pride for unlimited power. Because when you have Christ on your side, you have there's nobody. Nobody. Remember what Christ said to Peter. I have prayed for you. Now strengthen the brethren. And look what Peter was able to do. He literally healed a man from the dead. He healed a man with a who was sick of the palsy right in front of the gate, beautiful. The Lord gave him that power. Pharaoh hated the people of the Lord. Is that old in Archaic? Does that not happen today? Everybody loves Jesus Christ in the United States of America. Everything's fine. We're good. Right? Pharaoh hated the people of the Lord. I don't know if any of you watched that debate the other night, but I can tell you who hated the Lord that night. They were three people against one and they hated the Lord. They hated him. Woe unto those that hated the people, that hate the people of the Lord. Jesus spoke to the disciples and assured them of the trials that lie ahead. Matthew ten, verse twenty-two, and ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but he that endureth to the end shall be saved. You go to four forward to verse twenty-six in Matthew ten Fear them not therefore, for there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, and hid that shall not be known. What I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light, and what ye hear in the ear, that preach ye upon the housetops. And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both Soul and body in hell. And here Jesus was saying not to fear them, but to fear the Father, because it's already written. He has the power to cast those that hate his people into everlasting hellfire. That is the one that you fear. You fear God, Jehovah Elohim, the creator and judge of this earth. You know, the hardness of the heart of man It's an epidemic. It's worse than any coronavirus could ever even have. The hardness of Faro's heart made it a heavy anchor. And you know what's funny about that anchor? It wound up having him actually drowning in the bottom of the Red Sea. That was the anchor that pulled him down. You know, David writes about the hardness, the hard-heartedness of mankind, King David, man after God's heart. Oh, by the way, David was another king. At the time of his reign, he was probably as powerful or more powerful than Pharaoh was in Egypt. And here's what he wrote. Psalm 32 verses 9 and 10. I love this. Be ye not as the horse or as the mule which have no understanding, whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle lest they come near unto thee. Then he says in verse 10, Many sorrow shall be to the wicked, but he that trusteth in the Lord mercy shall compass him about. That was from King David. This is what King Pharaoh needed. The Lord said, Send all my plagues. This was the onset of the seventh plague. The seventh plague would be the perfect number. All plagues will now come to pass. He said, It's not going to stop. I'm going to keep going. I've had it You don't want God to get to that point. You don't want to do that. You don't remember what did Christ tell Satan in the wilderness? What did he tell him? Tempt not the Lord thy God. Don't trifle with sin. If you have it in your life, get on your knees today and beg the Lord forgiveness and stop it. And walk over glass to stop it. Don't mess with him. We see upon thine heart, this is by far the worst plague God sent because it was inflicted upon Pharaoh when it caused an awful lot of damage. This proclamation went beyond the devastation of the temporal plagues. It transcended into a spiritual plague upon the soul of Pharaoh, where the Lord finally proclaims Everlasting damnation for the rejection of Christ. It's the worst plague mankind can receive. And this is exactly what Pharaoh was doing. He was digging his heels in. We read in John chapter 12, verse 48. If I'm going too fast, I'm sorry. I have a lot of verses to read, but I can slow down if you'd like to turn. But you're welcome to just sit back and relax and listen. John 12, 48, He that rejecteth me and receiveth not my words hath one that judgeth him. The word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day. And then Luke 20, verse 17 and 18. And he beheld them and said, What is this then that is written? The stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner? Whosoever shall Paul fall upon that stone shall be broken, but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder That's the power of the Lord. Verse 15, I will stretch out my hand. Verse 16, and in very deed for this cause have I raised thee up for to show in thee my power, and that my name shall be declared through all the earth. As ye exalt thou thyself against my people, that thou wilt not let them go, how dare Pharaoh stand there and dig his heels in against God! How dare he do that? And that's what these words, part of many reasons why these words are written. We see Pharaoh's hard heart and this brings in these plagues. We see that these verses we just read, there's a manifold purpose pertaining to the plagues. God lays them out. He shows them. Moses tells and Aaron. Tell Scaro, and we see here you see Jehovah had made a general declaration of wrath against King Pharaoh of Egypt Once again, Jehovah Elohim, again, that's the Hebrew name for the God who is the creator and the judge. He has passed all judgment to Christ. He suspends his grace even upon the Egyptian people, and we see here how Pharaoh, being a prideful, selfish human being, makes a decision to not just destroy himself. The decisions we make, they really have an impact on people all around us. And if you're a servant of Christ, you'll think about that. You make decisions and you trust the Lord and you pray. How does it affect the people around you? What are you teaching your children and your grandchildren, the people in your church and around you? What effect is it going to have on them? It's obvious Pharaoh could have cared less. And then obviously you know the plagues. What happens in the tenth plague? Did it affect his firstborn son or did it not? This is the kind of thing we need to think about. Do you want to know what's ironic here? Does anybody remember, of course, what was what was the what was the uh The enterprise of the Israelites. What was their manufacturing plant, their General Motors plant out in Detroit? What were they manufacturing on the assembly line? Huh? Right? Without what? Right. They must have been pretty good at it. Because if you look at the pictures, especially some of the mosaic paintings and the different pictures down through the ages. Their buildings were all made of mortar, brick, and stone, and they were pretty big buildings. And I hate to give away part of the end of the message, but Keep this in your mind. They were working all these years to build these great big buildings, and the Lord said, land of Goshen, put your cattle in those buildings that you've built, and I'll spare them The very brick that they were making spared the very cattle and their people that they got to hide in those places where they did not have great big hailballs hitting them and killing them, not to mention fireballs. Talk about that song back in the 70s. I seen fire and rain. When they get done, they get to say, I sing hail, fire and rain. You know, this is incredible. Look at these plagues. King Pharaoh of Egypt denied straw. And so the Lord is going to use that brick would use those bricks right against Pharaoh. He would beat them, punish the people. He was horrible to them. And we can see that even today, look how the Egyptian people and how Pharaoh hated Christian people. Look what he did to them Even today, look how wicked Pakistan and Hamas is to God's people in Israel. Look at the horrible riots that they're having, the murders and the things that they've done. It's never changed in all these years. Another manifestation of the contemporary nature of Scripture always being up to date. And the prophecies always being very manifest. They worship the creation, just like today, but they did not worship the creator. Pharaoh would not worship the Creator. He worshipped his creation. All the things that were in the plagues were all basically manifestations. They were tools of idol worship, every one of them, and the Lord used it right against them. And the very one that created them, they would not worship him. They worshiped all of the artifacts. Or the animals. Or the river. At this point, God has shown great longsuffering to Egypt, even during the previous plagues. He's very gracious. He's a merciful God. He holds back on even the most rebellious and he teaches them and he teaches them and he teaches them and they reject him. They now even let's not just stop at the poor Egyptians. Let's stop not pick them up, pick on them. Let's go back a few chapters, like in chapter, I believe it's chapter six. Look at how merciful he is to defend the Israelites when they were wailing against Moses and letting him have it. You're taking me away from the flesh pots and the garlic and the onions and the cucumbers and all that. And they say it all the way down the line and they're complaining. The Lord finally has to come back and they he finally sends them nana You know, if we go down and look look ahead a little bit, he sends a manna. Oh, we're so sick of eating manna. We're tired of all right I'll tell you what, I'll give you quail. Oh we're sick of the quail. I'll give you so much quail it'll come out of your nostrils Says that. That's what he does. And they complained and they complained and they complained. So he doesn't just show mercy to the Egyptians who were rejecting him. He's also showing mercy to his very people that were complaining. Paul says, do all things without complaining and murmuring. I'm still working on that one. King Pharaoh of Egypt is now ordered to deliver the people unto repent. So we go forward, we see here, now here is what's been laid out in detail. He says in verse 19, therefore now and gather thy cattle And all that thou hast in the field, for upon every man and beast which shall be found in the field, and shall not be brought home, the hail shall come down upon them, and they shall die. He that feared the word of the Lord among the servants of the Pharaohs made his servants and his cattle flee to the houses. I find it fascinating that the sorcerers and the magicians, who were supposed to be such great prophets of Egypt, had no idea to do this. None of them ever came out of their houses and said, Well, God said that you're supposed to be under roof for this if you want to but Egyptians, we know this too because we're as powerful as God. They have no idea They had absolutely no clue. And basically the only one that knew, and this is how we differentiate in Scripture, the one to be worshipped, and the ones that are to worship him is the one that knows everything. That's a pretty good template. That's a pretty good reason to honor the Lord. He knows everything. There's nothing he doesn't know. Nothing ever occurs to him because he already knows it. Proverbs 35 says, Every word of God is pure. He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. Do you put your trust in him? If you weren't in Sunday school class today what Pastor Steve Lawson said on that when that uh question to answer session was just wonderful. He's at a Bible conference. He gets a phone call from his wife. And he was very close with his father, and his father died. What did he do? He went right to the Lord. That's putting the trust in the Lord in the hardest times. King Pharaoh of Egypt stands as a monument to the foolishness of his own kingdom and the power over his people who followed him. He stands as a complete monument of foolishness. We see his justice, his power, and standing monument of it by the very presence of Pharaoh. We see how hard-hearted he was and what he did to his people. He's no match for Jehovah Nephi. See that at the end of the book of Exodus when Joshua goes after the Amalekites, and the Lord says something very clear to Moses. And Moses is older, of course, he probably has arthritis now and probably has some problems in his arms, and he said, Raise your arms to heaven. If you raise your arms, Israel wins. When your arms are down, they were defeated. So he tries to hold them up there, and they're like, ugh, they're coming down. All of a sudden Joshua's called up. Get your arms up, they're killing us And all of a sudden Aaron lifts his arm up and the other family lifts Moses' arm up. Israel completely defeats the Amalekites. How did the Lord know that? He's God. And you see you see what happens there? And he got the name from Moses. The Lord gave him the grace. He said, I, you tell the people, I the only time you read this in scripture, Jehovah Neci. I'm the God of banners. I am the invincible God that cannot be penetrated. I cannot be obligated to anyone, although I have mercy. I cannot be defeated. I cannot be overtaken. That's what he means. The Egyptians would recognize that Jehovah is incomparable. No gods of their worship could stand up against him. They even declared it. Problem is they didn't believe it. They only declared it in a very fit of emotional downturn when they see horrible things happening, but then as soon as it's over, sun comes out, the coffee's on and everything's normal again. Forget about it You know what Isaiah 42 8 says? What a powerful verse. I am the Lord, that is my name, and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven image. That is the God who we're talking about here this morning. Well, we see what happens to the king's heart. What happens to the king? It says here in verse twenty one, and he that regarded not the word of the Lord left his servants and his cattle in the field. That wasn't very wise. My Bible, your Bible, Proverbs 21:1 says, the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. And we see here, basically, there are so many things, so many ways we can talk about this. And how, you know, down through the years we've seen so many, so many bad politicians. So many people that that actually lived in that White House where we had our first president love Jesus Christ. He even said when you teach children an education without Christ is completely pointless. We've seen so many people, I could name them. Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, Barack Obama, Joe Biden, I w we could just a whole list of them. They show no interest in God whatsoever. None whatsoever. And isn't it amazing how the Lord still blessed the country with them in their reigns of terror? Many people today have the all day have the audacity to lift these people up Some actually called Barack Obama the Messiah. He certainly never turned away from that. He never said that's not true Isaiah 42, 17 says, They shall be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, that trust in graven images. They that say to the molten image, Ye are our gods. We see another declaration of here is Egypt will not be able to keep other nations from humiliation they received from these plagues inflicted by God all down through the ages. They would speak about these plagues. All throughout Scripture, on all kinds of different periods of time. The Lord even comes back himself and he talks about it. And it's mentioned. Remember when Stephen is giving that great oration in front of the Pharisees? He mentions it then. Christ mentions it on the road to Emmaus, thousands of years later. And even today, we're still talking about it here today. God's name cannot be hidden. It cannot be put out, it cannot be buried, it cannot be pushed off. I'll never forget years ago, and I know you I know you know who I'm talking about, a real famous golfer He it was way back, I think it was two two thousand and nine. He had had an affair on his wife. And I remember there was all of this talk. He's so famous and all of these announcers came out and they were saying Oh well he needs this and he needs that, he needs therapy, he needs time, he needs to get out on the driving range, he needs to do all of this. And out of nowhere, someone comes out of nowhere on national television Brit Hume, and he says, he needs the salvation of Jesus Christ and the forgiveness of Christ. Isn't it amazing how Christ's name always rises to the top? Isn't that amazing? Lord says my name will be declared throughout all the earth Go to verses eighteen to twenty-one, we see here starting off with a real wonderful scripture, Romans nine seventeen, for the scripture saith unto Pharaoh. Here it is in Romans, even Pharaoh, even for this same purpose, as I have raised thee up that I might show my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth, therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will harden, he hardeneth. And whom he will he hardeneth. But always remember Romans 11. 36. For of him and through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever. So we go forward, we see how God's grace is manifested here in the warning. Moses stretched forth his hand, the heavens opened up, and look what happened. Every what happened, this hail would destroy man, cattle, herbs, and trees And this is another devastating blow to the Egypti Egyptians' economy. And it's amazing how the bricks that the that the the Israelites made, they were a refuge for them. We sang this morning. And look I want to s I want to read this this uh stanza that we just sang. I I I saved it because it it it just coincides with us so wonderful. Look what we read here in Psalm 46 with what we sang this morning. Be still know I am God We see here, exalted o'er all men, exalted, exalted o'er all earth, the Lord of hosts with us, our fortress, strong, is Jacob's God. And look at the fortress that the Lord built for them. You realize that with all the hail coming down and what happened here, what about hail? Look about that look look at this. We see that this is there was a violent storm, probably very electrical. We see fireballs coming from the sky, mingled with hail and rain. Think about what happened. We've seen we've seen fire come down from the sky before. We've had many hail storms here actually in Maryland. I remember years ago we had golf ball size. uh hail come down and look at the damage that it caused. They showed people's cars on television. They had all these big dents and all in them. You know, here's some interesting hail storm facts. The biggest hail ever measured here in America was nearly fifteen years ago. A hailstone eight inches in diameter was produced by a severe thunderstorm in South Dakota on July twenty-third, twenty and ten. Can you imagine an eight-inch hail? Would you like to get hit in the head with that? Wow. Hail size is often directly correlated with the type of damage it causes. As a general rule of thumb, the type of damage you can see is this. A quarter-inch hailstone coming down quick can damage the shingles on your house. The size of a golf ball or 1. 75 inches, it can put dents in your vehicles. The size of a baseball, which we've seen here, 2. 75 inches, windshields are smashed. A softball size Hailball that could be four inches can go through the actually uh put a hole in your roof and go through it. You realize that some hailballs come down on a hundred miles per hour when they get about three to four inches I don't know if you ever played baseball, have you ever seen a hundred mile an hour fastball? I've seen a 90-mile-an-hour fastball, but not a hundred mile. That comes in pretty quick. You don't want to get hit by this. I don't know how big the hail was, the coven came out of here for Egypt. I don't know how fast it was, but I know this. Last thing you wanted to do was be in its way. Very large hail can fall at speeds over 100 miles per hour. speed that hail falls depends on several factors including its size, wind conditions, and how much melting occurs. That's incredible. I mean this this plague is incredible. It's amazing how Jehovah makes the clouds not only his storehouses to replenish or reprove his people. He rains upon the just and the unjust. Our Lord God Almighty, He controls all of the weather. He controls the clouds. He controls everything. Matthew 5. 45 says that ye may be the children of your Father, which is in heaven. For he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. He maintains the earth, and he replenishes the land, but consequently You know, God, he can actually use the weather. He can use the billows of the clouds or whatever he decides to reprove people. He can draw out a most arduous, incomprehensible attack upon his enemies through the weather. He's done it many times. Look at Job chapter, we we see Job, Job chapter 38, verses 22 and 23. Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow, or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail, which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war? You know, it's a very good time when we have difficult weather patterns, difficult things happen, and we go to the Lord and we pray. We see that the nature of this plague w had been revealed, Israelites are now they're back in this land of Goshen, which now this land of Goshen, and we see right here, we see that it it's still is intact. This land of Goshen, it's incredible. Where did we see the land of Goshen before? Remember when Jacob came down? Joseph brought his father in and Pharaoh back that was a Pharaoh that knew Joseph back then. This is a Pharaoh that knows not Joseph. And this bear that knows not Joseph doesn't remember how Goshen was there to protect the Israelites, and there it is, and the Lord's still using it. We see that nature, how how incredible that is. Going forward to verses twenty-seven to twenty-nine, well verse twenty-six says, Only in the land of Goshen where the children of Israel were, there was no hail. And Pharaoh sent and called for Moses and Aaron and said unto them, I have sinned this time. Here's where the message takes an incredible turn. It's amazing what God expected of Pharaoh, but it's but it's more, to me it's amazing what he what he didn't expect. The Lord is righteous. We see how now Pharaoh all of a sudden is improving a little bit in his theological understanding temporarily. Here see Pharaoh also seeks prayer. He implores Moses to entreat the Lord. All this appeared as if Pharaoh's heart was now softening, but there was something lacking There was something lacking that he didn't bestow. It was something that was temporary. How many times have you heard people, they watch shows, movies, whatever God, I don't believe in you. God, if you save my, if you keep my son from dying, I promise you I'll never say a curse word the rest of my life. You ever hear that kind of stuff? Lord, if you do this for me, you do this. You're going to barter with God? That's not how we approach him. That's not good. You want to know what true repentance is? This is the one thing that the Jehovah expected of Moses was true repentance, and Moses did And look at what the Lord did for Moses and Aaron with repentance and how he loved the Lord. Pharaoh wouldn't repent. You know, go back to King David. Compare him to Pharaoh. Pharaoh would not, he wouldn't bend. He would not bow down to God and hear his people burned because of these hail fires, these balls of fire that came down. You know David groaned so much in his sins. Yeah, there's a king. Was he horrible? Yeah, he was. So are all we. He was horrible. He did terrible things. But you know he loved the Lord. And there are seven penitential Psalms. Psalm 6, Psalm 32, Psalm 38, Psalm 51. Psalm 102, Psalm 130, and Psalm 143 are one of many, many books or chapters in the Bible that teach us true repentance. Let's go to Psalm 38 and read a couple verses. This is what the Lord expected from Pharaoh. This is what he expects. O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrows stick fast in me and thy hand presseth me sore. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin For mine iniquities are gone over mine head as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long, for my loins are filled with a loathsome disease. And there is no soundness in my flesh. I am feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. Lord, all my desire is before thee, and my groaning is not hid from me. This may sound pessimistic and very hard and almost fire and brimstone ish, but it's lovely. This is beautiful poetry. This is how David is saying, Lord, it's later on in Psalm 30. He says, Lord, expose my heart It is Pharaoh's desire only to have the hail and the fire from heaven removed. And Moses promises to go outside of the city. Think about that for a minute. Right about now you've got to imagine that Moses was probably well into his 80s. When he started off he was 83. Now it's been a while. It's probably close to 85, 86 years This guy's got guts. Look what just happened. Did you do you want when you see some cataclysmic weather pattern coming in, turning over cars or where again hail coming down and all Do you want to raise your hands up to heaven and go out and pray out and past the city and walk past the city? He's ready to go. I love 1 Timothy 2, verse 8. Paul is calling people to pray. He said, I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. And that's exactly how we see. What did we read before? Many sorrow shall be to the wicked, but he that trusteth in the Lord, mercy shall encompass him about. Look at what the Lord's doing here for Moses, and he lifts his hands up to pray to the Lord. He prays. The hail and fire are gone, and the rain. It says that the outpouring of rain is gone too. There's wreckage everywhere, and Moses is not afraid. He goes out and he prays. We need to pray. Then all of a sudden all this happens and the skies are opening up. Verse 29, Moses saith to him, As soon as I am gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands unto the Lord. The thunder shall cease. Neither should there shall be any more hail, that thou mayest know how that the earth is the Lord's But as for thee and thy servants, I know that ye will not yet fear the Lord. I know that you will not open your ears. You will not listen. You might hear temporarily, but it's not going into your heart The Lord did take away, and the flax and the barley were smitten, for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was bold Once again we see the Lord's wonderful blessing. He allows that crop to remain. They needed that crop. They really needed it. Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh and spread abroad his hands unto the Lord, and the thunders and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured upon the earth. Talk about this one for a long time. We could be here a while, but I'll tell you real quick what I'm thinking. How was he not detained? Pharaoh's a pretty important king. He could have said to a couple of his best henchmen, get that guy. I'm so sick and tired of him and his rod, I want to stick him down in the b in the wine cellar or whatever, lock him in there until he rots to death. Not one hair on Moses' head could not be touched without the commandment of God. Same for you. You love the Lord Jesus Christ. No matter what happens, you will not be pulled out of his hand. I think that's fascinating. When Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and thunders were ceased, verse 34, he sinned yet more and hardened his heart, he and his servants. Went right back to the slough of despond. I love that. Pilgrim's progress. The slough of despond, like the mire, the mire of despond. It's like a dog returning to its vomit Totally turning, circling around against God. Not actually circling. He's got about 180 degrees away from him. That's basically what he's doing. Pharaoh was right back to being anchored down by his wicked heavy stone heart Here we see God would show his infinite mercy upon Egypt and He would remove the plagues. We see that Moses' response, I know that ye will not yet fear the Lord. This was a clear indication that Pharaoh would not repent. We see that the flax and barley had been wiped out, they had been smitten, another manifestation of the power of God, but the wheat and the aftercrop, which was Spelt awry were still not in yet and had not yet been damaged. This is another sign of God's timing. He shows his mercy. He has perfect reign over all the weather patterns. In all the seasons. He has perfect rain over that. Where does the wind come from? Why is the rain here? Oh the wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou canst hear the sound in the world, but cannot tell whence it cometh nor whether it goeth Well he said he has set four angels upon the corners of the earth in order to control the winds. Do you have to know any more than that? Can you trust that? He knows. But finally we see here Pharaoh's heart is hard, and it's shown here again, and we see that this new twist to the end of this plague, we see this his entourage, his servants Hearts, they're all hardened, they're all hardened, and the Lord has given the malediction that He's going to go through with all the rest of the plagues. The next one gets really interesting. We'll look at that next week. Locusts. You know, John the Baptist's favorite though favorite appetizer on the menu. Locusts. We're gonna be looking at them and they come in and they cause a lot of damage. The fair is hard is hardened. The exhortation today is very simple, and the encouragement from here What I'd like to ask this before we leave, and I forgot to say this. I wanted I I missed this. I have too many notes right now this morning. What did God not expect of Pharaoh? I think this brings it all together. He did not expect from Pharaoh money, penance, seven sacraments. To offer his babies on the altar of Moloch, dancing around a golden calf, praise bands, book sales, secret services, promise keepers convention. He didn't he didn't expect he didn't say any of that. None of that kind of stuff. He told him to repent. He told him to repent. He told him, and here Pharaoh comes back, oh I've sinned against you, Lord. Oh, you have Well, what are you going to do about it? He didn't ask for any personal gain at all. He told Pharaoh to, he was, Moses told him you need to repent. You need to let the people go. And was the invitation of salvation opened up to Pharaoh? Absolutely it is. So the exhortation this morning is we need to repent. We need to go to the Lord. We need to pray to him and we need to trust him. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lead not unto thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. That's a great GPS. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. So that's the seventh plague. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee and praise Thee, Lord, for the incredible, incredible account here. From thy word in Exodus 9, it teaches us thy power. It teaches us thy wonderful salvation, thy redemption, thy grace, and thy mercy. But thou art not a God that just goes around and serves everyone unconditionally. Lord, thou hast given us commandments and standards for us to live by, and we all fail at them. We all do. Our righteousness can never exceed that of the scribes and the Pharisees, neither could theirs without Jesus Christ. We thank thee, Lord, that thou hast said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. We thank thee that thou art perfect, thou art righteous, thou art the God of Moses. And thou hadst said wonderfully the book of John, Moses spoke of me. And how wonderful that is to know the connection there. Lord bless us this week. Watch over us and direct and guide our paths. We ask in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.