Follow along sixteen. Here's the Word of God. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man And being formed and fashioned as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore? God also hath highly exalted him, given him a name which is above every name, that, the name of Jesus, every knee should bow, of things in heaven, things in earth, and things under the earth. and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Wherefore My beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Do all things without murmurings and disputings That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights In the world. May God be pleased to bless his reading. Last Lord's Day. We cracked open uh what I'll call is a difficult passage, and it continues even as we have today. I'm afraid may have lost some of you in the transition It's a topic that is powerful and of great importance and one upon which we need to truly grasp I believe Satan's minions are more earnestly at work to take our minds and hearts away from the scriptures at any time, but especially when it's an important passage. Again, let me read verses 12 and 13. So then, my beloved, just as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more, in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God that works, that is at work in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. These two verses address the idea of who's responsible for our sanctification, our change from what we had been to what God wants us to be. These two verses show us the responsibility. Of making the kind of people that God has designed for us to be. Sanctification, the process of God's work in our hearts. If you don't have that golden sight, if there's not that blip on your radar, you need to make some soul searching. As I said last Sunday, twice the Apostle appeals to the church that they walk in a manner worthy of the gospel. Chapter 1 verse 27. He says, Your life is to be one that is worthy of the gospel, in other words, the profession of faith, the Jesus Christ to whom you say, I owe my allegiance, the one who has redeemed me. You are to have a life that is to be according to that. And then verse 12, again, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Both of those passages carry the same thought He's saying to the Philippians, and by the Spirit of God, he's saying to all of us, that we are to live a life that is worthy of Christ. To make that necessary in our hearts, our purpose for that which we are called in this world We also noted at that time that working out our salvation did not mean working for our salvation. Some people look at that and consider that, but we can't There's no effort on our part that God would find pleasing, acceptable, that we could merit some effort to say, yes, God says, that's good, I I'm going to save that person because of what he did or what he's going to do So if I'm not working for my salvation, what does Paul mean? We came up with the definition last week that working out our salvation was to do what was necessary to live a life of obedience consistent with the gift of salvation To do what's necessary in life that is an obedient process, consistently, not just certain days, not just certain times of my life, but consistently through my life That is worthy of that which I was given, the gift of salvation. I trust that crossed your mind, at least in some part, this past week. I trust that you consider those of you who profess Christ that you should be putting an active effort to walk in the footsteps of Jesus. That's all that's necessary for us. That's the demand that he expects on us. And that includes making an effort to know the things that I'm doing that are displeasing to him. In the process of getting rid of them and knowing the things that I'm supposed to be doing, and in the process of applying those, working out my salvation. So, chapter two, verse twelve, we are responsible for our sanctification. The apostle makes that very clear. living a life that is obedient in the life of Christ. And if we fail to do that, whose fault? It's us. The verse sits there and it lays it before us. If I'm impatient or angry, if I'm resentful or greedy, if I neglect the word, or if I neglect prayer, or if I neglect fellowship, or if I neglect outreach. It's not my wife's fault. It's not my children's fault. It's not the church's fault. It's not God's fault. It's my fault. To see the things that I'm doing that are not right in God's sight. And if I ignore it, if I continue to do them, I'm not involved in the process of sanctification I have to be completely responsible for such, to exert the necessary effort to live out a life that is obedient consistently with my salvation. We also saw last week that working out our salvation was a right response to the exaltation of Christ. I chose that hymn this morning simply because it brought us through what Christ has done and in in each part of that hymn, and actually it progressed along it all of a sudden takes away from Jesus' death and his resurrection but to his exaltation and it puts me, the believer, on focus on that. What do I do? And so we read in the earlier passage of chapter two here. how we saw the the humility of Christ, but especially his exaltation. All that he had humbled himself for, and therefore this passage says, then God exalts him puts him in such a place of high esteem that Christ was exalted on the right hand of the throne of God, where he's been given all authority and power and judgment even for us. And at the same time We continue the verse or the third section that we saw last week. Fear and trembling, you know, and it kind of gets us a wrong idea of how that is, you know. Uh but the truth the passage brings forth. We work at many things in life. We work at our education. At least I trust those who are still in school are working into education. You know. We work at our jobs. Those of you who are employed, I trust that you are doing that out. We also work to be noticed We work to be popular. We work to be just liked with somebody just like me in no order what I am. But there's nothing that should be more important for the professing Christian is to work out his own salvation. The importance, Paul says, shows because you're to do it with fear and trembling. But why? Why would we be so devoted to this effort of fear and trembling? There are lots of passages in the New Testament. Lots of places we can look and the relationship of the believer, Old or New Testament, that would bring this to pass, but I think we can stay right within our own section here to be able to understand that. Again, we've been asking the question: who's responsible for our salvation? Who's responsible for making us to be the people that God wants us to be? Who's the responsible party in that? Well, verse 12, we saw that it was us. But that's only a partial answer. Now, let me read those two verses again. Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not in my presence only, but Much more now in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Next verse, for it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Who's responsible? Verse 12 says it's moi. Verse 13 says it's whom? It's God. He says it is God who works in you. God is totally responsible for our salvation, our sanctification. And therefore he is to receive all the praise and the honor and the glory for what he's done, for all the things that he's provided. When we fail, it's our fault When we succeed, it's all to his praise. How many times have we spiritually stumbled in our life since making that profession of faith? How many times have we fallen away, shamed the Lord, shamed our testimony? Who's responsible for that? Not God. How many times have we gone ahead and fallen in the backside, gone the way of the flesh, and so forth and so on? I can't blame God for that. I find myself as being the responsible party who is engaged in those things, which my own mind remembers quite readily. Yet these two verses put together give us a balance, so it's necessary that when I get in those positions of failure I don't feel lost. We can put ourselves down, and I think the whisperings of of Satan can do that at times. You failed again. You failed to do that. Look at that. You listened to that. You watched that. You didn't do this. So these two verses put together help me to do that because then when I am successful, it keeps me from being prideful. Say, oh I did it. And all along it's been God. Now, the word for at the beginning of verse 13 actually ties the two verses together, 12 and 13. The Philippine Christians were not left by themselves to this challenge of working out their salvation, and neither are we. First tells us that there was an energy, an energizing force that was working within them. within the individuals of the church and within the whole body of the church itself to work out their salvation. And the verse says, For it is God which worketh in you. God is the power that works in us to energize us to do How can I do it? Oh no, God has to be the one who does it. That is the Spirit of God who produces such. I enjoy the passage that we read for our responsive reading today, I always go through in my mind, the the vine and the branches. And Jesus says, you know, uh I am the the vine, and that's the one that goes down to the roots and the the big trunk of it. And you are the branches, the little branches that they've trimmed off in the fall or in the winter, and those grapefields, and they've all come back. And those branches that aren't producing, they cut off But those that are, they produce the fruit. And so he says in in verse uh five, I'm the vine, you are the branches, he that abideth in me, I in him, meaning remaining The same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. Nothing. There are many times I've gone in head into the pulpit and thought that I was prepared and I would mentally and Done what was necessary, and I felt after I'd finished that it just did not cut the mustard, as the phrase goes, because I did it in my own flesh. I allowed the Spirit of God to be set aside and says, I can do this, I can handle this. Many tasks in life we do that. Thinking I can handle it, and yet when we fail, it is because we were not allowing the Lord to do it It's only his power that drives us away from sin and drives us forward toward righteousness. How much power does God have? Yeah. Amen. There's no end to it. There's no limit to the power that He has. He is finds that there's nothing too hard for him. Scripture says, with God all things are Possible. There's not a limit. God can do all. I remember with great clarity the day that I surrendered my life to Christ. Under the conviction of the Holy Spirit. I found the Word of God to be faithful, and I was burned with my heart, with em embarrassment, thinking that He knows all of the things about me. Yet The faithful preaching of the word brought me to redemption. I clearly had nothing to offer when I surrendered. Yet as I looked around at myself as a newborn babe in Christ I decided that seeing two and a half decades of filth, what can I do? How can I handle that? I've been received and forgiven, but how do I take care of that? Well the process, he says, without me you can do nothing. The changing from what I was at that time in my life to now and to what is still in process until the day that I'm headed to glory is a work of God A process to remove continually all of the filth and the garbage that has been born within me as a child of Adam. He energized us and continues to do so, to flee from sin and to flee unto him for righteousness. Who's responsible for our sanctification? Are we or is it God? We say yes. We say yes. And the term is paradox. A paradox, not paradox, but a paradox. There are two statements or two thoughts, both of them being equal, but they sound conflicting. Statement A and statement B sounds like they just don't fit together, but they are absolutely true in the same picture. The Bible has seen a number of these. But he that is the greatest among you shall be your servant. There is a paradox. Who's the greatest? Well, I'm not going to be a servant. How can I be a servant if I'm the greatest? And that was a conflict of the disciples that they had, and Jesus taught them that. The conflict is there, they were two statements that's true. Or Jesus himself Is he man or God? Well the answer is he's a hundred percent man and he's a hundred percent God. How? I don't understand One day we will as we get to glory, but they are true statements, and the ability of man to fully understand them just can't put it together. So it's a paradox, but we hold it as truth And the same is true of our sanctification. Who's responsible? Chapter 2, verse 12 says, I am. Chapter 2, verse 13 says, God is. Doesn't make sense. Doesn't have to make sense. They're true statements, and they bind each together with the other. Some people look at these biblical paradoxes and might say, well, I kind of question the Christian faith. Your Bible's full of these mistakes. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't fit very well with my natural man. But these statements, hopefully for the Christian, confirm our faith because it is a matter of faith. There is so much of Scripture that for the natural man makes no sense, but we receive it as truth, as the Word of God. Precludes all other thoughts and statements. We receive it and are blessed. Isaiah 55, 8 and 9 says, For my thoughts are not your thoughts. Here's God Relaying through the prophet, tube man. My thoughts, simple thought, are not even that way with you For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts This isn't just an adult talking to an infant. This is the supreme sovereign God talking to Finite man. And he says, I'm far above all the things. So what I present to you, what I teach you, what I tell you, these are truths, and we hold on to them as truths. Yes, there are paradoxes given in Scripture about the person and the work of God. And as we read them, as we we fit them in from Old Testament to New Testament, It shows the power and the majesty and the and the supreme over all is our God. All praise and honor and glory given unto Him For all that he is, and all that he's done, and all that he shall do. The heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament showeth his handy word, day unto day uttereth speech, night after night, and so on, says David. And Paul says that that God is working in you. Yow. That baffles the mind. How can I get from where I was at point A, a sinful, wretched, slovenly man, to become a redeemed child? Born again, adopted into the family of God, with the promise of going to glory, sinless, to be with all the saints and Jesus Himself. How can I get from that place Well, this same God, Paul says, is working in you to accomplish that, to make the changes, to make the things being accomplished in you. And why is he doing it? He says he's doing it, working out his will for his good pleasure. We may feel small and insignificant and totally unworthy, and we are. But it's none other than God's good pleasure that's bringing us to the right and perfect change in our life. As we scratch our heads, why did this have to happen to me? Well the prayer list of Wednesday, you talk about it, you know. Why are these things happening to these people? You know? Um We went to birthday party for Mrs. Gensel yesterday, one hundred and two. She wasn't able to come Uh they uh uh she had a busy day the day before and they went around with they did some FaceTime with her and she looked weakened, you know. But at 102, you know, it's absolutely amazing. And she could scratch her head sometimes and say, well, why doesn't the Lord take me home? And We say, Mrs. Gensell, that's the Lord uh Debbie Zimmerman's mom, Mrs. Race. You know, same thing. Uh physically had suffered for many years, you know. And she says, Why doesn't the Lord take me home? And the response is always, The Lord continues to work in you and at the right time those things will happen. And so she went and I'm thinking someday soon dear Mrs. Gensel is going to join them. This is what God is doing in us. And how is it being done? How is God's energized in us? The working of His Spirit within us, in order to accomplish His good pleasure, He is working in our lives. in such a way that he will want to bring us to a place where we turn from sin and turn unto righteousness. Spirit of God working me in order that I would say, I don't want to do that. I shuffle this off. I turn away from this, and I want to turn unto righteousness. I want to make those changes in my life. This is God working in us to do his good pleasure. I was thinking of the life of the Apostle Paul, and by his own testimony, a very educated man, very powerful man as far as being a Pharisee is concerned. But Paul says of himself that he was a man who was breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord. He was a hunter of Christians. I don't think he personally ever did harm to any of them, but he sought them out in order to get them arrested, in order to be thrown into prison, and whatever else is being done into them And he did so because he thought he was doing the will of God. And yet out of the same man it became, as the Lord says He is a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles, kings and the children of Israel How could it have occurred for Paul as such a powerful man against Jesus Christ to become a man who is a chosen vessel to bear the name of Christ to the Gentiles? And to honor him in all the places that he would go. So whenever I turn from a prayerless life to praying, Whenever there is a change in me from being impatient to patient, whenever there's a change from anger to peace, from being resentful to loving I can thank God because He's put that desire in me to do it. And He accomplishes it because it is His will to make the changes in me, because He knows best What he wants out of each of us. Sometimes we think, oh, I can plan my life, I can go here, I can do this, and such. As a Christian, we have to say, no, it's the will of God. Sometimes we throw at the end of a statement, if God wills. You know, we just makes it sound like we're more spiritual, if God wills. But in reality, that's the truth. If God wills, we will do this and this and go here and there, the accomplishment of such Someone might ask, does God actually work in us to energize our wills? Of course he does. uh energize the Spirit of God to bring my will in line with what He would have me to do. That's His freedom to do it. In fact, we never would have desired to come to Christ in the first place Had not the Spirit of God worked in us to bring him to Himself. I had no clue, I had no desire to find Jesus Christ as my Savior. We came along to church because we were living with mom and dad, Millie and I, and living with mom and dad, and when it was time to go to church, you go to church. You know, the whole household goes But you sat under the preaching of the word. It wasn't my intent to cause it, but the word of God brought in those truths. John 6. 44, no man can come to me except the Father which hath sent him draw me. It can't come to him except the Father draw that person to himself. The will of God changing my will, changing the will of those to whom he has chosen. John 6. 65. Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me except it were given unto him of my Father. If God is not involved in the changing of our character, then what are we? If God is not involved in the changing of our wills, People don't have the natural desire to come to Christ or even to continue in Christ Lord, Lord, haven't we? We talked about this last week. Haven't I done this and haven't I done that in your name? And he says, I don't know you. Why? Because the will of God was never within their heart to direct them to accomplish those things. So God will first energize our will. But secondly, if God is in us, He will energize our work. Again, the verse says. For it is God which worketh in you both to will, change the will, and to do of his good pleasure. It's one thing for people to say this or that, but it's another thing for them to actually do it. Right now in Philly area, uh we get a lot of advertisements for the next governor of uh New Jersey. And uh r they are replete with, we're going to lower your taxes, we're going to get more jobs, we're going to make New Jersey And it is the same same thing. Every time an election comes, the same words come out. The same thing. And then you get to the place of them being in office and the next candidate says, Well he never did it, but I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it we say things about this is what we're gonna do. But doing 'em actually is one thing that's different in the world. It's one thing for people to say such. Yet in the case of God's work in our life for his children, Be assured that not only will we desire to see changes, but we will actually find it necessary to make those changes. I want to give up this. Doesn't mean that's going to be accomplished right at that time, but he puts in my heart the will to make the changes. The verse doesn't say, for it is God who is in you to will his good pleasure The verse says, For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. He energizes us to see the wrong. He energizes us to make the change, to turn away from that which is sinful, and to turn that which is righteous in his sight. Again the answer, God working in us and making these changes, that He absolutely does it Uh mentally we have to go back to Philippians chapter 1 verse 6. Paul says, being confident of this very thing, Paul says, I have an absolute assurance of this That he which began a good work in you, what is that? What's the good work? Bringing us to Christ The one who began the good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He will continue in all of his children. To make the changes necessary, he will empower us, he will cause us to see such, to turn away from those areas of life that we don't have, or don't need to have, and take us unto Christ. And we look at each other and say, well we may not be perfect. You know? And I'll look in the mirror every morning and say, I haven't quite reached, I haven't quite achieved Yet it's being accomplished, not because I've been able to, but because of the energy of the Spirit of God in us to make the changes inch by inch, piece by piece Have you changed over the past year? I mean for good. You know, we've changed physically. We've gotten older. It's another doctor's appointment, you know, say this or that. But in my heart, has my heart changed? God's working in that Who's responsible for that movement? According to Philippians 2. 12, we are completely responsible for that movement, and if we fail, it's our fault. According to Philippians 2. 13, God is completely responsible for that moment. And if he fails, Well, that's kind of an unusual thought, isn't it? He alone is to receive the glory and the praise because he alone is to see that it's accomplished. How are we to work out our salvation, according to Philippians 2. 12? With what? Fear. Fear and trembling. With fear and trembling. Why? Because working out our salvation is a litmus test for genuineness of faith. If I am not working out my salvation, If I am not seeking to be conform to the title of being a child of God, then I have to question my faith. If if I am not involved in allowing the Spirit of God to work in me to make those changes necessary, I have to say, do I really know Him? Does he really know me? Again, Lord, Lord, haven't we done this and haven't we done that? He says, I don't know you. I don't know you. It's a clear testimony to us that God is in fact in our lives to will and to work of his good pleasure. If you're a child of God, the working out of salvation is not only assured, but it will exceed our wildest expectations. I had no clue whatsoever, you know, twenty, thirty, forty, fifty years ago that this would be my heart and mind in life. I had no clue. None of you ever had that clue that was going to take place. Paul's benediction to the church at Ephesus goes like this. Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundant. Wow. That's stuffed full. That's come to the place of overflowing. That's beyond what we ever could have imagined to go far beyond what we ever could have thought of exceedingly abundant above all that we ask or think. And that's not only for us. I believe that's also included with the principle of praying for other people. Lord, pray for our young people. Lord, will we pray for our friends in hospital? Pray for those who are going through some difficult situations. He is able to do exceedingly abundantly above what we ask. We ask for healing. Well, maybe healing isn't quite the thing that's necessary. Maybe he has a design for that to take lasting a little bit longer. Exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. Where's the power? Is it us? Is it all that we've memorized or done or learned? It is the Spirit of God that resides within us that's making those things opportunities to grow in grace unto Him. And then the last verse, unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Throughout all ages, world without end. There's nothing here that offers us any hope of anything. Much of the allurements of the world that we live in, all of the promises of relationships and building up this or that, it offers none, because it's going to be gone Watched a little clip on uh Friday, uh pastor in a church uh former way, I guess it's still a church in Ukraine. He's a commander in a unit in the Ukrainian army. And uh he says they're traveling through this towns and and so forth. And he says, this is our cities, this is all that we have, you know No, nothing left. He meets with his church. He had a quite a vibrant church before the war started. All of this stuff gone. Life is just what they make it from one day to another. This world has nothing to offer us. The church by Christ age Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. I challenge you to allow the Spirit of God to work in your hearts this week. Think about those things and pray and ask God to allow you to be able to see where you need to grow in Him, to be obedient, consistently obedient, to represent Jesus Christ. To say that I am a child of God and how does that translate into my daily activities? How does that fit into the uh the the the the marketplace or on computer or with my family or what how do those things fit? How does Christ fit? through me in those things. And if you say, well, I can't do it, obviously we can't do it, but I have a willing heart to do it. Yet the Spirit of God is there to bring you to a place to accomplish it It's slow and maybe a painful process at times, but it's a process that he wants to do for us. Let's pray. Father, the writing of this little letter was an important aspect of the apostle's life because his heart burned for these people in Philippi. He saw the direction that they were going and they were an obedient bunch. They were sincerely serving as best they could, and yet there were issues that needed to be addressed. And Paul wrote that Jesus Christ was the center focus on correcting all those errors. That they were to follow him, they were to live lives that were in accordance with their profession of faith. They were to deal with their business and their relations within the church and their relations within their community and within their families according to their relationship with Jesus Christ. And they had no ability in themselves to do it. But you assured them and you assure us that it is God through the Spirit working in us to make those changes necessary. Father, give us willing hearts to be searchers of our own souls Give us willing hearts to listen to your commands, allow the Word of God to permeate our thoughts, allow it to be the lamp unto our feet and the light unto our path, that we might live for you. Pray in his name. Amen.