To to chapter fifteen. We read uh from the in uh verses uh one to thirteen. Um For our purpose this morning, I would just like to read verse thirteen again. Romans one thir Romans uh fifteen verse thirteen. Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope through the power of the Holy Ghost. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we we pray that you would uh speak to our our hearts this morning, Lord, and and and and help us to be faithful and ever bout uh the work of sowing the gospel of the Lord here and and uh around the world. And um Lord help us to plow, as it says in the scriptures, plow in hope. Lord, that your word will not return to you void, but it will bring forth the purpose for which you sent it out. And Lord, encourage us here in your work and encourage us about the prospects and perspectives of missions around the world, Lord. Lift up our eyes to the fields white to harvest, we pray. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, as we consider uh the prospects of missions. You know, in in many respects, the consider the the the prospects of missionary of missions are is very daunting. It's very there are difficulties. Um and sometimes even even discouraging. Uh we were sharing a little bit in Sunday school this morning some of the uh mission opportunities that the Lord has given us in the last few years during the times of COVID when doors were closed, borders were closed. But the Lord gave uh uh an opportunity, a wonderful uh uh open door uh for ministering to refugees that we're still coming into our country by the many thousands uh during that time. But there are difficulties. And uh many uh working with the refugees, refugees by nature often go on uh to the next place. So you never know for how long you have them. I mentioned a little bit at the end Uh there was a a girl, Aliciani, that we met and and uh she was uh selling candy on the street corner and and we invited her to our our our church and to and then to our youth camp and she received Christ her Savior. But then just several days later, um uh they they informed us that no they were leaving and going on uh uh down south. And we've had others that we have ministered to that we do not know if they have received the Lord. But the word was sown. But God Uh wants us to be to abound in hope really regarding the the prospect uh and uh the outlook um of of uh of of missions and that's what we see in this wonderful passage of uh of uh of uh of Romans uh uh uh 15. um In Romans, the theme of the book is the righteousness of God. But I'd like to walk us through the book for just a little bit here to understand the verse that we'll be looking at in a in a few moments. And this verse has been one of Melody's favorites for uh for uh for a long time. Um Romans fifteen verse thirteen. But to me it's become more wonderful seeing the the context that it's in. It's all about missions And Paul is praying, he's pronouncing a benediction here of this book, and he's praying that believers would be uh would abound in hope. By the power of the Holy Ghost in respect to the work of missions. So as difficult as daunting, as discouraging as it can be, uh at times, um, God wants us to abound in hope Uh and Paul in in writing this book, you know, he he's writing this letter to the Romans and with a desire to go to Rome and and then even to Spain. Um he did get to Rome. Did he get to Spain? I wouldn't doubt it, but we don't know for sure. But I wouldn't doubt that he did. But he writes this from a really a note of of of of hopefulness when you preach the gospel, when you sow the seed of the gospel. Because we have a God who is the God of hope and nothing is impossible for him. We're waiting on ones to be saved. Uh we're waiting on on loved ones to be saved. And and um uh uh don't give up hope. Uh keep on plowing in hope, as it says in 1 Corinthians 9. Just a little uh outline of the book of of of of of Romans that makes it so easy Uh Romans chapter one's one through three, you have um the emphasis of is on sin. in those chapters. And really to me the the the the the book of Romans is a book of of of of um crescendos and and a book of uh of of um pinnacles uh i in in the book of romans but it starts in yeah out in the great pit. All has sinned. All has end. By the works of the flesh no one is justified. And chapters one through three establishes the great problem of the world, the great problem of mankind, sin. That's it. And we're in this great pit. But then chapters three to five, Salvation. Uh and and and and here showing uh how that we can be saved by by by by grace and uh by by by by faith uh and and be justified. Uh and and and uh the the first three chapters Like like I said, it it it shows us the the the pit we're in and then it comes to the conclusion that by the works of the flesh no one will be justified. But then chapters uh three through five Go on and show the salvation that is in Christ Jesus. And it ends with the great uh word that we're we're sin-abounded, grace. did much more abound. And then once by God's grace that you receive Christ and that you are saved and lifted from that pit, well then there's God's not through with you. There's much to do, much to change, and the work of sanctification. And that's in chapter 6 and chapter 7. of the book of Romans. And again it it it it it ends on a great crescendo, a great pinnacle um uh uh uh chapter seven and he talks about the great conflict that there is and the great Warfare that is occurring, but he says, I thank God. Who will deliver me from the body of this flesh? I thank God through Christ Jesus. And he ends on that great uh pinnacle. And then chapter 8. I don't have to say much about that. Everybody loves Romans 8. But Romans 8, security. And here once we realize that we're sinners and receive Christ as Savior and we are saved, and then we start growing in sanctification, convinced of security. Um uh in in in Romans eight that that n uh we we uh we we we uh it ends with uh seventeen things that can't separate us from the love of the love of God. And ends on that great note. Again, this great crescendo and great pinnacle. And then we come to chapters 9 through 11. the sovereignty of God. Once saved and growing through sanctification and and and convinced of the security we have in Christ and and and um uh and and then in um uh and convinced of of of his sovereignty And that ends too with a crescendo in in chapter eleven. And it ends with a great pinnacle. I spoke on that recently at in a meeting that that Paul at the Pinnacle For all things are of him and to him and through him. And here God is in control of everything. And then what? Then service. Chapters going on from chapters twelve to chapters sixteen. uh service, offering our lives as sacrifices to God, submitting ourselves to the authorities that be and even to one another. Chapters 13 and 14. and even into chapter 15. And then chapter 15, striving to preach the gospel where Christ is and has not been named. That should be our purpose. And then Paul draws all that together with another great pinnacle and crescendo And he quotes, let me just give you, without going into it in great detail, but just before verse thirteen. Paul quotes four verses from the Old Testament. And each one has a greater promise of what God will do concerning um the Gentiles. I I just want to say that we were uh just recently at Bob Jones University and and we heard um Uh y usually after a message I you know, y you would usually usually say Amen. But w w Th there was one pr one missionary he gave a message and I I just had to say wow uh at the end of it. Um because he spoke a missionary from Cambodia spoke on Acts one eight But his message was the prophecy that shook the world. And I have heard so many messages on the Great Commission over the years. I have never heard a message like that But he he he he he he spoke of uh uh Acts 18, which is really rather than a command, it's a prophecy of of of how that the gospel will be brought to the world. And here these verses confirm the same thing. But each one with greater promise. Okay, the Gentiles with the Jews and the among the Jews. And then under Christ's rule and trusting in him, the Gentile nations trusting in Christ. uh tremendous um uh promise that is here. And and then he prays in Romans fifteen thirteen. Well, let me read from Romans 15, 12. And he that shall rise to reign over the Gentiles, in him shall the Gentiles trust. Let me go down a few verses too. Let me go down to verse 20 and 21. Yes, so have I strived to preach the gospel not where Christ was named. Lest I should build upon another man's foundation, but as it is written, to whom he was not spoken of, they shall see. And they that have not heard shall understand Well, that's the great burden we have. There are so many that that that it seems like they have blinders on that just don't see. But Paul says, Well we we can have hope. Um keep on plowing on, keep on Sowing the seed of the gospel. Keep on praying. Nothing is impossible with God. He is a God of hope. The God of hope I'd like to read the verse now, the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing that you may abound in hope through the power of the Holy Ghost. Um the the message this morning is is uh hope for missions. And just want to encourage you as as you minister here and as you preach the word here and as as you witness to others and as you keep on praying. for ones that are lost and as you pray for us too and and and others that are in different parts uh of the world uh doing the same thing. Paul prays that we would abound in hope about the prospects of missions. Um we were just recently at the a a little church in Virginia. They I know that they live in and for missions and and the and th the the very fact that we are where we are and have been where we are for as long as we are. uh through their prayers, I know it. Um and but here Paul prays and and gives us this great benediction here. that we would be uh abound in hope. The the source of hope is mentioned here in this verse, the God of hope. I love these phrases in the Bible, these titles of God. There's in the last two chapters of Romans, there's at least three. There's the God of peace. um the God uh of of patience and consolation, um uh and here the God of hope But showing that that God is the he's the origin of these things. He is the source of of of of of all these things. Um he personifies hope God is omnipotent. He can do anything. He's omniscient. He knows everything. He's eternal. He's already in the future and he knows how things are going to turn out. God is an eternal optimist, I guess you could say, in that sense, because he's in control. But here the God that we have is the God of hope. You know, I was thinking of in Matthew 19 uh with the rich young ruler and and um And actually that that that passage kind of encourages me sometimes because even Christ, when he presented the gospel, sometimes people didn't believe it and receive it. And if they could people could turn down Christ a great soul winner, well, we're going to be turned down sometimes too, aren't we? But here Christ in in Matthew 19, this uh rich young ruler came to him and and um Christ presented uh to him uh he he uh the fact that he was a sinner and and and he felt that oh uh oh yes I've Uh I've kept the law and Christ mentioned the last table of the law. He didn't mention the very last verse, thou shalt not covet, because There's not a man alive that's never covered it something. That's uh very very obvious. But but here that this this uh this man said, oh yes, I've I've I've I've I've I've kept all those But Christ showed him that that the first table of law, thou shalt have no gods before me. He had a great God before God that of his wealth and that of his riches. And he went away. And then the disciples said, well then who can be saved? And what what what did Christ respond? So keep on Um praying. Some of you have family members that are that are unsaved. We do, too. And um keep on praying. Don't give up hope. That word that was planted as a child, that word that was planted can still sprout. Keep on praying. Don't give up hope. God is the source of hope, the personification of hope. Where there is God, there is hope. I I love Psalm forty two and Psalm forty-three, but it says, Why are you cast down, my soul? Hope in God, it says. Hope in God. Uh nothing's impossible with him. And and again, when you give out a tract, well w what's it doing? Well you might be sowing for the first time. You might be watering. Um Uh but you're also presenting a witness that God wants given to every man But also we can say that every time we witness that it is a sweet savor unto God, whether it's believed or refused. It is a sweet savor unto God. When you, as somebody told me a long time ago, when you witness, you have success in witnessing when you witness. And and I think that's true. But here Paul prays that let's don't give up because it's difficult. Don't give up because it's daunting. Don't give up because it's discouraging. Um We have the God of hope on our side. Now, the basis of that hope, I'd like to talk about that a little bit here from this verse. And this is interesting too. There's kind of some building blocks, I guess, that are presented in this verse It says, Now the God of hope fill you with joy and peace in believing that she may abound in hope. And and and and uh there are several reasons or basis for whole The idea that the world has of hope is wishful thinking. The Bible concept of hope is a sure expectation. That's the difference. But here it uh uh really we can say that um uh that hope is the result and product of of faith. In believing, that he might fill you um with joy and peace in believing That's where it starts. And we can we can say that by hope or by faith we believe in what we can't see, but by hope We begin to see what we believe in in a sense. I'll explain this a little bit later, a little bit a little bit fuller if I can But but here faith is or or hope is the outcome of faith and the result uh of faith Hear that the Lord would would fill you with with with with uh with joy and peace in believing. Now, joy and peace What are these? Well, these are two of the first three fruits of the Holy Spirit. We could add also love as the first one that isn't mentioned here. But these fruits of the Holy Spirit are also building blocks of faith. When the Holy Spirit comes into our heart He sheds God's love. We're told that in ro in Romans 5 and verse 5. But the his constraining love His continual joy, um, his um calming uh peace all produce hope. And in the ministry and in all the years that we've been in in in in uh in the ministry Um these factors, these are definite building blocks for for hope. Um and here uh they help us to consider adversity and obstacles in the prof in the perspective of God's goodness and his sovereign control uh and and and and and to have uh and to have hope. But there's something else here in Romans that also shows us where hope comes from. And this is not very pleasant to talk about because it comes through also adversity. Um and if we're gonna have hope, we've got to have adversity. We don't like that. I don't like it. These these last four years have been some of the of of the most difficult of of our of of our lives. Um but in the book of Romans I love there's three I I call them golden chains in the book of Romans. You all know the one in in in Romans 8, as as though those that were called, those he's justified, and those who are justified will be glorified. Well there's that golden, unbreakable chain of salvation. Anyone who has been justified has been called, and he's been foreknown, and he's been predestined, all those things. But then also there's a wonderful chain um a as well in Romans ten, the chain of missions. Um how shall they call upon him wh whom they have not heard, and how shall they go except they be sent? And there's a logical chain that exists for the going out of the gospel. But there's also a chain of hope in the book of Romans. Let's go quickly to Romans 5 for a moment. here and you've all uh heard um uh read these verses before and know them but but let me let me just uh uh Read from verse 2, by whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only so, but we glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulations work patience, and patience, experience. and experience hope. Here's this other golden chain. And sometimes, Lord, why are we going through this this tribulation? Last thing we need right now. But that teaches patience. Teaches us to pray. Teaches us to wait. And and that patience builds more experience. David before he ever slew Goliath. Slew a lion and a bear. Uh why'd the Lord send them the His way? Experience. Experience. Um that gave him hope uh uh against a giant. And and and so the Lord does the same w with us. And and so even in w we w you know these I I I do admire and and and and and am thankful for ministries that have made it through this terrible time of of the the pandemic. It was a very difficult time on ministries. But they taught us patience, gave us experience, and gave us hope. Can God do this next thing? Well yeah, because he did this last thing, then he can do the next thing too, of course. And and then that's what it does. If he did that, and if he did it for Paul, then he can do it for us too So so here these are these wonderful building blocks of hope. And and so even uh uh you know There are times when you're you know ready to toss in the towel and and and give up and quit and and and don't just don't um um uh I uh Paul is praying that we would all be uh filled with joy and peace in believing. abounding in hope by the power of the Holy Ghost to do the work about us Uh yeah. Could Paul bring or c or could God bring Paul to to Rome? Yes, and he did it. Could he bring him to Spain? Surely he could. Um did he? I I don't know if that happened or not. We don't know that. But God is a God of hope. And he can um In uh the book of Hosea is mentioned um the valley of Akor. That's where Achan was who was in in trouble and that means the valley of trouble, but he gives a door of hope in uh the valley of Acor, even um in times of difficulty and and uh distress. But here, I I I love here too the the words and and if you would just keep on reading in Romans 15 you're gonna see the word f fill and full and abound and and uh um God is not miserly in what he does. Um the This third point here is we we see here the measure or the degree of hope that God wants us to have. Look at what it says. Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace and believing, that ye may abound in hope through the power of the holy He's not miserly. He would fill us with all joy and peace that we would abound and then overflow uh in in in hope And and basically what Paul is saying here that, okay, before you is the mission field. Before you is this immigration crisis and But but it's also an opportunity. People are arriving who don't know Christ. And so fill your tank and let's go. That's basically what he's saying. Uh and and and he's he's here on our travels the first thing we had to do, uh uh fill her tank be before we could get going. but in the work of missions as well. Um and Paul is praying that we would abound in hope. Nothing is impossible. uh with the Lord. Sure, we've been praying for years for the salvation of so and so. Um Uh George Mueller prayed for years for five friends of his. And um And he went to glory with the last one, not yet converted. But then at his funeral he received the Lord, that one. So so um keep on plowing in in hope um from from from first Corinthians nine. But I would like to mention finally here this last part of the verse, the channel of hope through the power of the Holy Ghost. And this is what the world um doesn't understand or or comprehend exactly, the the missionaries um optimism, the missionaries stick to this, um perseverance Why why doesn't he quit? Why doesn't he throw in the towel? Why does it why doesn't he give up? Um and but here through the power of the Holy Ghost. And and when things get the toughest and the hardest, uh you know, we we should never underestimate the the power of the Holy Spirit, the power of God's planted word, the power of prayer. Never underestimate those things. And nothing is impossible with the Lord. In Zechariah 4, there's that verse, that wonderful verse that uh was given to encourage Zerubabel. in the building of the temple. And it says, and it mentions this great mountain before you, this mountain of difficulties, mountain of adversity. to uh build the temple again under those circumstances it really was. But But here he says in that verse in in in uh Zechariah 4. 6 that not by might, not not by power, but by my spirit. by the power of the Holy Spirit. And here Paul attributes the work and the success of the work to the Holy Spirit in these following verses. I just wanted to say a little something more about hope at this point. And you know, the three supreme virtues are hope. Um uh and um and um uh and and um uh and faith um uh and uh uh love uh that are mentioned in first corinthians thirteen. But sometimes I think of them as a uh I I I was trying to come up with uh with a way to illustrate these these three virtues. And um I was thinking of a little train going up um uh a mountain And I think of you know the little engine of faith, you know, beginning the journey up the mountain, but then going all the way up, you know, and and when we receive Christ as Savior we receive him by faith, but then then the just shall live by faith. We live by faith daily. But then uh charity or love, that the love of Christ constrains us and that pushes us. to do things that maybe we would not normally do. I remember in Kenya I I I was in the village um visiting a family there and the m the man that I was visiting and his children that came to our Sunday school All of a sudden he just got up and ran. A cow was charging through the village and his little daughter was was sitting there riding the path for that cow. I've never seen anyone run so fast, but uh but I uh I wouldn't do it for courage, but for love you would. Uh for for for for for love you would do so. So love really pushes us and constrains us for the long haul. But then hope kind of pushes you up over the top and and and uh brings you to see the uh um uh that it's not so far away that we have to go. Um and um and the promises of God. I I I'm just going to give a summary of of of of some verses in the Bible, how the hope takes us to the top, focuses on what's ahead. Colossians 1 27 talks about Christ in you, the hope of glory. In Romans 5 verse 2, hope uh uh for his grace re first peter one thirteen um uh that we um have this lively hope and for this inheritance and expectation that that lies before us. For Christ's appearing the blessed hope of Christ's coming and in his glorious appearing in Titus two thirteen. Um uh uh for our inheritance, 1 Peter 1, 3 to 4, Galatians 5, 5, to hope for the righteousness that lie before us. All these things. And what does God want us to be hopeful for? As we mentioned when we started this message, and it'll be winding up in just a few moments here, but But as as as we began this message, he wants us to be hope that those who have not heard will see. And one day God's going to turn the light on for that person. Um just don't give up and and and just keep the the the the more daunting, the more difficult, the more discouraging. Um uh the the the situation, just building more patience, to build more experience, to build more hope, that that no no God has done it and in more difficult circumstances he can do it in this too. Um and and and and so and so you keep on. Um and um we'll we'll we'll be going back to to Chile and been there now for over thirty years and and um um Uh you know, we we also have the the cults and things that are there, the Mormons are there and and um there's uh they have about eight churches in our city, about Sixty missionaries that are turned over every three months and they keep on getting younger, we keep getting older, I guess. There is nothing that is possible. And we've seen that. Uh some of our dear Venezuelans that are now in other parts, some have gone back to Venezuela, some have gone um gone to uh one even went back to Venezuela and then decided to come back to Chile again and and uh now is thinking about going elsewhere. But But um but but but but pray for them. That don't uh underestimate the power of the seed of God's word and the and the power of prayer and the power of the Holy Spirit. um uh to uh to work in hearts. And there are uh challenges and opportunities ahead and hope looks to God is produced by faith and also as an outcome of the fruits of the of the Holy Spirit is love and joy and peace. It's accompanied by Patience, it produces experience that produces hope. It's powered by the Holy Spirit and prepares us for the task that God has given to to us to do. I'll just end another verse, 1 Peter 1. 13, but it says, hope to the end. Hope to the end for the grace. for the grace that shall appear. How precious is that grace that appeared when we first believed? But there's more grace to come. That's just the beginning. I was doing a message the other day that it's the glory of God to conceal a thing, it says in in Proverbs. And um uh and and and the the book of Habakkuk also talks about your power is is hid. There's much more of it. You can't um I I I love in the in the Gospel of Luke at one point it says that Or either Lu Luke or Mark, I'm sorry. But it's but it says that that Christ could not be hid. Um well you can't hide uh elephant behind a toothpick. You know, you're gonna you th you'll you'll see you you see his glory and you see his power and and and and it gives us reason uh uh for hope Nothing is impossible with him. And it's with that that we appreciate your prayers as we as as as as we go back again and pray that the Lord would work in a great way. uh in in this coming month and and uh appreciate your prayers for our daughter too starting off it's always hard to leave to leave them especially the last one and uh um we appreciate your prayers for her as we'll pray for you all here too. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you are the God of all comfort, that you are the God of all grace. That you are the God of of patience and consolation, that you are the God of peace, that you are the God of hope And um and and Father, as the the prospects of missions sometimes looks very bleak, perhaps d difficult, daunting. uh discouraging. Um help us to to look unto you, Lord, that you would um fill us with joy and peace and believing that we would abound um in hope by the power of the Holy Ghost. And Father, help us as we sow the word here and and plow on here, and as we continue to pray, and we wait on you for miracles, Lord, of miracle of salvation in some that that are stubbornly holding out, Lord. Pursue them, Lord. Pursue them with your grace and bring them to yourself in your time. Lord, we thank you for these things. In Jesus' name, amen. Thank you.