Reached the end of our rather lengthy study in the Philippian book, uh this letter, and I think there's something like probably thirty messages that we've gone over And everybody goes, Ah, finally, you know. It's difficult when we do two a month as they put it all together, but I think it's appropriate we close one year and open a new year with uh the passages that before us. I think as we pray, we ask God to give us clarity in heart and mind. Uh the things that Paul writes are obviously um uh centuries you know behind us, yet the uh relationship that we have to the Lord, the same Lord is the same. So give us clarity in mind and words, and uh that what the message will provide is what God intended to have accomplished. It's His will. So let's pray. Father, we'll pause before we enter into the garden of your word, filled with fruit that provides a freshness in life. filled with truths that uh we so hunger for in the world in which we live uh filled with uh light in the darkness of of uh of our own hearts at times, um of our our communities, of our nation, of the world Um it's something we truly need. We uh praise you for preserving this letter um for Paul's own experience in what had uh been a very difficult time in his life. Um and yet through this letter, Father, you've taught us that there's a theme of joy. Joy from Paul's heart because of his relationship with you. And we trust that As our days into months, into years go, we might continue to find not only Philippians, but all of your word to bring us joy because of you and your faithfulness to us. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Open your Bibles then to Philippians chapter four. Yeah, we'll be just looking at fifteen through twenty-three as our text this morning. Verse 15, the apostle writes, Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel When I departed unto Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. He says in the beginning of the gospel, well that wasn't the original time with uh redemption, but it's the idea that when they first heard the gospel And we'd have to go back to our beginning studies, which took us back to Acts 16, and Paul visiting Philippi, and the church being presented as the seed church for this area. And then he says he had left Macedonia. Macedonia is a region, comes about where Thessalonica and Philippi are, in that same area. And he says, you have stayed in touch with me. You've partnered with me. You've been a part of my ministry. And we've seen in more recent times the concerns they've had for Paul. And he says, I I know your heart's been with me. You've walked with me in all these areas. and they've communicated with him to the point to say there's also financial benefits that you've blessed me with. And as a matter of fact, you're the only church to do it. Paul's not condemning the other churches, but he's just saying, I praise God for you being sensitive to my needs and the things that were there. The thought continues in verse 16. For even in Thessalonica he sent once and again unto my necessities. Paul was in Thessalonica first for about three weeks. And if you read about it, it was not an easy time. There was persecution, there was opposition, there was some violence, there was hardship And during that time the Philippian church says, uh, we know what's going on. And so they provided Paul with encouragement and support unto them And it may not have been much, but he says that you had given at least twice to my needs. You provided some great encouragement to me as you saw it. Can you even imagine how they communicated with Paul? The physical, the logistical relationships. This is a small church, Roman Empire, Thessalonica, not too far away, old speaking, but even in the rest of the journey, he says You know, you were the only one to communicate with me, to keep in touch with me, to know the needs that I have. You are the only one to do that, to provide such a support for me They were aware of what was going on in Paul's life, where he traveled, what the situation was and where he needed. When one of our missionaries on the field has a need, I'll get an email. Then if it's a real important need, I'll get a WhatsApp message or phone call from them. Pastor Coleman, we need this. Can you help us with this? You know, uh we can do that right away. But as for these believers in Philippi, to be honest, They had nothing. There was no internet service. Surprising. People lived without internet service. They had no emails. They had no telegraph lines. Now Rome did have a postal system. Uh they used the Roman roads all over the empire and they had a postal system, but it was for the most part only for government documentation. So if you had a servant, you could send a servant and use the Roman road system, but there was no way for them to officially communicate. They may have somebody like Epaphroditus, and I kind of think that was part of his duties. Epaphroditus had come to Philippi here, brought the d the law gift from them, and back and forth, but nonetheless Paul understands that this church had to totally rely upon the leading of God in their hearts as to what needed and what was needed and how it could be brought about. Today we've been come so much to rely upon the tangibles in order to act and to move rather than allowing the Lord to speak to our hearts. Nobody told me. I never heard that before. I didn't get an email. Nobody called me. I was totally uninformed on the needs that were the things that were going on. We become so walled up in our own Christian world that we have no idea what's really going out in the lives of people around the world, Christians. Much more in our own community or even the people across the road from us or our neighbors. We just become circled around with that. I think Paul recognized that the Philippians were moved to act, they were moved to give, they were moved to care, they were moved to reach out, because they were displaying a fruit of the Holy Spirit. How could the Philippian church communicate with Paul? How could they know what was going on? But they trusted in what in prayer the Holy Spirit was leading them to do. And I think that was a great encouragement to him. Brethren, may we have the sensitivity to the Spirit's leading in faith and who we should talk to, how we should reach out. There's a phrase we could end our day with, or even begin our day with, Lord, what will you have me to do today? We start the day out or we close the day, Lord, what would you have me to do? Where would you have me to go? Who would you have me to stop and talk to, or to give, or to help? Verse 17. Not because I desire a gift. But I desire fruit that may abound in your account. Paul says, thanks for helping me. I really appreciate it, but I didn't ask for it. That's not something I ask for, not because I desire a gift. But Paul wanted them to know that there was more to it than giving of money It was a development of the heart. He wanted them to see that every act of giving to the Lord's work brings forth spiritual fruit. Every act of the heart bring forth spiritual investment. I desire fruit that may abound to your account. It's laying aside treasures in heaven where moth does eat and rust the treasures that are corrupting in this world's things. For where your treasure is, there is your heart. I think it's a hard lesson for us to learn here on earth, but each time we give to the Lord's work, and I'm not talking just about finances. But every time we give to the Lord's work, when we give, for example, our time and our talents, when we stop and to pray for somebody, when we give a word of encouragement. Maybe just listen to somebody talk and in fear about their breaking heart. When somebody needs a ride, to visit a shut-in, to warm welcome to a new person. When we do such, we are making an investment in the spiritual world, and it brings profit according to God's hand. Yes, the finances what Paul's talking about, but he's looking at these people and he's saying, I desire fruit from you. There's a well-repeated line in a poem by C. T. Studd. It says, only one life will soon be past, only what's done for Christ will last. Another year is completed and we've said goodbye to friends and family. Another year is completed and one will be coming up and another new year C. T. Studd says, those things have been come and gone, but what is done for the world in Jesus Christ will be the things that will last. Verse 18. But I have all and abound, and I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you. In other words, that recent gift. And it, meaning the gift that they gave, but also the heart's intention of what they gave is a sweet, it was an odor of sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. I think all things considered, the amounts given by the Philippian church were very little. Remember the story of Jesus standing with his disciples and outlooking outside the treasury and And the the the Pharisees came along with the big hands of money and they dropped them in so they could hear the coins tinkle and this old widow came by with two copper coins and dropped them in Jesus said, they gave out of all their wealth, but she, out of her poverty, put in everything, all she had to live on. I think that's the Philippine church. Out of their heart, they gave all that they had in order to see that the gospel went forth. You see, God has truly blessed Paul with so many tangible and spiritual blessings. And therefore he could say in verse 19 But my God shall supply all that you need, according to his riches and glory, by Christ Jesus. Because of all of the things that have taken place, all of the experiences, even up to this very point the sacrificial giving of the church. And maybe they were looking at themselves and saying, but we're giving all that we have, what comes to us? He says, My God, my God shall supply your need. In all things, the value of a promise depends entirely upon the one making the promise. My God is faithful, Paul says, faithful to his promise. Paul writes, and he will never let you down. Paul says, I can't repay you Philippians, but my God shall supply all that you need. Back in seminary, I took a class on the book of Philippians, and towards the end of the term, the teacher assigned us uh one passage for which they were selected. And we could pick out what passage we wanted and and uh going through and one of the students had Philippians four thirteen And you were supposed to use the Greek and the context and give the meaning behind it in the class, and then the class would discuss it after you gave your presentation. Well, one had Philippians 4. 19, and when his presentation was finished, there was a classmate who was a new student at seminary from another foreign country. And he was a little bit bothered by his presentation. He said, since arriving in the United States, the only thing people have ever given me was biscuits and bananas. In other words, cookies or whatever, and bananas, fruits. He said that's all it was, biscuits and bananas. And that kind of came to a byword throughout the rest of that term. But none nonetheless he was saying God can supply all my need. Well he hasn't. He says nobody understands the meaning of giving and receiving, because he says, all I've gotten was the free of biscuits and bananas. Some of us has used this passage to understand that God wants us to be healthy and wealthy And even more extreme, that He will make us healthy and wealthy as I give, as I supply, God will provide for me. And it's called the prosperity gospel. I think it has to be one of the most dangerous teachings in the country and in the world today. Paul isn't promising that God makes us wealthy and healthy, not in the way that it's typically understood But faithfully giving to the church will not make us healthy or wealthy, but God looks upon us in different fashions. The prosperity gospel is so dangerous because it twists this vision of God to make it look like if I take a coin and drop it into God like a vending machine and pull the buttons, all of a sudden we're going to be supplied I'll get that new car. All my deaths will go away. All my ailments will be cured. But that's not what Paul is saying. Paul knows about, as a matter of fact, the matter of healing, and God used the Apostle Paul in the book of Acts to heal, to bring healing to folks. He also suffered a number of ailments himself. Many have said that Paul suffered from malaria, suffered truly from very poor eyesight, and yet there was no healing to Paul. He knew what it was like to be well off and have his needs met. I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full, to be hungry. both to abound and to suffer need. So it's important to see that Paul also doesn't say that God won't heal or that God won't meet our financial needs. But it's a matter of understanding that is the blessing of God's choice. The difference is he's not saying that these things are connected to some kind of quid pro quo. If I do this, then God will do this If I give, then God will provide. If I give, then God will heal. So why did the Philippians financially support Paul? He thanks them for their sacrificial giving. Were they looking for some financial investment in times to come? They were a poor community, yet out of their poverty they gave a number of times to minister to Paul. Why would they give when they already had so little? They gave because their spiritual investment was in the ministry of the Apostle Paul They heard his words, they believed the truths that he was saying, they saw the things that were spiritual dividends for him, and they understood the fruit that could come out of it. Have your eyes looked down to verses 21 and 22. Paul says, salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with me greet you. Where? Where was he? He was in Rome, in prison. The brethren, the believers in Rome greet you. And then, verse 22, all the saints salute you, all the believers salute you. He says, chiefly, mainly, they who are in Caesar's household. Well, who was Caesar? It was Nero. So apparently the gospel during Paul's ministry there in prison reached out to possibly the relatives of Caesar, the relatives of Nero. But more than likely they were the servants to the workers in the household of Nero. So Paul says, these saints, these believers, are a product of what has been going on here And the Philippians are saying, we're making a financial investment in the work of the Apostle Paul because people are being saved Not right here in our own place. Supporting the Apostle Paul was a formula indeed to generate more believers. And that was an investment the Philippians were willing to make despite having so little. I go over every receipt that comes in the mail to our mission office. over a certain amount, I write him an immediate thank you letter for that, but everybody gets a uh a a detailed receipt and a thank you it's included within that. There's person, and I think I know where this person is from western Pennsylvania, and they give between two and five dollars about every quarter. handwriting is very scribbly and they'll do it with uh I forget what was the payment matter, not cash or anything like that. But I can tell they're kind of a uh young person and that's the money that they give. There's a woman from out in the Midwest whose hand is really shaky. I'm surprised that she is able to even cash the check. And I asked the missionary who gives, who is, and yes, she says she's about ninety-five or ninety-six and doesn't have much, but she happily gives out of that much because she's invested her time into this family. There's an Arab Christian originally from Israel living in North Jersey and he sends about twenty dollars every quarter. I know his situation and I know all the situations of the others that are for the most part uh there. They're not making any money out of doing this. But they see a financial investment in what they've given because they believe that the word is going on in the preaching of the gospel and the furtherance of the kingdom, and souls are being saved on the other side of the world Or wherever, because of that. They have a financial return in these spiritual dividends What does Paul promise to the Philippian church in return? And in essence, everybody who gives of themselves for the work of the Lord Jesus. Paul tells them that their gift was not in vain, that God will meet their needs according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus, not to make them wealthy. Not to heal them, not to conquer all of their physical problems. As a matter of fact, Paul is not saying that Christians will never go hungry or never suffer want. He's claiming that God will provide, according to God's supply, the riches in Christ Jesus in abundance. He's assuring the Philippians that if they belong to Christ, God will enable them to bear the burden of whatsoever they may need. Isn't that beautiful? And they understood that. Our response to reading was kind of different today, off the wall. How many are familiar with that passage? Yeah. It's kind of one of the passages where the prophets were dealing with people of Israel at the time. It's interesting. It's a story of the prophets of the of a widow of a prophet, and Elijah had uh a number of uh young men or men who were under his tutelage uh sons of the prophets they called. And some of them were married, and some of them were not. And the wives took care of the children of the sons of the prophets. In this particular one, the husband died And for whatever reason God took him and she says to the prophet, she says, Uh I don't have anything Normally the prophet would be cared for, the sons of the prophets were cared for by the people and their offerings and so forth. But in this case he died, he's no longer ministering. She says to him, he says, I don't have anything but a little bit of oil olive oil, uh riches and treasure and so forth, and maybe somebody even given that to him. Her late husband was poor, not because he was lazy or wicked But he refused to be worshipping the king in the way in the direction of the king at the time that was going on. So there was no financial benefit to him even from the country itself And he died, leaving a wife and two sons. Yet she receives this miracle from God through Elijah. A small jar of oil. The danger was because he was she was poor, she owed money. And in those days the law provided that if you had sons Those sons could be, in essence, sold to somebody else to cover the debt. And she says, Lord, Master, he says, I've I've just got two sons and they're about to go to cover our debt for what has taken place. Elijah goes to tell her, get all of the jars that you can from your neighbors. I have one jar. Well go to the neighbors and get all of the jars you can, all of the empty jars. And take that jar with your sons in the house and close the door and have that one jar of oil that's just a little bit of oil and pour it into all of the other jars and just keep pouring and just keep pouring And she poured until all of the jars were full. Nothing else would come out. That was sufficient. She tells him what happens, and he says, Go and uh pay off all of your debt with this She didn't become rich, but God supplied the need that was there. Our investment in time, our investment in finances, our investment in our talents may not necessarily produce something that we even think about But whatever it cost us, whatever the things that were there, it is indeed of God's provision. Psalm 103 begins, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. The psalm goes along as a song and he says, don't forget the benefits of God. We sang, count your blessings, name them one by one. He says, who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction. who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies, who satisfies thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. Whatever the year has ahead of us can't surpass that which is God's provided in the past, God's faithfulness in all things. Verse 20, now unto God and our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. This is a doxology, kind of at the end, closing off the book And it's a matter of great praise. Unto God the Father we glory forever and ever. It's a closing statement of God's glory. I think all f almost all of Paul's letters has that. And then twenty-one and twenty-two it provides us again the reminder of the work that was going on in Rome God's understanding of his handling of it up. And then verse 23, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. How many empty jars do you have? Sometimes we think that we don't have much to give to the Lord. But just like the widow, what I have, Lord, I'll give to you. What would you have me to do today? Who would you have me to talk to? Who would you have me to encourage? Who would you have me to pray for? How about that person over there? How about this one over here? My boy has uh and his wife have prayed that the Lord would give them uh an understanding of ministry uh for uh those who are uh from Afghanistan And there's quite a number of Afghans living in the Harrisburg area. And so they have taken on a little bit of ESL and using it. And they've taken on a family of uh six children and father and mother and have shown them extreme kindness, opportunities that the door knocks to. and have introduced them to Jesus. And it's the same Jesus that they understand, the Muslims understand Jesus But it's an avenue that all of a sudden there's a welcoming a friendship, a relationship that they're saying the investment that we are making has cost us a little bit of money, but the time we are putting into it is going to produce some fruit in time in their lives. Uh there's another young lady who is uh she was a uh archaeologist in uh Afghanistan, studied to do that uh high degree uh work for the US Embassy and and the l intelligence work. And as the country changed, all of a sudden she had to escape. Um spent two weeks in Pakistan. Um three or four weeks or even more than that in in Dubai and finally she was able to come to the States. You know what she does now? She waits on the cash register at uh at uh at a Walmart. She's got a degree, archaeologist, master's degree, and yet she's doing that. Well, my daughter-in-law goes and provides for her a trip early in the morning. She starts her work, has to be there at Walmart at five o'clock. And she takes her out to Walmart and she'll get her in and uh and the she says, you're kind of like a big sister to me, almost like a mother. And they've had these discussions and relationships. Why are you so kind? She says, because of what Jesus has done. A little seed sown, a little encouragement here She says, my mother keeps telling me, calls him from Afghanistan, he says, don't trust them, don't trust them. He says, no, Mom. He says, this is different. This is different. The investment we make may not seem like much. The Philippian church gave as they gave because they prayed and trusted, Lord, what would you have me to do? Does Paul have a need? My heart says Paul has a need, and I act upon that need. And it produces fruit. Caesar's household. People who lived with this wicked Nero in his household had come to faith in Christ because of the seeds that Paul was planting, because of the support that came from the church at Philippi. Lord, what would you have me to do? Only one life will soon be passed, but only what's done for Christ will last. Let's pray. Father, it's been a fast run yet a number of weeks in this letter. And we've rehearsed truths that we've known in our hearts from before. We know about the power to save by the Lord Jesus Christ. We know about the struggles that the Apostle Paul had. We know about his faithfulness in teaching and preaching and and how he loved the church at Philippi, how he loved this ministry and gave much for it. We pray that as our days go on that we might see ourselves in the same situations, that we might have the faith and trust and love that Paul had for uh the believers and And for the unbelievers to bring them the gospel, to bring them the truth, uh, to bring them to a saving knowledge of yourself. And what lag behind all of that was the fact that Jesus was faithful to Paul. that whatever Paul gave, whatever Paul uh invested, whatever time, whatever uh physical struggles that he had, he was willing to do it Because he was comforted in the fact that Jesus had brought him there and is always with them. Father, whatever brings us uh uh in intersections in life in the days and weeks and months and in the year ahead Cause us to believe that Jesus is with us. Help them to be aware of his presence, of his calling, his speaking to us through his word, with the guidance of the Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Say, Amen