Continue on with our journey with Moses. We continue in This morning in Exodus chapter 8, picking up with verse 16 and going to verse 32. So if you could turn there, we're going to be reading here yet another plague and see where the Lord leads us this morning. Exodus chapter 8, verses 16 to 32. And the Lord said unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch out thy rod and smite the dust of the land, that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt. And they did so. For Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice in man and in beast. All the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land of Egypt. And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth lice, but they could not. So there were lice upon man and upon beast. Then the magician said unto Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them as the Lord had said. And the Lord said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh. Lo, he cometh forth to the water, and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Let my people go, that they may serve me. Else that thou wilt not let my people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies upon thee, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people, and into thy houses, and the houses of the Egyptians. shall be full of swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are. And I will sever in that day the land of Goshen. in which my people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there, to the end that thou mayest know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth. And I will put a division between my people and thy people, tomorrow shall this sign be. And the Lord did so. And there came a grievous swarm of flies into the house of Pharaoh and in the servants' houses, and unto all the land of Egypt. The land was corrupted by reason of the swarm of flies And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron and said, Go ye sacrifice to your God in the land. And Moses said, It is not meet so to do, for we shall sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians to the Lord our God. Shall we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and will they not stone us? We will go three days' journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to the Lord our God as he shall command us. And Pharaoh said, I will let you go that ye may sacrifice to the Lord your God in the wilderness Only ye shall not go very far away, entreat for me. And Moses said, Behold, I go out from thee, and I will entreat the Lord that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh from his servants and from his people tomorrow, but let not Pharaoh deal deceitfully anymore in not letting the people go to sacrifice to the Lord. And Moses went out from Pharaoh and entreated the Lord. And the Lord did according to the word of Moses, and he removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people. There remained not one. And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, neither would he let the people go. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Our Lord and our God, help us to feed on these words. Teach us and show us, Lord, what thou wast have us to do through them. We thank thee, Lord, for revealing this unto us, for giving thy word to us, and teaching us about a great servant of thee, Moses. Bless us and keep us from falling and guide and direct us this morning. And we beg thee to walk with us, for it's in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Once again we see how the creation obeys its creator. Smite the dust of the land that it may become lice. This is a lead in and these plagues we see here how these are here to get Pharaoh's attention and to demand that his people worship him. This was not performed as a means of some seeker mode of wooing Israel, but to demand worship, obedient worship to the Lord. Thus, worship is worship. It's not a means of pulling a demographic and marketing to get seats filled. Jehovah commands that all worship him in spirit and in truth. And he confirms that by plagues. There were plagues that were given. Always remember that through this teaching, no matter whether you hear it this morning or whether you study it on your own or you hear it elsewhere, if you're listening to radio or whatever you love, Always remember that the foundational principle here in these plagues is that very simple. Moses was told by God, you go to Pharaoh and you tell him, let my people go, that we may serve you. That we may go and worship you. This is where we learn that worship is not an option. Sunday morning, the Sabbath day worship is not a playground. It's not a means of being entertained. It's a means of standing before God, and it's for us being quorum deo before the face of God and worshiping him the way he commands us. We see that there is a confrontation at the Nile River. We see that there was a warning, a warning to all, and that Moses brought that warning. One of the things you didn't want to do is have Aaron hold the rod up against you. You didn't want that. Because the power of God was in that. And the power in that rot actually parted a red sea, and we will see that down the road, but it's incredible the power that the Lord gives them He says, Smite the dust of the land, and it becomes lice. And this time with no warning, Egypt, this time there's no warning. It comes out of nowhere. Remember the last time we talked about the plagues and we saw that there was a warning there, but this time there was none. We see here verse seventeen, and they did so. Never underestimate that that preamble to these verses. When in through scriptures you say, and it happened, and they did so, and it came to pass. What that means is And they did so, and it came to pass. It means it really happened. That this is not something that we interpret to say, well, maybe it was a myth, maybe it was a fairy tale, or maybe it was some kind. No, it really happened. Pharaoh remained obstinate. Many people do remain obstinate, sadly. Application here as an affliction is taken away when we obey the Lord, an affliction can be brought upon us when we disobey the Lord. And Pharaoh's heart had been very much hardened. God hates an ungrateful heart Where should we have seen gratitude at this point from Pharaoh? I think it's Herod. Pharaoh, where should we have seen gratitude? What had just happened? The whole land was infested by frogs. Can you imagine that? We talked about it the last time. And all of a sudden they came and left just as fast as they came in, and they were all gone. There should have been gratitude in his heart Frogs were produced out of the waters. These lice were produced out of the dust of the earth. Out of any part of creation, God can raise up his armies to glorify him and conquer his enemies and he can use any part of creation anytime he wants. Do we see that today? Do you remember back down in Georgia, years ago, when there was a complete 100% drought and Lake Pancha train was basically empty and the governor stood up and he prayed? Remember on television he was laughed at, basically called a Jesus freak, and that following week it rained? That happened years ago, remember that? And God raised up armies to glorify him and conquer his enemies. Well, I'll put it to you this way. If you had a house full of frogs, it should change your heart To put it this way, if Kermit went to ancestry. com, he would have seen how his great great great grandfrogs invaded Egypt and reigned at Ferris Party. We were talking about frogs last time. He would have seen way back I know it's a cartoon That their frogs have always been here. Well, so have life. We have it today. How significant is God's use for the dust of the earth? Each one of these plagues has a significant application in our lives. Many times when you hear about the ten plagues, you hear about them and I don't blame those that are preaching and teaching. I'm not saying anything like that. Most of the times when you get to this part of scripture Most of the time because it's a condensed amount of time, maybe on broadcasts or whatever, that there can only be a small amount of time. You'll hear about the ten plagues all given at once. All right, well we had the f we had we had uh the the Nile River turns into blood. Yeah we have we have all these plagues the locusts we have the frogs we have the lice we have the all this They do it all at once. I'm trying to take it at least a couple, one or two at a time, because each one of them has a significant meaning. What do we know about the dust of the earth? How significant is God's use for the dust of the earth? Very simple. Man came from it. That is where we come from, is we are but dust. And that's one of the things I loved about Matt of Martin Luther's and Patrick Henry himself, who was one of the four fathers of this country. I never forget When they were lifted up and they were told how wonderful they are for preaching the gospel, Matthew Henry, no, Martin Luther said, I am nothing but a bag of dust. Patrick Henry said, I am nothing but a bag of worms. And that was his claim to fame when it came to being equated with some kind of great order of Christ. He gave Christ, they gave him all the glory. Genesis 2. 7 says, And the Lord had formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. We also see out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air. And we see how Christ could actually take a bag of dust, an instrumental causality, changing a bag of dust into a human being. I can prove to you that's true. One day you will become dust again, and so will I. For the Christian, that's a wonderful blessing. All creatures are apt to rise up at the slightest command of God and are capable of bringing man to his knees. I think that it's fascinating at 9-11, and I always, always pray for those families and the horror that went through But even MSNBC, that day, when people were jumping from those floors and they couldn't get out because the fire was so hot, even they were calling for prayer It took that to get them so you could literally, physically, and in a live telecast see people jumping from the building to get away from the fire. We all have stories. We all know people connected to that And they called for prayer, and that was a good thing. Egypt is brought to her knees, not by some warlike army, but by the foundation of her creation. The dust of the earth, which is a stern reminder of what all mankind came from and will go to. Remember, Job said it. He says, to dust I will return. You know, over in over around this world, it's incredible about dust, there's actually what's called dust devils You don't want to experience a dust devil. A dust devil is a term. It's perhaps the most ubiquitous whirlwind is called the dust devil. It is likely that quite a few of these small vortices are present in the lowest several hundred meters of the atmosphere on many days, but only the rare ones that pick up Detritus from the surface are seen. Certainly every summer hundreds of thousands of dust devils form and travel across the arid and semi-arid regions of the world. Observers report dust whirls almost daily during the hot season over the Sahara as well as the arid regions of Australia and southwestern United States. They are also common in India and the Middle East. These dust devils are brutal. You can't breathe, you can't see. I think you've seen some movies like Indiana Jones and all like that where they have to put the uh scarves around them and wind them uh many times to keep that from breathing it in and getting it into your eyes. Well I can tell you in the industry that I work in, I tell you one of the most fascinating things and one of the most exciting expensive items that these contractors buy for the summer on these great big uh sand pits and these gravel pits and all is they take these big over-the-road articulated trucks that have six wheels on them that can go anywhere. And they're hundreds of thousands of dollars and they convert them to water trucks. Because when they're out there working and they're using the bulldozers and they're pushing dirt back and forth, the dust gets so bad they can't even see out the windows. That's how bad it gets We're only halfway there of how bad this plague is, okay? We're now we're we're still talking about dust. And when you're out there working in this stuff, I know one thing, if you ever go down one of these main roads And these guys are working and you go fast and you kick up dust all over 'em, they get furious because it they have to work in this stuff. And so these these trucks have these great big water tanks on the back of them. Some are two and three thousand gallons And they are constantly running. They have full-time workers dedicated to running those trucks to sprinkle water to keep that dust down. It's so bad. And that's what you're up and that's what they're up against. Israel was identified by God as a powerful nation. Originating where? Now think about what's going on with Israel right now. If you've heard of anything for the last few days, we now have a country that is now secretly sending perhaps some worships to the peers of Hamas and giving aid to Hamas. And that's what we have in our administration right now. That how important Israel is goes all the way back to what we're learning here. Where did Israel come from? What does the Lord say about the foundational beginning of Israel? In Isaiah chapter 41, verses 14 and 15. If you'd like to turn to that, where does this powerful nation originating from where? Well, we know it's from Jacob. We know his name was Israel, but there's a take it a little step further. Fear not thou worm Jacob and ye men of Israel I will help thee, saith the Lord, and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument, having teeth. Thou shalt thresh the mountains and beat them small, and shalt make the hills of chaff. But there was a condition that went along with that, wasn't there? As long as you obey me, the Lord says, I will bless everything that you have. But you see where it says in the verse 14, it says, Thou worm Jacob? Where does a worm come from? Here Israel refers to as the thou worm Jacob. Where is this origination? The dust of the earth. The dust of the earth became infectious lice. The Hebrew term by interpretation meant tiny stinging gnats rarely visible to the naked eye. How miserable is it in the middle of summer when you get a little sweat on you and gnats come after you and stick to you. Half of the plague was this horrible dust. But can you imagine out of nowhere the dust turns into gnats and then it comes all over you? Millions and millions and millions and millions of them. Look at what they're talking about having this whole new influx of locusts. Is anyone looking forward to that this summer? Looking to move forward to having all these bugs flying around? It's miserable. Here we see that the reprobation of Egypt would sink to the level of being humbled by life from the dust of the earth. The extent of the pestilence is magnified, we see in verse 17 as we move forward. We see now in verses 18 and 19, go back to 17. And they did so, for Aaron stretched out his hand with a rod. and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice in man and in beast. That steps it up actually to a whole third degree of the plague. What happens if all of your food now, your cattle, which was the cattle was their was basically their currency, what happens when that's infested with lice? Have you ever tried to cook meat with lice all over it and gnats You ever tried that? Not fun. Definitely not fun. And we see how here it's it it's even escalated. And you know when the Lord, when he does these things, he he means it and he does not He does not play around. Well, we see here, now once again, the magicians tried to throw their hat into the ring. And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth lice, but they could not, because there was lice upon man and upon beast. And even they tried to copy this. And it was such a technical and such a real hard plague to this. They couldn't even copy it. They didn't know what to do Oh, how the magicians were utterly baffled by the presence of these terrible gnats. They attempted to imitate this plague, they couldn't And once again to compliment complicate matters as Satan always does, the only effort was to copy the infestation, not to stop it Isn't it amazing how every plague they tried to mirror it, but they couldn't stop it? It was every time that God Himself stopped it, going all the way back to when When Moses threw the rod down and it became a snake, remember they were able to try to make snakes, didn't they? But whose snake ate whose snake? It was Moses's. Every single time it was the Lord that came back and he did it. They couldn't stop it. Kind of like what you have today when all this pestilence that you see on the news. You have all these problems. Oh, this problem with the money, this problem with inflation, this problem with all the stuff. There's all these problems. But where is the remedy for the problems? The remedy is honoring the Lord. The magicians concede to victory to God Almighty and proclaim this due to the fact that it was the finger of God. They were forced to convince themselves that they were overpowered by a divine power, and the restraints are put on them. Much like the restraint put on Pharaoh's heart, that was God's providence also. But here's the funny part about it. I shouldn't say funny, but the interesting part about it. The whole time Pharaoh was exacting all of this horror upon the the Israelites Just like the whole time the pharaohs that the the I mean the Pharisees thought that they had power over Christ and that they had the power to turn Jesus over to the Roman soldiers and have him crucified, they were actually obtuse enough and blind enough to think that it was by their control. They thought it was their instrumental causality that they caused the change to make this happen and that they vanquished Christ Himself. When you look at Pharaoh and his heart was hardened, it was because of God. When you're witnessing to people and you're begging them to come to Christ, and we we see this, and they just don't seem to get it You're waiting for God, Jehovah Jirah, the great provider of all things. You're waiting for him and you're praying to him. He wants you to do that for him to connect the dots. You don't have that power of salvation. It's his job to soften the hearts. It's his job to save. And here we can see how he has total control over everything He's either Lord of all or he's not Lord at all. We see here God's restraining power even over Satan and all the wickedness. Just as Moses would catch hold of the snake and turn it into a rod, the magicians were, they were grabbed by the tail, as it were, and they were restrained. And note they said it was the finger of God, not his right hand or right arm. They said it was the fingers of the Lord. Even the sorcerers grasped the concept that it would only take one finger of the Lord to have such power. Unlimited power. It's amazing in Luke 11, verse 19, Jesus Himself is accused with his power of casting out demons through Beelzebub. What was the response that was given? In verse 19, if Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? Because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub? Then he says in verse 20, but if I, well look what he says, with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God has come upon you. Christ says, by the power of God, even with my little finger I can cast out demons. And if you remember Christ had made it very clear, you will know that I am the Messiah and that I am here when I cast out demons. Now he could have said, You will know it's me when I cre when I what when I give miracles. You will know it's me when I go to the cross. But the opening, the inception of his absolute incredible first advent When you see me casting out demons, you will know who I am. And I'm begging you this morning, know who he is, because even the very elect could be deceived. And they are today. Know who he is. Christ attributes his powers only being subordinate to the will of the Father. That's the only subordinate, that is the only way He stepped back. As the second person of the Godhead, he obeys the Father. And the finger of God is a direct reference to the Holy Spirit. Study it sometimes. Look at some great theologians that have written about this. The finger of God is the Holy Spirit, that He is the vicar of Christ. The Holy Spirit was sent. You go back to John 16. Christ said, It must needs that I leave you, and I'm on the right hand of the Father, that I might send the Spirit of consolation to guide and direct you. What a gift. The magicians would confess this power of God We see that the council was furious. We see that the council of the Egyptians were furious as this goes by. But as we're looking here as we move forward, did you see the word Goshen? Do you remember us reading that a little bit ago? There was a land of Goshen. The Lord had the power. In verse 22, he said, I will sever in that day the land of Goshen in which my people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there. In the midst of all the pestilence, the Israelites did not have one gnat, not one frog, not one piece of infinitesimal dust. Remember what Goshen was back in the days of Joseph, that's when Jacob was coming down from Canaan and they had a great famine And Joseph had not introduced himself and re uh reconnected with his father and brothers yet. And he all went to Pharaoh and he said, I have carved There's a land, Pharaoh said, called Goshen. You bring your family and you let them go there. And he was letting them worship. And they honored the Lord. That land of Goshen had what around it. Do you remember It had a hedge of protection around it. And that's what the Lord is so incredible and He is so powerful that He could literally separate the plague and keep that away from His people. And there's where your hope is. Do you have trials? Do you have tribulations? We all do. We all can say that together. We all pray together. We have prayer requests. If the Lord can separate his people and keep them from having gnats and dust and frogs and locusts and separate them and their firstborn didn't die, He can do that in your life and put a land of Goshen in your life and have a hedge of protection around you. You trust in him and he is just to forgive. He will watch over you. I will never leave you. I will never forsake you. You know, think about this a minute. Let's get a little practical here. At this point, we're in the middle of some pretty horrendous plagues, and Pharaoh is still as stubborn as many of us can be. Even as Christians we can be stubborn. But what would happen if Pharaoh were to sit down and start at this point questioning himself in his own private quarters And had some some type of psychological direction from somebody that would come out of nowhere and maybe sit down and give him some psychological instruction, and he would sit down and say So far our rivers turned into blood. So far we've seen frogs, we've seen gnats, we've seen dust, we've seen flies, and said, what should I do? I think I have a good answer for that. This kind of hit me when I was reading this. Remember that incident all the way back? You go forward to Acts chapter 5, verse 38. Remember what happened in Acts chapter 5, and I'll remind you, I know right off the top of your head, I know. The apostles were healing. Peter, John, everyone was getting healed And just like when Jesus was infuriating Caiaphas and he was furious, the apostles were going around and they were healing, they were raising the dead, they were growing limbs back, and it says that in Acts chapter 5. then out of all of these Christian bulwarks and these pillars of faith, the one that comes up with the brilliance was Paul's instructor, Gamaliel. Remember what he says. Now what happens is, let me set this, let me set the frame just a little bit. Basically, the Sadducees and the Judaizers and the Jewish Council say, we need to take those apostles and beat them to death and we need them out of here. Then all of a sudden Gamellio finally steps up. He was a very brilliant man, and he was the one that taught Paul the Apostle when he was Saul of Tarsus He basically the equivalent of a PhD in law and theology, and here's what happens. Acts 538. And here's Camellio. And now I say unto you, and this is what Pharaoh should have heard, and now I say unto you, refrain from these men and let them alone. For if this counsel or this work be of men, it'll come to naught. But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it, lest haply ye be found even to fight against God. He even had enough savvy and enough to know who this Jesus Christ was. And he was basically telling them, you better be careful. You're messing with, you're playing with fire. What happened when Nadab and Abihu played with strange fire on the altar of incense? Remember all the way back in Leviticus 10? What happened? They were both done. Very much done. So anyway, we see here how Pharaoh wouldn't listen. His ears were shut, his eyes were closed. That's what Christ said about parables when the disciples asked him, why do you speak in parables? So that their eyes would be shut and their ears would be closed. And I'm not going to open them because of their stubbornness and their hardness of heart. I won't. He has the power to do that. Here Pharaoh should have heeded the warning of Jehovah Nephi, the God of banners, who can never be defeated. You see the hardness of Pharaoh's heart? We see that this is of the Lord. Pharaoh literally thinks he has in control. But look at Romans chapter 9, verse 17 For the Scripture saith unto Pharaoh, even for this same purpose have I raised thee up, that I might show my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth. In the fact is, we serve an awesome God. He cannot be contested. Hebrews 12, verses 28 and 29. Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire. That's not enough. There are so many endless verses to back that up. Moving forward, Moses and Aaron would meet Pharaoh down by the river. They would rise up early. Matthew Henry says, quote, Those that would bring great things to pass for God and their generations must rise early and redeem time in the morning. And they get up early. Here Moses and Aaron, they're fighting for their people. Here God's wrath is still upon Egypt. Moses once again is directed by God to proclaim, Thus saith the Lord, let my people go, or now I'm going to send flies. Here's the translation of swarms referred to like dog flies, blood-sucking insects that deposit their larvae in the skin of humans and the flesh of animals. Now we saw how the dust is where man comes from. What happens to a dead body? Flies. You see how this all fits together Right now, the Lord is showing death, and he is showing, you're not going to listen to me, you're rejecting me, death lies ahead. We see these swarms of flies carry also a pivotal prophecy in Isaiah chapter 718. And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall hiss for the fly That is in the uttermost parts of the rivers of Egypt, just like the frogs, the flies came up out of the Nile, and for the and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. What did this mean? Egypt was full of flies and Assyria was a country noted for beekeeping. These insects represented the powerful countries Which the Lord would summon to overrun Judah and take the people into exile. This was a prophecy that some of these wicked nations would rise up. And I'm here to tell you this morning we need to pray for Israel because the Lord's doing it again. Israel is wicked. Should they be protected? Should we absolutely be praying for them? Of course. But they're going to the same course of legislation that America has, and they're doing things they shouldn't be doing. And I don't want to get into that, or we'll be here until four o'clock this evening. Egypt was full of flies. We see, we now see again the hedge of protection that surrounded Israel. As they were set apart of God's chosen people without dispute. This is incontestable proof that God is in the midst of the earth God's armies of frogs would be perfectly directed into the houses and the palaces. The flies would also be perfectly directed into the homes and palaces now of only the Egyptians. How can science explain that? You want to find out? Go look it up. Now that you have the internet, oh, you'll see all these theological answers why all of these plagues came and none of them have to do with God's finger. I mean, you'll see stuff like, well, the Red Sea, when it's finally parted, was actually a great big sandbar of the Reed Sea. It wasn't a miracle of God. That the burning bush had gas pockets underneath it. We they can't explain how not one leaf was singed on the burning bush. That's another theological nightmare today where they're talking about The authenticity of the miracles of God are now just nothing anymore. And then there's all kind of reasons why, oh, they say in the Nile River there was all kinds of leeches and stuff that happened and this this this clay that came out of nowhere and gave it a red tint, it wasn't blood. Oh, it was blood. Incontestable proof that God is in the midst of the earth We sang it this morning. God is in the midst of her, unmoved she stands for a, and God will surely grant her help before the break of day. If you trust in him. The flies would also be perfectly directed. How could science explain that? This symbolize a setting apart of God's people. Malachi 3, verse 18 Then shall ye return and discern between the righteous and the unrighteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. And all throughout the ages, since day one, that is the earth, that is the world, split right down the middle. Those that serve him, those that serve him not. Those are the two sides. And I'm not perfectly equal, I know that But there's the that is the dividing line, those that serve God and those that do not. That is what it all comes down to. Matthew chapter 25, verse 32. And before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. And this setting apart is God's signature of himself on earth. His people are set apart. I love that up at the Collingswood Church. It says right up there on stage in massive gold letters. I think it's 1 Corinthians 6. Anybody remember what it says? Beverly, be ye separate. That's right. Isn't that wonderful? Be separate under the Lord. Moses makes demands on how he will worship the Lord. If Moses were to obey Pharaoh over God with how he worshipped, if he would have worshiped with the Egyptians and disobeyed God, this would have been abject blasphemy. Or let me take it another step further. What if he would have done like many theologians today? I could name them. Not going to do it. We'd be here till 4 o'clock. But if we start naming them, What if he would have taken a little bit of Egyptian culture, worshipped with them a few days a week, and then gave God a nice little elbow. All right, I'll remember you, Lord. What if he just started doing that? What if he became non-denominational? And he said he took a little bit of the Egyptian culture and a little bit of the Canaanites, a little bit of Israel, and did all of this You think the Lord would have still protected him? No, the Lord made it very plain where he should be. We see these verses are penned down. And Moses knew the meaning of these in Matthew chapter 6, 24. No man can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. Moses knew that all the way back before the law was ever even given Moses knew that he could not have fellowship with the Father of lights and the works of darkness, both with Christ and Belial. Go to 2 Corinthians 6, 14 and 15. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communion hath light with darkness, and what concord hath Christ with belial Or what part hath he that believes believeth with an infidel? Let's all keep in focus here what's going on here. Does anybody know really now here about how old Moses really is? He's about eighty-five years old. when this all started. Moses was about eighty-three, it says it. But he's about eighty-four, eighty-five now. And you have to remember that all the whole greenhouse effect and all the mist coming from the Earth is all gone and people don't live to be 900 years anymore. They live to be maybe a hundred. Joseph is 110. Jacob was 148. Moses is starting to get a little bit out of warranty here And here he's standing there firm and he's not budging. Yeah, he's not budging one bit Moses would not be part of the Manhattan Declaration, melding everyone together for the express purpose of solving the world's problems, promoting world peace, and melding with Egypt. And that was out there many years ago where it was supposed to be this declaration that all these every denomination get together for world peace and stuff. Well, we see shall shall we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptian Egyptians to their eyes, he says. He knew the Egyptian culture would not accept us. Would they stone us? Moses once again is showing maybe a little bit of objection Either strong dislike of shepherds and sheep for Israel's sacrificial animals, being sacred ones in their religion, brought about Egyptian aversion to Israel sacrifices. Bottom line is, Egyptians hated Hebrew shepherds. And so basically Moses is saying, we better be very careful. Matthew Henry once again says, and I quote, they must retire from the distractions of the world and get as far as As may be from the noise of it, Israel cannot keep the feast of the Lord, either among the brick kilns or among the flesh pots of Israel. I mean the flesh pots of Egypt. They would sacrifice as God commanded, but what we see here is God is a patient God. There's a few more plagues to go through first. And then all of a sudden, the Israelites are going to be ye separate. They're going to be separated. They're going to be extracted from the slavery and the occupation of the Egyptians and their lives. This is coming. Here's another promise, another false promise that's made by Pharaoh as we move forward. We see in verse 28, and Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the Lord your God in the wilderness. Only ye shall not go very far away, entreat for me. What right does he have to make sanctions against God? If the Lord wanted to take the Israelites and make them a boat and bring them over to the mountains of America, he could have done that. What does Pharaoh have a right to put sanctions on God and say Okay, you can go maybe a few feet out of Egypt, but I need you back to work on those bricks on Monday morning. I'll let you go over the weekend. He has no right to do that, and that's what he's doing It's a false promise. Once again, where are the sorcerers now? They can't do anything. Pharaoh does remain obstinate. He lies again to Israel and he sets himself up and his countrymen for the next plague. You know, our Lord demands obedient worship. And as we go to verse 29, Moses speaks. I find this fascinating, though, because you know, remember in the case of Esther? Remember when she was going to go back? She had one of those Hebrewisms. We often forget that. There's many of them in the Bible where there's something said twice. Like Moses, Moses, Absalom, Absalom, Simon, Simon, Satan would have you, and sift you like weak, but there's one that we miss. Esther, when she says, you need to go before the king Ahasheras, and she knew that if she went before him, And he was having a bad day, she could wind up very much like that baker with Joseph. She could have her head basically severed from off of her body. She could. And basically, what did she say? Does anybody remember? For the Jews, what's that, Lisa? If I die, I die. So be it And so basically what Esther does, she keeps talking. This is one of the things we kind of miss because we're so acclimated to how the greatness of Moses. Moses was a mere man. And he's still talking to Pharaoh. I mean, by now, you've got to admit, I don't know if you've ever been down the statehouse or not. I have to oppose some of these wicked laws. But when you walk into that statehouse and you walk around, everybody's got their suits and they've got all their money and their BMWs and their states, and you go in there, you start getting a little nervous, especially when you know the governor is on the other side of that wall and he's against everything you believe in. That's not fun. Can you imagine by now the nervous Moses' hair has got to be probably so white right now He's that's why he's probably glowing and he's probably nervous and he's still speaking. I love that. And Moses said, Behold, I go out from thee, and I will entreat the Lord that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh from his servants and from his people tomorrow, but let not Pharaoh deal deceitfully anymore in not letting the people go to the sacrifice of the Lord. He didn't say, let us go so that we won't be enslaved. Moses gets it. He is their pastor. And he's telling them, if we do not go worship in the sanctuary of the Lord, if we don't do that, that's on us. And Pharaoh, we're going to worship him, because he said we have like you can keep fighting this, but he's going to keep throwing plagues, but we're going to be going to worship him, and that's what we're going to do. And Moses went out from Pharaoh and entreated the Lord. I love that. He speaks to Pharaoh, and every time, what does he do? He goes right to his prayer closet and he starts praying and asking the Lord for help. And the Lord did according to the word of Moses. That right there, we can stop everything we're talking about and have a wonderful lesson on prayer. Look what the Lord did. When Moses entreats the Lord, it says here, and the Lord did according to the word of Moses. Now when you pray, Always remember that the Lord has the power to do according to what's on your heart. But there may be some things on your heart that may not be good for you. And you may not get them the way you think that you should. And I believe that that is the magic of Christianity, if you want to call it that, is trusting the Lord when his answers are different than what you think. But it says he will entreat you. He will encourage you. And it might be years down the line. You might not get what you want, but trust in him and keep doing it. Just keep doing it. Because the Lord did according to the word of Moses, and he removed the swarms of flies. I find it fascinating also in verse 31. It doesn't say the sorcerers remove the swarms of flies. Or that Pharaoh came up with the whole State Highway Department and removed, or the or the sanitation department and removed the flies. It was God that did it from Pharaoh. From his servants and from his people, there remained not one. of an infinite number of this of the flies, of the gnats, the dust, all of it was gone And when it's all said and done, and Pharaoh hardened his heart. It's almost like you could say, and Pharaoh hardened his heart, doo-dah, doo-da. He just kept doing it over and over and over again. At this time also, neither would he let the people go. So basically, let's finish. We're going over a little bit As we go through these plagues, and there's two, we've seen some of the personalities of the plagues. We see with the dust, that's where we come from. The flies basically are what appears on the dead, and all this Our Lord demands obedient worship. Pharaoh would not stand in the way of it. He did not learn. He was so hardened that he would continue against God and continue to be plagued many more times. We read in Psalm 77, verse 13, Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary. Who is so great of God as our God? Psalm 78, 54 says, and he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this mountain, which was his right hand had purchased. Psalm 78, 69. And he built his sanctuary like high places, like the earth, which he hath established forever. Psalm 96, 6. Honor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Psalm 102 verse 19. For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary, from heaven did the Lord behold the earth. That's massive. Because he is saying that the sanctuary on earth that worships him is connected to his sanctuary in heaven That's powerful. You worship the Lord in the sanctuary in spirit and in truth. You're connected into heaven. You don't see it now, but you will. The Lord promises that Praise the Lord for his mercies. Give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. And I can honestly say it's been good to be in the sanctuary of the Lord. Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee, Lord, for revealing this incredible Incredible truth to us. It's not just a story, it's a true. Every single verse, every syllable is true. Perfectly true. Lord thou has told us in Proverbs 23, 23, buy the truth and sell it not, also wisdom, instruction, and understanding. And I pray that thou will give us that wisdom. Lord, bless us as we go from here today, and I pray that that would guide and direct our footsteps. Lord, our missionary field starts definitely at the end of this driveway as we go out. Give us opportunity to witness to others. And just bless us and keep us from falling. In the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.