Mom and I made sure we were able to tune into some other services. on the last couple of Sundays down in Florida or out on the West Coast. And it was nice. But there's nothing like being together. You know? It's um It's something that I don't know whether we've grown accustomed to as as uh believers, uh, but it's necessary. It and it feels feels right. It feels good. And we're thankful to the Lord to open things up again. And um like Tim said, we have no idea what what each week will bring. And uh our son Joel's down he went to West Coast and came back um Saturday was it F Friday Friday night, flew Friday night and landed in Charlotte and he's been in Charlotte now, uh going nowhere. So um This can happen anywhere. Let's pray. Father, thank you the joy and the privilege we have to um to sit uh before you and allow your spirit to teach that which is necessary for the uh understanding of our steps. for the way of life, for the furtherance of the kingdom. Thank you again for restoring uh the weather enough to r for us to be able to be here today for each one for the measure of health and strength given each one that they could be here. And we pray for our absent partners and trust that they are well. and uh trust your blessing upon them in their uh times of difficulties. Thank you for providing uh such a place and such a time in Christ's name. Amen. Every fall Millie and I have our annual wellness checkup at the doctors, part of Medicare I guess, you know, and they want to see if you really go in and you blood works and they poke and prod and measure and and do all kinds of stuff as as regular once a year. The reminders often come out about eating uh uh less salt and exercising more and and and the r and the usual and uh I agree with them. Yes, yes or we'll we'll plan to do that properly Have you read the labels on a lot of things and packages and what to avoid? Some of them they are written so fine, hard to read, you know, and And if m Mama's mindful of phosph phosphorus and and uh potassiums, you know, and you looked at it, oh my shit And and and this kind of and the salt, look how much salt in this, you know. All of the things you like to eat. All of the things that you're accustomed to eating and and found to be uh that which is tastes good are to be consumed. National poll completed by Shop Smart Magazine. surveyed more than a thousand women, women, mind you, but nonetheless representing us men, about their eating habits and their feelings regarding eating healthier This is a breakdown of what this survey had taken and why they ended up not buying healthy and hence why they were ended up not eating healthy 57% said eating healthy foods is too expensive. Forty-seven percent said social settings are too tempting. 39%. Life is too short. I want to enjoy what I eat. 33%. It's hard to find healthy options when eating out. Mind when you go for the birthday meal today, mind uh twenty-nine percent. I don't have time to prepare healthy meals. 25%. My family prefers less healthy meals. 20%. Unhealthy habits are too hard to change. 18%. Healthy foods don't satisfy my appetite. 13%, I'm not sure which healthy which foods are healthy or not. Bottom line I guess it's always true about the things that we consume. Our eating habits can be very deadly habits. For sure, eating habits no doubt can encourage uh or discourage the nation's health as it is. Back in 1826, there was a French lawyer by the name of Savarin, and he wrote, quote, Tell me what you eat, and I will tell you what you are. A few years later, a German by the name of Ludwig Feierbach said, man is what he eats. But it wasn't until the 1930s that Viktor Lundhar popularized the phrase, you are what you eat. You are what you eat. And it pulls through. And obviously there's some genetics involved. There's uh location is where you're found, where you live. There's the things like occupation and such But it really ends up contributing to whether we're healthy or not is what we consume. I'd like to stop talking now like uh our health secretary, Robert Kennedy, and make an analogy. If what you eat physically contributes to your physical body, what you eat spiritually contributes to your spiritual life. I'm talking about men and women who find their names listed in the adoption papers, those who are born again, those who have been received into the kingdom of God and part of God's family. not just the folks on the wayside. And I think part of the problem is that we live less victorious life because our spiritual diet we can think just think about getting by with what we've gotten by with. It's been sufficient. I found an online blog by an author who is a contributor to the Gospel Coalition. In this particular article, he said, we know that it's good and beneficial for us. We know what God expects us to read, yet we don't. We know God expects it, and yet we don't And he's not talking about some Facebook post or the nutritional background on a box of cereal, but he's talking about the word itself. I think it's a good analogy that would help us with understanding some medications. If you had some particular ill and this medication was assigned to you and you knew this medication would profit your body and help the particular illness or disease that you have, and yet you don't take it? Well, what do you do? This blog continued and gave five excuses, which the author felt summarized the answers to the reasons why we were avoiding reading the Bible. Number one, he says it makes us feel uncomfortable. In other words, the things within the scriptures themselves, matters of adultery, of stealing, of anger, and other things like that, makes me feel uncomfortable. I'll just avoid those parts. I think there was a reader's digest Bible some decades ago, and they came along and they just clipped out certain parts of the Bible and only left you with parts. Sometimes we do that with scriptures. Second one, he said it was too hard. People avoid reading it because it's hard. And it's not that easy. It takes some effort, but they said that was the case. Thirdly, he says we are too undisciplined. In other words, we're too busy. Fourthly, we think that the Bible is stale and lifeless. It's boring It's a boring book about God. And the last one is, the fifth one is that he says that we have a dysfunctional relationship with God. My my relationship with him isn't right, and therefore I avoid the scriptures that are there. As you probably know, there are millions of books. filled with tons of knowledge of all types of subjects in libraries. Of course, not too many people use libraries anymore, but we can go online and find the same thing and find a particular book that helps us out with some particular topic that we're looking up. Maybe what we're looking for is in a language that we don't know, or a particular particular subject that's It's just too complex, but nevertheless it's there. That book promises wisdom That book promises answers. And yet, if I don't know the language, or if I don't understand the topic, it profits me nothing. Give me the book, best book on quantum physics. No matter how good it is, it's worthless to me because I have no clue what quantum physics is. I could open the pages and go through or scroll through on my computer and look at it and read it, and it's all a gobbly goop because I don't know anything about it. I don't understand it Give me the best color-illustrated, thoroughly footnoted large print Bible written in Swahili. And it does me no good because I simply can't grasp what's being said. I can't take it on. I f simply can't understand it. Yet, this is exactly what we don't find in the case of Scripture itself. Scriptures are there provided for us by the Spirit of God for the purpose that God has given us that we might know. Psalm 119 has all types of areas. Partially I look at pulled a few out, 138. He says, Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and very faithful. God's word is true And it is faithful to everything it presents to us. Everything that God has testified in his book is true and faithful. 119, 152. Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them forever. It doesn't change. There's the old book of my grandparents, my great grandparents. Here's the old family Bible they brought over and this is what they use. It's the same answers. It's the same truth. The same prov proverbial truths that are prevented to them and unto us. 119. 50. This is my comfort in my affliction, for thy word hath quickened me or made me alive. 52. I remember thy judgments of old, O Lord, and have comforted myself testimonies by the psalmist saying, when there were times of trouble, when there were times of issues, of conflict, I went to your word, and your word comforted me And it has always been, it always will be, the provision that God's word has been there. So if you want to turn to our scripture reading, Psalm 119 And verses 97 through 105, Psalm 119, verse 97 through 105. The Psalm praises God's law for its ability to give wisdom, to give understanding, to those who read it. And, in essence, to meditate upon it, to consider its truth. As I read, I'm going to emphasize some words as they go along. That they are making reference to the Word of God. The psalmist uses different words, but they're all referring to the Word of God. Verse 97. Oh, how love I thy law! It is my meditation all the day. Thou, through thy commandments Has made me wiser than mine enemies, for they are ever with me. I have more understanding than my teachers For thy testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts. I have refrained my feet from every false or every evil way that I might keep thy word. I have not departed from thy judgments, for thou hast taught me. How sweet are thy words unto me, and unto my taste, yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth. Through thy precepts I get understanding Therefore I hate every false way. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path. Different words used, but he's talking about the same principle. It's the word of God in reference to every area of life. It's done this for me. It continues to give this to me. Now, we'll focus here on verse 105, the last verse in this section. And it's a word that brings forth the truth about God's revelation as a lamp unto our feet and the light unto our path. Thy word is A lamp unto my feet, a light unto my path. If you look at scriptures, there's two images that are repeated in various parts of Scripture referred to in this verse. The first one is path. Path. Many times path is used in other areas of scripture as the way of life. And we do the same thing today. We're going to take the right path, not necessarily talk about a roadway or a little area where we're walking, but it's the direction of life, the way I'm going, the things that I'm accomplishing my pathway. Thou wilt show me the path of life in the Psalms. My son, walk not thou in the way with them. Refrain thy foot from their path. Proverbs It's an easy understanding where we make the application for it. The second one is the word light Light helps us understand the path. In other words, the truth that is given helps me understand the direction of life. Thy word is a lamp or a light unto my pathway in life. I think if we remember in the days that the Psalms were written, there were no streetlights, no flashlights No uh little things they could hook on their heads and and see where they're going. Uh some po person one time said, well, they have little candles that they would hook on the end of their on the end of their their slippers. You know, I think they're a little far stretched. But nonetheless, for traveling any place out throughout the area, you had to have a torch or a lamp. That was the only way that you're going to see where you're going to go. So God's Word functions in the same way in life. The Bible isn't a book of good sayings and healthy proverbs for people to live by. It is a light, a lamp, in order that we might live. It's not a way because the pastor said it, or some teacher, or some missionary, or some evangelist made it so It's because the Word of God itself says so. It always has and always will. Not because some gifted author or some of the latest spiritual self-help book says, but because of the ability of Scripture to do it. The ability innate within the text of Scripture brings me to the essential understanding of the path of life, the direction I am supposed to be going in life and living. The Word of God has provided such and we're thumb most thankful. A compass has north, south, east, and west That's true. And because somebody told you, no, that's because the nature of a compass. What's built into it is north, south, east, and west. And you go by it as it is So thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and it is a light unto my path. And the psalmist is doing his job and making sure God's word precepts Commandments, judgments, word, laws, every single word in Psalm 119 that he uses, that reflects the truth in bringing us to that understanding. It's not like some magic spell sorcerer cast down in some of the movies. If we read it, if we repeat it in a certain mantra, that is gonna happen. No. The very nature of the Word of God, the very truth that's contained in it there, is that In truth, the Apostle Paul writes, it is quick and powerful. In other words, it's active. It's alive Sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder, the soul and spirit, joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Paul says, God's word pierces, as I read it, it pierces the dividing of the soul, of the very makeup of who I am, and helps me to understand, to know myself, and to know God's word. and to know God Himself. Right or wrong, good or evil, there are no secrets with God's word. Psalm 119, verse eleven, Thy word have I hid We could say, treasured, thy word have I treasured in my heart that I might not everybody know that Sin against thee. Thy word have I hid in my heart, I've treasured it in my heart, in order that I might not sin against God. That's the direction that He's given me How did Joseph know that it was a sin against God when tempted by Potiphar's wife? Maybe it was just kind of a gut feeling, you know? Maybe it was the rumors that were spreading around town about Potiphar's wife. He said, Oh, I better not do that because she has a reputation. No. It was the word of God buried within his heart. He treasured the truth of God's word, and therefore he was able to resist the things that she offered up unto him. Jesus in the wilderness, tempted by Satan. And with each temptation, what did Jesus offer? Thus it is written. In other words, he holds up the scriptures themselves, and he says, Your temptation is thwarted because the word of God has already established what's true, the path of life, the direction to go in. I don't have to think about it. I don't have to second guess Paul says in Romans 10 that faith comes by hearing, and the hearing by the Word of God. So in Acts 4, when the scripture says Five thousand men, not counting women and children, came to receive the word of God and were saved. Why? Because Peter was an eloquent preacher, they disliked his sayings No, because the word of God was brought forth and seated in their hearts, and the word did its work. What its very nature is to do. It changed their lives. It wasn't because of Peter, it was because of the nature of the word You see, we, along with so many around the world, are in a state of spiritual starvation, and yet sufficient nourishment is at our fingertips What are we going to do? It's all bad. And yet all of the things that are there are laid before us. There are times when I'll get up and the first thing I look at is my phone. And where do I go? News or emails. And all of a sudden I see these appeals. I said, oh man, look what this happened. Look at this. You know, and I get up and uh All of a sudden, I've breakfast myself into depression. I've breakfast myself into, whoa, this is no good. The Word of God provides that which is necessary, not spiritual junk food, some days as we read Facebook or what a friend tells me. Or what even the new preacher I heard online tells me. No, I have to go to the Word of God. That's his source. Pastor Jacob Huggins asked. What does this look like? It looks like teaching that never challenges us to real change. It looks like teaching that always seeks to make us feel better about what we're doing right now. It looks like teaching that purports to teach something new, interesting, and exciting. It looks like teaching that caters to our needs rather than God's will. Of course, we find such teaching appealing. It's spiritual junk food, and it's created to appeal to us. You think Satan is is stupid in these areas? If he has truth and the power of the very nature of the Word of God and he can offer somebody something a little less powerful, a little less poignant? That he can do that? Spiritual junk food is there. You ever tried to navigate through a room that's dark? Thought you could do it. Well, I did it. And I tell you, I I could show you some banged up toenails where I've tried to do that at night, where I've hit the corner of the bed and the foot, you know, and and you just can't do it So why do we think we can navigate life without the light of the Word of God? Why do you think we can navigate relationships, challenges? threats, blessings, without the Word of God being there for us. So where does that leave us? What does the Bible say about life? And how can I move it on my list of priorities? If the proportion of the scriptural truths have been faithful to the generations of the past, It can be and is faithful to the generations of the present, so what do I do? First of all, the wisdom granted by the capacity of God's word is realized only by those who are regenerated born again, that I've given my life for the Lord Jesus Christ, recognise myself as a sinner and in need of God's mercy. and receive the grace that he's given me, the substitutionary death of Jesus Christ on my behalf, in order that I might be born again into his family. The pastor, I just don't have that desire. I've done that, but I don't have that desire to do such. Then ask him. Lord, I need to be hungry and thirsty for your word. I have to ask you, please enter into that place of my heart that's been filled with junk food and allow your word to permeate my life because you've promised such. Secondly, I thought it would be interesting to look at the excuses that we saw earlier and the reason why people avoid the Bible, why scriptures become so distant in our everyday life. The first one he mentioned was, it makes us feel uncomfortable. It ought to, shouldn't it? It ought to point out those things which are necessarily needed to get changed. Search your heart and see if you are avoiding the Word of God to preserve an idol of comfort. David Livigston, famous pioneer missionary in Africa, late nineteenth century, offered to teach a tribal chief the ability to shoot a rifle. David Livington had his guns with him. And he says, I will teach you this if I can teach you to read. The chief refused it. The chief declined because he was afraid that if he had to learn to read the Bible, he would have to give up some of his wives. And polygamy was just part of the life that he wanted to live. Another chief had done the same and he said no. It is a lamp unto my feet, a light unto my life. The psalmist also shows me that when I'm growing spiritually Through thy precepts I get understanding, therefore I hate every false way. How do I know it's false? How do I know it's true Through thy precepts, through thy judgments, through thy word, through thy law, through the word of God that's there. I oh whoa! Now I see. Now that makes sense. That's why God did it as He did. Second one, it's too hard. And anybody who starts out being a child of God looks at open up that Bible as I remember sitting in church in the early years. And Pastor Singh took turn to the book of Job. And all I could find was Job. And I says, Job, what's this? You know, and he just went on and on and on and on. And it was hard. And I had to ask. I had to ask somebody, can you help me with this? Part of what our worship services engage in with at Sunday school or prayer meeting time, the Bible studies and such. It helps me to understand what What was dark, uh, open a door that I haven't been to. And and we ask, Lord, give me some understanding in these areas of my life. Admit that I need it. Ask for help. Second hymn that we sang, Break Thou the Bread of Life. How many of you never sang that before? You sang it. You just sang it. Okay. Mary Lathbury, born in 1841 and 1913, her dad was a Methodist minister, and her two brothers were Methodist ministers. So she was surrounded by a spiritual emphasis in that time of life. She was really concerned for the superficial Christianity that existed within our country She saw many Christians that didn't see the depth of Christianity, and that their Bible reading was only scratching the surface. It was only verily touching their life. The hymn, I don't know whether you in that you haven't sung it that much, is usually used at a communion service, breaking the bread of life, though the wafer and and the cup and so forth. But she didn't mean it for that Uh primarily she meant it for the reference to bread as the word of God. Christians go beyond the sacred page. Go on beyond the page of scriptures themselves. And there's a relationship to Jesus Christ that she's saying was necessary found within the pages of scriptures. Encourage my my walk with the Lord, I do so through the scriptures themselves. Thirdly, our author said that we are undisciplined. Discipline yourselves for the purpose of godliness. You know, if there's anything that we need to do in life, in recreation or in business or in challenges We discipline ourselves to do it. We find anything in order to achieve and to advance. Why don't we do the same for that which will bring us closer to God instead of farther away? And similar to that, fourthly, we think the Bible is stale and lifeless, because it's a book about God. Instead of thinking it is a book about my God My relationship to him, his love letters is often mentioned in life, that our relationship to God examine your heart to see if you are truly in love with him. Oh, how love I thy law, it is my meditation all the day. How often does God's word come up to your heart throughout the day? How often do those references, those challenges, and you see a situation, you know, there's a verse in scripture that talks about that. That's important. And then lastly, we have, or I have, a dysfunctional relationship with God. It requires repentance and an opening up and confession to Him. Only then will I find myself finding a real joy within the Lord. I have a dysfunctional relationship because I'm not with him. I'm not spending time with him. John Bunyan said once, this book will keep you from sin, or sin will keep you from this book. grows in my relationship with him as I draw closer to God within the word itself. I think we need to be honest if you read this book. And I mean reading to feed from it. It's because you want to read the Word of God. You want to grow closer to the Word of God. And to underline this further, this is symptomatic of our relationship with Him. We cannot separate the Word from the Lord. Our responsive reading uh talks about the Lord Jesus Christ, the living word. As I get within his word, I draw closer to him. We need to challenge ourselves and ask the Lord for grace and help as we look to a year ahead of us challenge for walking within the Word. Shall we pray? Father, you're a search of our hearts. You know the things that we have need of. And we'll admit that that which is audibly so precious to us, the scriptures, the Bible seldom has really been displayed in our everyday life because we're distant from it. And yeah, maybe it is a dysfunctional relationship. Maybe it's a matter of not having the time. Maybe it's not a priority. Maybe it's something that we find to be difficult to handle. Or just not easy to deal with. But Lord, you brought us into this world. Faith came by hearing, and hearing by the word of God And you did so in order that we might not only uh grow, but to grow more like your Son, our Savior, Jesus Christ. We'll admit we're not as we ought to be. May you challenge us, Father, to bring the word again to a fresh within our days. allow us to spend time within it. Not big chunks, but a piece here and a piece here. that we might digest it, that we might find it to be again a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.