To the chief position, a psalm of David I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. I brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, and thy thoughts which are to usward. They cannot be reckoned up in order to unto thee, if I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. Sacrifice and offerings offering dost thou dost not desire. Mine ears hast thou opened, burnt offerings and sin offerings hast thou not required. Then said I, Lo, I come. In the volume of the book it is written of me. I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart. I have preached righteousness in the great congregation. Lo, I have not refrained my lips. O Lord, thou knowest. I have not hid thy righteous thy righteousness within mine heart. I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation. I have not concealed thy loving kindness and thy truth from the great congregation. Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O Lord, let thy loving kindness and thy truth continually preserve me. For innumerable evils have compassed me about. Mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of mine head. Therefore my heart faileth. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil. Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that they say unto me, Aha, aha. Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee. Let such as love thy salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified. But I am poor and needy. Let the Lord sinketh upon me. Thou art my help and my deliverer. Make no tearing, O my God. Thankful for his word, may it be seed upon our hearts to grow and do his grace. Let's pray. Father provide unto us again uh A moment these times in our service that your word might be again as seed scattered upon souls that are hungry and thirsty for it. that it might be found as soil that is good soil, soil ready to receive, and allow it to grow fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty, a hundredfold to produce its intended purpose. Hide your servant, we pray this weakness, and may Jesus Christ be our teacher today. And all we say and do, we'll thank him in Christ's name. Amen. I think one of the great benefits of reading the Psalms is that they presented to us a pattern of godly living for every century. It's just not during David's time or during Moses' time, Psalms written and read. But for every century they can come along and they can read these Psalms, and even as the saints of old found benefit by them, so do we. As with all the scripture, but I think especially with the Psalms, understanding the pattern of godliness through trials and tribulations. One of those patterns of life reoccurring in the Psalms is the pattern of falling rock bottom, the bottom out times, the uh hitting the lowest mark and then getting up again And my favorite statement of this pattern comes from David's experience found within the psalm. Again, we've read the entire psalm, you can't just take part of it, but we just want to look at the first three verses. He says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up out of a horrible pit and out of a miry clay and he set my feet upon a rock and established my goings and he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear and shall trust in the Lord. These verses present a pattern for the Christian's experience. For his life. The things that David states here, born out of his own experience and born out of his trials and tribulations. And if you know David, you know there were many along those days. My goal this morning is that we be able to follow this pattern and go all the way through and see the exciting conclusion and allow that conclusion to be ours. David's experience leads us through six stages, and I want to follow them. The first we'll see David in a muddy pit. Secondly, we see him crying out for help. Thirdly, he waits upon the Lord. Fourth, the God draws him out of this pit to safety. Fifth, he provides him with a new song. uh joice rejoicing probably even this very psalm that we're reading here. And then the last one, many others come to trust in God because they see and they understand the pattern in David's life What happened to David can happen to me, and it changes their lives. The king's pit, the cry, patience, rescue, the song, and the king's influence Here is King David, a man after God's own heart. Let's see this particular pattern. It starts out in the pits. First, David says in verse 2, the pits. What's that experience? What do you think that is? You ever been in the pits? I think we all have. Caught in a desolate pit, a miry clay. It could be translated, uh horrible, King James The N New American Standard or ESV says they pit of destruction. The NIV calls it slimy. I think they all give us a character of the things and the situations he found in life to him were real. What I found was that the word refers to elsewhere uh outside of scripture a matter of roaring and turmoil, like stormy waves, like waves crashing and pulling at you and pulling and yanking you down When you think that it's unusual meaning for a pit or well for a deep hole, I think the image gets very striking. As you picture the horrible pit at the waves pulling and yanking him and destroying all of his hopes. It's as if David had fallen into a deep dark well. Not something clean, well of clean drinking water, but a slop, a slime. Something that was roaring at him like a hurricane, all dark, all underground. Then alongside that picture is an image of Meyer in mud. Two sometimes seem to go together. The slop, the slime, the mud yanking at him. But don't forget these images are supposed to make David feel what he's feeling. These are not photographs. David's not literally in a swamp. He's not in a pit. He's not fallen down a well of mud and slime. This is his soul's expression of how my inside feels How horrible it was, how painful it was. Helped me to get a picture of this mud. To read in King Zedekiah, he did to the prophet Jeremiah, and he wanted the prophet of Jeremiah to be out of there. He didn't like his words. Didn't like what the prophet was saying to him Jeremiah 38, 6. Then took they Jeremiah and they cast him into the dungeon of Malachi the son of Hamelech. Then was the court of the prison, and they let him down, Jeremiah with cords, and into a dungeon there was no water but mire So Jeremiah sunk in the mire. Here's the prophet, and the king says, I don't like what you're telling me, so let's tay him and lower him down into this pit. And the pit just kind of swallowed them up, just felt him like he says, no hope whatsoever. There's another time when David wrote about his experience that's similar to Psalm 40, combined with the mud and slap Psalm 69, first two verses, Save me, O God, for the waters are come in unto my soul. I sink in deep mire where there is no standing. I am come into deep waters where the floods overflow me. Again, it's not a picture. He's not there knee-deep and slop. It's his soul. And he's being pulled. He's being yanked. And he's being covered over. Perhaps what we can imagine falling into a well or sinking into a deep sludge, going deeper every time we try and lift a foot up. The roaring waters come in and they take me, just slam me back down again. It doesn't stop. It doesn't end. It just keeps going. And it's a sense of helplessness and desperation. But all of a sudden, air, just air, would be worth a million dollars You're being choked by the helplessness and the situation you find yourself in. And just just a grasp, air, and cleanness. If I could just feel the get out. Helplessness, desperation, the apparent hopelessness, the breaking point of an overworked businessman. You know, what's gonna happen? You read the accounts back to uh uh the the great time of the uh the failures of of the economy. Um m the the falling apart of businesses and and everything in the country and men jumping out windows because he said there's no hope. The outer limits of frustration of a mother of three continually crying children What do I do? I can't I can't stand all of the crying anymore. I can't handle it. impossible expectations of students in classes. Just too many classes. The pressure is too great. I can't take but I'm expected to go through this and finish these classes up And and where do I go? I'm just not getting it. I'm just not meeting these needs, the grinding stress of a lingering illness. Anyone have an illness that just continues and it seems like it just continues and there's no way out. The imminent attack of some powerful addiction Addictions are horrible. They just seem to have that cord on you and just pull at you and pull at you no matter what it is. Eyes, ears, the body itself. I think it's good that we don't know what David's experience was. It makes it easier to see ourselves in the pits with the king. If I knew what David was, well, that's not part of my experience, but David gives it just general dark and gray and hopeless situation, and they say, yes, I've tasted that I know what it's like. And the people around us, we can even see in their lives also. I think anything that causes a sense of helplessness and desperation And threatens to ruin our life and take away, that's the king's pit. That's the king's pit Number two, David cries out to the Lord. Verse 1: I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. You can almost see him bending down. David, I hear you. Those situations in the pit of life, sometimes they say, nobody hears me. No matter what's going on, I can't. Express myself anymore, the rescue me. But David says, God inclined into me and he heard my cry. One of the reasons God loved David so much is that he cried so much. He opened his heart to the Lord constantly, again and again and again. Psalm 6, verse 6. I am weary with my groanings. He's weakened down. All the night make I my bed to swim. I water my couch with my tears. Is this a man of weakness? Look at David's life. He's not. He's a powerful man. Leadership And yet he says, what troubles me, he says, I go through the night and my my bed is soaked with my tears because this is continually before me. Psalm 56, 8. Put thou my tears into a bottle. Are they not in thy book? Don't you see, Lord, the things that I'm crying about? Aren't they really what you have given to me? They are, aren't they? Because blessed are they that mourn. One author said so succinctly, it is a beautiful thing. When a broken man genuinely cries out to God, Lord, I've given up. I've stopped. I can't handle it anymore. Lord, I cry unto you, this is the this is the end of me. You are my only hope So often, especially I think men, we avoid this. We're told, suck it up. Be a man. You don't cry. You don't act like this. And we do so because we don't want to appear weak. But in truth, God loves to answer a childlike prayers. Abba, Father. God loves to hear us cry unto him, Lord, Father, Papa, hear me. He loves to hear that. Further, make sure when you cry to God, for God, and not to man. Sometimes in our hopelessness and helplessness situations we feel that the only thing I can do is cry out to man, let me explain to my situation, okay? Talk to me about it. And there are times and I'm not saying it's not worthy To be able to open up to somebody and have counseling and guidance. But the counseling and guidance always goes back to the one who ministers to the heart. This is what David saw, and this is what David's experienced. Now look what David concludes with of his own experience, verse 4. Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust, and respecteth not to be proud. Expecteth not the proud. He makes God his trust. God, I turn to you. You're the one I can lean on. You're the one I can put my everything on. It's not working out. I'm in the miry clay, but I know Lord you hear me. Some people will be willing to say that they need help, but they'll look everywhere but to the Lord. Yet God finds no joy with that kind of behavior. He says, I want you to look to me. Well, well just wait, there are other I can do this I've got a website that it really gives me some help there. I can talk to my friends. They know me best, you know. Uh Job's friends, I remember those guys, you know. I can do this and the Lord says, No. If I am your source, if I am your trust, as David says, I I I can go to you at any time and lay my burdens before you A good example of this is King Asa. God judged him for relying upon Syria as an ally instead of trusting in the Lord. Took the nation and laid it before him. Asa refused and he'd learned that lesson at the end of his life, 2 Chronicles 16, 12. And Asa In the thirty and ninth year of his reign was diseased in this feet, until his disease was exceeding great. Yet in his disease he sought not the Lord, but to the physicians. Here's a king leading the nation of Israel who should know better, surrounded by the prophets of God. surrounded by the heritage of Israel and and disease is upon him. And he says, No, I'm gonna go to the doctors, you know. I'm not necessarily saying doctors are bad, but I'm wondering back in Israel's time what medications or whatever they could provide for them. Psalm 118, 8 and 9. It is better to trust the Lord than to put your confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than put your confidence in princes. Yeah, but that's hard. God never said it was going to be easy. One of my favorite passages puts it, Psalm 146, 3 and 5, 3 to 5. Put not your trust in princes, nor in the Son of Man, in whom there is no hope. His breath goeth forth he returneth to his earth. In that very day his thoughts perish. Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help whose hope is in the Lord his God. There's a happiness, just not giddiness, but there's a peace about the situations in life when he says, I have found that I can trust in the God of Jacob and he will see me through. He will bring it about. Do I have to know the details? No. I just know that he is there. So David's in the pit. He cries to the Lord. Number three, David waits on the Lord. Verse one, I waited patiently for the Lord. Or more literally, I waited intently for the Lord. The reason that's the most important is because it guards me against unbelief. Guards me looking in other ways. It guards us from the times when God seems so distant in his coming. Why weren't you here? Didn't you know the situation I'm in? Can't you understand, Lord? I cried and you weren't there? Was he? Of course he was there all along. Remember that we draw no deadlines for God. He hurries or he delays all according to his time, which is perfect. When I first arrived at Shelton College in Cape Canaveral, I was introduced to a whole feast of hymns that I had never heard before. And I was a fairly young Christian at the time One of the ones was found in the old Presbyterian hymnal entitled, If Thou But Suffer God to Guide Me. If you want, look in your Trinity hymnal, and there's one verse I want you to see. It's in number 567. Five sixty-seven. Uh we would have sung this today, but Matthew probably wouldn't he'd be in his grave trying to handle this one. 567. And the particular stanza, it's a beautiful hymn, but the particular stanza is stanza number three. Only be still and wait his leisure. In other words, wait on God's time. In cheerful hope, with heart content, to take whatever thy father's pleasure And all discerning love he has sent, nor doubt our inmost wants are known to him who chose us for his own. Don't doubt that he know doesn't know what's going on. He chose us, we're his children. He knows what's going on, what's carrying me about, the pit that I'm in. He understands that. Be patient. Pause and understand its importance. I think waiting on the Lord is a great part of the Christian life. And I think you've experienced that, haven't you? I think the continually praying for men and women and families and situations in our prayer times, Wednesdays and throughout your day, why didn't he heal? Why doesn't he answer? Wait, it says, wait on the Lord. But there's a key to this, and the idea is waiting in humility and hope Waiting sometimes becomes an irritant because I'm just looking at my watch. It's just not happening, you know. But waiting in humility and hope. Listen to Psalm 37:9. For evildoers shall be cut off. But those who wait on the Lord, they shall inherit the earth. There's an intense attitude of the heart. He's saying, looking to him and holding to him, waiting on the Lord. And then verse 11. Same promise is repeated, but in the place of those who wait on the Lord, it isn't meek or humble. But the meek shall inherit the earth and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. Meekness, humility, waiting on the Lord. You ever been in the doctor's office and the root waiting room is crowded? And the difference between some people that are there and the persons gets up and he goes over and he looks at his watch and he hands up to that I had an appointment at 1030 and it's already 1050. How come I'm not you know we're just patient. Oh I gotta go. And just keep pushing, pushing, pushing, pushing. Sometimes that happens like that They are not humble. They're not waiting upon the Lord. We simply show how badly we need chastisement for his delay if we can't be patient. Waiting on God's timing in life is perfect. He understands the things that we have to go through to reach from point A to point B to point C. And he says, I'm not going to rush you Because there are other lessons I want you to see. There are other things that I want you to develop in instead of taking you right away. Yet with humility, waiting is also included in the matter of hope. Psalm thirty-nine seven And now, Lord, why wait I for? My hope is in thee. I'm waiting why. Well the cavalry's gonna come. Well the cavalry never came, you know I'm waiting. My meal was in we didn't ever have you know oh no, I'm waiting for you, because you never fail at doing that which is at the right time for the right reasons for all things. Psalm 130, verse 5. I wait for the Lord, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope. The soul is one who waits on God, not like the leaves in the fall, blowing whichever way they blow, but we wait on God because everything is directed perfectly according to his purpose. Psalm forty-two, as the heart, the deer, panteth after the water brooks Soul panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before? I have that hope. I'm thirsty, Lord. I'm hungering. I'm desirous for an answer. But I patiently wait because my hope is in you. Nothing else will do. Those who wait like David strain toward that moment when God shall come and they hope in him. When will he come? It will come at the right time. I think as we pattern the life of the things that are going on in the world in which we live, we wonder, Jesus, when are you going to return? When are these things going to come about? Sure, we live in a country of great security and peace, but if we didn't, well think of the lands that we could have been born in and found ourselves waiting for the Lord's return. So we see David in the pit, crying out, patiently and humbly waiting, and then we learn of the experience of the Lord delivering David. Again, there's no time frame in this. David Dove says, well, I waited ten days or a week or you know a year or whatever it was. There's no time frame involved in this. When it comes, he will lift David out of the pit. Verse 2, He brought me up also out of the horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings. The difference between quick sand and a rock. Being sucked in, being pulled around, having no hope and hopelessness and attitude and all things, but God picks him up out of this sense of desperation. To a sense of security. In the pit, we had not forgotten God, but our sense of His presence and comfort were not as lively as when He rescues us. Does that make sense? I have hope in God, but I'm still in the miry pit. But the confidence I have once he pulls me out and puts me on the rock is of a great difference. Of a great encouragement. In fact, the heart of the rescue is the restoration of the strong feelings of God's nearness and help. When I'm rescued, I say, yes, he's always been there. He's always seen it. He always knows why this occurred and these things that occurred, why they happened at this particular time But he brought me out. When other none other could have done it. David's rescue in this psalm may have been the healing of some disease. It doesn't say again, but it happens. Psalm 30 verse 2, O Lord my God, I cried out to you, and you healed me. Another time, crying out to God, a disease or whatever it wasn't, and he was healed. Made a deliverance from enemies. Psalm 69. Save me, O God. Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head. Those who would destroy me are powerful. It could have been that. And there were times in David's life when rescue was necessary, when all hope seemed to be gone, but his face was to the Lord. It may have been a difference of a deliverance in the tremendous guilt that he had, the sin that he committed. Psalm 51. Be gracious to me, O God. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. The horrible sins that David had committed bore heavy on him In the weight. He was in the miry clay. He was in the slop. Nathan comes and he says, Thou art the man! You can feel the swamp pulling him down, the darkness. But his hope was in God Such a deliverance, though, we see that it leads to the Lord giving David a new song to sing. God can deliver his servant from every sort of pit and mire, and when he does, the plight does not destroy his faith, but it brings him great peace. Verse 3, and he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. People who never sing, at least from the heart, are people who simply don't know and cherish the intense gratitude and joy that Jesus Christ gives us when we come to know Him. as Lord and Savior, when he comes and rescues us from airy parts of life. People who can't sing such never soar with a sense of joy in heart. All of this taste the very thing because it is our fallen nature. Because we've been rescued from such. Yet one way God keeps us from falling, keeps us by letting us know that we have fallen. One way that he brings us to an understanding of this relationship because he allows us to go into the pit. Oh, it'd be nice to say, I accept Christ as my Savior from here on everything is going to be the the the golden road, everything rose-colored glass, uh just just beautiful, but it doesn't. So he lets us fall into the pit. He leaves us there for a while, and then he brings us out into the fresh air and into his grace again. Sometime you can look back and you say, that fall, that time in the pit, the misery, the despair, the hopelessness, the situation that I I bemoan being in I was there and I was only rescued and once I was rescued I could see why he he did it to me. He allowed it to occur in my life in order that I could love him more The new song in my heart, because I've been rescued by the only one who could rescue me. I remember my time in Boot camp when we were all given gas masks. Remember that? Anybody? Yeah. And and you were you were led into this room with this great assurance that all is well and you put on the gas mask and all of a sudden everything gets cloudy And then they say, off with the mask. And you rip it off and he says, all right, just hang on a bit. And you're just in misery. You're just burning into Well, go into the details of that one, but it was terrible. And how joyous it was to get out of that room and breathe fresh air. Precious fresh air. And the Lord sometimes allows the pit to be part of our life in order that we can be rescued in Him to say, see how good it is to be with me To walk with me, to fellowship with me, because out there they can't do that. They bring you heartache and crushing tears in life It's the kind of love God wants us for himself. And if he must, he will get it by hiding himself from us for a season. That we crave him, that we desire to be next to him, near to him more and more each day. He says, you wait, you'll know. And when he shows himself again, we'll come out grasping for his presence and sing a new song like we've never sung before. All the old songs will be new. And if they are not adequate, we will write our new song for the joys that Jesus brings. The last lesson that David provides for us here, we learn from the psalm and his experience, is how others see and are saved. He says, Many, many. He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust the Lord. Who knows how many people might see and fear and put their trust in the Lord? But that's in the end of verse 3. Who knows how many were taking this as seriously as it was? But how wonderful to know that God gives us deliverance from the pit and puts a new song in our mouth in order that we might sing, that somebody else might hear such a testimony and see such an evidence in our life. That we might be able to show that there is hope and trust in Him. They may see us in fear, put their trust in God. But what do they see? They'll see that we had all of the very same natures that they as human natures. But we were humbled in our distress, and we never lost hope in our God. I never lost hope that He will rescue me. Never lost hope that God will give God the glory when I'm out. They see something real and genuine and authentic, something that rings true in the human heart, and the conviction starts to the unbeliever's life to say, this, what, what, what happened to you? Why are you different? Where is that hope that lies within you? The music of the rescued saint is a tremendous means of evangelism. The whole story that David gives here is really a lesson in personal evangelism. Does somebody that you work with or know ever give you an opportunity to share, you know how I came to Christ? You know why I'm not worried about this? You know why this situation doesn't bother me? Yes, I'm infirmed. Yes, I'm in a terrible state. Yes, I am. But you know that God is always with me? That God will rescue me at His time, that God will heal at His perfect time, that God will provide at His time. It may not happen, but you look at you. No, my eyes are on the Lord. And I know that he will see me through. When you're in the pits with the king, cry out to the Lord like a helpless child. Humbly and hopefully wait patiently on the Lord. Find out that indeed He will make His rescue, and when that occurs, in His way and in His time, sing a new song. Allow such a testimony to be known to all people so by grace people can fear and know and put their trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't think there's a better time in the world in which we live than now. The world is looking for hope. And it's not found in treaties, it's not found in horses, it's not found in princes, it's not found in anything, but in our Lord Jesus Christ. Shall we pray? Father, we confess that we often felt helpless and felt no rescue was at hand in some physical or emotional or spiritual attack that was upon us. And it went to discouragement and depression and just overwhelmed burden, and we were being crushed. And yet you'd never forsaken your own. You were always with us. And the day that you allowed such to happen, you also brought us such a rescue and lifted us up. And allowed us to see the joy that we have as being the child of the living God. That there was no prayer that was gone unanswered. There is no situation that was beyond your uh ability to do that which is right. But you answer things perfectly. Father, give us patience in our day. Help us to always look forward to the Lord Jesus Christ and his promises. Help us to see how you have always been and always will be, no matter what our situation. And that we find great joy in singing your praise, that the world may know that we have our hope in Christ, in Christ alone. It's in his name we pray, Amen