Familiar with that verse? Do you ever use that verse? Maybe in a letter? Well, nobody nobody writes letters anymore, but you know, uh maybe in an email. finish the email and you put your name on there and you add a verse as a verse of testimony. Philippians 413 It's one of the most well-used Christian verses. Go to a bookstore and you'll find it on t-shirts. You'll find it on placards, posters. You'll look around online and you'll see it on websites, blogs. There'll be some speaker. We're going to have a special speaker this weekend, and his theme is going to be Philippians 4. 13. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Football fans remember Tim Tebow, won the Heisman Trophy And Tim used to have his eye black underneath his eyes, and Philippians 4. 13 was the verse that he had written there for many, many years. And then I think when he was a junior he switched over to John 316. It was a very powerful way to go. I found a man by the name of Josh Benner, did some research on the verse. He found on Instagram, quote People have quoted this verse over 56,000 times. Now how he came about that, I'm not sure, but he did research. Most common references I saw were people quoting it in regards to some sort of exercise or fitness program. I saw others quote Philippians 4. 13 after winning beauty pageants or graduating from college. Some people, to my surprise, used it in reference to their diet. Quote, pre-workout meal coming up. Healthy creamy chicken with mushrooms and sun-dried tomatoes plus brown rice. Philippians 4. 13 You know, it's it's absolutely amazing how it was run. And maybe you don't use the verse at all. Maybe you've heard it and maybe it's oh yeah, I've I've heard that. But it really doesn't do much for me or for me to use it My prayer today is that we will tackle it as we tackle this verse. You don't receive it as, boy, Pastor, that was a really that was interesting. I found that verse interesting. I like that Or maybe something like, I'm going to start to use that under my emails, you know? My prayer is that you'll ask the Lord to make it real to you. Make Philippians 4. 13. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth. Make it real to you. Take it. Even as Paul said it, not as a verse to remember, but as a verse from his heart to the people that he had written to. Make it your own. Shall we pray? Father, in our uh weakened condition, self-examination shows that we are, irrespective of how proud we may be in some fields or areas of life. our accomplishments or the goals that we've set. It's really only, if we're honest with ourselves as a child of yours, it's only through Christ. It's only as he strengthens me will I have any accomplishment in life, anything that's pleasing in your sight. As Father, we tackle this and see the theme opened before us, we pray it will be uh sewn into our hearts, a fabric that will provide unto us uh encouragement in dark times especially, uh light in uh areas where we need light. Give us heart clarity by us and cause us, Father, to be seated with His truth. In Jesus' name. Amen. I think first to mention this fact is that our best understanding of Bible verses at any time, in any area from Genesis to Revelation, is to understand the context. How a verse fits within a number of verses, within a chapter, how one verse fits within a book itself. how it holds these things together and gives us a better clarity. And if you don't, it could be a recipe for disaster There's a little story that goes about a man who wished to do the will of God. He had his Bible and he believed that God's word was going to be something that will always provide it, so he takes his Bible and he opens it up unknowingly and he puts his finger down on that verse and he says, Lord direct me. Well he happened to get the verse. It was Matthew 27, 5. And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed and went and hanged himself. And he thought, E This is not really God's direction in my life, but there must be something more. So he closed his Bible. Lord, help me in understanding what you want from me. opens it up and puts his finger down there, you know, and once again comes to Luke chapter 10 verse 37. Then said Jesus unto him, Go and do thou likewise. See what happens if we just take a verse out of context? And we do this a lot, you know. I've just had a great victory in my diet, or I won the beauty pageant, or because of Philippians 413. That's how it runs. So what is the context of the verse that we find here today? Where was the Apostle Paul? And again, we're rehearsing something that we've talked about because it's important to see what Paul is saying from his context. He's in prison. Many say that he was shackled to a Roman soldier, a centurion, with him. It was a period of time where he was concerned about the church at Philippi, and they were concerned for him. They had written him, it was addressed to him, the letter brought by Epaphroditus, along with a gift, financial probably, maybe some other things that he brought along, and he brings them to them And he reads the letter and he hears the things going on in the church, and he says to the to the Philippians in this letter in response, he says, I'm okay. Thanks for the letter. Thanks for the money. I love you people. You know when we started the study of this book, you saw the relationship he had in opening up the hearts of his Philippians and what God had done to bring them. to a uniform body of Christ. The last two times we were together, Paul's response to the church was an attitude of contentment in his current state. Which wasn't the best of situations, but I'm content in the situation that I find myself in. He was content with Christ in prison And in truth, he says, I am content in my life from the moment I was on the road to Damascus finding out who Christ was in my life all the way to this very moment. I'm content because Christ is sufficient. And we saw that it was a matter of learning. Paul wasn't content just because all of a sudden there was a change. I'm born again, therefore I'm content. But he says, I'm content in my circumstances. I'm content with what's going on in my life. Even though it may not necessarily be something I plan to do, he was content. And that was his desire for his children. Philippians 4. 12 wrote, I know both how to be abased. And abased is a very low picture. I don't have the meagerness of life. And I know how to abound in abundance. Everywhere, in all things, I am instructed And we saw this last time. It was a continual instruction in life. All through life, I'm being taught how to be abased and how to abound and find in the common denominator of Christ He says, I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, to abound and to suffer need. I know how to live in humble circumstances. You ever had those times in life? I know how to live for Christ when things are not going my way. And he says, I know because I've experienced the classrooms of Tribulation 101 and Tribulation 102. Who's the Emperor at the time? Anybody know? Who's a crazy guy? Nero. Yes. A man, if you read about Nero's life, it was absolute hatred towards Christ. and his followers. He would soak them in oil, put them on poles, and light them as torches throughout his garden. Paul knew this. Paul was aware of Nero Paul says, in journeyings often, he writes to the church at Philippi. In perils of waters, and the word perils is like Danger. I'm in a dangerous situation in the waters. Imperils and robbers. In perils of mine own countrymen, the Jews In perils by the heathen, in perils by the city, in perils of the wilderness, in perils in the sea, perils among false brethren, in weariness, in painfulness, in watchings often in hunger and thirst, and fastings often, in cold and nakedness. And on and on he goes, not as a matter of boast. Or is a brag to the church at Corinth and Frostasy. But he says, this is what I've experienced, and he's not forgotten me. So Paul says, I've learned, though, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content, whether it's an abundance or whether it's being abase. I've learned contentment doesn't come from my circumstance and it doesn't come from what I have or I do not have. It comes from my relationship with Christ. With the extremes and up and downs of life, the only constant is Jesus Christ. So that's the context of the verse Philippians 4. 13 sits within that framework, looking at the man, watching the man, hearing the man, seeing all that he's going on through. And sometimes I kind of like to put myself in places in Scripture. What would I do? You know, they used to have the WWJD, what would Jesus do? And I read these things and I says, what would I have done in Paul's situation? So if that's the context, what about the verse itself? For example, does Paul literally mean I can do all things? Can he jump over his house? You know? Foolish to think so, although man without Christ thinks that I can do all things. Last week we used uh our our great hymn uh from the hymnal that we don't have, you know, I did it my way. You know. Frank Sinatra, uh the epitome of the self-centered man, says, I can do whatever I want to do, and I've done it my way in life Can Paul do all things? He's not God, and there's only one who can, the omnipotent God, who is all-powerful, and he can do such. So the verse really throws that out. The fullness of the verse, Paul says, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Literally, it reads, I have strength for all things in him who strengthens me. Whatever Christ has for him to do, whatever Christ has for you and I to do, whatever he's called us to do. He will supply the power, he will supply the ability, and he will supply the faith to accomplish it. Now sometimes we have to discern, is this Keith's will or is this God's will? Is this my will or is this God's will? And that's the area that we have to be mindful of, whatever Christ has done. When that's accomplished, God leaves no room for taking credit for myself. No room for me boasting, no room at all for me taking any pride, because I really didn't do it. It was God alone who did it. Surely there was no personal pride in the Roman prison. There was no boasting as he was shipwrecked. There was no credit taken when he was stoned. There was no way for him to say, I'm proud of how you beat me so, whipped me, how I was taken unjustly and thrown in jail. Yet Paul was content knowing that God had a purpose for such, and that he was with him, and that he was using him to accomplish his purpose. Do you think of that in life? What God has called me to do, not what I have called myself to do, but what God has called me to, he is doing it for a purpose for me. For me. You see, I can't do all things. But I can do all things which God has for me to do from the time that I was saved until the time He takes me home. From the moment I accepted him as my Lord and Savior until the time I depart from this world, every single thing that he lays before me to do, to accomplish in whatever stratus it is, whatever relationship, whatever circumstance I find myself in, if he's called me to do it, he will give me the faith to do it, he'll give me the ability to do it, and he will bring me along to accomplish it. And when it's done, I can say I couldn't have done that myself. It was you, and it was you alone. May I say that this is just not a New Testament principle? This is not a situation we find with Jesus Christ and Paul. He uses this verse. This is a theme that runs throughout Scripture. The men and women of Scripture provide us with powerful examples And Noah did according to all that the Lord had commanded him. Wow. Did God look down one day and say, Let me choose him Yes, him, because he has great skills. You know? He called him out to think of all of the things that were accomplished in the construction of the ark. More than likely it took about 75 years Anybody gone to the Arctic Experience in Kentucky? Ever done that? Do that sometimes if you ever get over there. It is super. You know, the size of it, the massiveness of this, and all the things that were done. He says, Well, Lord, if you want me to build this then you're going to have to give me the faith to accomplish this because the world around him was all in decay. They hated. Then all of a sudden to be able to put it together with his entire family and to get the animals that were in there God didn't choose Noah because he was handy with woodworking tools or shipbuilding, yet God knew Noah and that he was faithful in doing the things that he had called him to do, and he exercised it. And Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? God called Moses. We know the story of Moses, how he was rescued by Pharaoh's daughter, brought out in the reed basket, taken along, raised by his mother for a number of years, but brought back into the palace. And then all of a sudden he was chose him out of all of the riches of Egypt to lead his people Israel. God didn't choose Moses because he knew he was raised in the palace. He had great leadership qualities But he says, now I want you to go back and I want you to tell Pharaoh these things. And Moses said, I can't. He said, all right, we'll use your brother, but nonetheless you're going to do it. And he leads him for how many years in the wilderness? Forty years rebellious people of Israel led him in the wilderness, and how many times was he faced with with obstacles, circumstances that would have been d depressing and decaying in his own heart Yet he chose him, and he gave him the faith, and he God said unto Moses at that time, certainly I will be with thee. And all of the plagues, the exodus itself, and the journeyings through 40 years in the wilderness, Moses could say, I didn't do it myself, it was your way. Following seven years of exile in Babylon, God used a man who was in the palace, Nehemiah. to go back, along with a few others, but to go back and to restore the city. The walls had been torn down, the beautiful gates of Jerusalem burned. The people were in peril And he heard about this, and God called him to go from Babylon, to go all the way back to his old hometown, and called upon him to be able to serve in such a way. It took 52 days to finish the job. Did he choose Nehemiah because all of a sudden Nehemiah had great architectural skills? He was a great speaker. He could rally the people to build? No, whatever he chose him for, he chose him and gave him not only the faith to accomplish an impossible task But he given the skills and the ability to rally the people, trowel in one hand, sword in the other, build the walls of Jerusalem and bring it back to what it was supposed to be. And in the end there was a tremendous revival I think Nehemiah could say, I could do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. What of the Queen Esther? placed by God in the Persian palace, becoming a substitute queen to the most powerful man at the time in the world. And all of a sudden, she finds herself in a place of situations for such a time as this to rescue her people, the Israelites. The Jews of the area were about to be planned to be eliminated, annihilated by the schemings of a very crafty man. Yet God had chosen Esther to rescue the people, and so she did because she was equipped to accomplish what nobody else could have done. Jonah called to preach repentance to a hated Nineveh, yet even through Jonah's stubbornness His attitude, because I'm not going to call upon repentance of the people that I hate who have been so terrible to my people. Why should I do that? And it he calls upon them and takes them. And there was a grand repentance from the king all the way down to the lowest of the lows in in this city. And there was a hundred and twenty thousand Who heard the call. And what was his sermon? What was his sermon? Yet 40 days a Nineveh shall be overthrown. That's it. But he had to find a man who would be willing, and you could tell clearly in the in the statements and the examples of what Noah had gone through. or Jonah had gone through that he'd had no desire to do this, and it had to be totally about what God had placed in him. and used him not only to be able to preach and to go through reading some commentaries they say as he came out of that fish He probably sm if you ever go fishing and you touch a fish, how you smell Can you imagine how Jonas smelled? You know, walking through the city of Nineveh, you know, forty days. Repent And he probably had quite the stench to take him along with such a message, but nonetheless, he was the man that God had chosen. A young David standing in the field of battle, mocked by his own brothers. Who are you, little man? Doubted by King Saul himself. Yet he was the one whom God had chosen to be the champion against the Philistine giant Goliath. Because God had called him at this moment in history and enabled him. God gave him the faith and the power to exercise a victory. These are impossible situations. Humanly speaking, David couldn't say, Well, I've been pretty good. Yeah, I've killed a bear and I killed a lion. Therefore I'm qualified. You know, let me do it. You know. He said those things because he said, God brought me to a place where I could kill the lion. And slay the bear, and I can be the one, the champion, because he's dishonored the Lord Himself. God gave him the faith, God gave him the ability to stand out there and do it. What about the apostles themselves? Think all of the time, the two and a half, three years that they walked with Jesus and they heard his sermons? He saw his miracles, uh, even like Peter, you know, yeah Lord, you know, we'll take up swords and you know we'll chop off ears and we'll we'll go to the death with you And then the moment changes and all of a sudden they're found themselves cowering up in the upper room. We don't want to be executed like Jesus was. chickens, cowards, and yet that was the situation they found himself in. Yet God called them to a man to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ And to a man. They were all persecuted and they all suffered, but they proclaimed the gospel of Christ because God gave them the faith, God gave them the strength, God gave them the ability to be able to be used by Him And that was the answer to what was needed at the time. I think we can go on and on and there's probably every single story. of great victories of men and women that we read throughout the scriptures. And the principle lies the same that God has called his own to himself to be used to do something whatever that might be. And in calling them, he says, I have equipped you, I've called you, and you can now accomplish the tasks that are set before me. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me, empowers me, infuses me with power, enables me to do his will. In Scripture and in life, who gives the power to resist temptation? Here's Joseph, you know, um team places with Potiphar's wife. I think there was tremendous temptation, even being abused by his brothers and sold into slavery, or in the prison, being there forgotten. But you said you would tell the Pharaoh, you know, left behind uh uh temptation to get revenge and even as he met his brothers towards the end, he says, You guys meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Who gave Joseph the power and the faith and the trust to accomplish the task to rescue his people Israel, to save Egypt, and to bring them to Egypt in all these things to be done? Did God choose Joseph because I see in your heart one day you're going to be a faithful man to me? No. God chose him because there was nothing in Joseph by himself to be able to accomplish the task. But God gave him what was necessary to do all of those things and do them quite well. Who gives the power to stand firm for the faith once delivered unto the saints? Who strengthens the believers in Nigeria to stand for faith? uh since the past sixteen years over fifty thousand Nigerian Christians have been slaughtered. Thousands of churches burned down. Business is gone. What would you do? Oh man, I'm just gonna I think I'm gonna put on all those barkers and I'm gonna you know blend right down in. God gives them that ability. Who gives the power to be calm and trusting when facing the unknown? I've shared with you before my sister-in-law Carrie out in California. And the heart problems that she was going through. This is a note from her. She had open heart surgery just before Thanksgiving. She had two arteries that were 80% blocked, two arteries of 70% blocked. Hi everybody, it's Carrie, and I wanted to thank you all for, this was a uh a note that was sent out to about 20 of us, family members and others that were close I want to thank you for much praying on my request for safe and successful surgery before our great physician. I'm so glad that our God hears our prayers and has answered us all in his perfect way. I love you all and I thank the Lord for each of you. You are all so special, and I am so blessed to be loved by God. We have such a we have so much to be thankful for. But to know especially that as his children, he is our refuge and strength, the very present help in trouble. That's incredible. Let's continue to pray for each other. We can have thanks for trials tonight, because we all know just how wonderfully close trials bring us to the Savior. Then she adds, Psalm 34, 4, I sought the Lord and He heard me and delivered me out of all my fears. Open heart surgery, you know. Her husband uh back in 2018 almost had to have heart replacement. I mean my brother's heart was just horrible, but they brought him through Who gives you the strength, the confidence, and the comfort to be able to say, Lord, you've known about these valves, you've known about these situations long before I was even made aware of it And yet you're going to walk me through. You're going to find grace to help me. I think in each of these cases of scripture from From Noah to Moses to Nehemiah to Esther and all the others, they had nothing that could have been credited with them. Look at the examples that are there. There's nothing you say, well I was qualified. I can do that's why God chose me. None. There was no special education, no special talent that made them more qualified to answer the call. It was only achieved by a willingness to be a vessel of the Lord and to be confident in Him and in Him alone. The trials of the test. Paul says, I've had it in abundance, and they said last week, abundance is hard because we tend to forget the Lord at those times. But I've had it when I've been obeyed Well, they've just suffered it all and yet he says he is always there. We are commanded to love the Lord our God with all of our heart and with all of our soul and with all of our mind and as our neighbor, as ourself. We've been called, each one of us as a child of God to do that, aren't we? How can I do that How can I accomplish the fact that I am to love the Lord my God with all of my heart and all of my soul and all of my mind and love my neighbors? How? I have to ask him because he's called me to do that. Lord, in my own strength, I can't do it. It's not my nature to do that. I want my pound of flesh. I want to get back at them. I just don't like the way they look. I don't like the way they act. But that's what he's commanded us to do. We're commanded to preach the gospel to all, the Great Commission. Boy, I don't really, Lord, don't know how how, like Moses, how how how how how how am I going to do it, you know I'm not comfortable sharing Christ with somebody. I'm not comfortable in the Ken Olsonism giving them a gospel tract. I just can't do those things. So I have to say, Lord, if you call me to do this and you've equipped me to do it in some way that is unique to me As husbands we're commanded to, as wives we're commanded to, as children we're commanded to, relationships that are all over the place. And if those commands are offensive, then offensive only because I find myself saying this is what I would do, but it's not what God would do. There's one other thing I wanted to see in this text, and that it does not say, I can do all things through Christ which has strengthened me. It's not past tense. It's not a one time done in it that's going on. He says, I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. It's a continual operation and strengthening of the Spirit of God in my life to do the things that He would have me to do. Some people live thinking that because they were saved fifty years ago, that they can live without the daily supply of grace. They can go along, well I accepted Jesus when I was back at youth camp and all of a sudden now I'm I've grown out of that, but I'm saved. I'm saved. But they've forgotten about the daily grace that's needed. Remember the children of Israel? How did God feed them in the wilderness for forty years? What did they eat? Sand. Yeah. Yeah. S the the supply of manna. And the regulation was it'll be fresh for you each morning, except on the sixth day. You can take just a supply each day, but on the sixth day you can take twice as much, because on the Sabbath day they were not to take any, there wouldn't be any And if they added more than they would normally eat in a day, it would rot. God says, what I give you each day is sufficient for the day. His grace is sufficient for the day. The supply is sufficient for the day. And only the day, but you can't say, well, I'm going to live on what I stored up, what I've had in the past. That simply doesn't work And if the children of Israel did not redo every day, if they did not supply every day, they would starve. So it's not about our old experiences, but our daily experiences. It's not what you gleaned from the word last month, but what you fed from today. It's not your testimony how you walked with Jesus through trials last year, but it's how He is present with you and felt and known today, fresh today. As my sister-in-law Carrie said, we can give thanks for trials tonight because we all know how wonderfully close trials bring us to the Savior. It's in the fresh presence of God that makes us strong for all things. Jesus walking with him doesn't mean I'm lagging behind. You know, doesn't mean I'm running ahead, but the picture that gives it is as I'm glued to his back. I'm stuck right there with him. Familiar passage in John 15, 4 and 5. Abide in me, Jesus says. Abide means remain. Stay with him. Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine. There's the grapes The grapes come out and if that branch where the grapes are hanging from isn't connected to the vine, it can't work. It is cut off from the supply that the vine provides. I am the vine, and ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me, what? For without me you can do zip, nothing, nada Doing it mean now, what you are doing now, without Jesus. Paul says, I can do all things with Christ, which strengthens me now, in prison now Not in the shipwrecks, or he did in the shipwrecks, not in the falling in the water, not in this time or that time, but now spending time with him. I almost wanted to do a hymn, but we stuck it with Christmas. There is a hymn writer. by the name of Charles Kinley. And one of the hymns, many hymns that he wrote, Nothing between my soul and my savior Naught of this world's delusive dreams. I have renounced all sinful pleasure. Jesus is mine. There's nothing between. Interesting character. Let me just read. I should have printed it out, but I hadn't thought about it earlier. Charles Tinley, born in 1851, died in 1933. African American Methodist minister and gospel cu music composer, and listed all of the hymns that he had provided over the years. He was known as the Prince of Preachers. Let me drop down here. He was born in Berlin, Maryland. Familiar with the area? Uh born as a free man prior to the American Civil War, but had a deep and intimate understanding of slavery because his father was a slave After the Civil War, he moved to Philadelphia, where he found employment as a hod carrier, a brick carrier. He and his wife Daisy attended uh Breckenridge Method uh Methodist Episcopal Church. Later he took the job as the church sexton with no salary. He had no formal education, but he learned to read by sounding out letters and eventually words from pieces of paper and by writings that he had found. He educated himself. He mastered reading so well, maybe he was enlisted by the help of the Reformed Congregation of Kemba Kennerith. Israel, a synagogue on North Broad Street in Philadelphia. He later learned Greek by taking and correspondence course with the Boston Theological School. Without a degree, Kinley was qualified for ordination in the Methodist Episcopal Church by examination, the highest ranking score He was ordained deacon at the Delaware Conference. Uh da-da-da-da-da-da. He became pastor of the Church. Under his leadership, the church grew rapidly from a hundred and thirty members when he arrived. In nineteen oh six the congregation moved from such and such a place in Philly. Um the property purchased by In in any case the congregation over time grew to a multiracial congregation of ten thousand members. You know The man who was born to a slave, the man who educated himself, the man who wrote this beautifully and nothing between my soul and the savior And it ends up that uh he ends up being a pastor well beloved by thousands of people. Come to people came to Christ through his ministry. How Through Christ. Only through Christ. You can't say, well, look at his education. Well, he must have great drive. He must have no, he leaned on the promises. He saw the relationship with Christ daily as necessities. to be able to live, to be able to grow, to be able to be used of Christ. Are we any different? Oh, we've had education, you know. We've had experiences. And yet what that may be good for right now, but what about tomorrow? What about next week? What about next month What challenge will God place us in? What situation? What circumstance will He find us in that we say, Lord, why did you forsake me? He says, No, I didn't forsake you. I place you in this situation for you to trust in me. I'll give you the faith. I'll give you the ability. I'll give you the strength to do my will. That's what God has promised within his word. This is what the Apostle Paul sits in prison with, and he's saying to the Philippians, folks, thanks for the gift, but I can do everything through Christ which strengthens me. May that seed in your heart to be a principle of truth for the years ahead. Shall we pray? Thank you, Father, for your kindness. Thank you for your love. Thank you for your tremendous mercy and grace. Thank you for seeding us into your family and bringing us a place where we can be called the sons of God. We have an eternal place in heaven once we depart from this earth. But until that time, we're tasked with many things, many responsibilities and relationships. Many situations that we'll find about as the days go on. And we, Lord, need to trust in you, believing what your will is done, that we can accomplish your purpose Thank you again for the call that Paul had to this situation in life and for the profit it gives us as readers of a letter. As uh s servants of the Most High God, even as Paul. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.