Today doesn't have to be a good one. On our way down the turnpike or 95, the folks from Delaware were handing out uh invitations to pay the state for the men with the little lights on top and then in Maryland they were doing the same. So it's a new month and new contributions. Let's pray as we prepare for the Word. Father, thank you for again the joy that we have in Christ. Thank you for his presence with us now and as the word is presented, this letter of the apostle, we pray that what we are able to feed on might be, again, good seeds sown in good soil to produce much fruit. We recognize that it's a spiritual battle that we're engaged in, so we ask for your hand to be protecting us around this word, our hearts, our minds that it might be able to focus on these truths. And uh recognize, Lord, that we give an account for that which we've been able to receive in your word and be able to use it for your glory. In Christ's name. Amen. I spent much of my early years growing up in the country, born in the city of Buffalo, not too far from the Niagara River. But I think when I was about three we moved out to the country. Dad built a house out there and uh it was a nice place, but then by the time we got to ninth grade, the family had grown sufficiently, so we moved about a half a mile down to the road to my old my mom's old homestead, to the old farmhouse. And um it was nice. We enjoyed our time out there in the country and and did all kinds of stuff. Um it was good. Until I was about in twelfth grade and mom would say, why don't you invite some of your friends out here for a picnic or something like that? Because I'm always going to their house in the in the more affluent sections of the city. And I said, uh I don't think so, you know. I was embarrassed. And as foolish as that may have sounded, at the time it was real to me The reality of being growing up on green acres uh didn't compare to the folks where I went into the city and my classmates were in uh in some very nice homes and so forth. Contentment can be a very elusive chase in life Trying to strive for it, trying to reach that level of contentment, whatever we may think will make us happy, oftentimes doesn't work By the end of the day, we end up being happier before we ever started that foolish adventure. And I think the proof of that is played out in everyday life. I think we've all experienced the loss of contentment or the lack of it because we've been discontented in all sorts of areas. It's shown in our discontentment in the consumer debt I'm just not happy with what I have, so I take the plastic and I get more in order to be happy and yet I don't seem to be able to make it. It produces a high divorce rate. I'm just not happy with my spouse or my family life or what happened. And and therefore I just do something different and that doesn't work. It contributes to rioting and drug and alcohol abuse and the hookup culture and the changing of sexual identity and preferences. I just don't feel right in this body, therefore I have to be somebody else. And there's a whole boatload of other societal ills. We return today to this matter of contentment that the apostle is speaking of in chapter 4 of Philippians. If you would turn your Bibles to that passage, short verses, chapter four, verses ten through thirteen. And he gives us some guidance. In his life as experienced, not for the purpose of contentment, but because the Philippians were concerned for Paul. He's telling them, I'm in jail, I'm in prison, and they were concerned about his life. Follow along as they read verses 10 through 13, Paul writes, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly. That now for the last your care for me hath flourished again, wherein you were also careful, but lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. You probably don't remember much of this about it was about a month ago when we started this first section of this uh topic on contentment from this passage. But at that time I quoted Jeremiah Burroughs in a definition that he gave. And this helps us out. What do you mean contentment? What does that feel like? He said Christian contentment is that sweet, inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit which freely submits to and delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal of every situation. Lord, thank you. What's taken place, what I've received, I accept it from you Contentment is not a station in life in which we strive to be not a have-not, but I strive to be a haves. If I can only do, if I can only be, if I can only have, then I can get out of this have not attitude. If I only lived in another neighborhood or drove another vehicle, if I had another date with that guy or this girl. If I was in perfect health, then I'd be content. But that attitude brings to the point of saying, I'll never be content Because there's never a level that I reach and say, oh, that's what it took. In truth, real contentment is that inner sense of peace that says, no matter what comes along No matter what takes place in my life, because of the Lord Jesus Christ, I have him, whether it be sickness and sorrow, joy and health, plenty and want. I will continue on because all of my resources are found in Christ. And that's hard to grasp because we grew up in a world that doesn't focus on having your resources in Christ. Resource and everything else. Last time we were together, we talked about the first step in gaining discontentment, and again we saw Paul in a prison. Not in the best of situations. The potential of death was around the corner. Injustice was all along the way. And he writes that these Philippians, he is joyous because of the the the the the financial gift and whatever things they sent along with him, words of encouragement, he received and he was happy. But he says, this was of the Lord, because God gave you, Philippians, the money or whatever was sent. to you in order that you could supply my need. Ultimately he says, God knew my need. And God gave you the privilege of allowing you as a as a vessel to send it on to me. We concluded that we can delight in the Lord because He knows exactly our needs. And according to the measure that we need it. And according to the situations that we find ourselves in, he is our sufficient supply. With that in mind, our step number two is What I've put as not to allow the good life to possess you. And I refer to this as the Frank Sinatra syndrome. We didn't have this on our hymnal, and I don't think Matthew would have been able to play it. But Frank used to sing, and now the end is near. And so I face the final curtain. My friend, it is clear, I'll state my case, of which I'm certain. I've lived a life that's full, I've traveled each and every highway, and more, much more than this. I did in my uh yeah, you were listening to those things. Regrets I've had a few. But then again, too few to mention. I did what I had to do and saw it through without exemption. I planned each charted course, each careful step along the byway. And more, much more than this, I did it my way. Yes, there were times, I'm sure you knew when I bit off more than I could chew, but through it all, when there was doubt, I ate it up and spit it out. I faced it all. I stood tall and did it my way. You know And that was Frankie. Yeah, and you look at his life, I don't think there was great contentment if he was honest. Behind this topic of truth is that mankind, all mankind, and I focus especially on American Christians, struggle with the way of life. We want things to go our way, the worst way. We struggle with that. My decision is the right decision. My choice is the right choice. And it's got to be that way. And when it doesn't happen, well We want to sing like Frank, with meaning and sincerity. But to be honest with ourselves, my way will never be a lasting satisfaction. It hasn't. We live in a culture where we have come to believe that all around us there are an abundance of possessions. That will make things better. Everything that I need to do will work out my way in life. And of course, that's not new to our generation. History is full of situations just like that There's one that I want to just grab out of the New Testament, the story of a little man called Zacchaeus. If you're not familiar with Zacchaeus, he was a tax collector In Jericho and Luke 19, 2 says that he was the chief among the publicans and he was rich. Publicans, not republicans, okay. And chief meant that he was hired from the Roman government to be the head tax man over all of Jericho. And didn't mean that he went out and collected taxes, but he had other men under him that were collecting taxes. So if the Roman government necessitated thirty dollars from each person, that means every layer down the road would increase fixed the cost. So you would end up paying sixty bucks. And 10 bucks would go to those lower men. And then the other amount would go to to our our dear chief tax collector. So by the time they got to the Roman government, their amounts were paid, but everybody got ripped off along the way. If you read your New Testament, you'll see that tax collectors or publicans were known as the chiefest of sinners because of the corruption that was born. They were their own people, and they were robbing them terribly. It was the personification of the self-made man. Yet he met with Jesus, he sought him. And what makes this meeting was a pledge that he made public that everybody could hear after his exchange with the Lord Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. Everybody hears the statement, and what he said was, of all that I have, he's a rich man, of all that I have, I'm going to take 50% and I'm going to give it back to the poor. Out of the remaining fifty percent that I have, if I've ripped anybody off, and I'm sure there were an abundance of people that got ripped off. He says, I'm going to pay them back more than the law would require. I'm going to pay them back fourfold the amount. Four times the amount that was required. And in fact, Zacchaeus lived out Jesus' words that we had in our responsive reading when the rich young man came to Jesus. Jesus told him, Sell all that thou hast and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasures in heaven, and come and follow me. The wee little man, Zacchaeus, became the big man in town. He became the biggest man in town. His compulsive drive to make money and keep it was gone. And he comes to Jesus controlled by greed, controlled by that which would only satisfy his soul, money, and he leaves Jesus controlled by a passion to give. He went from the smallest man in town to the biggest man in town. Something wonderful had happened inside that house with Jesus, that Jesus said, this is the clarity of the man's changed life. This day is salvation come to the house, forasmuch as he is a son of Abraham. He was born again. He was regenerated. He was changed from the inside. And the proclamation of those words was seen in his attitude. From corruption and greed to an attitude of giving and satisfaction, completeness within his heart. As a matter of fact, Jesus uses 16 of his parables to talk about money or possessions. Never think about that, but the reasons why are obvious. In Luke 12, 15, he warns that a man's life does not consist in the abundance of the things which he possesses. The actor, the all-star baseball player, the man who is the high-tech company CEO, he indeed has it all, along with the chief tax collector of Jericho. They have all the toys. They sing along with Frank. But in the end, like Solomon, they say, It's vanity. It's emptiness. It's a vacuum. I don't have the satisfaction of my soul. I don't have the completeness. It's nothing. Going back to our text in verse 11, Paul makes a disclaimer about the situation. And again, remember, he's in prison, and he says, Not that I speak of respect of want or need He says, I'm not complaining to you, Philippians. I recognize and I'm thankful for the gift you gave me. But I wasn't greedy or I didn't want anything more. He says, I just think of you as a dear people and I've learned. indeed, that whatever state that I am therewith to be content. Paul's present condition was lacking nothing. You've got to be kidding me in jail, unjustly, finding no tangible evidence of anything other than his relationship with Christ to be sufficient. And he says, I lack nothing. Whatever my state is, whatever the situation in life is, I lack nothing. And we think of things in life like that, and he says, we balance them according to that which I have. my current situation, the the state of life that I'm in, my surroundings, that's how I evaluate life. And Paul says, no. There's something more that's not necessarily tangible, but it's Christ within me that makes it right. Paul said that I have learned to be content, meaning what? Contentment isn't natural, is it? We're not born with it. Watch the little child at Christmas and go through all of the toys, you know, and he just, I wanted this one, and that's what I thought give me that one and and Contentment isn't something that comes natural at a moment of life. Like the Apostle, it is something that we learn as we follow the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, for I have learned. Shows Paul's whole experience as a Christian, especially up to this point. I am continuing to learn to be content. Contentment isn't natural to me Paul, as you know, did all that he could to become the best Pharisee that he possibly could to win favor in the eyes of God. And yet Paul says, now that I'm a believer, I've learned these lessons in life. They've not failed me. For you and I, learning to be content is a lifelong process. Something that each of us has to learn as we take one day at a time. Something that I have to start my day with, say, Lord, give me an attitude, a heart of contentment with whatever situation that I may find myself in. It doesn't come suddenly, but over a lifelong of learning. Now, that that doesn't mean you have to wait till you get old to be content. You know, if that was the case, who was everybody, you know. Uh nonetheless, we learn by experience that we'll be learning more and more as we become older and older in our lives in this perfect understanding to start out young in our lives. The more youthful attitude that I have about learning contentment is benefiting me throughout life. I think your own experience will tell you that contentment is contrary to human nature. Since the time of the fall, What was the life for Adam and Eve? They had everything perfect. They had perfect health. They had a perfect garden. They had a perfect marriage. They had a perfect everything except They listened to the serpent, they listened to the lies of Satan, who said, Well, there are some things in life that you don't have, and that you can't achieve those. And so they threw everything away to perfect contentment in order to have more, which was the lie that Satan had. Not everything is provided, says Satan. And if Adam and Eve were not content in the garden, what hope is there for you and I, except for the grace of God? We're born with that attitude, not being content. It's a struggle, it's a learning process all through life. Paul says, I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. Whatever situation I find myself in, whatever the the the construct of my day, whatever is going on, I am learning to be content. In reality it begins contentment with the purpose of our existence. Why are we here? Which helps me in the education of my own heart to be able to say, if I'm living this life for me, then I naturally have a desire to have more. I'm never going to be content. Westminster Shorter Catechism. Question number one. What is the chief end of man? You know what? Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. The chief purpose in life. Why am I here? Well, I'm here to better my life. I'm here to enjoy life. No. And he says the basis of life is based upon my relationship with God. It is the greatest joy that meets the heart of every human being. Obviously, not every heart is after him. But God can bring in the deepest needs of the human heart. And Paul says that is found to know Christ, to know him, to know him. Contentment also learns to distinguish between needs and wants. Needs and wants. There are a few things in life that we really find necessary, and God identifies them as food and clothing. 1 Timothy 6. 8. And having food and raiment, let us therewith to be content Well, I'd surely like to think of something else, you know. And that kind of jumps into the principles of needs and wants. So the next two verses, Paul says But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drowned men in destruction and perdition For the love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows The danger of my needs and the danger of my wants. Paul makes it very clear to Timothy. God has promised to provide our needs. However He doesn't guarantee all of our wants. And it doesn't mean some of those are as not s simultaneous with each other. I think we have a tendency to spend our resources on the things th that are our wants and tend to worry about things that don't necessarily come our way. Jesus warned of such in Matthew 6. He says, Therefore, take no thought, saying, What shall I eat? Or what shall I drink? Or what shall I be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles, the non-Jews, seek after. For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. Learning to be content is a lifelong process of trusting in God. Does he know what I have to need of? Does he know my tomorrow? Does he know my today? Does he know every situation I'm in? Then why should I find it all oh if I could only have this, because I know best in my life. George Mueller proved to be his sovereign and his faithfulness to God in matters of things and finances 19th century Bristol, England, he started a uh orphanage with 30 girls. As time grew, Rapidly into five homes and caring for over ten thousand children in his lifetime The uniqueness of Mueller's situation is that they had literally taken Jesus' command to forsake all Their possessions. They had no personal resources. They said, if this is a ministry that we are to have, God we're going to trust and rely upon you for it all. He was firmly committed to the principle of not making his financial needs known to anybody except to God, and except in the matter of prayer. He was extremely careful to give hints that these needs of the orphans were there before the Lord The children never knew about his financial difficulties. Children never knew anybody within the orphanage about the things that they were going to lack. But there were times that Mueller's faith was tested and tried. On the occasion, he took them down to the wire and then supplied the need. One time on February 8th of 1842, they had enough finances to feed all of the orphanages and see that that was done in one day and that was all They didn't have enough food or money for bread or milk for the following morning, and two of the houses lacked coal for their furnaces. Mueller wrote in his journal that if God was not to send help by 9 o'clock the next morning, his name would be dishonored. The next morning, Mueller walked to the orphanage to see how God was going to meet the knee and discover that it was already taken care of. Christian businessman walked by the entrance to the orphanage and walked down the road. Apparently he was half a mile past the orphanage when he felt that the children might have a need, burden his heart He says, well, I'll take care of that tomorrow night, or did that night in itself. He had already gone past and decided that he would need to go it because his heart was burdened right then And he returned to the orphanage and covered all the needs that were there. In the next two days, the gift covered. Mueller knew many instances where God tried his faith. In his journal, Mueller recorded from miracle after miracle of the things that God had provided for him Quote, one morning all of the plates and cups and bowls and the table were empty. There was no food in the larder, no money to buy food. The children were standing waiting that morning for their meal Mueller said, Children, you must know that we will be in time for school. Then lifting up his hands, he prayed, Dear Father, we thank you for what thou art going to do to eat for us this day. There was a knock at the door. A baker was there and said, Mr. Mueller, I couldn't sleep last night. Somehow I felt that there was a need for bread for breakfast. The Lord wanted me to send you some. I got up at 2 a. m. , I baked fresh bread, and I brought it for you. Mr. Mueller thanked him, and no sooner did he left than there was a second knock on the door, and it was the milkman He announced that his milk cart had broken down right in front of the orphanage and that he would have to give the children these fresh cans of milk in order to repair the cart. If you are willing to talk with God, you'll find out your most deepest of sincere situations are known unto him, and he can change. Not a matter of coincidence, but by his hand. The sovereign God has put you there as a matter of training of faith, even as he had done with George Mueller and his family and all of those who were there. He's the sovereign God to whom we can trust for all our situations. Every Christian needs to learn to be content. Paul says in the letter of Philippians a number of times, rejoice in the Lord always. He was preaching exactly what he had practiced. The apostles' contentment and joy, even in prison again, showed spiritual maturity to all of the challenges that he faced. Paul goes on to explain later on in our chapter in verse 12, using a series of opposites to illustrate this situation. And he shows it and he says, I know, my experience is both how to be abased and how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. He says, this has been my experience in life. Philippians, this is what how God has given me contentment. One end he speaks of being abased, to be brought low, to suffer hunger, to be in need. The other extreme of the spectrum, he says, to abound, to be plentiful, in abundance. Paul is reminding the Philippians not about talking in abstract, but these are things he actually lived through. Things that he experienced himself. Let me take two commentaries from these. And the first by Adam Clark about being abased, being brought low. Clark says See the state to which God permitted this chief apostle to be reduced, and see how powerfully the grace of Christ supported him under the whole How few of those who are called Christian ministers or Christian men have learned this important lesson. When want or affliction comes, their complaints are loud and frequent, and they are soon at the end of their patience That's usually the hardest, isn't it? When we've suffered, when we lack, when we're missing the pain of something that's been taken away, that which we can't achieve, and that's the time we go to God and we say, Lord, why have you forsaken me? Paul says, I've experienced those two. The other end of the spectrum about abounding, this is from Charles Hadn-Spurgeon. He says, there are a great many men who know little about how to be abased, meaning brought low, that do not know anything about how to abound. When they are put down into the pit, as with Joseph, they look up and they see the starry promise and they have hope for their escape. But when they are put on the top of the pinnacle, their heads grow dizzy and they are ready to fall. Isn't that neat? He says, when I'm brought low, yes, I I find my need to call upon the Lord in sif in in in being my sufficiency to help meet that need. But he says, when I am up on the top of the mountain, when everything's going great, when when all of the praise is there, when all of the answers have been met, all of a sudden I I don't necessarily find that need for the Lord Most of us would have to admit that we're only happy when we are among the haves of life, not the have-nots. We're most joyous when I have all of the needs met and everything seems to be all put in place. But I'm afraid that few of us would say that we are most happy when we are based, when we're brought low, when we are down and suffer hunger and need. The reality is that we have made an idol out of our comfort and convenience. And when our comfort is disrupted, complaining begins, showing contentment at the door of our hearts. Oh, such is life. Paul says, it really doesn't matter what's taking place in my life I can either be an either end of the spectrum. I can be full or I can be empty. I can be knocked down or I can be lifted up. But I know that the state that I'm in, the provisions are always there. I have learned to be content. This past week, on one of the recent Morning Light shows, Jeff interviewed a Ukrainian pastor, uh Did him on video. talked with him and behind him was all of the destruction that was ongoing and he says to the pastor, he says, uh, how is life? He says, You lost your church by the rockets of or the the troops had come in and taken over this church. Um and I can't think of the name of the town that he was in, but it was a mega church and the Russians had come in and just took the whole church over and and used it for their own purposes. He escaped with his family and he says uh the drones came by and they destroyed his van and destroyed everything, all of their possessions And he says, how are you if they continue on? He says, well, all they've done is remove these things, but we still have the Lord. And we still have purpose in life. We still have things that we are to do. Uh they apparently had given them a church in another town where they were at. And he says, Well that's a nice church. He says, Well, we got a good deal out of it because the back half of the church is all blown out by uh by drones, you know, the Russian drones. He says, so that's why they gave us a a good deal, because it's only part of a building But he says we continue to grow in our walk with him. Do none of them complain? Not that I've heard. But in reality, when they've ta had everything taken away, they indeed be able to say it is only the things of life that we find in Christ that are sufficient. Life depends not on our external circumstances, but on the disposition of our heart. What situation is my heart in? Yes, there are times, I'm sure you knew, when I could bid off more than I could chew, and if through it all, then there is doubt. I ate it up and spit it out, I faced it all, and I stood tall And did it God's way. And did it God's way. Whatever's coming up for us in in you as a family and you as an individual in the days and the weeks and the years ahead the provisions that God will provide will be according to His gracious hand. And however it fits out, oh that isn't the way I planned it. That isn't the way we look forward to it. That isn't the way it Could use a kidney, you know, could use a job, could use a uh this, could use that, you know, well why? Well God understands it's doing it his way. We're thankful for Paul's attitude about being content, and it's a conflict, but again, it's a process through life. We ask the Lord to help us to learn contentment as we trust and trust in Him for all things. Father, thank you for the provision of your word and the precious examples of the men and women of Scripture Very years ago we did our study in Joseph and we found a man who had been robbed of all of the ordinary things in life and yet he found his comfort and his satisfaction in his walk with you. Oh, we find the disciples and the struggles that they had gone through, especially after the crucifixion, and yet They became men of great confidence and comfort by the returning of the Holy Spirit and their broadcasting w uh the only message that they could broadcast of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and they stood tall and almost to a man they were persecuted and tortured. Yet Christ was all. So in our day we see the results of of the hardships in countries like Nigeria or uh uh uh Afghanistan or um China or Korea um uh w where conflict has ripped away everything in life, the possessions of life for believers especially And yet they stand tall for you. Give us grace, Father, and understanding of this glorious relationship we have with you. And be content with who you are and what you've done. In Christ's name. Amen.