Basically, as we're taking the summer, we're looking at assurance of salvation. I think that's an incredible uplifting encouragement to us as Christians to know where we stand. Where are we as Christians And I think if we read this, the Lord, we'll see basically what our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ has to say to encourage us. So let's pick up here today. and see how the where the Lord leads us. But in John chapter 14, a very popular, a very popular series of verses, we will be in only verses 1 through 6. And we see how here Christ comforteth his disciples. So, Lord willing, you're there by now. In John chapter 14, let's read. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest, and how can we know the way? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Let's bow for prayer for a second here. Our Lord and our God, these words are the very holy, inspired, perfect words of our Lord Jesus Christ. Thou art God, and I pray, Lord, as we read them, that they will be vitally important to us, to our souls. I ask, Lord, that as we expound upon these words this morning, that thou will speak Through these words and lift our souls and give us hope, give us encouragement, give us truth. And I ask, Lord, that thou wilt have mercy upon us. In the name of Jesus Christ, we thank thee and praise thee. Amen. We'll go back to the Gospels. I mean if you've seen basically the progression of the messages that we've had here for the last especially year, we've had Messages from the book of Exodus. We've been in the book of Philippians for several months with Pastor Coleman and Pastor Olson has been taking us through a very difficult book, I believe, and he I think he's been doing a great job in Ezekiel But we haven't been in the Gospels for a while. And so basically as we're learning assurance, basically as we're in an adult Sunday school class There's some very pivotal uh applications here, I believe, that Lord willing will lift us up this morning. Here we see Christ displaying physically and spiritually why we can unequivocally be assured that He was with us physically, spiritually and in the heaven and heavenly. And look at how our Savior provides assurance in this Consolatory discourse. If you have a Thompson-Chain King James Bible, you'll see that the opening is Christ comforteth his disciples Think about that. What's about to happen? Shouldn't they be comforting him? They're getting ready to scatter. And basically he's comforting them. That's what what an assurance to know that Christ is about to die for our sins. Go to the cross, and He has John chapter 13, all the way through verse 17 what's called the consolatory discourse. It's a very familiar portion of God's Word in this setting. We see it at our Lord Jesus Christ He he had three years of ministry, and now we find him in the final week of his life. He's in the upper room with the disciples. He's sending off Judas. And he will be basically the gates of hell will be screaming for the blood of Christ and the crucifixion takes place. Where Satan, the unbridled assault against Christ, is going after him. He wants him dead. The Roman Empire wants him dead. The Pharisees have turned him over because they were too cowardly to carry it out. They hand it over to Pilate and the Roman Government and he is about to go get the worst beatings, the worst kangaroo courts that have ever been here on the face of this earth. We see the disciples, uh they're they must be disintegrating now emotionally With Christ making it very clear that he's going, and now he makes it very clear of all the times he said the hour has not come, now the hour has come. What was he talking about? They said we've forsaken everything to follow you. Why are you going to do this? Why will you abandon us? Christ had been telling them this. It had been very easy for him to say. Why haven't you been listening? He is pressed by an infinite love to leave them before he leaves, but he will not leave them without joy. This is this is necessary. Think about what happened basically when he comes into Jerusalem with this beautiful little donkey, this precious little donkey brings him in, and the people are yelling, Hasannah, Hasannah. They're putting their blankets on this little donkey and and basically Jesus is dragging his knees. It's not some donkey that sits upright in some of these European pictures that are totally a lie. that it was this little tiny donkey. And he would have acted actually been more like a spectacle coming into Jerusalem with his knees dragging on the ground on this little donkey. And people are yelling, Hosanna! Hosanna! And he knows that the very some of the very same people will be yelling pretty soon. Crucify him, crucify him, saying it twice. putting a superlative emphasis on get him away from us and even the disciples will scatter. There's no words of comfort for Christ from the disciples. He's comforting them. They're indifferent to what he says and they're being because they're being self-absorbed like we can be. And we see that the messianic hopes are dwindling and it seems like everything's falling apart. Christ is offering his love to his church and Christ is going to die. He has comfort. He has been tasting this divine cup of wrath. And still they don't understand what's going on. And sadly today, most people do not understand what that was. They don't understand. What Christ did was he came to die for the sins of the world, shed his blood. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. With our sins, we cannot enter into heaven. We have no way to save ourselves. Only can we be clothed in the righteousness of our Lord Jesus Christ, and that is it He offers no other comfort. There is no other comfort that could be offered. What more can you do but to give your life for your people? Greater love hath no man than this that he lay down his life for a friend. Remember that He's giving them comfort. And then later he he reifies that by giving them a comforter. He's giving these their primary components of why we can be assured of our salvation. He proves it. He says it. He physically does it. And not only can we see it, we can feel it. Because when the Holy Spirit's in your heart, you can feel that There's a change in your life. You don't want to do the things you used to do. You don't want to be in the places you used to be. You want to be with God's people. You want to be in his word. And you want to have opportunity to spread the gospel to the world. He's giving them comfort. And later he will give them the comforter. He's giving them these primary components and the assurance of salvation, which is what we've been studying in the adult Sunday school class all summer, the very first component we talked about. was assurance confirmed by faith. Can we have faith? I'm not talking about common faith like getting on an airplane and not even questioning the pilot whether he knows how to fly the plane or not. That's faith. It's common faith. We do that, don't we? Or basically I think it's common faith, basically a lot of times just Driving out the end of this driveway and trying to get on Belair Road, that takes a lot of guts. I mean I've been real close several times people flying over that hill where there's you just don't have a reaction time So you sit there and you trust the Lord. Hopefully you turn right. Best thing does turn right. That's faith. You're going into surgery. How many of us how many of us we've talked about this in Sunday school class? How many of you take a whole week off and sit there and go through the whole panel of nurses? and all of the doctors and find out where they went to college, if they've ever killed anyone, if they're good at what they do, if they have a very bad rating with the the AMA or even the Better Business Bureau. No, you don't. You go right in there, you lay down, you let them put you out, you're gone. That's faith. That's common faith But we can have that kind of faith. What about saving faith? Can we believe that Jesus is who he says he is? We have assurance confirmed by faith. Ephesians 10, 22 says, let us draw near with a true heart. In full assurance of faith. There's both words right there. Full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. You know, that's another I am statement in the book of John. I found two more. I always look for them for new IM statements. I love them. There's a lot of them. There is I am the living water. And here it says here that we should have assurance of faith that our bodies be washed with pure water. What does that mean Okay, I take a shower. Is it pure water? Am I washing in like sewage or am I washing in pure water? Well, in order to get clean, you gotta be washed in pure water, don't you? In order to not fall over and be vomiting profusely, you have to drink potable water. Water that's pure. What about your salvation? What about living water? I am living water. Anyway, by the way, as I said, two that I found, I found two more. I think it's uh John, it's in John chapter 15, actually. It says, I am the master and I am Lord. And I kind of miss them. I don't know how I missed them. But I found three more because Lisa, she had I had one of her old Bibles and she had circled them years ago. There were three more back in John 8. I am from above. I am not of this world. And I love the third one. I am not alone. So here's another statement. I am the living water, the pure water. Let not your heart be troubled Think about that. Where have you heard that lately in the last 10 years? Oh, you've heard it. It's on television. It's the guy that opens up his newscast all the time. Let not your heart be troubled I don't like that. I don't like it because I think only Christ can say that. You know who I'm talking about. It's on Fox News. Let not your heart be troubled. He always says that. Let not your heart be troubled Only Christ could say that. He is saying this, let your heart not be troubled. He says, Trust me, don't be troubled, don't be worried, don't be sorrowful, don't be anxious, stop being depressed. Up to this point the disciples are asking questions and they're primarily concerned regarding their well-being. We see here in verse five, Thomas saith on them, We know not whither thou goest. And Christ says, Why Verse 1, let not your heart be troubled. He says in verse 2, I am gardening heaven for you. I am putting mansions. I am putting them there. Do you know what the word Rehoboth means? You've heard Rehoboth, Rehobath speech. Rehoboth means basically if you take it in the Greek and you take the definition, it means there's plenty of room for everybody. That's what it means. That means that there is not going to be a problem with running out of property in heaven to have a heavenly mansion for those that love the Lord. That's Rehobet. That's actually in the book of Genesis. That word is in Genesis. I can't remember the verse. But anyway, we see he says, Let not your heart be troubled. Christ, wherever he will go, Christ is giving all the encouragement to them He is going to this horrible death. What did he see in that cup of wrath in Gethsemane? You ever think of that, metaphorically speaking? What was in that cup of wrath? Whatever it was It had him crying out to the Lord, Lord, let this cup pass before me, but not my will, but thy will be done. And here he's carrying it out. I believe Jesus Christ is saying not that he's not just speaking to them, but he's speaking to us as well. Fear not. Let not the cares of this world consume your thoughts and emotions paralyze you. The cares of this world can be horribly paralyzing. They can be devastating. And it's very easy to worry about our spouses, our children, our health, our money The condition of our nation, all these things around us. He says, don't be anxious, don't be worried, don't be stressed He says, I will help you. Remember, God had promised Abraham a seed of many generations. And we getting along further in years, Abraham was worried. Genesis 15. We read in Genesis 15:1. After these things the word of the Lord came unto Abraham in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abraham, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. I gotta tell you, that's a personal thing of mine. One of the things that lifts me up when I'm really having a tough time, I don't care what it is I always think about how God refers back to the forefathers, and I always get back and remember the forefathers and remember what they go through. I never I'm always thinking about them. Abraham, he went through a lot So did Isaac. I mean wha what can you say when your dad's about to cut you to pieces on the altar of obedience? What are you gonna do there? Then what do you got Jacob? Jacob he had all kinds of problems, but I'm studying I've been reading in Judges chapter four, we've been talking Wednesday nights about Deborah, and we're talking about what happened to the Midianites and Gideon, and the Lord goes right back and he goes Israel disobeyed me. Eighty years they were in captivity because they did not hear the words of the forefathers. And here's one right here with Abram. God encouraged Jacob to vacate his home in Canaan, to spare his family, and he said, Don't be troubled, I have set a land for you in Egypt. It might not be what you were expected, but I have it there for you, and I'm going to give it to you. He gave him that land of Goshen, and all of a sudden through all of that Do you think Jacob really cared about what was happening in Canaan when all of a sudden he finds out Joseph is alive? His whole life. He was in abject terror and sorrow over the fact that he thought that animals ate his precious son from his his wife Rachel. We see here, he says, I'll take care of you, and our Lord promises Joseph. Jacob knows now that Joseph is alive, and Genesis 46. 3 says, and he said, I am God. The God of thy father, fear not, go down into Egypt, for I will there make thee of a great nation. Little did know little did Jacob know what he was getting himself into, that he was going to just have his heart lifted all the way up What about Joshua? He was given a promise to God that the battle against Ai was won before it started. Many times we see that. Joshua 8:1 we read, and the Lord said unto Joshua Fear not, neither be thou dismayed. Take all the people of war with thee and arise, go up to Ai. See, I have given into thy hand the king of Ai and his people and his city and the land Look at the detail in that promise. See in verse 2, count on God's word. We see how as we read these all these verses in Joshua all eight, you can count on his word. His promises are true. Isaiah chapter 35, Isaiah 35, 4 says, Say to them that are of a fearful heart, be strong. Fear not. Behold your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompense, he will come and save you. You know, you get to you get after a while you've been in business long enough and you've been around long enough and you do things, you know, you get to speak to people. I've seen talk to people in business, I talked to doctors. I talked to a specialist, basically, that that was working, that was working with me. He was a doctor. And there's always been some kind of an opportunity to bring up the Lord. And one of the ways it always comes up is there are troubles There's always troubles. It could be family troubles. It could be problems with patients. I don't know how many times I've been able, the Lord's been able to put it on my heart to just stop everything and to pray with them Friday, there's a good friend. He's been really a pivotal, real pivotal contact. And what's one of the biggest takeovers of in my in in my um in my field that there's ever been. It's coming up actually as we speak. And here he's in the middle of all of this. He's been given the responsibility to hold the territory of the Baltimore and Arundel County and all these areas and his knee went out And he can't even hardly walk. He's going into surgery on Monday. And of all the surgeons in the world, I've been praying with him, he gets leasey surgeon. That Dr. Hungerford that did her hips, he's actually getting that surgeon at Mercy Hospital who's going to be doing his knee. And so on Friday we were just sitting there talking, and I said, Ed, let's pray. And he said, Will you pray for me? And I prayed. I prayed with him. And you know, just the talking to Christ and praying in his name, it just brings this calmness. Even with those that may not even believe I don't know if he's a believer or not, but I but you know the idea is to is is to uh is to bring him to the well. We see that the central part of the conversation basically is to have it on our hearts to bring this hope and to use what Jesus And here's the second component of assurance. The first one was faith. Assurance confirmed Christ is giving them hope. Don't you love to have hope in the worst of situations? Some kind of light? Some something that'll help you Assurance confirmed by hope. Hebrews 6 verse 17 says, wherein God, willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise the immutability or the unchangeability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath. that by two immutable things in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us. Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which entereth into that within the veil. Hulkan died. You saw that Hulk Hogan died. I was shocked. I grew up with Hulk Hogan. I love the WWF. I used to watch it every Saturday at 11 o'clock. Never forget about it. It's a half an hour. You know, we didn't have cable back then, so you had to wait all week And out of nowhere, I remember in 1981, all of a sudden this guy gets out, he's six foot eight, he's got muscles. I mean he's ten and he's got a full head of hair, blonde hair, and he's standing there mean jean, he's talking to me, and he body slams Andre the Giant. And he had all these wonderful things to say to kids all these years. Well remember, you know, he calls the brother, say your prayers. He tells the kids, say your prayers. Well, there's all this stuff about when he died suddenly. Basically it was sudden. It really was. Was he saved? And all of a sudden several videos came up, and there he is saying one of the things he said was All the stuff, the stuff, the jets, the the bank account, all the big names. I mean he was in Rocky III, he had it all. He said none of that made him happy But I knew I needed a savior. That got my intention. I needed a savior. That is a penitent heart when someone can say, I need a savior. We all need a savior. A lot of people don't think they need a savior. And I come to find out that I remember one of his foes in the WWF, which this was hilarious, Rowdy Roddy Piper, he was dying. They hated each other. Those two literally in real life hated each other And Roddy Piper still calling Hulk Hogan and he was reading scripture to him every night before he died. He was scared to death. Here Roddy Piper, muscles like this, could beat anybody basically, had all the stuff, money and all. scared to death to die, and there's Hulk Hogan giving him the gospel. I like to bring this stuff up a lot, but I know this is pretty awesome. I think it's pretty awesome to just see the peace and the calm that the words of Jesus Christ bring over you. And what it brought over him. So funny. I'm sitting there. I'm sitting there like a couple days. I mean all this happened all at once. I mean, John MacArthur died? That was hard. Oh, I love John McGuire, you know I do. And then all of a sudden Hul Kogan died. I'm sitting there on my on my porch and I get this this this meme or whatever from Pastor Coleman and it says the caption says John MacArthur welcoming Hulk Hogan into heaven. And there's Hulk Hogan laying in a ring and John MacArthur flying through the air in his suit, getting ready to body slam. I love that kind of stuff Just to think they could be together, possibly. I think that's a good rogue possibility. Christ says, let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. Surely the wicked are troubled and have much to fear about, but they have nothing to lift them up Isaiah says he says to encourage one another. Those are that are under the protectful protective, watchful care of a sovereign God. Tell me to be honest with you. You can talk about your assurance and salvation all you want. You know in your heart if you're under the watchful eye of a loving God. You know it And if you do, stop asking. Oh, am I going to go to heaven? If you know it, build off of it. Act on it. Work on it. Stop asking and questioning that beautiful gift that Christ gave you. Stop questioning it. Lift yourself up. That's why I say be selfish. That's one way I'm going to say be selfish. Take what you have in your heart and use it and build off of it. You can do that And I believe if you have Christ in your heart, you can conquer anything. I know you can. Isaiah 57. 20 says, but the wicked are like the troubled sea. When it cannot rest, whose waters cast upon mire and dirt, they have no hope. There are 45 verses in the Old Testament that contain the word trouble And every verse of these words speaks of somebody being in the grip of stress, peril, or abject woe. And it could be even people that love the Lord. Jacob was troubled as security. He was really troubled with what his two sons did with Shechem. Remember Simeon and Levi? Here's Jacob's ready to die, and he says, Reuben, you're as unstable as water. Simeon and Levi, you two idiots, what you did over there to Shechem, you're not getting that patriarchal blessing. I can't believe you went and killed everybody. I personally thought it was incredible how they did it, why they did it. I'm glad that they avenged their sister, but they were very bloodthirsty there. If you if you don't remember, go back to Genesis and read it. But anyway, Simeon and Levi, Joseph's brothers were troubled at the presence of Joseph? Well I guess they would. They threw him into a hole and they said, Dad, you've been eaten by animals in that beautiful coat is all covered with blood, he's gone. I guess they would be troubled when Joseph called them in for a session meeting. The Egyptians were troubled when God appeared in the pillar of fire. Jonathan cries out to his father Saul, had trouble, he had troubled him and troubled the land. Job was troubled in the spirit. And then there's King David. Psalm 38. 6 I am troubled. We talked this morning in adult Sunday school class. When you talk about King David, you're now you've got to step it up a notch. You're talking about the most powerful man in the whole world. knows that there's someone that he has to answer to. I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. Even Daniel seven fifteen he says, I Daniel was grieved in my spirit, in the midst of my body, and the visions of my head troubled me. You know, that was a great responsibility. When you're being brought in front of the king and your name is Daniel, and you're the only one that can interpret dreams What happened to the other guys that went in and was like, you know, posturing being able to do the dreams and they had no idea They were killed. Nebuchadnezzar, he they had their heads. He goes in and I'm troubled, but he did it. Go all the way to Zechariah chapter 10 verse 2. For the idols have spoken vanity, and the diviners have seen a lie, and have told false dreams. They comfort in vain, therefore They went their way as a flock. They were troubled because there was no shepherd. I truly believe there's a lot of churches failing today, and the people are totally confused because they don't have a shepherd. Well, the word troubled is used again. We see that all throughout Scripture. There's many connotations. We see Christ is saying, He says, be not troubled. He's saying, see that ye be not troubled. Matthew 2024, verse 6, when Christ he gives that discourse, Matthew 24, and here he is not far from going to the cross, and it's the account from Matthew, and ye shall hear of wars. And rumors of wars, see that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet We're living right in the middle of hearing all the same things, aren't we? Wars, rumors of wars, two hundred people standing down at Towson Town Center with Palestinian flags defending something they have no idea what they're defending. People getting killed over in Israel, all these things happening, threats coming to the United States. He says, Lord says, don't be troubled You know the word troubled is used as a singular present indicative of a state of peril. You know, when Christ speaks about this word in Latin it's called turbular, in other words, turbulence, he focuses on the singular part-parsible form of the word of trouble and says, don't be. I am the remedy. I I don't think there's hardly anything that really we hear a lot of wonderful messages But when I see this, I think to myself, this is one of the things we need the most, because I know personally we're all troubled. We have troubles I know personally a lot of you are because I hear your prayer requests and you hear mine. There are troubles. Job was troubled. I'm going to read that verse here in a minute. I love Job. He's one of my top ten I want to see when I go to heaven as Job. So he says you have no reason to be troubled. The first time we see this used word is used by Christ, he's imploring his people not to be troubled. No one else had ever spoken with such authority against being troubled. Nobody. He's saying unto the disciples that nations will rise against you. There might be famines, pestilences, earthquakes. We see all that around us Men will deliver you up to kill you. You'll be hated. Many false prophets shall arise in the last day. But be not troubled. And then he goes on to say, You endure. If you can listen to me and be not troubled. And you can continue and endure to the end. Where do you see what I have waiting for you? The problem is we can't even begin to fathom what heaven is like. We're so afraid of dying. Yeah, I know I don't want to be on the first bus going up a lot of buses. But what awaits for those that love the Lord? I don't even think we can even comprehend that. It's so awesome. Awesome! I mean really awesome. That's the true sense of the word awesome. I think the word awesome is actually used way too much, but that's a real good use of it. He said they hated me, I, they hated me, they will hate you. But wait a year this I love you Assurance is confirmed by love. That's the third part of our assurance um uh our assurance uh adult Sunday school class for the summer. The third component is assurance confirmed by love. And I've sit here and read verses about love all day long, but here's a good one. 1 John 4:18, there is no fear in love But perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him because he first loved us What does that tell you? You had no ability to love Jesus Christ before he loved you. Because it would have been like you saying, Well, I love you, Jesus. And then Jesus was like, Well, I don't know who you are, but if you love me, okay I'll love you. Alright. Oh, that would be a fickle Jesus, wouldn't it? That's not how it works. That's election right there. He loved you first. Job, here we go, Job. Short, he has such short but sweet sayings. You like George Washington. I love a lot of his comments. Trouble is part of the inheritance that we share with Adam. Job says after all, he's only he's not even a see in chapter five, see what's it 30, 42 chapters, he's not even really an eighth of the way there, and already says Job five seven, yet man is born under trouble as the sparks fly upward. Have you ever been in the middle of a situation where you're working on a car? and you go to work on the battery and you and like mean you forget you're stupid enough to put the positive terminal on the negative terminal and you switch them? Well, on my wedding ring here, I'll never forget it. There's a great big hole in it because I did that once and I burned my finger. This thing caught it just about it got red as a beat And I put it on the wrong ones and boom, the thing almost blew up. The sparks flew upwards right in my face. And I'll tell you what, that's what trouble he says is. What happens to an upwardly The life of a Christian is full of being chased by troubles. Christ is the remedy every day. You know, just like I love what R. C. Spole said one time, the reason why we we can learn as Christians to respect everybody is he said, I can take any one person and talk to them for a week and come up with enough information to write a novel, an incredible novel. He said, and the reason he said that is that everyone is a veritable wealth of knowledge. And I think if we remember that, I think we can be more loving and be more uplifting with other people. But I want to take that a step further. I believe that every night you go to bed, well think about this. You go to bed Do you have any power to bring 12 a. m. and to bring the next day forward and to change that clock on your own? Do you Do you have any power to bring it or to stop it? So in essence, it's really it's kind of like a miracle, isn't it? Every day is different. Everyone is a veritable wealth of knowledge, and I personally believe Every day is a veritable wealth of knowledge. Every day something changes. Every day the Lord brings something new, even in the midst of troubles. Somehow, some way you learn something new every day. And every day is a veritable wealth of knowledge. And that is where we go with our troubles, knowing that Christ has a way of fixing that. He can do that. He says here, the life of a Christian we see is full of troubles. Luke 24, 38 I've taken a little tour through the Gospels here. And he said unto them, I love this, why are you troubled? And why do thoughts arise in your hearts? Why are you troubled? Wow. What about that great tempest on the Sea of Galilee? Do you know that that still happens today? Do you know in the Sea of Galilee there's still great tempests? It's the same thing that happened. The cold air comes down from the mountains and it hits that big seven miles and it's I don't have many hundreds of feet down. I I have all the dimensions That's for another sermon. But all all of the cold air comes down, hits the warm up, boom. All of a sudden, there you got three disciples, sons of thunder and Peter. They're in the boat. All of a sudden you have uh a mega storm, a mega calm, and all of a sudden a megaphere. Well, you should say mega fear in the beginning because of the storm, but that's not the mega fear. They question Christ He was the one where they actually had to come back and say, what manner of man is this that the winds and the seas should obey him? Well, he can he's he's sitting in the boat sleeping. He didn't care. He he he cared about them, but he didn't care about all the troubles around. He was going to fix them. He always does it. Never preached the funeral Christ takes care of our hearts and when He leaves when He leaves when He when He when He works on our hearts there is no hallowness in them as Pharaoh had a very hardened heart Well we see joy will be in our hearts, he says. We see here he says in verse 4, and whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. Thomas saith unto him in verse five, Lord, we know not whither thou goest And how can we know the way? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Well, there are many mansions in heaven. There is one way to heaven. Sadly, there are many ways to hell. That's a very serious thing. We see here Christ is talking about his father's house. He's saying here that I will prepare it for you. And he says there's many mansions. There's plenty of heavenly real estate for people. This is Christ's house. He had no earthly dwelling, as in Luke chapter 9, verse 58. And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests. But the Son of Man hath nowhere to lay his head. The disciples followed that same pathway, and the Lord had to keep lifting them up because of the trouble. He says, if it were not so, I would have told you. Christ is the truth. We see in John 14, 17, the spirit of truth. John 16, 13. Howbeit when the Spirit of truth has come, he will guide you in all truth. He is the truth. You hear a lot of these things about people talking about truths today, but they're all relative. There is one truth. I am the way, the truth, and the life. Matthew Henry makes a very incredible quote here. He says, He loves us too well and means us too well to disappoint the expectations of his own raising or to leave those to be of all men most miserable who have been of him most observant. That's a brilliant statement. We see here, here's another component, fourth component. Assurance is confirmed by the righteousness. of Christ, because he is the truth. His righteousness is predicated on the rock of his existence. Perfect truth. What he says, you can count on it Now you can read the newspaper, you can't count on that. You can watch Fox News, you can't count on that. You can watch even Newsmax, you can't really count on that You can read all the national member of the National Inquire, the tabloids. You can't count on anything there. There's nothing there. And then you can go buy a new car or a used car. You can read all the stuff and then it goes out a week later and it blows up. Can't count on that. This you can count on. This book, The Word of God, you can count on it, that is assurance of his righteousness predicated on his truth. Isaiah 32, 17 says And the work of righteousness shall be peace. And the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance forever. Always assured. It's nice to be assured, isn't it? I mean, we're so worried about being insured and kind of forget about being assured, you know. I go to prepare a place for you. I will come again and receive you unto myself. Christ suffers a hard death, crucified, buried, rises again. He ascends on the right hand of the Father, and that He's our advocate and attorney to prepare our eternal settlement 1 Thessalonians 4 4 13 to 15 we read, but I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with them For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, that which that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together and with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words I think this is awesome. It's incredible. We know a lot of people that are laying in those green pastures, don't we? We've been to a lot of funerals, haven't we? I can look in the church. I can look at some of the seats here and I can see so many funerals of those that were here years ago, real pillars of this church And I remember when the Pastor Byrd, all the pastors preached, and they would read Psalm 23, He lieth me down in green pastures. And there you lay your loved one down in green pastures But is that it? A lot of people think that that's it. That's over with. Oh no. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. He says, I am the way. Pray says, Whither I go, ye know not, and the way you know. He said, if it were not so, I would have told you. So he does not tell them when, but he tells them it's going to come. Disciples are still somewhat confused. Christ says, I am. This is the statement of Christ in this book of John. He says, I am, and that I am statement was a very dangerous statement for Christ to make. Remember he said in John 10 30, John chapter 10, verse 30, I and my father are one. And he was going all the way back to Exodus chapter 3, and he waited, he makes these I am statements. You have to understand that a lot of the Judaizers were very adept to the Old Testament and they had uh as much of it or many uh most of it memorized and they knew that Jehovah referred to himself as the great I am You tell Moses, I am that I am, I am hath sent you, I am the God of your fathers. So when Jesus calls himself the great I am, they were furious. How dare he call himself God? How dare he he make himself in league and say that he is divinity? They were infuriated. They hated it and they wanted him dead. Problem is The real problem is it was true to this day. He said, I am the bread of life. John 6. 35, I am the light of the world. I am the door of the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I am the resurrection and the life. Now he says, I am the way. Can we depend a bit on maps? MapQuest, Google Maps, Road Atlases, GPS. But what about the GPS to eternity? We have it here. I am the way. I am the way, the truth, and the life. Well, a lot of people say that they're the way. We see the Catholics. We know that's not true because they say Jesus is the way plus the sacraments. Muslims say that they're the way. We have all these prosperity seekers out there saying they're the way. They have nothing And then we have all these other calls. None of these are solo Christos. That is what we need. Christ is the only way. I'm going to end you with this because I love, I love this, I think this is great. But you remember what happened after Paul the Apostle went to the road to Damascus and he was going to go get the Christian church Do you remember what they were called? I love this name for the Christian church. Remember, but the word Christian first came up, I think, in Acts chapter 16. They were called the people of the way. And this is after Christ had resurrected. They were called the people of the way. And you get back to John 14, 6. Christ says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. What they were saying is they were of Christ. They were followers of Christ. They were the people of the way That's where that name was born. They were those that proclaimed Jesus ho curios, Jesus is King, and not Kaiser Curios, which that was a death sentence I mean Nero illuminated his gardens with people of the way and had them while he was sitting there eating would burn them alive because they would not declare Caesar as king, Kaiser Curios. Christ is the way, He is the truth of God. John 1:14, we read, And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, the glory of as of the only begotten of the Father. full of grace and truth. He is the life of God. John 3. 15, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life John eleven twenty five, Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live, and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die Let not your heart be troubled. Heavenly Father, we thank thee, Lord, for this wonderful passage. Bless us and keep us from falling. In the name of Jesus Christ, we thank thee for lifting us up this morning. Sign we pray. Amen.