In preparing for service for the coming week, usually by Monday I look over the text and what I'm going to preach and then Tuesday uh try and start working on the uh bulletin stuff to be able to email it down. Uh picking out hymns. Uh first hymn is usually like a worship hymn and a second hymn, kind of a preparation for the message, sometimes similar to, and then the last hymn uh follow-up after the message like that. and then uh uh give those trying I try and get him especially uh now with Matthew Plain, get him to him by Wednesday so he has a little bit of time to to go on that. So this past week I was kind of reading over the text and I thought the song that came to me right away was the grumbling song. And I thought, no, I wasn't gonna I wasn't gonna hit Matthew with that one, you know. Just just because of the topic and the things that were going with it, you know, uh how that how that fits. So Um in any case the idea was there. There are a number of surveys that have been done over the past years, past few years, especially. That showed our society has a tremendous uh weight on itself as far as its attitude uh prominent feeling of discontent and and unhappiness Um the different surveys that were done said this is especially, like you said, within the last ten years. Uh and Americans above anybody else would surely think that we would not be necessarily discontent or unhappy. And it's the greatest drop, 2024 was the greatest drop that they've seen in 10 years. Lifeway Research writes uh about the hungering and yearning for uh the things that are new in life. They said when it comes to evaluating their own lives, more than two in five Americans say that they want more nice things. We want better a job, a better pay, better boss. We want a better relationship, a better car, a better garden, maybe a better gulf swing, whatever it is, you know, there's a dissatisfaction with life in various areas. The article said that if that wasn't enough, there's a tendency of always be living for the next thing Uh I'm dissatisfied with today, so I live for tomorrow or the next weekend. I live for the next special event, the next vacation, the next purchase, the next experience And this saying that we are just never satisfied. We're not content. We're not at peace about lots of things in life. Envious it seems at times of those who have what we don't have. I want to read our our uh responsive reading again, Ecclesiastes 2, but I just took it from a different text or a different translation. So Solomon writes, and Solomon has been through as he's writing this a lot. This is probably in the middle of his life. He said, I said to myself, Come now, I will test you with pleasure and find out what is good But that also proved to be meaningless. Laughter, I said, is madness. And what doth pleasure accomplish? I tried cheering myself with wine and embracing in in embracing folly, my mind still guiding me with wisdom, I wanted to see what was good for people to do under the heavens during my few days during the few days of their lives. I undertook great projects. I built houses for myself. I planted vineyards. I made gardens and parks and planted all kinds of fruit trees in them. I made reservoirs of water, groves of flourishing trees. I bought male and female slaves, and I had other slaves who were born in my house. I also owned more herds and flocks than anyone in Jerusalem before me I amassed silver and gold for myself, and the treasure of kings and provinces. I acquired male and female singers, and a harem as well the delights of a man's heart. I became greater by far than anyone in Jerusalem before me. In all this my wisdom stayed with me. I dunno I denied myself nothing that my eyes desired. I refused my heart no pleasure. My heart took delight in all my labor, and this was the reward of my toil. Yes! When I surveyed all my hands and all had done, what I had toiled to achieve, everything was meaningless. Of chasing of the wind, nothing was gained under the sun. He says, I've done it all. I've had it all. King James says it's vanity. All is vanity is a vacuum. He says, it's just worthless. Dissatisfaction is an age-old process and we need to understand how it comes in. We bristle when that seven-year-old kid walks down the toy store aisle and and he has a tantrum. I want this one and he points up on the shelf, you know And mom says, but you've got one just like that. No, I want this one. I want this one. I want it. Oh. As if that will make him happy as the it'll read the need. So many times we as adults find ourselves in less than ideal circumstances, and we think, if I had better. And we think, if I had bigger, if we think if I had more, then my circumstances will be balanced and I'll be right and I'll be happy Yet what we really need is a change not to our circumstances, but our character and our attitude. That's what I think of it. It's not the circumstances, because circumstances are always going to be the same. Paul writes, tells us that he, just like we, need to learn. Learn to be content with whatever our circumstances may be. In this particular letter, where is Paul? When he's writing, he's in prison. He's in prison. He finds himself put there because of uncorrupt or corrupt officials awaiting the possible execution over false charges. And he goes ahead and he writes and he tells us how to find contentment. It had nothing to do with getting out of jail. I'll be content when I'm released, but until then I'm going to hold this tension. Had nothing to do with getting a pardon, an apology from the Roman government. Paul, we're sorry. We really didn't mean this. This is all a big mistake, you know. Nothing to do with that whatsoever. The circumstances had not changed. Well, the answer lies buried in the midst of this thank you letter, particularly chapter four. Anytime we get to the text, we have to understand the context. And the context was there's a man who was suffering tremendously. And yet out of not instruction, but out of testimony, he expresses what satisfaction, what contentment is As a prisoner in Rome, possibly awaiting a death sentence, few things were turning out the way Paul planned. Never expected it. Yet it happened. Yet he models contentment for the church at Philippi and for us. I'd like to examine the steps that he gives us. We're going to only get to one step today, but I think it's sufficient to be able to digest that one. Here in this passage, Paul is going to answer one question. How do I develop contentment? Not that Paul was looking for it, Paul had already achieved it, but in his letter to a church that was turmoiled because of all types of situations, especially the absence of Paul being with them He shows them how this can be achieved. What steps can I take to ensure contentment right here and right now? Regardless of what the Lord has provided me in terms of my circumstances. Each one of us find ourselves in a different circumstance in life Daily, weekly, monthly, yearly, they change. So we can't do this horizontal comparison. You don't have an excuse, and I have an excuse No, it's all together as He's given us. Steps that we can take to correct regardless of the way God has put us in those circumstances. for my possessions, my relationships, for my career, for my future, for my health, any of those categories can take us and put us in a place where we are frustrated, I'm dissatisfied, I'm so burdened. And yet Paul had all of those, or could have all of those And we all need it because I've heard your words, I've seen your conversations, I've seen your countenance. At times it is just like what's going on? Nothing. You know. Nothing, you know. Chapter 4, verses 10, 11, 12, and 13, if your Bibles are open to Philippians, just follow along as I read. Paul says, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at the last your care for me hath flourished again, wherein ye were also careful. But she lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I've learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound. Everywhere, and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. That last verse we oftentimes spoke about a lot in life. It's one of those ones that you buy a card, you know, send it to somebody. I can do all things through Christ. Yet the context is very seldom understood or seen. I'd like to begin with some definitions to help us along with. What is contentment? What is contentment? You always say the contented cow, you know, he's sitting out in the pasture chewing away. It's all fine Jeremiah Burrells writes, Christian contentment is that sweet, inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit which freely submits to and delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal of every situation. God gave me this God put me in this. God has provided this for me. Or this is part of my life. And I and I take it. I accept it. Contentment is not that loud and complaining or grumbling. It's the mere resignation or not even thinking of as fatalism Submit to and delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal of every situation. That's what he says. Contentment is the act of faith trusting our Father to take care of us as He has promised He would. We pray for the brethren there in Nigeria. A slaughter that's taken place. Some 10,000 churches have been burned in the past uh what, eight years or something like that. How do you pray for that? That God would take them out, or they're not going to get taken out. The only way they're going to get taken out is that, you know, they'll be killed. Pray that they're content. That God knows their particular situation. Faith and trust that God the Father is taking care of us as He promised He would Didn't promise to heal every disease, although the psalmist said that, you know, if there's disease healable, God did that. But right now He's not doing that. I want it now. Remove this burden from me. Heal that knee, you know, or whatever Noah decides to cripple his leg with, you know. Christian author John Stott says, contentment is the secret of inward peace. It remembers the stark truth that we brought nothing into the world and we can take nothing out of it. Life, in fact, is a pilgrimage from one moment of nakedness to another. So we should travel light and live simply. Our enemy is not possessions but excess. Our battle cry is not nothing but enough. We've got enough. Simplicity says if we have food and clothing, we will be content with that Where he's brought us into. He's not ignorant of any circumstance of life. You say, well, I'm not caring for you this week because you did this or whatever. No. The sovereign of the universe cares for us, and in his perfect care, he's put us in those situations. For Christian contentment knows that if we have Jesus, we have enough. And that's a statement that I've heard many times said before, and I've read it many times. but have struggled at times to find it because I've always had something. You know. I've always been, you know it's enough. No, Jesus is all. In Psalm 73, the author, Aesaph, learned a valuable lesson of this very same principle. He looked around in the world in which he lived, and he was a little bit on the jealous side He envied the wicked. They were rich, they were fat, they were healthy, they had all of the things of life. He sees this around him. He says, this is life, and kind of burdened his heart And he kind of wondered if keeping a pure light before God was worth it. Asaph did something important after that recognition. He went to the temple. And he focused on the truth of God. He focused on his relationship with God and who God was. He writes at the end of towards the end of this psalm, Who have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee My flesh, my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever. For lo, they that are far from thee shall perish. Thou hast destroyed all them that go whoring from thee, but it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all thy works. He says, No, I'm going to focus on you. Not upon the wicked, not upon their prosperity, not upon and he says, Well Lord, you're going to take care of them. Everyone that's going to whoring, turn their backs on you, they're going to be destroyed. But I like verse twenty-five. He says, There is nothing on earth that I desire except for you. Nothing. My oldest granddaughter finished reading The Hiding Place not too long ago and just enjoyed it tremendously. And by the grace of God, she and her mother were able to go to the Netherlands and go to the actual house of Kory Ten Boom and see the situation that was surrounded in And she writes in her book of the the atrocities of of the Nazis in that time. And the the prison camps and all that that existed there. There was a quote from Corey Timboon. She says, you can never learn that Christ is all you need until Christ is all you have. You can't learn that this is what I need until you see that's all I have. Everything else can be done. Again, the the folks there in Nigeria. They kill their families, they burn their churches, they they annihilate everything, but they haven't lost the Savior. It's there, always with them. It's in our times of need and want that we must regularly remind ourselves that we still have Christ. He chose us before the foundation of the world, and we have him irrespective of what our situation is, and that he becomes all that we need. When the Father sent his only begotten Son, he gave him not just the best, but he gave us also everything He didn't limit on the the the the prize, the provision of what the father had given to us as his adopted children. For Jesus is our wisdom, our righteousness, our sanctification, our redemption, our success. And hidden in him are all of the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. The source of everything is in Jesus, in Jesus alone. Why do we look for other things? We look beyond my circumstance. No. Look to Jesus. Look to Jesus. That was Paul's testimony, and that was his confidence. Again, go back to where he is Go back to all of the things that put him in prison. Go back to the entire situation, and he finds himself that I've lost everything except for Jesus. And he says, you as a church, remember, I appreciate your confidence in me and concern for me, but I have everything that's in my Savior Jesus Christ. He's deeply concerned about these people and he wants them to know that God has supplied for them. So for today, our first step is gaining contentment, delighting yourself in the Lord and in his present provisions. Learning contentment begins with your heart saying, He is all that I need. Verse 10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now, at the last, your care of me hath flourished again. wherein ye also were careful, but lacked opportunity. Do you remember we talked about in the beginning of this book study uh man who brought a gift to Paul in prison. Remember him? E Good, very good. Epaphroditus. I knew it was all on your lips, you know. Paul's imprisonment to the church at Philippi. And there was a need there. So the church says, help Paul out. Let's send a gift. Let's send a care package to him And it was a financial gift, and it brought Paul great delight, and Epaphroditus was the one. If you recall, Epaphroditus got sick, sick of him unto death. And Paul says he's okay. He'll be uh uh coming back pretty soon. He says, Your care for me hath flourished again. In other words, the church had sent a gift before. They were cognizant of Paul's need. And uh due to the period of time that he was in there, I think this is a tremendous opportunity for the Paul to be able to thank them carefully. But he writes it that as they had given again, your care for me hath flourished again. This word flourished is like uh uh uh uh uh an agricultural term. You plant some seed and and it grows and then the cold, harsh winter comes in and it drops it down, you think nothing's going to come up, but all of a sudden it comes up again It's going to grow back. And he says, your care for me hath flourished again. It flourished, it gave, but now it's coming back and it's doing it again. You're caring for me. You do. You really see that provision as being necessary. As a matter of fact, he knew that they were always thinking about him because he said, wherein you were also careful, remember the word careful, care for, caring for But ye lacked opportunity. In other words, I'm not poo-pooing your gift because it took a while. You gave it and you gave again. Why do you give it next week or another week after? He says, No, you probably lacked opportunity. Maybe they just didn't have the money. Maybe they didn't have somebody who was making this long journey from Philippi to to Rome, you know, some eight hundred miles if I'm not mistaken, on foot. You know, maybe those things didn't happen. We don't know But nonetheless, Paul says, I understand your particular situation. Finances were important in the Roman prison system. If you ask the emperor, how much are we going to budget this year for the care of the prisoners? And he'll say, eh, nothing, you know. We're not going to give any money set aside for them So when a prisoner, like Paul, gets into the prison system, he has to have help from the outside. In other words, these gifts were specifically important. to see that Paul gets the care that he needs, some extra food, you know, a little bit of this and a little bit of that. And so Paul recognized that this was for his his his provisions But Paul rejoiced in the gift, yet the joy went a lot farther than that, because he said, this shows that you were authentic Christians, that you really did care for me, and you met this provision that was there. Now catch this. Paul is here expressing his gratitude to the Philippians for the gift. Thanks for giving. But notice what he says, I rejoice in the And the Lord greatly. I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that at the last your care for me hath flourished again. In other words, your gift for me was because the Lord put it into your heart and made the provision available. I rejoiced in the Lord because He gave you the desire to give. I rejoice in the Lord because He gave you the gift to be able to give. I rejoice in the Lord because He gave the desire and He put all of these things together. God's hand again has not been absent Paul's in prison. God allowed him to be there. Paul receives these letters and exchanges back and forth in ministry, but he says God has also seen fit to encourage you and to put you in a position to be able to do this. It's important to note that. What then, notwithstanding every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached? And therein do I rejoice. Yea, I will rejoice. He writes this in early, I think it's in chapter two, and Paul says, I rejoice even in the fact that there were those preaching Christ, and they were doing it opposition in opposition to me. In other words, there is a provision that says God allowed even false, well not false teachers, but men who were preaching falsely on the wrong motives, God allowed that also So it's a picture that he's provided for us again. Paul wanted the Philippians to realize that even though that they had the gift, they could only do the giving because God had blessed them and provided for such. You know, we approach the season of Thanksgiving this month, and it's appropriate to be reminded that of tangible things we as ab above all the the nations and the world should be most thankful for God's provision for us. From factories to farms, from medical to military, from dollars to donuts, there is no place on the world like America, like the United States. And yet, if we keep God out of that recognition that God has not provided for us, it was because we we worked hard. Because we fought hard, because we sacrificed hard. We gave it all. We just opened our borders and let people come in. No, it's because of the hand of God that provided for it and then allowed us to be able to give him recognition for what he's done. We must always thank God for who he is and what he's behind. Paul knew that God was in control. And God knew his need. And God would supply everything as God saw fit, as God knew what was necessary to be able to give. Paul was subject to a sovereign God in the most practical areas of life, even financial control. I don't think Paul may ever made his needs met or expressed. In other words, Paul never well Philippians, you know, this coming month it's going to be a little bit harder, they're increasing the uh uh the bread fee here in Rome. Would you kindly give a little bit more He says, no, God understands my needs. He's not only allowed me to be able to put in this situation, but God indeed is going to move the hearts of those in Philippi to be able to give and give accordingly. Like ASAF, we need to learn and find our contentment in Christ. A contented heart is a thankful heart rejoicing in Whatever God gives that we may know, because He is a good God. What's God given you? Sometimes that we grumble about or complain about, but he's a good God and he knows what your need is, best of all. He's made that provision. Even if everything else is taken away from us, we still have Christ. Whatever comes to us is because our Father's good pleasure. He knows what's right in your life to make you as he would have you to be made. My current position as a director in the mission board since May of 2004. I've had a number of opportunities to fly overseas and and travel in different things and been at airports a number of times where flights have been missed by others and even myself once in a while And it's amazing to be able to see how that person will come up to the desk and and start out very dramatically and emphasize with certain certain words and so forth, and maybe even a little pounding on the the the the table up there. How are you gonna get me on this? I need to be able to I need to you know and they continue to get upset and anger kind of takes over And finally they're resigned to the fact of the new reality that they're gonna have to wait. They've missed their flight. That's not contentment. That's not contentment at all. Contentment is not saying, oh well, I guess that will do, Lord. It's that's all the best you can do. Sometimes we may think that. If this is all you're going to do, Lord, I'm just going to have to be resigned to that. We find this attitude in marriage. Okay, so it's my marriage, and it's not great, and it won't be great, and that woman or that man resigns himself to mediocrity. This is the way this relationship's going to be. That's not contentment. Contentment is joyfully submitting to God's providential plan, knowing that God has my best in his mind, even when the means of disappointment and trials come along. Being content with our circumstances doesn't mean that you have to work, not work for the change in those circumstances. Sure, we ask God to help in those changes. see this company move, see this family relationship get improved. But we trust in him for that. What we see here is Paul's underlying confidence in the providence of God. Westminster Shorter Catechism. Amen. Thank you. God's providence are his most holy, wise, and powerful, preserving and governing of all his creatures and all their actions. God in his holiness, in his wisdom, provides for all of his creatures. And who's that? Everybody, the elect and the non-elect. He provides for all of them in overseeing all that they have and all of their actions. It's God's activity and continuous involvement in this world by which He brings divine intentions to pass. God is continually at work bringing about the things that He has planned from eternity past. Great disappointment in New York City. I've got a lot of friends up there. And yet, was God ignorant to that one? Oh man, I'm just kind of busy with other parts of the world. I'm still kind of working on that Ukraine situation. I'm I'm still, you know, some terrible uh flooding there in the Philippines, you know, disaster uh thousands of people, you know, uh just waylaid by these uh two typhoons that went over the country. You know, I I've got a lot of business there, but this New York City thing, oh it'll come about God's not ignorant of any of it. All of his constant work has come to pass. We know Romans 8. 28 that God has a purpose both in his good and bad things to bring it about. And it works all things together for good. How can any good come out of that? That's all bad. And yet that's not trusting in God's providential care. Our problem is that we are living and we want to define our good as health and wealth. God's going to turn everything for our good. Well that means I have to have good health, that I have to be wealthy, I have to have these provisions. I I have to, otherwise God's not doing that It's not so. It's not what Paul is saying. In the passage, God defines our good as being conformed to the image of His Son. Our good. If that means going through tears and pain and suffering makes us conform to the image of his son, then so be it, because that's his desire. He didn't redeem us to all of a sudden say, Well, one day I'm gonna be in heaven, but until that time comes, I'm gonna do as I please I'm gonna do like I always used to. I'm gonna talk, I'm gonna act like like things have always been, and one day I'm gonna wake up and I'm gonna be in heaven with Jesus. He's working on us, conforming us to the image of his Son. When the Philippians had been unable to send this gift, Paul, on his part, he recognized it as God's divine plan. But he did receive the gift because he knew they were concerned, and he writes them back with thanksgiving. The Philippine gift pointed back to these concerns and ultimately point back to God's providential plan. The late John MacArthur writes, Paul's gracious attitude reflects his patient confidence in God's sovereign providence. Patient, seeing what God is going to bring about. Providence, all in his control. He was certain that God, in due time, would arrange his circumstances to meet his needs. There was no panic on his part, no attempt to manipulate people No taking matters into their own hands. Paul was content because he knew that the times Seasons, the opportunities of life, are controlled by the sovereign God, who works all things after the counsel of his will thereby causing all things to work together for the good of those who love God. Those who seek to control their own lives will inevitably be frustrated A confident trust in God's providence is foundational to contentment. I want my plane ticket changed. You don't know, I've got things at the other end that've got to be taken care of. Oh Oh, if that's the way it's going to be, but I look at it and all of a sudden the tickets canceled, and I can't go, well, God understands There's some reason that he wants me to I don't understand it, but there's some purpose in those things being taken care of Learning the secret of contentment, you have to begin by delighting yourself in the Lord and in His providence. It may not seem very palatable at the current time. It may not necessarily see as being acceptable. But don't worry about tomorrow's provision. or sufficiently fulfilling the storehouses that future needs have. He knows. He knows all of those situations but rejoice in his ability to provide for your needs today. Anybody got a plans for tomorrow? Got some things to do tomorrow? Dave says, no, not me, I you know, whatever, you know. I think we all do. What happens if something all of a sudden happens and you can't do that? Or some tragedy comes along, you know? Driving down ninety five and invariably there'll be especially this time of the year, those bodies all along the side of the road, you know the reindeer, you know, they get taken care of. Well somebody hit them and all of a sudden they decided they didn't say, Oh, here's a deer, I'm gonna run my car into that. I've lost my car. I've lost maybe some injuries. I didn't plan on that. All types of situations we don't plan on. Yet God understands it and He's put that to us Don't say to yourself, what I really need in life is this. I really need that. A better this or a better that. But instead realize that your circumstances right now is exactly what God has orchestrated for you. He's put it together perfectly. The battle try of the discontent heart is, I don't deserve this. It isn't fair. I deserve something better. I deserve things more smoothly going my way to meet my needs. That's a discontented heart. We maybe don't say it, but sometimes we're upset when I don't reach that level It didn't happen. I'm so bothered. Why? Haven't I done right? The contented heart realizes that all I really deserve is hell. And when you start out from that position deserving that, why would God give you anything? The contented heart delights in the fact that God has called me his child and lavish me every spiritual blessing on me. So I submit to what God has provided me first, right now, realizing that He does all things well. Does he slap himself in the head and say, oh man, I goofed on that one I wanted them to live like this or to go here or to be in this or whatever. No, he does all things well. We mentioned last time the 23rd Psalm, even we had that as our psalm song today. It starts out, The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. New Living Translation says, The Lord is my shepherd, I have all that I need. Can we say that? I shall not want. I'm not going to want anything. I'm not going to lack anything. Is God's provision sufficient? Is God's hand in my life exactly as it ought to be? Surely, if you have Jesus as your shepherd, you can know that he will lead you in green pastures and by the still waters and protect you along the way. Not only for today, but his tomorrow and the next day. So enjoy his blessing today. Enjoy him and trust in him for all things. Let's pray. Father, we've said you are a searcher of all hearts, and as varied as we are as a congregation You know each of our hearts. You know every single thing that we've gone through that we're experiencing right now. And as dissatisfied as we may be at certain situations along this path, we can say you know it all, and you've provided for these things. Brought us into these particular situations for your glory and for our good. Help us to be satisfied with that. Not to look beyond, not to be as ASAP did and and see the world around us and see all that they've had and how good things have been for them, but not me Help me to say that in Jesus I have everything. And if I lose everything else, I still have Jesus. And in the three score and ten years that we're here, if God provides even longer than that You will always be sufficient. Seal these things in our heart. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.