Before we go to our passage this morning, I'd like to go back to our responsive reading to just leave this As a reminder of actually what's going on. And here we see the prophecy in verse 8, going back to Psalm chapter 80, which we were just in, and remember verse 8. Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt, thou hast cast out the heathen and planted it. This is the prophecy that was given, and when we turn over to John chapter 15, verse 1 through 8 Look at this incredible story, this incredible parable that the Lord gives us, and he shows us how much he loves us. So in John chapter 15, as we go to verse 1 through 8 Our Christ, our Lord Jesus Christ says, and if you have the the the kind of Bible that I do, it's in red letters, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away, and every branch that beareth fruit he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine. No more can ye accept ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered, and men gathered them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples Let's look to the Lord in prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee, Lord, for these words. These are the words of the true and living God I pray that thou wouldst burn them in our hearts. Help us, Lord, to decipher them together this morning. And I pray that as we read thy word and other passages, that thou wouldst lift our hearts and give us a greater understanding. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. When you're back in chapter fourteen, verse twenty-six, the Holy Spirit was promised. We saw that before in a former message. The Holy Spirit is in a personhood form. The Holy Spirit is not immaterial and not to be regarded It's never to be regarded as not in a person. We see that the Trinitarian Godhead is made up of three and one. The unitary personality of Christ that disunites the divine and the human natures That is the definition from Merriam Webster's dictionary about what a person is. And we can see that that is true, for the Holy Spirit is in person. It's not just some smoke and mirror immaterial ghost. The Holy Spirit is now being presented by Christ. And Christ is telling us in this consolatory discourse from John chapter 13 to 17 that I am leaving you, the Holy Spirit, to walk by you and to guide you and to connect you to me as I go to the Father. We see here this denotes that all three opposites of the Godhead are in person. They're not metaphysical. They're not some quality or some idea or some concept or some theoretical or abstract theory. And Christ is saying, I am the vine, and this is why he's saying it. We look in Ephesians chapter four, verses twenty seven to thirty Here, Paul is speaking about the Holy Spirit. He's talking about what the Lord has for us. And he says here in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 27: neither give place to the devil. Let him that stole steal no more, but rather let him labor, working with his hands, the thing which is good, that ye may have to give to him that needeth Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Now look at verse 30. This shows the personhood of the Holy Spirit. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. What did we just see in that confession, that wonderful question and answer that Bob just read? We're acquitted. Why? The Holy Spirit is there with us. We are acquitted of our sins if we believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And basically what we see here is that here we are to grieve not the Holy Spirit. How could this be written if the Holy Spirit is not in a is in a personhood? Well, that's what we saw leading up from chapter 14 here. And Christ turns around and he makes another massive I am statement. Once again, you have to remember, this is what the Pharisaical Jews and the Sadducees, they despised Christ because he kept using these I am statements. Because when he used those statements, they were taking himself as a here he is in human form. They couldn't even begin to process How this little man who was from Nazareth, who even the Galileans thought that those from Nazareth were even below them, could be God. And he kept using these I am statements, going all the way back to Exodus. Exodus three fourteen that says, And God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am hath sent me unto you. This is a statement that Christ is connecting himself to Jehovah, saying I am God as well. I am the second person of the Godhead. And then, this is not nowhere in my notes. This is from memory. John 10, 30, Christ said the six words that ignited That really ignited the whole situation around him and had Caiaphas saying, we got to kill this man. Then John 11 comes and that's Lazarus. Then Caiaphas again to John 11 says, hey, we got to get this guy We have got to do something with him. We gotta kill him. What did he say in John 10. 30? I and my father are One. There's no way to refute that. When you see that Christ says in John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life, no man cometh unto Father but by me. I am one with the Father. That's how he had the power to say that. And then he transfers that and he uses another I am statement to show how we are one with him. He says, I am divine, and the only way that you're going to be mine is if you're grasped into me. What does that mean? That's a very fabulous, massive statement. But what I love about when Christ uses the parables, he's always talking about horticulture and landscaping. He talks about the vine, he talks about the seeds that are thrown. I love that. It shows a very manly nature of Christ when he did that. We see here To be honest, if I had to start this all over again, I had to redo all my notes because a while back I lost every one of them. I couldn't find them and I'm I was really upset at first, but I'm glad that I did it. He wanted me to change some things. I don't think there was anything wrong, but there were so many more wonderful things that the Lord brought. God is the planter. He's the creator. He's the gardener. He's the husbandman of the vines here on the earth. The vine who is Christ is not created. That vine is begotten, which means revealed. Christ was not created, he was revealed to us. He exists eternally in perfect perpetuity with the Father, being God in the second person. And Christ here uses this incredible parable of a vine to bring out the essence of the fruits of the Spirit. What does the fruit grow on? Most fruits grow on a vine or a tree or a tree branch, right? See the connection there? Fruit of the Spirit? I love that name. What are the fruit of the Spirit? Galatians chapter 5, 22 and 23. We see how beautiful the fruit of the Spirit is. But the fruit of the Spirit is all good things. Love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control Against such things there is no law. What a wonderful compendium of attributes that this that takes the Holy Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit, shows the attributes of Christ and all the wonderful things he ever did here on this earth, and shows all the wonderful blessings that God himself gave when he created these vines and he created the garden and he created the heavens and the earth showing his infinite transcendent majesty. It all comes together We should embrace our Lord's parables by comparison. We are by nature, we're barren, and we're dry, we're dead And then being engrafted into the only true vine, which is our precious Savior, we're not only made alive, but we're able to grow, expand, and to flourish in Him We draw from him new life, which there's no other power in this universe that can give us that type of life, and no wise could it ever proceed from ourselves So if we can say that what our works are are the basis of our salvation with what Christ does, then what we're doing is we're killing the vine. Because the vine can't exist. If we're grafted into the vine, that little beautiful sprout, which is your heart, when Christ saves you, it starts growing because it's grafted into that beautiful vine. it goes and it it becomes beautiful and it keeps growing and growing and growing if you love Christ and if you are truly a Christian. If it doesn't grow and there's nothing there, it's dead. And there's only two possibilities. There's only two possibilities. Either it grows or it gets burned. And that's what Christ is saying here. It's more than a vine. Are there other ways to salvation? Are there other ways to to heaven other than Christ? Well, sadly, this parable has been greatly distorted, like many other wonderful biblical principles that are authentically perfect, wonderfully Well, I had to dig a little bit, and this was kind of some part of the new some of the new things that I incorporated in this message that I think is incredible. See, John Calvin wrote on this specifically. And in his day, he was having a problem with this parable, not because of what Christ wrote, because what others wrote. And here's what they were saying. We see that there are branches and they're called branches are called vines. And so he started using some Latin terminology where the vine in Latin is vitus or a vine. By palmitis or branches with vines. These Latin words denote a singular vine, only one vine, one stabior, one way to heaven, John 14, 6, as we just said. Other commentators and Latin writers regard it as vina. They kind of stretched the word a little bit. And I think you know where I'm going with this, I hope, if you're following me. Because vineyard is a word for vineyards. Which means instead of one vine, there are many vines. There are many different ways to heaven Not just Christ's vine. Of course he's like kind of somewhere ahead of it all, but but there are other vines. There's other ways. There's other types of bushes. There's other types of vines. You know, there's other types of landscape and horticulture. So if we can can kind of expand that, we can find our own vine that fits our narrative. Our our false narrative. Just like what the woke liberal liberals like to do is use false narratives. And I love the fact that Calvin, he had to address this and he had to make it very clear to us. Well, taken in the proper context, we actually could be disposed to accept this interpretation of the parable as long as Christ is the only vine. Well maybe we could say that Christ was talking about all we're all part of the vineyard But he's the main vine and we're all, since there's so many of us, grafted into the one vine. That's not what they're saying. They're saying that uh there's all kinds of vineyards, but there's also other vines. They're different vines. I think we know what churches could say that the sacraments are divine or or basically uh uh uh there's a whole process we have to go to with these goofy planets and all these other characters that that going through a process That's their vine, or the other vine is relativism today, or atheism, or evolution, all these isms, they're all their vines. That's not true. There's one Christ says, I am the true vine, the only vine. There are those that believe that what this denotes are many ways to heaven, where Christ is one of many vines or pathways to heaven. And this is where we get that buffet of all these false religions. And look at what Christ says here. He says, I am the vine, and verse five, ye are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. So we see in verses 1 and 2, as we've looked at already, he says, I am the true vine and my father is the husbandman. And all the time Christ has always given his father the credit He's always going to the Father. He says, Every branch that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. He either takes it away or he expands it. That doesn't leave a whole lot of room in that parable for a purgatory, does it? Is there some kind of neutrality somewhere in between the chaff being burned and the vine growing? There's nothing in any parable that Christ ever gave about there being some kind of a holding pattern or a neutrality that we can rest in because we really don't want to be part of Christ's life, but we're not going to hell. So we're somewhere in between, like purgatory. It's not there. It's not true. It's either the divine is growing or it's being burned. It's being cast away. That's what it says. It's what the Lord tells us. What is the most common way believers are referred to in the New Testament? And this has a very incredible meaning as opposed to as opposed to what the world says, this has a wonderful, incredible meaning on how we are abiding in Christ and we are grafted in Him. It's a terminology that's given for Christians that was used prevalently in the New Testament. We are in Christ. We are in Christ. That is the terminology. So, what is the most common way believers are referred to in the New Testament? Being in Christ. Those who are in Christ. But it's an interesting fact that occurs 552 times in 224 verses in the King James Bible, especially the New Testament, is being in Christ. And being in Christ, our own self-image does not really afford us to understand that we are in Christ because by our natures King David says, I was shapen in iniquity and in sinned and my mother conceived me in Psalm chapter 51, verse 5 We're born dead. We're born sinners. And to be in Christ, something has to happen. And Christ is telling us what has to happen here. He's talking about the husbandman. We are to cling to Christ. Our own self-image is not to naturally dwell in Christ. Christ brings us to him And this is where the Lord of glory dwells, where he works in our lives. We see how the husbandman prunes, Christ says. He takes the bad branches that infiltrate the church. He prunes the church. He prunes his people. Not only does he prune his church and prunes away the bad branches, He also prunes the bad branches out of our own lives, and doesn't that hurt sometimes? How does he prune some of the bad branches We may have people in our lives that despise us because we love Christ, and sometimes He prunes them, He takes them away from us. He prunes away the sins that we once just loved and we thought gave us pleasure, and that we thought at one time we had a right to partake in. He takes them away and he prunes them. And what it does is it brings us joy and it shows us how to be close to Him. He prunes our time. He takes our time and he prunes away some of the foolish things that we do and he brings us to spend more time being grafted into the vine by reading his word and by loving his word and by basically being wrapped around it. I think that's a wonderful, wonderful blessing that he gives us. He gardens his kingdom through us. Sometimes it hurts. Sometimes he cuts the vine. Sometimes we can be even confused by that. But he says, Go to me. Ask in my name, and I will do it. He uses this as a word picture to remind that there are less there are lessons of vines and it all going all the way back into the Old Testament. In Deuteronomy thirty-two, verse thirty-two, he mentions the vines. In Judges chapter nine, verse twelve, he mentions the vines. And I have a couple verses here we can read. He talks about vines all the way through Scripture. He says in Deuteronomy chapter 32, verse 32, as we'll go back to the Pentateuch. He says, For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, and of the fields of Gomorrah, their grapes are grapes of Gaul, their clusters are bitter. This is where he's showing how he prunes the vine and he takes away the wickedness. Judges chapter 9, verse 12, we read, Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou and reign over us. And that's the heart of a Christian that loves the Lord. A Christian wants the Lord to reign over them. They want Christ to be the center of everything in their life. Christ speaks of himself with a lowly comparison. He says he is a vine. Isn't it amazing how he uses that? And we see this as a word picture of humility by an example of it how it climbs. And we trail and it and we're grafted into it. It's a creeping plant. Where do we see the prophecy that relates to Christ as a reed or a humble plant? Go back to Isaiah chapter 42, verse 3. A bruised reed shall he not break. Isaiah 42, 3. What a verse. A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench. He shall bring forth judgment unto truth. I remember the incredible what many theologians cause they call the actual first gospel of all of Scripture in Isaiah chapter 53, verse 2 For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him So Christ here, he compares himself to a vine. He is the church. And in Scripture, the church is compared to a vine. Somewhat of a mystical vine if you have it. A growing climbing plant offsheet with Christ that will grow with flowering faithful believers in Christ that bear fruits, meat for repentance That love the fruit of the Spirit. It's not easy to have the fruit of the Spirit, is it? It's not easy to have that naturally in us. That's what sanctification is all about. That's why when you become a Christian, you don't stay, say, the first day that you realize that you're in Christ. I have arrived. Christ has died for me. His blood has washed away my sins. I have no work. I have nothing. No responsibility. I plant my flag on this mountain and I'm good. No. That's just the beginning. Once we know that we are in Christ, the next thing we want to do in our uh in our hearts is What a a the a preacher and a theologian that I've loved to listen to for years, he said I'll never forget he does this this this this really strange evening I went into this great big sanctuary, this church, and I I felt the presence of God and I realized I was a sinner and I got saved. When I got saved, I ran out of there that week and I wanted to tell everybody about Christ. And what I did, nobody wanted hardly anybody wanted to listen. And it broke it, he said it just broke my heart. He goes, I received something that I never knew existed and could make me feel and think this way. It wasn't something that I could do. It came to me. The Lord saves me. And the first thing I wanted to do is I wanted to tell everybody about it And that is a very, very good mark of a Christian. When you have that, you just you want to look for opportunities to tell other people about that. You want them grafted into that vine. You don't want them to be his chaff. Going back to Psalm chapter 80, we read verse 8, we go to Psalm chapter 80, verse 9. This is another prophecy from the Old Testament regarding this incredible parable, thou preparest room before it, and did cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land. The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars. She sent out her boughs unto the sea and her branches unto the river. That's how strong that vine is This is talking about that bind being Christ and showing the strength and the unlimited power of it I believe that he gave this vine, parable, to be a parable, to show his objective, that he created this and gave literally I believe that Christ created the vine before the worlds were created Not for us to eat fruit, but to hear this parable. That this vine was a wonderful biblical word picture for us to teach us and show us how we could be close to him. Think about Psalm 1, verses 1 through 3 Think about that. Most people think that that's just an opening, a preamble of David going in basis I've always thought that Psalm 1 and 2 are the pillars that they basically bind all of the Psalms together But Psalm one and two it starts off, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate in it day and light. What does it say next? He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall Prosper. And you see the first three verses are about that vine. Then the last three verses take a complete turn, but the ungodly are not so They are like chaff which the wind driveth away. That's what happens to the bad branches, right? It's a prosperous tree. Everything that Jesus Christ did prospered. Everything he did was up and it prospered. I know I've I've probably said this to the point of just absolutely wearing it out. I don't think you could ever wear it out. He never once preached a funeral. Never once did Christ preach a funeral in his ministry here on this earth. He healed everybody. If you were dead, you and he went to your funeral, you were up. You ever been to a funeral in a coffin where the body's laying there and the body pops up out of the casket and gets out and starts walking away? Happened with him. He did it. In fact, it was worse. See, today we have actually pretty humane funerals. But when you think of Lazarus And he has been in the tomb for four days. What happens to a body after the fourth day? What Martha says, his body stinketh. And you're a Jew. You're not to touch that body. It's unclean. And then it's like almost Jesus was saying kind of like are everybody moved to the side. Lazarus comes forth. He didn't pop out of a casket. He had been wrapped in in clothing for grave clothes, walks out. Can you imagine that sight? You talk about the haunted mansion. That would have been really scary to see him walking out, and here he is. They're tearing, he says, they're tearing the grave clothes off of him. His body stinketh. His body was rotting, it was worm-ridden, it was it was preparing itself for all of the sinews and all of the muscles and the skin, the eyeball, everything to come off and it be nothing but bones And the Lord reverses it with his mouth. And he says, Lazarus, come forth. Why? Because Lazarus was grafted into the vine. The Lord showed what he could do and what he's capable of. What a funeral. We see here in verse 4, Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye accept ye abide in me This is an absolute perfect example of the doctrine of God's sovereignty and the doctrine of his justification through election. You can't abide in him without him first. It's not possible. There's nothing that we have that can justify our own righteousness by our own works. Our works become perfect through Him because we are clothed in His righteousness. And it's no wonder as Bob wrote again, I could go on about this all day. You are on the right hand of the Father. When you die, you're in heaven and you are acquitted, and you're sitting there judging with the angels because of how perfect he is. Not because of your righteousness, it's because of what he did. You don't want to be on the left hand. You know, that's a good time to know your left and your right, your left hand from your right hand. You want to be on the right hand That's where you want to be. And whatever it takes to get on that right hand, that's where you want to be. Proverbs 8. 19 says, My fruit is better than gold. Yea, then find gold. That's Proverbs 819. And you know, we uh d to study that, to show the brilliance of Solomon, as he what does he write about, where he says in Proverbs 8. 19, My fruit is better than gold. Yea, than fine gold, and my revenue than choice silver. I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment, that are my cause those that love me to inherit substance And I will fill their treasures. He says, my fruit. He talks about that fruit of the vine, the fruits of the spirit. He says it's better than gold. It's priceless, what Christ gives us. The vine is an earthly word picture in a parabolic application. Can there be bad fruit with branches that will not thrive? We've been looking at these verses. We see this great I am statement. that we're the true so we're grafted into the true vine, we're fed by that vine, we're gardened by the husbandman. Are those are the are are there those that appear to be part of the vine and are not? How far does that vine reach? John MacArthur says that all are in the vine, but many are cut off and pruned away. I landscaped for years. I love it. I loved it. It was good work. I can tell you the way you saved a rose bush and the way that you saved a dying plant or a bush, you start by cutting away all the bad branches. They appear good, some of them do appear good, but you notice the tint of some of the petals. And some of them might have bugs on them, or they might have holes in them, or they might have a blight or some kind of a bad disease. And if you don't cut that out, what's going to happen? The whole thing's going to die as it's die of a disease. Can there be branches that seem to be grafted into the vine but are very insidious? That's the day and age we live in in this country. We have a lot of people that like to think of themselves as divine, giving a whole nother gospel that's not Jesus' gospel. And they look like they're a good vine. And those are the ones we need to be careful of. But those are the ones Christ is going to absolutely prune away. They don't come to him. They don't repent. And that's what it's all about. There are many, many false prophets out there. 2 Kings 4:39 and 40 is another part of the Old Testament that talks about these vines. This vine is an earthly word picture. Parabolic application once again. Can there be bad fruit with branches that will not thrive? 2 Kings 4. 39 says, and one went out into the field to gather herbs and found a wild vine. And gathered thereof wild gourds his lap full, and came and shred them into the pot of pottage, for they knew them not. So they poured out for the men to eat, and it came to pass as they were eating of the pottage that they cried out and said, O thou man of God, there is death in the pot! And they could not eat thereof. See, vines can be lifted on trellises, they can be staked, they creep upwards to receive sunlight to have greater development of fruit. It's amazing how bad vines, many times, they point downward. If you look on a beautiful trellis, the bad vines that are dying and they've been eaten, they slump and they start pointing downwards. All the good ones are pointing up. And that's a good really good way to tell We must be grafted into that vine. And we need to be very careful. So we see here going forward Christ says, I am the vine. He says, in verse 3, now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. True believers are the branches of the vine. The vine who is Christ is the root of the vine, and the trunk, the feeding system that nourishes the branches and the petals. The branches are helpless and will die without the vine. The root bears the trees. We must remember that the branches are insufficient always to stand alone without the vine. The vine has to be there We see that there is no hope for those that are dead, those that hate Christ. God speaks to Ezekiel, and he once again refers to him as the Son of Man and teaches him What happens to the branches that would be cut off due to their desire to not be one with the true vine? Ezekiel 15,2 says, These are the ones that are not clean. Son of man, what is the vine more than any tree, or that a b or than a branch which is among the trees of the forest? Shall wood be taken thereof to do any work? Or will men take a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon? He says that's a bad vine. We need to be careful of that. But then he says, You're grafted in me, and I am the true vine I have made you clean. Isn't that incredible? Look what he says here. He says that now you are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. The word of God cleans us up. It cleans us and it prepares us. Ye are clean. To clean up the vine, Christ had to do some pruning. We see that the even in the society of disciples was very clean now that Christ had to expel and he had to cut out a bad vine. And out of twelve vines there was one bad one. And he had to cut them out. John 13, 11 says, For he knew who should betray him. Therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. And he had to clean, he had to cut out Judas. Judas was wicked. His words distinguished the abiding disciples as opposed to the horrible traitor Judas, who would scatter and never return. Christ had pruned him. There were no rewards, just an dishonorable discharge. He turned on his master. He vacated his post forever. He was not clean. He hated Christ. And that is where salvation is so uncomplicated. See, the problem is it's people to complicate salvation. Um talked about a gentleman that I spoke to a few weeks ago and he had a c he had a statement and he said to me, He goes, Well we're all going to heaven. We all do good things. He goes, I do good things and then I basically try to stay away from bad things. And then I had the he went on and on and I asked him, I said Well let's try to let's have a little litmus test on that. And I had to pull like a kind of a ray comfort on him and started asking, have you done this? I said, Well I've done this. Have you done that? I've done that Have you done oh yeah yeah I've lied I've done this I've lied I've done all of these things and I said well before a just God where do you stand where it comes to justice do you do do do you deserve heaven or hell for your sins? And he said well of course I deserve hell and I said You deserve hell, but there is a very uncomplicated way out of that. Go to Christ. I am the way, the truth, and the life. I am the true vine. Go to the Lord. Go to Christ. He can fix that. He he he's he's he died for you How come Peter wasn't pruned? You ever think about that? Why was Judas the one that was pruned and Peter wasn't? Well, you go all the way back to the Caesarea Philippi confession, and you remember between then and between all the way up to when Peter denied him thrice, all along, you know what Christ had been telling him? I have prayed for you You go, I've prayed for you, so you go strengthen the brethren. See, it when you look at the you when you look at the the components leading up to the horrible, horrible denying of Christ the way Judas did it, and you look at what happened with Peter. What happened with Peter was a weakness. It was an impulse that we all go through. There are times that you've denied Christ. There are times that we have denied that I have by omission, by just not saying anything But he's prayed for us. We love him. Judas premeditated this. This was a horrible plan all the way down the line when he all he went go all the way back To when well Mary was using the oils on him and he said, This is a waste of money. It was actually a representation of his burial, and he said, You know, we could use this for the poor. He was already stealing money This was premeditated. This was sadly a very sad representation of a progression of him leading up to the betrayal of Christ. This was not impulsive of Peter. He made this horrible mistake, but he repented. He had remorse. Judas had no remorse whatsoever. That is a bad thing. No remorse is really a true mark of an unchristian. We need to have that. Well, we see here we see that what Christ has done Doesn't it feel great to be cleaned up? Here Christ is teaching the disciples that to be cleaned spiritually is to be sanctified through the truth of his word. You go forward to John 17, 17. Christ says, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. And then he comes back and he says, I do sanctify myself that they may be sanctified through the truth. See, see how he's prepared? He's got everything ready. Remember the y you have to you have to go back and think of the horrible uncleanness of the lepers and how horrible what they were and the rituals that they had to go through when you look back at the Pentateuch and what they had to go through to be clean and what they had to do to go to the priest And it was horrible how they had to separate the lepers and they had to go in these colonies and be away from their families. They were unclean. The priests had to be very careful around them. But we see here that all of this that we're talking about is leading up to the Christ the cleansing of Christ's blood on the cross, th which is perfect. No mutations No infections, no disease, and is sufficient to cleanse us from all sins. That's the eternal war the reward that the that must drive us to eternal worship and gratitude. That because of salvation. Look at what we read in the book of Job, with everything that Job had been through, in chapter, all the way in chapter 33, verse 9. And remember how Job was Going all the way up to those chapters, he was questioning his cleanness. He wasn't questioning his salvation, but he was questioning Like any of us would after losing, he lost ten children, he lost his cattle, he lost everything, but in the beginning of that chapter, Christ said he eschewed evil And the Lord said, He's mine. He is my servant. And through all of that, look at what happens, and we see the cleanness that Job talks about. In Job chapter 33, verse 9, he says, I am clean without transgression. I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me. But what he had said was something very prominent before that, my Redeemer liveth. That's the key. My Redeemer liveth. David said, going back to Psalm 51, 3, Purge me with hyssop and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. He says in verse 7, Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. We see that godliness is part of cleanliness in our lives. That godliness, in a spiritual sense, it cleans us up. Well we're grafted into that vine, right? You notice a change in your life when the Christ came into your heart? Did you notice that some of the old sins and some of the dull hor horrible horrible things just seemed more It's kinda like, you know, when you eat something and all of a sudden for some reason you get sick and you like throw up or something and then you think about that thing you ate right before that happened and you're like, ugh, I don't want that anymore. You know, it takes a while to come back. Well, with sin as a Christian, we don't want to go back to that. It it's it's more odious to us. Which is I love that terminology that Derek Thomas uses. Pastor Derrick Thomas he uses when he was preaching on the pilgrim's progress and how the odious nature of sin and how horrible it is. It it's it's not enticing to us anymore. It we see how the progression of the sins in our lives lead us to destruction. And the Lord cleans us up. He says in verse five, I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth me, and I in him the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me you can do nothing In verse six, if a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered, and men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. Don't know I'm going to have a whole lot of time to go into that part of it because we could be here for quite some time here. Might have to save this, but Christ declares the abode of one or the other. With those that are grafted into him, they are with him forever Boy, that's a pretty good deal. That's a great insurance policy, isn't it? To be grafted into him forever, acquitted of our sin that we're guilty of. We always deserved hell. That is definitely our natural habitat. He pulls us out of there He gets us out of there. We're being transformed. We're new creations. We're cleaned up. We see 2 Corinthians chapter 5 verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, and behold, all things are become new. Ephesians 4. 24, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind and that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. See, at the moment of salvation, we're made com completely clean. And verse six it says, we are now abiding in him. in him and he abides with us and he declares that abode. The base part of the stem of the branch is knitted into the vine and Sap is the life's blood. There's constant correspondence between the two. It's a picture of the communication we have between Christ and our lives, and that the Holy Spirit is there to lead us and direct us and to guide us. And I'll leave you with this. As I listened yesterday to a wonderful message of doing an overview in the book of Hosea, Christ said That you do not understand me, you do not learn about me, you do not know me, and if that's the case, I have forgotten you. That's what happens to those that do not want anything to do with him. And sadly, there are a lot of churches that there is a lot of stuff and wranglings up in the pulpit and a lot of gimmicks and a lot of entertainment that are not teaching the people what they need to hear from Scripture, what they need to know that's truth, knowing that we're grasping into the vine, or we're like chaff which the wind driveth away And that's a whole nother part of this message that I'm not going to be able to get to this morning, but we will next time. He's talking about hell. He's talking about those branches that are cut off, they're burned in hell forever. Those are the ones that are on the left side of the judgment that the Lord has condemned and has said, Be gone from me, I've never known you. Where do you hear that anymore? It's in scripture, it's the thing that Christ preached most about and warned and begged, and he and his human nature went and he taught and he preached I believe that's what was in that cup of wrath that he saw, part of it. There was a lot of things in that cup of wrath. It's no wonder he swept blood in the garden. Well, once again, the true prosperity gospel message is one with Christ. And Christ promises that we will bear much fruit and be prosperous through ministry. The same abides in him to bring forth much fruit. But always remember, he said, for without me ye can do nothing. And that is wonderful. Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee and praise Thee, Lord, for this passage, for these verses, for all these wonderful parables that thou expects us to read and to love and to understand. And these parables show us how what heaven is. She gives us a window on how wonderful heaven is, and how, Lord, that we walk with thee. And Lord, we are grafted into that beautiful vine. I pray that thou wouldst guide and direct us in the way that we should go. I pray for a blessing. Everyone here, that thou wouldst bless their families and watch over them. And I pray that thou wouldst just. Help us to enjoy our fellowship today on the Lord's Day and guide and direct us in the way that we should go in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.