This is an extension of the title last week, I am the true vine, one of the great I Am statements. So let's pick up with John chapter 15, and we'll be in verse 6 to verse 15. John chapter fifteen, verses six through fifteen. If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch. and is withered, and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If ye abide in me, and my word abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. So shall ye be my disciples. As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love, even as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. This is my commandment, that ye love one another, as I have loved you. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man laid down his life for his friends Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. Henceforth I call you not servants. For the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth, but I have called you friends. For all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. Incredible words, straight from our Lord God Almighty, right from his very, very mouth, as he encourages the disciples who are about to scatter. Let's ask the Lord to lift us up in a word of prayer here. Our Lord God Almighty, these very words, Lord, are thy words, thy holy inspired word. Thou art speaking to us this morning through thy word. Thou said my word will never return unto me void. So I pray, Lord, that we will be real reverent, respectful, that we'll leave all the secular things of this world out of the parking lot of this church now, and that our minds would be focused on The works and persons and the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that we will understand these words and will buy the truth and sell it not. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. As we continue forward, basically we looked last week about the reward. Basically, the reward is basically we are grafted into that vine as branches. Then we talked about the differences between Christ being the only vine and those out there that say that there are other vines and there are other gardens, basically other vineyards, when we looked at the Latin words. I can promise you this. No matter what you believe, no matter what you think, there's all kinds of conjecture relativisms and so many is um, one pastor said there ought to be a wasm out there to confuse people, but never ever forget this. Christ is the only way. And don't believe that there are other ways that man has that basically fall under their guise and their outline of what they think is under what Christ wants. What Christ wants is written here. It's written very plainly here. And if you have any questions about what man says out here, I don't care if it's somebody on the radio, if it's someone on one of these short videos or one of these sermons. And all of a sudden it sounds something that's a little outside of what you think that Christ would allow? Go study it, dig, and find out, because his words are what we go to. There's so many ways that people say. They even take the vineyard and they say, There's so many vines, there's so many different plants, there's so many ways to heaven. There's only one way. The reward is the Lord will clean us up. We see here if we go back a little bit, and we see here basically in verse 3, now ye are clean through the Word. The Word cleans you up. Don't you like to be clean? I like to be clean. The word cleans you up. It's incredible. Sterilizes your heart from all the filth. Ye are clean to clean up the vine, basically. Christ cleans us up by being the vine. In order to do that, he had to do some pruning We see in John chapter 13 verse 11, it's incredible to go backwards because we had looked at that before. For in John 13, 11 he says, For he knew who should betray him. Therefore said he, ye are not all clean. There was one that hated him that was even amongst them. There was one that was conspiring against him, and the Lord made that a very, very important lesson. Our Lord's words are distinguished. They came through his disciples. They came through his apostles. They came through all the disciples except for Judas, who would scatter, he would never return, and he is the one who would actually betray Christ. How does Christ clean us up? He sanctifies us. See, we don't live in a process of justification, and you're going to hear that now. That's out there now. I've heard it. I've never thought I'd ever hear something so vile We're living in a process of justification that we can justify ourselves. No, you can't. Our process is sanctification. Christ cleans us up through sanctifying us. That means we keep pushing forward. We keep pulling ourselves up that mountain with our fingernails and walking over glass to follow him, to do what's right, to try to be perfect like him, but we're going to fall The only way we could justify ourselves is if we were perfect and we could judge ourselves. But Christ says He's given all judgment to the Holy Spirit. So we are still caught in that process of sanctification between now and the day we meet Christ. Because we're going to fall. We're going to do something he never did. We're going to sin. You're probably going to do it sometime today. You're probably going to do it maybe within an hour or two hours. Then probably will I. It's possible We don't know that, but that process of sanctification, Christ's blood covers all of that if you believe in him See how important that is? Basically in verse 6, if a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch. I don't advise that Boy, I don't advise not abiding in Christ. That's a bad thing. We're clean. He cleans us up. If we abide in him, we're clean. Job thirty-three nine says, I am clean without transgression. I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me. David said in Psalm fifty one three, Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Oh how he sinned Purge me with his ship and I shall be clean, and wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. In verse seven you jump over in Psalm fifty one, create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me That's about all that was left that David had. He had everything else. He had the best horses. He had the best armies. He had women. He had already done that horrible thing. He had had unlimited power in Israel with the northern. He was the first the northern he was a he was an incredible king of the northern and southern kingdom And what he cries out for do going and he wrote this when he said this, actually he was roughly about 53 years old. That's where has that's how old he was, because he had just had that horrible uh that that horrible sin with Bathsheba, and then he comes back after Nathan accused him, he says, Lord, created me a clean heart. He wanted to do in verse six what we read here. He wanted to abide in Christ. He wanted to be the branch He didn't want to be the vine. The problem is today, too many quote-unquote church leaders don't want to be a branch. They want to be a vine. And they want the branches engrafted into them. That's a dead branch. Anybody who wants to subvert Christ and they want to be the vine. They are asking for trouble because they are not going to defeat Christ. That gives me encouragement. That gives me hope when Christ says I have overcome the world and He can clean us up. That shows me that I absolutely as wicked and as vile and as worthy as I'm not That shows me that I have hope through my Savior. Is cleanliness next to godliness? Do you know that that's not written anywhere in Scripture But it actually can be applied. But so when Christ cleans us up, we're godly. Not talking about cleaning your bathroom. Not talking about cleaning your car. Those are all good things. But I'm talking about how Christ cleans our hearts You know, the saying cleanliness is next to godliness does not appear in the Bible. The expression is an archaic proverb found in Babylonian and Hebrew religious tracts. Its debut in the English from the was in the English la language and it was in a modified form. It was found in the writings of philosophers and of the scientist Sir Francis Bacon. In advancement of learning in sixteen oh five, he wrote, Cleanliness of body was ever deemed to proceed from a due reverence to God. And then almost 200 years later in 1791, John Wesley made a reference to the expression in one of his sermons in the form we use today. Wesley wrote Slavonliness is no part of religion. Cleanliness is indeed next to godliness. The only problem with that is basically the inference was we have the ability to clean our own selves up. That's not what we do. We don't have that ability. We're filthy, we're dirty, we're a dead body, we're stinking and we're rotting. And we have new life because of Jesus Christ. What could be better? There's no money on the earth that can buy that There's nobody that can be paid off to buy that. There's no works like poor Martin Luther and he tried. Oh, he tried. Probably he would have to be if there's anyone that ever could have even gotten through the crack of the front door of heaven. on his works, which is not possible, don't get me wrong, it would have been his efforts, because he tried everything to make himself feel peaceful in his heart, to be In heaven by his own works. But there was one problem. He didn't abide in Christ at the time. He was not grafted into the vine. So he had no pulse. He was still dead. And when he went into Romans And he read those wonderful words that the just shall live by faith going all the way back to the back of chapter 2, verse 2, and that gets connected together. He didn't have to freeze himself almost to death anymore. He didn't have to fast for days and months at a time. He didn't have to beat on himself. and throw ink wells at the wall because Satan was standing there and he was trying to vanquish Satan himself by throwing an inkwell at him. And he didn't have to come back and say, when people said do you love God? He said, no, do I love him? I hate him. Because of the way that he makes me feel like I'm nothing, because my works don't add up to him. And then he found out through the blood of Jesus Christ to abide in that vine and to be in verse six, to abide in him All of the horrible pressure he had was gone. It was gone. What could be better? We see the word the the Greek word translated godliness in the New Testament actually means holiness. without which no one will ever see God. Hebrews chapter 12, 14 says, follow peace with all men in holiness Without which no man shall see the Lord. But it is a holiness not obtained by keeping the law, which is impossible. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine not being able to see the Lord? That alone should be one of our top ten priorities or hundred or million priorities on our bucket list on this earth How do I see the Lord? How do I one day have that beatific vision? Oh, the questions came up of Christ don't I can say sick and tired of It also it's actually hard to listen to sometimes where this there's all of this fighting back and forth amongst the Presbyterians and the Baptists and the Methodists and all of this. Did Jesus see the beatific vision? It's like saying Did God make a rock so big that he couldn't lift it over his head? That's ridiculous. Of course Christ could see the beatific vision. He never sinned. The thing that keeps you from seeing God on his throne is your sin and my sin. Look at Moses. I love Moses my whole life. I have never I love Joseph. He's one of my favorites. I love the three Hebrew boys, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They're my favorite threesome. I love them. But Moses, he never gave up. And I get so sick and tired. I I really I'm sorry, but I'm getting you know I'm getting older now and I and I and I need encouragement like you do as we get older But what encourages me is Moses, he didn't start his ministry until he was 83 years old. And he went all the way to the mountain. The Lord buried him at 120 And he questioned the Lord. He had objections at 83. At the time of his 83 years old, he was a very wise man at the time. He had an incredible education. But he said something. All of the Jews thought that he was some venerated divinity. He was some incredible, like absolute right hand of God. Moses was there But they say Christ isn't. And then Moses comes back and he says something back in Deuteronomy. I think it's fifteen eighteen. I may be wrong about that. It's right around there. He says, There will be a prophet that will come, and woe be unto you that won't hearken unto him And he says right there he totally relinquishes his position as any type of spiritual authority and gives it all to Jesus Christ. It wasn't to Yahweh. I hate that word. Yahweh is not the word we're supposed to use as Christians for crut for God. It's Jehovah, not Yahweh. Yahweh came many, many years later. And it's part of a whole nother false religion that came up. I know people like to use it and it sounds good and all that's fine. It's not gonna you know. Jehovah is his name You don't see in the ancient writings God the list of God's name as Yahweh Elohim. It's Jehovah Elohim. It's Yahweh Kwana. Jehovah Kwana, who is a jealous God. He hates those serving idols. Moses knew he abided in that vine. He knew it. He knew that. Romans 3. 20, Paul going back to Paul, we had some really, really good discussion in the Sunday school class about Paul. Romans 3. 20 says, Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. You go to Galatians 2. 16. Paul continues on when he's going to the Galatians, and the Galatians were now having a real problem. They loved him at one point and they kissed him and they put their arms around him and they loved him. And all of a sudden Paul leaves When the cat's away, the mouse will play. Now they went back to the Judaizers. And he comes back and he loves them so much he he tries to set them straight, writing them in prison, and he tells them this. Galatians 2. 16, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith in Jesus Christ. By the f by the but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified. by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law, for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. We need to be transformed New creatures, verse 7 says, If ye abide in me and my word abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you And then he says, after that in verse 8, herein is my Father glorified. He says, you listen to me, you obey my commandments in verse 8 as we move forward. They're not grievous, as we read in the Sunday school class in 1 John, I think it was chapter 3. His law is not grievous. He says, if you abide in the vine, you abide in me. Paul says then in 2 Corinthians 5. 17, backing up what I just said. In 2 Corinthians 5. 17, therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. Don't we love new things as people? Don't you love driving home with a new car or a truck? It's almost impossible anymore, but it used to be fun. Do you like to come home with new groceries? Who would you rather have? Used groceries. That'd be kind of disgusting. Do you li do you like to take your suit to the dry cleaner and it comes back nice and new? Don't you love new things? God knows we love new things. We complain a lot. I'm sick of my old car. Actually I'm not. My my truck has two hundred and forty thousand miles. I know Jacobs has like four hundred. He loves it. He loves his truck. I love it. I love that old truck. These new trucks are such a pain. Phil knows he's got an a awesome truck. But these newer trucks are tough. But don't you like a new vehicle? You know, new hat, new coat, you know? All things are passed away becall everything becomes new That's another thing about being grafted into the vine. You leave this earth and you die. Oh, we're so afraid of death. Do you realize that when you die and you love Christ, everything becomes new? Everything. Every day it becomes new. Because there's no days in heaven. It's just this beautiful, beautiful eternity of new things all the time. Nothing but new. Up there, I believe Christ is watching over our mansions right now. He's cutting the grass, He's doing everything, getting them all around. I don't know if you cut the grass up there, I guess he's not doing that Phil I he Phil probably hopes there's no cutting grass. I know I did enough of it. But you know what I'm saying? He's preparing the mansions for us. He is making them new And up there, I guarantee you the air conditioning will work. If there's air conditioning, I don't think we need air conditioning. But I'm just saying, if you're in the vine, all these things are rewards that the Lord will give us All things are passed away. What does he mean by that? All the things that just destroy us are passed away, they're gone. You find out you got cancer. You find out your mother has cancer. I found out my mother had cancer, my father had cancer. Boy, they were some years. Let me tell you all that stuff. With the Lord. All things are past will. All these things of hell, financial burdens, all the hard things, the Lord says, if you abide in me, verse 8, herein is my Father glorified. And what I was getting to with Moses, I got off the beaten path. I'm sorry. He wanted to see God. Lord, he begged him. He said, Lord, I've I've been through all these things and I've listened to you. The hardest thing I ever did in my life was stand before Pharaoh. Pharaoh could have killed me. But I listened. I went and I stood before Pharaoh and and the people had done nothing but but bark at me and tell me tell me how miserable I am because they want to kill m they they they want me to that they think I'm gonna kill them and they want to go back to the leeks and the garden garlic and onions and the cucumbers They want to get back to the flesh pots and all the filth. They want to go back. And he finally breaks down and he says, Lord, I just want to see you. Does that what's in our heart? Think of Simeon back in Luke 2. I could just get out of here and go right to Luke 2 and start preaching from that. Luke 2, Simeon says He told Simeon, you will not see death until you see the Lord Christ. Now you could see Christ in his humanity. You could get away with that. But you cannot see the beatific physician, what we were talking about And Simeon waited. He waited, and all of a sudden Jesus shows up at the temple. Lord, let thou thy servant depart in peace, for I have seen thy salvation. I'm ready to get out of here. I've seen him, and I want to be with him. That's what Moses is saying here. Not only do I want to abide in the vine, I want to see the beatific vision. That should be in our hearts as Christians who want to see that. We should do that. And my answer to you when Christ was on this earth, could he see the beatific vision when he prayed? Of course he could. There was no sin to cloud him. I have heard many, many pastors say that in his humanity he could not see the beatific vision. Come on! He didn't sin, how could he not see it? Now I can understand in his humanity he bled, he slept He had emotions and all of that, but he didn't sin. That is the thing that Moses could not see God. He said, You stand in the cleft of the rock. We sing that song you hide his knee in the cleft of the rock. And he stands back where he stands and he shows him his his back. He could not show him his face. It would have killed Moses. He couldn't see it. Verse 9, as the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. John 16, 22, go back a little bit from our Sunday school class, and ye now therefore have sorrow. You know, and I think Christ was saying that, I think in in John 16, 22, he was saying, you have sorrow, and I'm sorry you have sorrow. I really am. But don't because I think he could think that or feel that because of the way he wept with the w the women at the tomb of Lazarus. The Lord says, weep with those that weep, and he wept with them. I believe also he could have sorrow in his heart and he could say, I'm sorry that you're going to have sorrow. And y and I understand you don't know what some of the sorrow is going to be like as you go into your ministrations and you go And I make you apostles, you're going to see things you've never seen before, and it's going to be tough. There's going to be some awesome things you're going to see. But you're all going to be having, you're going to have sorrow in your hearts He goes on and he says, And ye now therefore have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you. But don't you just love how that verse is written As an extension and as that comes after Jesus is talking about the vine, don't you love how that verse is written? It's kind of like In Isaiah chapter 53, where everything is an absolute statement. I will do this, I will do this, I will do this He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was taken as a lamb to the slaughter and as a sheep before his shears is done, so he opened not his mouth. He would do nothing to abrogate commission. But it says here, it doesn't say here, sometimes you ought to ask yourself when you're looking at verses, and they seem kind of elementary. You ought to kind of like do I like to do the opposite, like the antithesis of the verse, and say What does it not say? Here's what it doesn't say. And ye now therefore have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart might rejoice. That's up to you. Do you have self-help and all? And your joy no man taketh from you. Well, it's you and your joy, it's possible that man might not take it away from you, but you never know See that? He didn't say anything that's stupid. The Lord talks perfectly. He says, You, I will see you again. Your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man can ever take away from you, no matter what. We have sorrows and trials in this life, death, sickness, failures, relational difficulties, Christ says to press onward, occupy till I return, fight the good fight. He that endureth to the end is worthy of the kingdom, so we must trust Christ. Prosper that that is the true prosperity gospel. That you want prosperity? That's it. Not bread and circuses. It's not all this other stuff that's offered out there. Once again, Joel Alstein says this is your best life. Well if that's the case you're going to hell. If this is your best life. Think about that. To make a good bumper sticker The prize is grand. It's worth the trials. Ye shall ask what ye will. The Lord will give it to you. He says that I think we have a hard time understanding what that means. Jimmy Swagger thought you should ask for a Mercedes and it should be in your driveway the next morning. That's not what he's talking about. Well, this is a genuine prosperity gospel. It's incredible, basically. I'm going to read you something. I was going to wait on this, but Let me see if I can get through this. This here, what I'm about to read you, is an effect of Jesus Christ. This is what it means to be This is what it means to be grafted into the vine. Okay? Now what we're going to read here is one of the disciples of John. Remember when we read, actually if you were in the Sunday school class, we talked about how the disciples came to Jesus and said, Lord, please increase our faith. Teach us to pray as John the Baptist taught his disciples. This was one of his disciples. Listen to this. The betrayal. Polycarp, Bishop of Smyrna. Oh, we have a pastor from Smyrna, Delaware. Isn't that amazing? A bishop of Smyrna, a disciple of John the Apostle, who wrote this very book we are studying and finally fell prey to a government he loved the Bible that would not stand for Jesus Christ as king but Caesar They would detain him. How could such a brutal death manifest such joy? And listen to this story. Those who were looking for him were coming near. So he left for another house. They immediately followed him. And when he could not find him, they seized two young men from his own household and tortured them into confession. The sheriff called Herod was impatient to bring Polycarp to the stadium so that he might fulfill his special role to share the sufferings of Christ, while those who betrayed him would be punished like Judas. The arrest The police and horsemen came with the young man at suppertime on the Friday with their usual weapons, as if coming out against a robber. That evening they found him lying down in the upper room of a cottage He could have escaped, but he refused, saying, God's will be done. When he heard that they had come, he went down and spoke with them. They were amazed at his age. He was 86 years old, by the way. Boy, they're so brave, aren't they? You read that email Joan Waste that I sent out? Blind young girl. They literally would literally do what they did to her. Boy When he heard that they come, he went down and spoke with them. They were amazed at his age and steadfastness. And some of them said, Why did we go to so much trouble to capture a man like this? An older man, they were saying Immediately he called for food and drink for them. He didn't ask to feed himself. The people that were taking him in to get executed, he offered him dinner And asked for an hour to pray uninterrupted. They agreed. And he stood and prayed. So full of the grace of God that he could not stop for two hours. That would be polycarp. He couldn't stop praying I love it The men were astounded and many of them regretted coming to arrest such a godly and venerable an old man, entering the city. When he finished praying, they put him on a donkey. Would that sound familiar? Triumphal entry? Boy, that's incredible. And took him into the city. Polycarp refuses to deny Jesus. Girston took the third heading of this little beautiful story As Polycarp was being taken into the arena, a voice came to him from heaven. Be strong, Polycarp, and play the man. No one saw who had spoken, but our brothers who were there heard the voice. Does that sound familiar to any of you? Play the man? It's exactly what Hugh Latimer said to Nicholas Ridley. Isn't it amazing? When they were being burned by that wicked, vile Queen Mary. When the crowd heard that Polycarp had been captured, there was an uproar. The proconsul asked him whether he was Polycarp. One hearing that he was, he tried to persuade him to apostasize, saying Have respect for your old age, swear by the fortune of Caesar, repent, and stay down with the atheists. Did you hear that? Did you hear what I just said? He said Honor your age by venerating and declaring Caesar as divinity. That's what they were saying Down with the atheist, they said. Polycarp looked grimly at the wicked heathen multitude in the stadium, gesturing towards them. He said, Down with the atheists, swear, urge the proconsul, reproach Christ, they said, and I will set you free. Here's what he said Eighty-six years have I served him, and I can imagine the look on his face was like lasers coming out of his eyes Eighty-six years I have served him, Polycarp declared, as he has done me no wrong, how can I blaspheme my king and my savior? There were more attempts just to make him submit. I have wild animals here. The proconsul said, I will throw you to them if you don't repent. Polycarp says, go ahead, call them. Polycarp replied, It is unthinkable for me to repent for what is good to turn to what is evil. I will be glad, though, to be changed from evil to righteousness. If you despise the animals, I will have you burned, they said. You threaten me with fire which burns for an hour and is then extinguished, but you know nothing of the fire of the coming judgment and eternal punishment reserved for the ungodly Why are you waiting? Bring on whatever you want. The fire is prepared. It was all done in the time it takes to tell. The crowd collected wood and bundles of sticks from the shops and public baths The Jews, as usual, were keen to help. When the pile was ready, Polycarp took off his outer clothes, undid his belt, and tried to take off his sandals Something he was not used to, as the faithful always raced to do it for him, each wanting to be the one to touch his skin. This is how good his life was. For he that gives me strength to endure the fire will enable me not to struggle without the help of your nails. Polycarp praise So they simply bound him with his hands behind him like a s like a distinguished ram chosen from a great flock for sacrifice. Ready to be an acceptable burnt offering to God, he looked up to heaven and here's what he said O Lord God Almighty, the Father of your beloved and blessed Son Jesus Christ, by whom we have received the knowledge of you, the God of angels, power in every creature and of all righteousness who live before you I give you thanks that you count me worthy to be numbered among your martyrs, sharing the cup of Christ and the resurrection to eternal life, both of soul and body, through the immortality of the Holy Spirit. May I be received this day as an acceptable sacrifice, as you the true God have predestined, revealed to me and now fulfilled I praise you for all these things. I bless you and glorify you along with the everlasting Jesus Christ, your beloved Son. To you with him through the Holy Ghost be glory both now and forever. Amen. Here's an account of a miracle. Remember, this is back in the days of John the Beloved. Miracles were still present. It wasn't long after that that you had apostles, little healing people from the dead. Remember that? Listen to this Then the fire was lit, and the flame blazed furiously. We who were privileged to witness it saw a great miracle, and this is why we have been preserved to tell the story. The fire shaped itself into the form of an ark. like the sail of a ship when filled with the wind, and formed a circle around the body of the martyr. Inside it he looked not like flesh that is burnt, but like bread that is baked, or gold and silver glowing in a furnace, and we smelt a sweet scent. Like frankincense or some such precious spices. Then, and here's the death of Polycarp, eventually, when those wicked men saw that his body could not be consumed by the fire They commanded an executioner to pierce him with a dagger. When he did this, a dove flew out, and such a great quantity of blood flowed that the fire was extinguished. The crowd was amazed at the difference between the unbelievers and the elect, of whom the great Polycarp was surely one, having in our own times been an apostolic and prophetic teacher and bishop of the church in Smyrna, for every word he spoke either has been or shall be accomplished. Why could he stand there? Has anybody else ever done that? Tried to dial in a in a form like that for their master The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. That's what's always been a wonderful blessed uh saying all down through the centuries. This precious old man stood there, innocent as he could be, and they martyred him. They murdered him. And this has happened to many. Will it happen to us? We see in verse in John 15, these very words of our Lord Jesus Christ, it's a beautiful transfer of love that we find. We see God the Father. We see the work of the Father, the Son, and we see how the Holy Spirit is being wonderfully in all these chapters. Basically, slowly and very perfectly and profoundly, the Holy Spirit is being introduced For what? The Holy Spirit of judgment. The Holy Spirit of truth. The Holy Spirit of counsel. The Holy Spirit of knowledge. The Holy Spirit of burning is now being presented, unlike how the Holy Spirit is being presented in many churches today as basically nothing but a cosmic, basically bellhop Anyone who believes that they love God initially because they decided to follow Jesus, because they think they found an interest in him, is sadly mistaken. The greatest part of our salvation Is this 1 John 4 19? We love him because he first loved us. He loved us first. You know, our our precious Savior, he delighted in the Father. He loved the Father. We see that all throughout his writings here and all of his wonderful the words that's being interpreted to us We see here in verse 9, as the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. He says, if ye keep my commandments, he says they're my father's commandments. Here we were reading on Wednesday night about what was being brought into the temple. What was the most beautiful, beautiful artifact? Oh, there was beautiful artifacts brought down from Phoenicia, Tyre and Sidon, it came down the Mediterranean through Joppa, the seaports And they brought these beautiful oh how would you love some of these gold artifacts that came out of there worth millions? But the most precious artifact that's mentioned in 1 Kings chapter 8 verses 1 through 47, I believe it's verses ten or eleven. is they brought the testimony of God into that temple. And guess what was in it? Back here in stone, the real ones. The real ones, not the ones that that that that Moses got mad at and he he he he beat them up a little bit. God gave him some new ones. Those were in that testimony with the rails and everything was on there. The testimony of God. And as Christians, we embrace that. We don't worship the law. We love the law. It's an extension of what our Lord Jesus Christ could do to fulfill the law. We try to love the law. We we try to follow it but we don't do it because we think we can follow it and we can we can sidestep Christ and do it ourselves and and and win our way to heaven because we actually some few minutes of our our of our Lives on this earth can actually get by without committing some of these daily. No. Only Christ could do that. He didn't come to abrogate the law. He didn't come to To crush it? He says, You love me, you will listen to me, and you'll keep my commandments in these upcoming verses. I'm getting a little ahead of myself. But in verse eleven, these things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you And that your joy might be full. This is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. Those last six commandments are about loving each other. How could people hate them? Those last six commandment commandments you go, you know, honor thy mother and thy father, that thy days may be long upon the earth. Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not lie, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet. All of those six commandments on the first four, they're all for God. They're so vitally important. That's for honoring the Lord and worshiping Him. But if you don't understand that, at least understand the first six, and that should bring you to the first four. And if you love them, do you want anything happening to you? Do you want your mother and father to hate you and you and and do you really want to not honor them? Do you do you? Because according to biblical categories To not honor your mother and father would have gotten you stoned in the old days of Israel. And you get just think about how many teenagers it took to make an example of that it straightened up the rest of them. Maybe one, maybe a couple, maybe But I can tell you this, those commandments are perfect. Think about if you had an island and you had to come up with ten commandments. Me might come up with some of them, but where would you come up with number ten? That had to be divine. I mean, where would you come up with thou shalt not covet? That's a big one because that's that's a very real real bad problem. Verse 11, Christ gives us the ultimate lesson of joy. These things have I spoken unto you. He's reminding them, I've said these things to you over and over and over again. He says in verse 11, he says, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. As we read earlier, you can see that in tribulation going back to John, going forward, John chapter 16, verse 33. He says, be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. That means that there is possible, it is possible for us to have cheer, and it has as though it's possible for us to have, as Matthew Henry said We can find rejoicing in our sufferings. Can you see the world that hates Jesus Christ fighting, rejoicing in their sufferings? You know what I see? I see sadly another young man who actually went to North Harford High School, took his own life, and there was a thing for it yesterday. I came back his name's I I don't even want to give his name, but I see suicide running rampant It's running rapid. And it's the youngest, most bright, beautiful people. They're killing themselves because they're being led into the graves by Satan. If you can find rejoicing in your sufferings, you'll never commit your you you won't commit suicide. You won't do that You will do what John the Beloved did, knowing that at the time John the Beloved in John chapter 21, knowing Christ had made it very manifest to him That he was going to the cross and he was going to return. What did John the Beloved do? He rested his head in the bosom of Jesus Christ. You do that. You're down, you feel alone, you're never alone. If you're with Christ, you're never alone. Never. You, you will definitely find dignity if you're alone by resting your head in the bosom of Jesus Christ by his word and going to him. And then that's what happens with people that they don't have the Lord. They go they're on drugs. I mean uh there's this thing out now that now that they're releasing on all the streets in these big cities. these great big Narcan packages and basically what you're doing is you're telling the people, hey, we'll give you, we'll make sure that if you shoot up and you get fentanyl, we'll take care of it. That's alright. Go ahead and do it. If you kill somebody else, whatever. But there's a box of Narcan for you Isn't that crazy? That's what people turn to. They turn to alcohol. They turn to going to all these horrible places and doing these terrible things. Christ says, if you follow me, you believe in me, you listen to me, you will rejoice in me, and you will rejoice in your sufferings. That's a great encouragement. I love it. Here's some quotes. Quotes from believers whose joy comes from God. Here are some quotes regarding joy. Let's go outside of Scripture just for a minute. I think a lot of these basically pipe into Scripture. Joy is the reward of obedience to the Father even on this earth. That's a heading. But here's some quotes. When we are powerless to do a thing, it is a great joy that we can come and step inside the ability of Jesus. That was Corey Tenbun. There is not one blade of grass, there is no color in this world that is not intended to make us rejoice, says John Calvin And yet all loneliness, angers, hatreds, envies, and itchings that contains, if rolled into one single experience and put into the scale against the least moment of the joy that is felt by the least in heaven, would have no weight that could be registered at all. Bad cannot succeed even in being bad as truly as good as good. C. S. Lewis That's a little confusing, but he's saying in the least the least amount of joy in heaven, we can share in that here on this earth through Jesus Christ. We can do that Then he's saying that there is no bad that is going to bring us joy. It might bring us pleasure. It might bring us temporary happiness, but it's not going to bring us godly joy. That's what we want Here are some quotes from the world. This is sad. Then we'll go we'll go to verse 12 here, Lord willing, we have a couple minutes. We are shaped by our thoughts. We become what we think. That scares me to death. We become what we think. When the mind is pure, joy follows like a shadow that never leaves. That's from Buddha. If we're destroying our trees and destroying our environment, And hurting animals and hurting one another and all that stuff. There's got to be a very powerful energy to fight that. I think we need more love in the world. We need more kindness, more compassion, more joy, more laughter. I definitely want to contribute to that. Ellen Degenerate, I mean degenerous, I'm sorry. Ellen degenerous. If you're not having a good time, find something else that gives you some joy in life. Penny Marshall Love is the joy of the good, the wonder of the wise, the amazement of the gods. Plato. Find ecstasy in life. The mere sense of living is joy enough. Emily Dickinson Nothing can take your joy. You have to give it away. Last but not least, you're in complete control of your happiness. Joel Alstein. You're in control of it? I promise you I'm not. Well, we see here joy is from God's perfect and errand word. Remember verse eleven, these things have I spoken unto you. My joy might remain in you. That's where joy comes from. John Job forty-one twenty-two we see here Job going back to Job Look what he writes. In his neck remaineth strength, and sorrow was turned into joy before him Psalm sixteen eleven says, Thou wilt show me the path of life, and thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Isaiah 65. 19. And we see how Isaiah and how the struggles that he had and and everything as as he progresses in such a wonderful book. A prophet, one of the greatest prophets of cr of Christ, Isaiah 65, 19, he says And I will rejoice in Jerusalem and joy in my people, and the voice of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the cry, nor the voice of crying. The prophet in the Habakkuk in chapter Habakkuk 3. 18 says, Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. Remembered when the minor prophets were writing. Remember when they were writing, the Israelites were under great duress and they were under great enslavement. They were in bad shape, and Habakkuk could come back and write and still find joy in the Lord. Luke 2. 10 And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. 1 Peter 1. 8, whom having not seen ye love, in whom though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. Peter's in the latter parts of his life. He's getting ready like Paul to be executed. He says, joy unspeakable. Verse twelve, we see here that uh this is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. Where is that? Paul talks about in Romans chapter twelve, and then he goes into Romans chapter To Romans chapter 12, and he goes all the way back to Romans 1, and he said, One of the problems with the vile wickedness of the day is there was no natural affection for one another No natural affection. I mean just go out on the roads of Baltimore and find out if there's any natural affection when you go to drive from here to Belair And see if you're not cut off, you're not people giving you the finger. You can't even draw that drive out of here because that hill's so bad. I mean you go into the stores, nobody says hello, hardly anymore, except if you're giving them money. I mean it's the natural affection. Where is it? The natural affection for somebody to just help somebody else and you know make their life just relieve their burden. I like what Charles Dickinson said he is no man is useless that will relieve the burden of another man. I think that's a great quote. That's a very great, great quote. Romans twelve says that you love one another Joy comes from loving one another. Christ encourages us, I have loved you. This is not not this is not an irony. This is not some kind of oxymoron Is he saying, why would the father who rightfully loves his most worthy son love a people who sin against him? And people are always putting God on the witness stand and saying, Why would he do this? Why would he do that? But always remember this If he would sacrifice his son, he will land on you for your sin. You have every right to be landed on. And his justice will bring that. If he was willing to annihilate his son Well on that cross, I'm not talking about forever, but I'm talking about have him killed. He was willing to go that far to love us. Don't leave this earth not believing in him. Don't you have to abide in him. You have to. You need to do that. This this question actually proposes quite a conundrum where the crisis is not one of conjecture, but a major lemma. So why does Christ love us if we are not all worthy? That's why he loves us. He remembers that we're dust. Christ reveals this heavenly answer with one perfect lesson after another. It's a heavenly transfer. That's incredible. And I'll have to save that for next time. So if we get started here, we might be here until the snow comes around three or four It's verse 12, we leave off with this is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. That's a good verse to leave off. Love one another. Bear one another's burdens Alright, so I can't go over and leave my house today and go bring somebody over dinner or vacuum their floor or fix their car and have fine. Sit and pray for them. Just pray. I knew this one's having a hard time. Pray for him. I know this one. We have a prayer list. Pray for him. Don't ever underestimate the full weight of your prayers. Don't ever underestimate that. Spurgeon says to do it every day. Pastor Coleman says, don't underestimate your prayers. Don't ever underestimate them. It's one of the ways we love one another. I am the vine, ye are the branches. Remember, there's only one vine. Heavenly Father, I thank thee that thou art the only true vine. Now said I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. And Lord, we have tried to faithfully articulate thy words this morning. I pray that it's been a sweet smelling savor I pray that it's been, Lord, that I I just pray, Lord, that that everything that was said this morning in Sunday school class and here and our discussion in Sunday school and our prayers, I pray that thou would have mercy upon us. Hear our prayers, walk with us. Direct us in the way that we should go. Taoist said, if you ask in my name, I will do it. So in the name of Jesus Christ, I pray for every family here. Bless them. And I pray for their unsaved loved ones, their unspoken prayer requests their families, their jobs, their health, their finances. I pray, Lord, that everyone here will be blessed and that that was lift them up. And that the greatest blessing is for them to receive whatever answer thou gives them, to thank thee no matter what. These things we ask in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.