Luke twenty-four, and if you wouldn't like to follow along with your eyes, I'll begin with verse thirteen. And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about three score for lungs. And they talked together of all the things which had happened. And it came to pass that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were holden, that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one with to another, as ye walk, and are sad? And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answered and said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are to come to pass? Pass there in these days? And he said unto them, What things? And he said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty indeed and were before God and all the people. and how the chief priest and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him. And we had trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early to the sepulchre. And when they found not his body, they came saying that he had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even so, as the women had said, but him they saw not. Then he said unto them O fools, and slow of heart to believe, all that the prophets have spoken, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to have entered into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And they drew near unto the village, whither they went, and he made as also though he would have gone further, but they constrained him, saying, Abide with us for it is towards evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass, as they sat at meat with them He took bread and blessed it and break and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight And they said one to another, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened us the scriptures And they rose up that same hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, saying, The Lord has arisen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they told what tithe what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in the breaking of bread. May God bless the reading and hearing of his word this morning. Shall we pray? Father, these passages are often read at this time of the year. the experience of of those who first saw the empty tomb and the the details of things that are are commonly understood as part of the death and burial and resurrection of Jesus. And yet, Lord, our hearts need to be afresh because the world in which we live is a darkened world The world still needs to know the risen Savior. We understood that he was uh abused and beaten and crucified and was was buried, but the tomb is empty. And our Savior has risen, and life and light that He has brought unto us is there for us. Bless the thoughts that we bring today out of your word, hide your servant, and may the honoring of your name be evident. For it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Easter Sunday, a day of a lot of services. The big one down the road here, the parking lots were full, jam-packed one to another, you know. Uh and then there's all types of others on the radio they were saying, Well, uh it's nearing Mother's Day but people are spending more time going out to eat. So the breakfast, lunch, you know, the brunch type of thing, they're they're just going out doing everything. Uh it's quite the day. The National Retail Federation says Easter spending is expected to hit a record of $24. 9 billion this year Phew. Surpassing the previous year, 2023, of $24 billion. The average shopper is budgeting $195. 59 a record high. Just buy it all up, you know. That's what it's all about. For liturgical churches, today is the what the forty days of Lent were leading up to. uh Lent had been closed uh last Thursday, but uh leading up to the empty tomb as part of the ritual that they had gone through, the renewal of our relationship with God But whatever your thoughts may be concerning this day, I want to break down in two words. Triumph and tragedy. Triumph and tragedy, fitting all together the things that have been part and parcel of this whole week. It sounds simple enough that you conclude, well, he only has two points for his sermon. How long could that be? Don't test me. Triumph and Tragedy. Winston Churchill wrote a book about World War II using that title. Ken Burns has a series on PBS, Triumph and Tragedy. There is a board game called Triumph and Tragedy. And I think you would agree that so much of life that we live is based on those two principles of triumph and tragedy. Our current situation with our federal government daily echoes the principles of triumph and tragedy. The year-round operations of a firehouse or a police department rescue squads, triumph and tragedy. Very congregations that exist across our country and around the world often are based upon those two principles of triumph and tragedy. It's often part of my life. It's often part of your life as you examine it and feel that. But what makes this so powerful is that the heights of of the triumph are in course with the lowness of the tragedy. The triumph is greater as the tragedy has been uh bore the depths of it. You probably don't remember, but the 1968 New York Mets won only 73 games. The next year they won 100 games and won the World Series. Triumph in tragedy. Just over a month ago there was a mass shooting in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, where a mother and a brother and a grandfather were killed by the supposed father of this family. He got there and he was killed himself also. But senior high school student Colin Dogan lost his mother and brother and grandfather. And in the hockey uh triumph of state championship He scored the winning goal in the quadruple overtime. Triumph. But it made it sweeter, more powerful, because of the loss of his family members. We go back to Luke 24 and verse 13. And behold, two of them went that same day to the village of Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem, about three score furlongs And they talked together of the things which had happened. Years ago I was told that a good news story would follow five points. The who, what, why, where, when. And we're going to look at this particular situation of the text today with those principles in mind. We begin with the who. Well, we first start out with two disciples. And when I say disciples, that's merely a principle of being a follower of Jesus. uh not to be confused with the twelve. Uh later in verse eighteen we see one of them was named Cleopus. And there are a number of Cleopas names mentioned in the scripture and we don't necessarily know that they're all the same, pointing to the same men. And then later on it mentions that there was another going with them. Some say it was the wife, some say it was another friend, uh whatever it was, those were the two. Then there was the third person in the who of this, and it is the The resurrected Jesus. Okay? Focus of the attention of that. Verse 15 and 16. And it came to pass that While they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were holden that they should not know him Thinking of this particular period of time in history, it was foot traffic wherever you would go, from one place to another, to dusty roads, and as you would go along the way, especially during this time of Passover people returning home, there would be a lot of foot traffic and you'd come up to people or they'd come up to you and you might know them and you might not and discussion of what's going on, the things that were were taking place would have been quite commonplace. There might be an occasional horse or a donkey or a chariot or a wagon, but walking down the roads uh talking to an unknown guest would not be uncommon. So the unrecognizable Jesus comes to them and they start to talk What's different is that the appearance of these men to the eyesight through their eyesight they didn't recognize Jesus. Now, he wasn't disguised in another set of clothes, you know. Uh think of the Star Wars characters, you know, they got the big hood up there and they just got the eyes peeking out like that, you know. you don't know me, you know. It wasn't anything like that. And it wasn't just because they didn't recognize his facial features, because they indeed had been altered. through the abuse done by the soldiers and those who were there for twenty-four hours before. Mark sixteen twelve it says, after that he appeared in another form unto two of them. as they walked and went into the country. John twenty fourteen. And when she, meaning Mary Magdalene, had thus said, She turned herself back and saw Jesus standing but knew not that it was Jesus John twenty one, four. And when the morning was now come, Jesus stood in the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. So there was a non-recognizable principle of that body, that form of who it was, but I think in all cases they didn't recognize him because their hearts and minds were so set on Jesus being what Dead. You know when somebody dies and all of a sudden you y you sh no, that that's not him. It can't be him. Their hearts and minds recognized that. It was no longer in a reason for belief that he was living. But in truth, he appears to them in a form that was unlike the Jesus that they had known or remembered, but it was the same Jesus. He appears in a form that was unrecognizable to them from Mary to these here, the the the standing on the shore, but it was the same Jesus that was there. So that's the who of the characters of our story. Secondly, the what. The what What's going on? Well, these two, Cleopas and the other disciple, were leaving Jerusalem, heading home to Emmaus because Passover had finished Passover was complete. Passover, if you remember, what God taught Israel through the ten plagues, and the last two of them being the angel of death passing over and slaying the firstborn of the families They were rescued because of the blood of the lamb was applied to the doorpost and the meal that was established for that particular event. The meal was called Passover, and the lamb itself was known as the Passover lamb. So you see the law required that all men of the families of Israel attend the three feasts that were necessary for their religious duties in Jerusalem, and Passover was one of them. And so Jesus and the twelve and probably about three to four million others were flocked into Jerusalem to be able to handle this particular situation. When you think about it, the events between Palm Sunday and Resurrection Day, which started for the Jews, it was Thursday, but remember once sundown comes, that becomes the next day for the Jews recognizing that particular Thursday when Jesus was at the table until the sunset and then it becomes Friday Garden in the tomb. That was before him. Peter, James, and John arrested, the bogus trial, the crucifixion, burial. And he was the perfect Lamb of God, slain without blemish and without spot. So these two were on their way home, because Passover was finished. But it was much more than that. It was a rendezvous with the resurrected Jesus, making his appearance. Yet why would Jesus come to these two? Why did he pick out these particular men? Why not others? There was a women around Jerusalem, but why? Well, that becomes the third issue. We got the who, the what Where? Why? This is the why. Sure, Passover was finished and everybody was heading home. But Cleopas and his partner and many others were leaving because there was nothing left for them in Jerusalem. Passover had finished. Nothing remained for them to remain in their area. For their own purposes, Jesus was dead. If you go back into the text where Jesus asked them, what's wrong? He sees their face, he sees their countenance, he hears the things that they're discussing. In verse 19, the disciples r answer the resurrected Jesus, uh, what are you from another planet? Don't you recognize what's going on? Everybody knows. Everybody understands Jesus, mighty indeed as a prophet. Word of God coming before him and all the people, chief priests and rulers, delivered him over to be dead, and so on and so forth. But the key is verse 21, where he says, But we trusted. But we trusted. There speaks the whole picture of the why. But we had trusted, but we were hoping That's the why of the story. These two were like everybody else. They were followers. They were seeking some kind of benefit from Jesus. We were following him because he could do something for us. Whether it was the military overthrow, maybe a healing, maybe just a good word, we expected much more. If you remember the throngs that met him outside of Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, they were all looking for the rescuer, the king, he's come. He'll do something different. Their hearts, their minds. They created a Jesus that wasn't real. They looked for one who is not the reality of who he was But not knowing the Jesus who actually was, they still trusted. They were still hoping in something else. They were hoping for Him to do something. Who, what, why, where? Well, I think this is very evident. The location was given, the road between Jerusalem and Emmaus, and he talks about furlongs, that's about seven miles. Again, Emmaus is probably the final destinations of this family, this couple, these two brothers, whatever they were Verse twenty nine it says, But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is towards evening and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them And finally, the when. Well, it was Sunday, the day after the Jewish Sabbath. Probably later in the afternoon, early evening. We have to dissect that passage for that. Tragedies and triumph. Where's the tragedy? What's the tragedy? We talk about the triumph of Jesus being raised over the tomb The tragedy was their blindness. The tragedy was their blindness. Cleopas and the other disciple knew quite well the things about Jesus. You saw that in verses 19 through 21. Yet even as they talked and walked with him, they didn't know who he was. They didn't recognize him. In the text, verse 31, he says, their eyes were opened and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. Were they actually blind? Did they actually lose their eyesight for a period of time? Hardly. Were they visually impaired? Hardly Jesus had put a spell on them and finally was removed when they got to Emmaus. The Star Wars character can see no, you can see no nothing to do with that In truth, they were blind to the real Jesus. All along these two were searching for a Jesus that they made up in their own hearts. All of them were doing the same thing I want a Jesus that's going to do this for me, or he's going to provide this, he's going to accomplish this. And because they could not see such a Jesus, they were blind. All along these two were searching for one that would have been made up in their own hearts, one who would bring them peace and prosperity. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things? and to enter into his glory. And beginning at Moses and the prophets, he expounded unto them all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. He opened up the Old Testament to them. He talked to them about all of the prophecies and all of the things that were pointing to him, explaining exactly the type of Jesus that was to come. How often do we create a Jesus according to what we think he ought to be, or how he ought to act? But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, that is now the third day since all these things were done. But I had trusted. I had believed that Jesus would do this for me. I'm really disappointed. I really don't know. It's not the way I had planned. Not the things that I expected. I can find myself swallowed up in tragedy because my eyes were blind to the Jesus of Scripture. Many times this happens. Many times I've created my own Jesus, my own victor, my own Savior, in a fashion that I think he ought to be without Knowing the scriptures, what they teach about him. The real Jesus. I construct and hold on to one partially found in the Bible, just like these two disciples. I'm leaning on Jesus, that is of great love, but I know nothing about his justice and righteousness. I just love Jesus because he loves me. But what about him being just and righteous? How does that step in my place? I've been relying upon Jesus who can heal all kinds of diseases. Yet at the moment the tumor returns, I question his love. The moment when my loved one takes a turn for the worst, I end up losing all hope. Out of the ignorance of the scriptures, I've created a Jesus that looks and acts nothing like the real Jesus of the Bible I I I I I latch on to something in simplicity and yet I don't grow out of that. For you see, I must know the living word through the written word. For it's in the book that we continually find himself being revealed, the true Jesus. And to me, all who seek, illumined by the Holy Spirit, to help me know who this true Jesus is, what he's doing, and why it's taking place. For it's the book where he continually reveals himself, showing himself to us Jesus came to these two because they were following the similar situations of everyone leaving Jerusalem. He shows their compassion and love in just when and where they were most needed. What's the triumph? I don't know what you're going through today. I really don't. I've had a hard enough time knowing what's going through me today, you know. Uh closest ones, you know what you mean, my wife or my children. I can deal with some of that, but I don't really know. I don't quite understand. There is no check in the mail. No graduation ceremony. What about the wars that are ongoing? The talks of all the things that are there. Very concerned about my future? What's taking place? I'm angry because the government isn't doing enough. I'm overwhelmed about so many things. There I am walking down the road to Emmaus and I'm just, ah. And what's good what's the matter? he says. At the age of thirty-five, Lily's trotter went to Algeria with two friends. She wanted to be a missionary. She wrote, None of us would have passed, been passed by a doctor for any missionary society. We did not know a soul in the place. We did not know a sentence in Arabic, nor had we any clue as to how to begin a work. Of such untouched ground. We only knew that we had to come. If God needed weakness, we had it. We were on a fool's errand, so it seemed, and we are still on it, and to his glory. She was called in her heart to go to Algeria to serve. And two others came along and they were rejected by the Mission Society. And for the next four years, Lilius served in the Algiers, served among the coasts in North Africa and south unto the Sahara, traveled there by camel. She went to places never visited by a European woman. She also wrote in her devotional material and spoke of the hearts of Algerians. Her Algiers mission band formed no schools, no hospitals, the usual outworkings of mission stations. But that didn't build anything. She only built relationships. In the early 1920s, she had written in her devotions about the difficulty of maintaining focus while living in a world that provides so many things. focus on doing what God has called me to do and it just bothered me tremendously. Um She was sick much of her time. She put much of her energy into encouraging and praying for others that she could not meet. By the time Lilius died in 1928, she had established 12 mission stations and had left behind 30 workers who continued reaching the people in North Africa. In the early 1920s, she wrote a devotional book, and if you look up some computer savvy, look up Lily Strotter, she was gifted in painting. And she has written many uh little devotionals and it goes along with her painting works. They said she could have been a professional. She focused on those things. Helen Lemill read her pamphlet and gave the following prescription for keeping one's life moving in the right direction. She said, turn your soul's vision to Jesus and look at him, and the strange dimness will overcome all that's apart from him. In midlife, Lemil was diagnosed with a condition that led to her complete blindness. Shortly after she was diagnosed with this, her husband, a wealthy European, abandoned her because of her blindness. But despite being nearly destitute and living in government assistance in her final days in Seattle, she remained faithful and joyful as an act in her church. She wrote over 500 hymns, several children's books, died in 1961, 13 days short of her 98th birthday. The picture that that Lemuel got was from Lily Trotter's words, to be able to say whatever the world has, the focus is not on the world. It pulls me away from focusing upon Jesus. Our closing hymn today is written by Lemuel, and it talks about turning our eyes on Jesus You know, those disciples, uh Cleopas and and his fellow co-worker, are so much like us in the fact that we focus our eyes upon other things We have an anchor to Jesus, but it's a tether that just says is way vine. And all of a sudden I need him and I try to draw closer to him, but it's sometimes it's just so far Sometimes I'm just so distant because there's so many other things taking place that bring my attention, that cause my heart's focus, and I forget I don't know the Jesus of Scripture. I don't know his promises. I don't know the things that are there. Turn your eyes upon Jesus. Matthew? Are you ready? Final hymn? Okay. You're gonna ask Matthew to come and world. Thirty thirty-nine? Six thirty-nine. Just don't worry about that. I'm just gonna play through all the way to like the song ending and then restart two and three. Six thirty-nine. You can remain seated if you think about the Men in Jerusalem, think about those who uh were on the road to Emmaus, think about uh Lily's Trotter and Helen Lemuel. uh the focus of our heart's attention. Okay, Mansy, go ahead.