We have been off the circuit for a bit there. We were over in Cincinnati for a church synod meeting and then last Lord's Day the we were able to go to Collingswood and spend that Lord's Day with the folks there Philippians four, and just follow along and read through this section verses four through nine. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again, I say rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely Whatsoever things are of good report. If there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things. Those things which he had both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do. And the God of peace shall be with you. Amen. Let's pray. Father, cause us to, in our hearts and minds, set aside this portion of our worship hour for the proclamation of truth. And again, just not the ramblings of a human, but the truth of the Word of God. May your Spirit be our teacher. May our hearts be desirous to be receiving that which is presented as the Word of God, written by the apostle, guided by the Spirit, and received of men for centuries. Thank you for this day. Together, as we enter your word, we pray your blessing on it in Christ's name. Amen. Have you ever noticed how many school shootings recently, and maybe not even recently, have been sourced in the person, the shooter, have been been ridiculed and mocked in his days of school, I think the most recent one. Uh they talked about his uh uh bad problems and and such in school before, tormented to the point that they decide that they're gonna strike back and they're gonna strike back with vengeance. It means killing people. It doesn't make sense. I think most of us have been on the receiving end of unkind comments one time or another. We looked different. We were not as talented. We were not as gifted. We were not as attractive. We were not as intelligent as those around us. Hence we were ridiculed. Some were ridiculed for their weight or their appearance or their awkwardness, some physical problems, some problems at home, situations that they were nonetheless picked on. If you've ever felt that pain and ever felt to be in a situation where you didn't want to go to school or didn't want to go to work or didn't want to participate in this group or that group And I think you kind of understand what rejection and hatred can be experienced. Maybe you were an abuser. Maybe you're one who decided that I'm going to say things. I remember years ago in my high school classmates we Not we, but I mean we in general. There was uh one girl specifically that she'd been ridiculed uh every single year. And it was a very difficult situation. I don't ever remember me personally saying things to her But I do recall that I was part of the gang that were the ridiculers and I felt that I chuckled along with the jokes that were made about her and the things that went on in her life and and And yet she never knew anything other than you were part of that. I certainly didn't do anything to make her feel that I was her friend and To be honest with you, looking back now, especially as a Christian, I really feel that I'm embarrassed of what had taken place and that nothing had been done to be more gracious and kind. The more in tune we become with the realities of the world, the more we become marvels at the way the Word of God comes to us. Last time we were together, we talked about Philippians 4. 4, and the apostle talks about rejoice, joy Happiness from the heart, the source of it that comes in. And then he comes to verse 5, and strangely enough, it's almost as if the apostle realized that one of the greatest hindrances to joy and rejoicing is indeed the scars that bullies leave in life. So he writes, Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand In the mean, abusive, and insensitive world of the Roman Empire, and in the mean, abusive, and insensitive world in which we live, the Apostle Paul gives a practical call to moderation. To be gentle. It's not a matter of our Christianity being about a theological exam. It's not about the understanding of what the Bible is saying in Bible knowledge, but it's a change that takes place as God's Spirit resides in our spirit And it causes us to act and think differently in life. That change is practical. It's a change that should affect every area of our life, especially in our dealings with others. The meat, though, behind verse 5, I feel, is very difficult. The word given in the King James is moderation. And when you hear the word moderation, you kind of wonder, what's he talking about? In reality, there are a number of shades of meaning. But he says, let your moderation be known unto all men. So see saying that people that we know should know how I'm a moderate in my political views I'm moderate in the way I dress, not really radical, you know, not holes in my jeans and in not wearing a tuxedo. As they said, let your moderation be known unto all men my diet, what I'm eating, or drinking. I'm a moderate drinker, you know, I'm not a heavy drinker, I'm a moderate drinker, you know moderate in my emotions. I avoid extremes. I never get really angry. And I just never really go, you know, I'm just kind of moderate. Does it fit? Hardly. That's not what he's talking about. Let me read some other translations that will give us a little bit of understanding And the reason I'm going to do this is because when we read, let your moderation be known unto all men, you say, well, that doesn't make sense to me, practically speaking, if that was the way we understand it. And therefore I just kind of skip over the verse. I ignore it. One translation says, Let your gentleness be known to all men. Another, let everyone see that you are considerate and all. The third, let your forbearance be known unto all men. And we'll get back to that word forbearance later on. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. Let your gentle spirit, your graciousness, unselfishness, your mercy, tolerance, and patience be known to all people. And the last one isn't a translation, it's a paraphrase, but I think it helps. He says, make it clear as you can to all you meet that you are on their side, working with them and not against them. Moderation? In my mind, when I read the word moderation, I don't get all of those together. And again, I pass over the verse. Paul's commanding us to be moderate to all around us. The Lord is at hand. Well, that doesn't quite do it. So we're going to get into this. There's a book about 20 years ago written by Frank Peretti. It's called The Wounded Spirit It's a true story. Frank is known for his Christian fiction, but he's written a couple that are are are uh you know, true true to life. And this was w about himself. And apparently Frank had endured uh considerable uh uh harshness in life due to some physical deformities he had. He had a cancerous tumor somewhere on his face. Pictures today he's got a beard, so I'm not just sure where it was And this was taken care of or probably taken care of later on in life. But in any case, he writes in this book, bullying and abuse betray a lack and a loss of respect for other human beings. There's a deeper issue, the devaluing of human life. And that in turn indicates the loss or the lack of respect for the giver of human life and dignity, God Himself. The message of bullying sends is a mockery of God's handiwork, a lie that slanders God's nature and negates his love for us. If we show indeed respect for others, we understand this, but we have a lack of respect for people, then we're really saying people are not people, they're objects They're merely just objects. And when we do that, we really show a disrespect for God, who created all things, and declared that everything that He has created, humans especially, valuable, at least in His sight. Unfortunately, we presume that the only way to get ahead in life are decisions based upon me. Whatever it takes for me to achieve, whatever it takes for me to gain, therefore I'm going to do it. Yet showing consideration and respect for others begins with very little things. Think of this. Like picking up after yourself so someone else doesn't have to do it. Showing respect. Ah, they'll get it, you know. That's okay. That's that's that's the waitress's job or that's mom's job or whatever. Oh, never mind Letting another go in front of you in line. Hey, listen, I've been waiting here for how long? And you're going to cut in? You know? A little bit of respect or consideration. Refusing to ridicule another person. Often it's been in person, face-to-face, you know, but now we have the ability to back off and we can get in line and we can ridicule them tremendously with words that will always be present, you know? And I can do it that way. I refuse to do that. Being friendly to someone who is tired, alone, a stranger. Respecting the time of another by being on time for appointments. There's an appointment made. I need to be respectful of that person's scheduling. It's small. It's insignificant. No, it's not insignificant. Listening when another person is talking. Nothing to do with church here, okay? You don't have to listen if you don't want to. No. It includes that. You ever talk to somebody and you can just see their mind is just somewhere else, you know? They're thinking and what you've got to say is important to them And yet you can tell they're not. Moderation, gentleness, forbearance can be just learning to be considerate in the little things of life. Just take the time. The little things of life are important, because the little things are just little, but they are important in the overall picture. If we are not faithful in little things, Jesus said, we're not going to be faithful in the bigger things. He's not going to give me greater responsibility or greater task because he says, you haven't learned this lesson right now. You haven't handled that. I kind of ask myself, why are we this way? Why is it so easy to start ridiculing others? Why do we laugh at another person's expense? Why do we join in taunting when everybody else is unkind to another person? Whether that person is present or not. And we say, well, he was a terrible president. He deserves it, you know. Well, the Boston was he was this or that. Kind of wonder. In truth, when those things happened, especially among believers, we say, where is the evidence of the Holy Spirit? Is God's Spirit guiding us to act that way, to say those things, to think those things, and to join in with the group? Is the Spirit of God leading me there? I don't think so Peretti suggested in his book that the problem in our current worldview is that if there is no God, there is no absolute truth. I start out with that base principle. There is no God, hence, there is no absolute truth. And if there's no absolute truth, there is no right or wrong. It's all up to you, however you whatever you want to do, however you want to decide. And if there's no standard of right or wrong, decency collapses and we become barbarians I watched uh a little uh it wasn't little. Uh a program on um the Aztecs in in Mexico and how they were just no noted for their barbarianism, you know, this cutting out of the heart. They would capture people, uh sometimes they're slaves, but for the most part just to take their heart out while they're law alive and take the beating heart and sacrifice it and so forth. And this occurs within, say the early 1400s to almost the late 1500s. What's happening in Europe at that time? Reformation, the Renaissance, the Reformation. Yeah, there was some harsh living in those times also, but the power of the changing of life through the gospel of God made evidence of that, the explorations of the world bring the gospel to these people. You know, sure the Spanish brought a sword along with them and said we're gonna When them like that. But here in the Aztec nation had no clue whatsoever, because God's hand was absent, was never present in those lives Christians must take the lead in bringing godly values back into our country, in our society, by the way we treat others. True Christian love is revealed in everyday events. It's not about the lyrics we sing in a song, and we've got all types of of hymns in our in our hymn books that speak of the love of God and our love for Him and so forth. But it goes way beyond just singing those lyrics. It's the practical application of these very basic truths James 126. If any man among you seem to be religious, in other words, there's a a presentation of religion with him, you know. whether he's real or not. If any man among you seems to be religious and bridleth not his tongue, cannot control his tongue, but to see in his own heart, this man's religion is vain. He's saying if you can't control your tongue, the attacks, the the the slander, the the the the the jokes or whatever it is, if I can't control that, what does that say about my relationship to God and such? Let your moderation be known unto all men. So easily seen in words, and easily seen in actions. In truth, it means that we should be patient with difficult people, and patient in difficult circumstances. Patience exhibited towards people and circumstance. Now, that word forbearance that we mentioned before is a synonym for moderation. Uh it's uh means to literally to bear up under a burden, forbearance. You know, I'm under stress, I'm under heaviness And I bear up during those times. I'm lifted up. I'm carried on. I don't think of that when I hear the word moderation. It's the idea where patience comes from We are to be patient with our circumstances and patient with people. Listen to Paul in other areas of his letters that he writes of this same principle. Romans 12, rejoicing in hope, patient in Tribulation. You've got to be kidding me. Hardships of the the the Roman world and Christians and they were persecuted and so you know he says, you be patient During these times of tribulation. Be moderate, be graceful, be showing, bearing up under those things. 1 Corinthians 13, charity suffereth long and is kind. Or love is long suffering and is kind. We say we love, and love is to be long, it suffers long. It doesn't say, I've got a pinch of suffering here, and man, you're going to hear something other than love. No. Love suffers, it allows, it permits. It's carried under the tribulations of life. Ephesians 4. 2. Paul says, with all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love. This is a back and forth. You've got to learn this forbearance. I don't. No. You know what he says? Forbearing one another in love. the the picture, the description that we have here of believers. If you spend a lot of time with people, you're aware of the fact that patience is often quick to run out. Doesn't take too long, you know, sometimes in not enough sleep, sometimes the events, you know, whatever. We had a dear friend from that we met uh in s South Jersey years ago. He was an engineer at the uh nuclear pl power plant there. And uh Ken came up to me and says, Hey Keith Keith, he says, What's the shortest measurement of time I'm thinking, oh, the guy's an engineer, so I'm gonna throw it, you know, a a millisecond. No. And I threw out some other words, you know, no, no, no. He says the the the shortest measurement of time is when the light turns green and the guy behind you blows his horn. Patience Patience is so necessary. We are all in a hurry And we seem to lack the necess necessary patience, we seem to lack the necessary moderation, the bearing up under the burdens of life. I want to give you a quiz. You don't have to say anything, but you can do it in your own mind Do you ever feel annoyed when the driver behind you is right up on your bumper and you're already going 15 miles over the speed limit? Yeah? You look in the mirror and there he is. You know, he's like, you know, like that Do you ever get angry when someone isn't listening to you when you're talking? I'm not angry at anybody, okay? Do you ever get frustrated when some project doesn't go well right away? Some job that you're doing is it's just not going well. Do you ever find yourself yelling at a light as it changes and the driver in you in front of you is stuck to his phone or her phone? You know? They're just not moving. And you feel like, you know? You ever frustrated when it's time to leave and you're ready to go for some time and the others that you're going with seem to be light years behind? She's chuckling at this because she knows I fail at every one of those quizzes, you know? But I'm working at it I'm working at it. There are frustrations in life that I just comes to the edge and I said, no, be patient. So, in order to develop more patience, we need to think theologically, meaning, we must remind ourselves that circumstances come our way for a purpose. Circumstances, however we think they are good or not so good, are laid before us for a purpose by a sovereign God. Every frustrating occurrence is an opportunity for growth if we allow it. Do you remember the life of Joseph? And I enjoyed going through Joseph's life. Starts out with Dad and the brothers and and Dad giving him with the exception of Benjamin who comes later, you know, this favorite child and he gets the the education but the brothers are all of a sudden despising him and eventually the hatred boils over and thrown into a pit, thrown into slavery uh off to Egypt, he ends up in Potiphar's house, does well, and all of a sudden Potiphar's wife, not so nice. He's thrown into prison. He's in prison, supposed to get out, helping everybody. Yeah, we'll get you out. And he's there again and again and again and again and again And all of those years, all of the frustrations which uh which I put myself in those things would be absolutely frustrating And yet the patience of Joseph in these situations boils true. In God's time, he meets before Pharaoh. And he tells Pharaoh what's going to happen in the years ahead. Listen to the response that Pharaoh says. There is none so discreet, so wise as thou art. Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled. Joseph's moderation, Joseph's forbearance, Joseph's gentleness, Joseph's reasonableness was known to all men. How did Pharaoh know this? Because who is this guy? Well, he's the guy who's da-da-da-da-da-da. They all knew his testimony of moderation in life. And at the appropriate time, in the providence of God, they placed him in a position that redeemed not only Egypt but all of Israel. Our time belongs to the Lord, and we should use our time wisely and in a godly way. I think, well, how do we do that? You know How do we do that? I think probably one of the most important is the matter, when things are not going well, we need to learn to pray. And pray we must. And I don't use that lightly, but I mean this is a situation that this is his world. And we are his people. And if we simply lord uh ignore speaking to the Lord who is the Lord of our life, what are we doing? If we go home and we take our hour and a half trip get home and we get into the house and we lock close the door and we go about our business for the day and we go to bed and we don't say a word to each other, something's wrong You know, something I'll I'll feel the the the cold shoulder uh whatever, or she'll feel it, or what are you what's the matter? Why are you you know? We do that with God He has given us all things, provided for all things. He is sovereign in all of the events and the actions of our life. And what do we do? Well, here's a crisis. We better pray But what about all the other times that we ignore him and we don't talk to him? He talks to us. His word is there all the time. The Spirit of God willingly taking that word and bringing it to our hearts' attention But we're silent. When things aren't going well, we need to learn to pray. Secondly, when we're frustrated and we need to we need to stop and to back off. When there's a a wall, something that's there against it, we need just to stop and to back away and give time Frustration is of the flesh, I believe. The old nature. And it's not the actions of the new man in Christ. Frustration says, I want it my way or else. And I'm frustrated because I can't get it my way. When God all along says, just wait a minute. I know what's happening here. I know the events. I've allowed it. I've permitted it. I've given it. And I want you to be able to just back off and just see that I am involved in all these things. All along, he is the one who is in charge. Thirdly, when things aren't working according to our timetable, we need to be reminded that God's timetable is much better than our timetable. Always has been and always will be We're constantly looking to see that we get the accomplished pool on my calendar. This guy how are we going to get this done? The timetable that God has provided for us in our specific lives is different from everybody else. And I can't equate my timetable with yours and you can't with me, because he's working on us perfectly individually And so when my timetable doesn't come along quite right, I can't be frustrated. God understands it. Realize that He is in charge. Let your moderation be known to all men. This is accomplished when I apply moderation and patience to myself. But I also need to learn to apply moderation and patience to others. I need to make it in my own heart, but I have to apply it in others. When I'm impatient with someone, I've lost my ability to see myself as a sinner, becoming a saint. You are not in the same position. Why are you doing this? Why are you acting like that? Why did you do this? And I said, well, wait a minute. I'm still in this process of growing I've forgotten about all of the foolish decisions that I've made, the stupid things that I've said to others, the trivial concerns that filled up my mind. My past, the history is all filling up there. I just push those aside and forget really who I am. Every so often I need to be reminded of what I once was and how repulsive it was. The Apostle Paul gives his testimony three times in the book of Acts and once in Galatians. And maybe he had done it more, but at least recorded within Scripture. And they were given for a specific purpose as a testimony to the government officials or to the church or whoever's there in in in in attendance to say, This is what I once was And God has redeemed me and brought me into this place and I'm his child and so forth and so on. His testimony is complete. And it provided, in essence, a a plan of salvation to those hearers But I think he also gave that or was permitted to give this as a reminder who Paul was to himself. The great Paul No, I am the chiefest of sinners. He just didn't say that to give to have people say, oh boy, he's so humble. No. Paul saw himself as he once was, and he sees himself as he is now, and as he is now, had nothing to do with what he once was. He knew how this had changed his life. May we never forget who we had been and how far we still have to go in life. When you start to think about it, there are many people who have been forbearing with us in our lives. Mom and Dad, you know, our kids at times, teachers. uh other associates, people who have been forbearing to us, walked with us, helped us along, saying, boy, they they could have jumped on me that time. They could have told me whatever, but they didn't I think it's no surprise that God commands us to be like the same like with others. And when I see myself as I really am, it helps me understand the immaturity of others. When I see and I look in the heart's mirror of who I am, I can understand more easily why some are what we would refer to as immature. We want others to be patient with us as we mature and grow, so we should extend the same courtesy to others. Let your moderation be known unto all men. When saying that, we need to be reminded of several things. And I've put these in no special order of importance. Sometimes there's factors in forbearing one another that we don't necessarily know about. Showing moderation, showing grace, showing kindness to others That lady in front of you who's going the speed limiter a little bit below, it's quite possible that she just had an accident Or it's quite possible that her eyesight isn't real good. Well she should have gotten off the road then. No. It's quite possible that she's just saying to herself, I think those speed limit signs are to be obeyed You know, we don't know what's going on in her life. We don't know what's taking place. Forbearing one another means to recognize the situations they may be in, be patient with them Secondly, growth takes time. We might be frustrated with how clumsy somebody is in a certain area of life and forget how long it was before we became skilled, before we could do that, before we could accomplish such. There's the story, it's kind of an extended one in Acts where Paul and Barnabas were going on a missionary journey And they took along a young man by the name of John Mark. Great teaching opportunity. We're going out, the seniors missionary men were going out. Let's bring this young man along to help us And it really to teach him a lot of things. And they got not too far, and all of a sudden John Mark says, I don't want to go anymore, you know. I'm afraid. I'm adding words in there, but nonetheless And all of a sudden Paul says, you're out of here. And Barnabas says, no, we can't. Now he was a relative of Barnabas, but nonetheless, he says, no, you can't do that. And Paul says he's gotta go. And Barnabas says, No, he can't go. And he says he's gotta go. And a great division occurred between Paul and Barnabas over Paul's assessment of John Mark and be able to say that this young guy needs to grow. Well, Paul ends up with Silas and Barnabas with John Mark and up separately go. And later on in Paul's writings, Paul says, this young man is a benefit to me. He couldn't see the maturity level needed to take time. I'm not saying that Paul was perfect, but here's an occasion where Paul misjudged. He didn't give time. He forgot how long it takes for maturity in life. I've become convinced over the years that one of the most important characteristics of a pastor is patience. Patience in helping others in dealing with situations. We learned this from our own children. It takes years for them to develop. two years old or three years old and we come back how come you can't read? How come you didn't pick up your room or whatever? No, we wouldn't do that. They're immature. They need to grow and need to learn. It takes time to do that And so even it is with us as adults who recognize that we watch each other and know that maturing is a lifelong process. How many of you have made it? Reach the maturity level? Yeah, you you chuckle, yeah. The maturity level isn't about the number of aches and pains that we have in life, but That I don't have any more lessons to learn. And I think when God says that, then he says, It's time to come home. You know, we're here for that very purpose. Let your moderation be known unto all men, the Lord is at hand. Being gracious, unselfish, merciful, tolerant, and patient. also includes the concept of kindness. Just using those words as a principle that's there. And I think if you look at the ministry, the New Testament ministry of Jesus all through the Gospels There's one characteristic that stood out above any others. It was his kindness. It was his kindness. And I think he has set the standard for us as believers, kindness and compassion And a practical note, kindness opens the way to reach other people, and harshness shuts them up. When I verbally attack somebody, it'll go one of two ways That verbal attack is going to bring back resistance, and they're going to stand up nose to nose to me and the words that I said and they're going to go back on the words that I said. Or they just back away. No, I'm not going to talk to him at all Neither action is profitable. Neither action occurs for the furtherance of the kingdom, for the furtherance of the gospel. The more sarcastic I become and I can become pretty sarcastic, the more focus there is on sarcasm My sarcasm and there's a resistance if you go to the uh to the the restaurant and the waitress comes around and she's not doing a good job and I can be sarcastic to her or to him Well, you can be guaranteed that you're not going to get the service that you ought to get because of your mouth, because of your actions. You do that in the business sales and all of a sudden the guy says, forget it, why don't you take your business elsewhere? I don't want to have that with you It occurs in the very practical sense of being gracious, moderate in all things. On the flip side of the scenario, I found that softness and kindness can even be the most Intense in situations can bring abroad friendship. Kindness wins friends. Harshness erects walls. Even the most heated discussion, a kind word, a soft word, a gentle word, can all of a sudden just melt the situation and change it. Ah yes, Solomon was right. A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger. A soft word breaks down barriers. But if you want to build barriers, if you want to build walls, then get those grievous words in there, let them pound away. Our goal is to be soft rather than harsh. Soft person is to secure their relationships with Christ because I know that Christ is in it. I don't have anything to lose in this contest. If I go and I start shouting and I start pushing and if I'm sarcastic, all of a sudden that becomes, well, I can do it my own. But a soft word allows the Lord Jesus Christ to shine through. You see anything wrong with the picture the world has of Christians today? All too often we're looked upon as being judgmental and narrow-minded. They see us angry people as rather rather than being loving people, somewhere we've taken the wrong turn. Let me close and tie this up for today. Two points. First of all, we're told to act this way for all people. This one single verse, there was one admonition. He says, All men, let everybody see, let everybody experience your moderation in life. And I think it's easy to be kind and nice and patient and gentle and controlled with some people. You're my friends, so we can be that way, you know? You're you're kind to me, so I can be kind to you and I can express such and that. But when it comes to those who are not so kind, that's the area that Paul says you need to focus. And if there's any loophole, I think Paul would have said Especially be kind to the difficult people. Especially show it forth in reality of wherever they need to be reached. We're to be this way with false teachers, persons of another faith, a person who has abrasive personality. Now we are not compromising truth. Truth cannot be changed. But my approach to bring to them truth has to be done with the kindness, moderation, and the soft word. Secondly, what's the final phrase that he adds in this verse? What's it say? The Lord is at hand. The Lord said, and why would he add that on there? The actions, the the incentive for me to be such a uh uh a fashion in my speech and actions He says, one one, and there's really two ways to look at it. One, the Lord is at hand. First century Christians believe in the imminent return of Christ. I think we still learn many Christians believe in that thing the same principle today. Jesus could return in the next ten seconds, and that could be it, you know. Uh and these people you're saying, Jesus He's he's at hand. You need to act in the day that you live, this b infant church, believers in this first century, the harshness of the conditions they were in, you need to act in such a moderate, kind, gracious way because Jesus could return at any minute. Jesus could return at any minute. But the text also could mean that we should act this way because the Lord is always at hand. The Lord is always near. Paul is simply reminding them the Lord's presence in every circumstance and every situation. Sometimes we act as Christians differently outside than we do here in church. You do things in, you know, like we tell the kids, you know, Santa Claus, he's watching all the any dad wears, yeah. He's gonna give you no gifts for you on Christmas, you know. God always sees what's going on. God always understands. And we would do something out there that we would never do in church. Why? Well, this is the place where God is. And all of a sudden we've forgotten that he is a God who is omnipotent and omniscient and omnipresent. There's nothing that holds him back. So my frustration out on the highway all of a sudden cutting somebody off and having him shake his fist or something else at me, you know, doesn't sit well because I would never do that in church But I would do it outside. The Lord is at hand. We are in his company. Let's face it, there are times during our life. When we have to understand how these things are. And we oftentimes will blame it. Oh, it's the television. It's the world in which we live. It's the way things are, politics, it's the media, it's guns, it's everything. But why can't we see it as the problem of just ourselves? Lord, bring me to a place of understanding of how I may apply moderation, how I can apply gentleness and kindness, and express it in such a way, upholding truth. You and I need to lead the change in the places that we live. Before the world will we be remembered as an individual for how we stood for the Lord Jesus Christ. Before the world as they see us and as they hear us and as they watch us. They are different. And the world hates it, but that doesn't mean that we hate the world. Shall we pray? Father, may the Spirit of God that resides within the heart of every believer speak to our heart's need. Not the voice of the ear, not the echo of a radio broadcast or something we read in a book, but may the Spirit of God speak to our hearts of our needs. May you help us to recognize the graciousness of the Lord Jesus Christ as he ministered here on this earth. And how as he departed he uh sent the Holy Spirit to reside in the hearts of believers that they may continue on the ministry. That is the saving ministry of the power of the gospel. Not just within words, but in the way we act, in the way we react. We thank you that you are in charge. And it's not according to the things that we think about or feel or read, but it's the reality of what the Bible says. You are a sovereign God. That you are in charge of all things. And with that confidence, we can go forward. Give us a heart's desire to obey. to learn and to obey, to trust and obey, to find our joy in our salvation, knowing that one day we will stand before you face to face and give an account of what we've done. We pray this in Jesus' name, Amen.