Chapter twenty This narrative is in all four synoptic gospels. Pick John because John actually, the beginning of John, is the heavenly view of the advent of Jesus Christ, and it has incredible detail. Starting in John chapter 20, verse 1. The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. Then she runneth and cometh to Son Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. Peter therefore went forth and that other disciple and came to the sepulchre. So they ran both together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter and came first to the sepulchre. And he, stooping down and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying, yet went he not in. Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and he seeth the linen clothes lie. And the napkin that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw and believed. For as yet they knew not the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again unto their own home. I can't stop here. In the bullshit, it says John chapter 20, verses 1 to 10. But yesterday morning in our Bible studies, I read verses 1 to 10 with Lisa, and she said, Can you please keep going? So that's what we're going to do. Verse 11, but Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre And seeth two angels in the white sitting, the one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And they say unto her, Woman. Why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. And when she said And when she had thus said, she turned herself back and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom speakest thou She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself and saith unto him, Reboni, which is to say, Master. Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father, but go to my brethren and say unto them, I ascended unto my Father, and your Father, and to my God And your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken these things unto her. Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. And when he had so said, he showed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord. Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you, as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost Whosoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them, and whosoever sins ye retain, they are retained. But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord, but he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side. I will not believe. And after eight days again as disciples were within, and Thomas with them, then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst and said Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed. Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed. And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might believe. might have life through his name. Yes, I would love to continue to read. We will probably not even get through the ten verses, but at least we got to read it. This is enough here that we could be here for a whole year. I mean the doctrine in here is just incredible. But you know, before I get into my notes, I would like to say something. Isn't it incredible how it said that Thomas had not been with Jesus. Eight days had passed, and he was nowhere near Jesus. And he said, I will not believe on him unless I see the holes in his hands. How did Christ know to go to Thomas and take his finger and put it in the hole in his hand when he wasn't even there? Only God could do that and hear what Thomas had said when he wasn't there. And another thing Because we won't probably get this far. Three times Jesus says, which is in a superlative degree Hebrewism, peace be unto you. And so Christ is going to the cross, he dies, he resurrects, and he ascends to bring peace unto us. I just wanted to go through that real quick. Going back to the beginning, think of this. Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus' petition of the body of Christ, they prepare it for a long stay in the tomb. This is a convicted criminal who had done no wrong, but he gets a proper burial in a garden with a freshly sculpted tomb that was more of a large room where the body could be laid a traitor or an insurrectionist was either to be left on the cross where the vultures would pick their bones, eat their eyes out, pull their skin off, and leave a skeleton, or their body was taken to be burned. Can you imagine the conversation between Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus when they went Joseph goes to Pilate and petitions for the body of a criminal? According to them, he was a criminal I maintain, and this is my opinion, that since Pilate washed his hands and his wife was scared to death of this Jesus, Pilate said, get him off of there. Passover's coming. We need to clean that mess up. Get him off of that cross. That was a prophecy that came from Psalm 22 and Isaiah 53. And not one bone was broken on the body of our Lord Jesus Christ. They were able to take the body. See Christ, he was not a common person. He was not just a mix of common bones, just dust, sinners' bones. He would not be buried with sinners Christ was born from a virgin womb, and he will rise from a virgin tomb. Christ fell to the corn. He fell to the ground as a corn of wheat. In John 12, 24 we read Verily, verily I say unto you, except the corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. Here we see how Christ's death is a wellspring. He is a seed sown in the garden of Christianity, a new wellspring of churches that here in this tomb is being planted, and the head of the church is the ultimate martyr Remember, if you ever hear the question, a trivia question, who was the first apostle, you're going to get tripped up on that if you don't hear this. The very first true apostle here on this earth was Jesus himself. He was the first apostle. And when we see that, he was the very first true martyr. And that martyr, remember with the Reformation, one of the great sayings was, the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. And here when Christ dies, all of a sudden All of these churches start springing up and you see all through the New Testament, the church in Galatia and Ephesus and Corinth, and Paul the Apostle himself He lays the foundation in three missionary journeys to bring that gospel all the way through through through Asia All the way up through Europe and then eventually in the Great Awakening and through the Puritans and the Pilgrims that gospel will come to Americas. Do you see the connection there? This is all connected. It's incredible. I love history and if you read it, it's incredible. Christ is a wellspring. Basically we see here how the first day of the week married Magdalene. It was dark and it was real early. And she goes to the sepulchre and she's a she's a woman and she goes there and these women were bold. The only ones that were there for Jesus Christ, basically at the foot of the cross, they were the women. They were there and they were afraid of nothing I love how the seed of the church starts with the women teaching. It's wonderful. He is a wellspring. Start asking the question, how were they the first teachers? We'll look at that here in a minute We see here how he is a wellspring who will plant, he will sow. Christ will give the increase. His dew is as the dew of herbs. Isaiah 26, 19 says Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they rise, awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust. For thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead That shows that not only Christ is going to resurrect from the dead, you too. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. You will resurrect. Here our Savior's body is laid and buried. He lies. He lies. He's our sure hope. And this is truth. It's perfect. It's a perfect resurrection. That is with him, and he is seated high and mighty on the right hand of the Father. Christ did that for us. His requirement is very simple. Believe. Isaiah 43. 10 says, Ye are my witnesses, saith the Lord, and my servant who I have chosen, that ye may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me. 1 John 3. 23 we read, and this is his commandment, that we should believe on the name of his son, Jesus Christ. and love one another as he gave us commandment. Isn't that a wonderful blessing by the universal, absolute cosmic creator of the whole universe? What he wants us to do is to love one another. Isn't that incredible? I have a few quotes from some massive theologians over the years. Like I said, I love history. We have tons of quotes here from Scripture, of course, and Scripture always must prevail. But listen to these quotes about resurrection, about Easter and the afterlife. Easter. Our Lord has written the promise of resurrection, not in books alone, but in every leaf in springtime. Martin Luther Look outside. Look at all the new leaves that have sprung and all the beautiful trees. All of his creation and all of his redemption is written in those leaves. Martin Luther The resurrection was God the Father's way of authenticating all of the truths that were declared by Jesus. Dr. R. C. Sprohl. Here's another one. Had he not emerged from the tomb, all our hopes, all our salvation would be lying dead with him into this day. But as we see him issue from the grave, we see ourselves issue with him in newness of life. Now we know that his shoulders were strong among to bear the burden that was laid upon them And that he is able to save to the uttermost all that come unto God through him. The resurrection of Christ is thus the indispensable evidence of his completed work, his accomplished redemption. Benjamin Warfield, and then who if you all don't know who Benjamin Warfield was, Jay Gresham Machum was from Baltimore. He's buried in Greenmont Cemetery. He loved Benjamin Warfield and he was a professor at Princeton, and those are the two men left that kept the Bible in Princeton University. And look what he says. David Jeremiah, he's got a great quote here. It's a really good quote. He says, No Christian is abandoned at the moment of death. The angels are the ushers, and our passage to heaven is under their escort. Saving faith is an immediate relation to Christ, accepting, receiving, resting upon Him alone for justification, sanctification, and eternal life by virtue of God's grace. Charles Spurgeon Once a man is united to God, how could he not live forever? C. S. Lewis. One more for Martin Luther, and we'll go forward. Our Lord has written the Promise of resurrection, not in books alone. Once again, I I wanted to start this and I wanted it to be the benediction, but in every leaf of springtime. I I had that down twice. I think it was I thought that was important enough. We see in Hebrews chapter 13, 20 and 21 reads, Now the God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep Through the blood of the everlasting covenant, make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ to whom be glory for ever and ever And we see how chapter 19 ends almost like time stood still, and it was a pause button that hit, and all of a sudden the Judaizers and the Romans and all those that conspired to kill Christ They got together and they finally said, We've got him. And if you really want to know how to bring this together, you go into John chapter 11 and you see the resurrection and Jesus stands at the tomb of Lazarus and says, Lazarus, come forth. All of a sudden, Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead. And there there's all these little verses. They're not little actually big verses at the end of John 11. Caiaphas takes over and he goes We got to do something about this. Did he say, we gotta go follow him, we gotta plant churches, we gotta help him, because he is the way, the truth, and the life? Oh no. What Caiaphas was saying is he's affecting our economy. He's affecting the synagogues. He's taking people away. They're starting all these new little rebel churches, and they're messing up Passover. They're messing up the synagogues and all the money. So we've got to go to Rome and we've got to figure out Now we're now now we're we're Pharisees and and Sadducees. We don't want the blood on our hands. That's dirty. We don't want that. In fact they didn't even want to be with Jesus because they said he was unclean and Passover was coming. So they pass it off to Pilate. When they pass it off to Pilate, he makes the mistake of interviewing Jesus And in my opinion, he gets so scared, even his wife says, don't mess with this man. I, she said, I have been suffering over this. And so Caiaphas says there's two people we need to kill. First of all, at the end of John 11. 35 towards the end, and you read all those verses, he says, we've got to kill this Jesus. But then in the beginning of chapter 12, the very one that was resurrected from the dead, Lazarus, the Lord's heal him, we got to kill him too. So this is what the tenor was, and all of a sudden it seems that everything stopped Then John 20 hits us. Hear John the Evangelist who you will never see his name in the Gospel of John You will never it will never say John, John the Beloved. And that's what he was referred to. He always referred to himself as the one who Jesus loved, as we just read here in the first couple verses. That's who he says. And here we see that this resurrection happens the first day of the week. We are now under the new liturgy that Jesus Christ being the unblemished Lamb, the one that resurrected from the dead, Under the new covenant and the new church, we now worship on the first day of the week because of his resurrection. And because he defeated death, we worship him to commemorate that first day. It is a means now of obedient worship, and those that refuse to recognize the Sabbath day, the Lord warns them. It's the fourth commandment of God. It's a day of rest. Honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy. So we give the first of our fruits to God, we give the first day of the week to worship, and it's an opening of our worship during the week. We're not supposed to just remember the resurrection of Jesus Christ on Resurrection Day, but it should fill our hearts with joy every day that when we leave this earth Here's our little seventy or eighty or ninety years, and then there's what does Pastor Coleman say? Affinity forever and ever and ever, to be with him forever. That's a very wonderful reward. We give the first fruits to God, and it's excellent evidence that we are const confirming and we are honoring That resurrection Sunday because we w we worship on the first day of the week. And Paul the Apostle himself confirms this. In Acts chapter twenty, verse seven, he says And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, that's the first day of the week, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow, and continued his speech until midnight And then in 1 Corinthians 16 2, he says, Upon the first day of the week, let every one of you lay by him in store, as God hath prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come The first one, the first day of the week, cometh Mary Magdalene. She cometh early. She was the one most active and forward in this visit to the grave of Christ. She would go to remember him and love him. There was no doubt that she was stricken with grief. Perhaps this precious woman, this this Mary, she she basically was thinking, My Savior is gone. They did exactly what they said they're going to do. They have annihilated him. They killed him. And she has no idea. She's very upset. But it took a lot of courage for her to run to that tomb because it was heavily guarded. And she wanted to know where he was. That's incredible. And then there was there was Mary Magdala, is where Jesus retreated after where he retreated after the feeding of the 4,000. She was there. She was the follower of Christ. She was saved. Luke this is Luke chapter 8 verse 2 gives a little bit of information about her and certain women which have been healed of evil spirits and infirmities. Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils. Christ had been an active open preaching, and he went through the villages and he said, You will know it's me when you see me casting out demons. And what happened to Mary Magdalene when he cast out the demons? He purified her. What did David say in in Psalm 51 in a penitential Psalm? He says, Purge me with hyssoph and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness that the bones that thou hast broken may rejoice. And here Mary Magdalene is rejoicing. She is literally at the tomb and it's empty. This really sets an incredible scene here. Perhaps she rushed there first and showed beautiful affection for the one who took time out of his ministry to change her life. Look at the miraculous turnaround in her life after encounter with salvation. It's per personified. She rushed to the grave Because she set her affections on Jesus Christ. And she did it on the first day of the week on Sunday morning. And she went to the tomb. Hebrews 12, 2 says, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Much was forgiven her. Was this dangerous? We know that the soldiers would be looking in for grave robbers and be Paid to make sure the body of Jesus was not taken. They were there. There were two Marys there that day, two women at the sepulchre. They could have been charged by for taking the body. They could have been charged for just being there and being absolutely associated with what they called an insurrectionist and a criminal But Jesus had protected them, and we see how he loved them. So here Mary started her Sabbath day setting her affection upon the worship of Jesus Christ. Mary from Magdala did not start her day doing anything else but remembering Jesus. It's a great love. It is a great love for the Bible. and faith to get up early and faithfully attend your church. It's so it's a wonderful thing to do. Mary did not get up and work. She went to honor the Lord. She came when it was yet dark. Perhaps she had been up all night praying in tears over the humiliation, the torture, and mistreatment of our Lord. Perhaps she read the Word of God, hoping in her heart her Savior was okay and that the nightmare would be over. You know, when someone dies, it's horrifying. I know the first time I I can remember instances in my family and all people that that that first night is like you have nightmares. It's horrifying The manner in which they die really adds to it. It really makes it if we see somebody like I have dying of horrible cancer and it takes months and it just eats them away. That's horrible. You know you've been there. I've never seen anything be a greater comfort, no matter how bad it is, and it gets bad, than the words of Christ. The words of Christ at the tomb of Lazarus, the words of Christ when he healed the widow of Nain's son. Look at all the examples of resurrection. Mary would have most likely been up all night with the scars in her brain. It must have been hurting. It hurt She may have been traumatized and thought she had to rush to the gravesite to convince herself: is this real? Is this a nightmare? She gets up and she runs. Where are the disciples? Where are the men? Where are they? None of them are there. This is the Sabbath day. This is the first one that Mary at the tomb. Isaiah 55, 6 says, Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Mary sought the Lord on the Sabbath day. She was dumbfounded, seemingly bewildered. Then something happens. Peter shows up. You see in verses 3 and 4, verses 5, all of a sudden there's a foot race. All of a sudden there's John the Bluebutt. He must have been the one that went to the gym every day. He was the one in really good shape because he outlines Peter. You know, Peter might have been sitting on the beach too much eating fish or something. He may have put on a little weight, but they're running and they're going to the tomb. And all of a sudden John outruns Peter. And when he says the napkin, the head clothes, the foot clothes, everything is just laying there. But there's a problem. There's no body. There's absolutely there's no body there. Some say theologians today, oh he didn't really die. He was bruised. Oh, he was dead. He should have been dead at the Garden of Gethsemane when he was sweating blood. Wake up and sweat blood and see if you can survive it. It would take a miracle for a hospital to help you just with that alone. And then go into the court with three kangaroo court trials, have your hands put around a uh after sweating blood, by the way, and have your hands wrapped around a pole and with a scourge with teeth and nails and all and have your b back ripped so bad that when you're hung up on that cross all you have is nothing but just absolute exposed flesh on it. See if you can survive that. And with all of that, he saves the thief on the cross I I just not even want to not get that out of my head. He is in agony and he saves and the thief on the cross says, Remember me this day in paradise, and he can still talk He says, this day you will be with me in paradise. That man never had a righteous day in his life, and it just shows you what a little teeny tiny bit of faith will do. Believe. And he believed. That tiny bit of faith. Look at that. The other disciples, Mary, here, she at first misses the certainty of the resurrection, she's questioning it, but the very fact That the word resurrection exists could only mean that there is one. Do you ever think of that? Why is the word resurrection even in our vocabulary? Where did it come from? It's there. Luke 18, 31-34 says, Then he took him unto him twelve and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on, and they shall scourge him, and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again And they understood none of these things, and this thing was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken. You know these signs and what happened here, the Lord was waiting. He had perfectly everything strategically placed and had even people's minds ready to open up as soon as he was ready for them to do it. But here's the explosion. It's incredible that when Christ got up, he did not throw his arms out and blow the walls off the tomb. He left evidence Christ had awakened. He arose. All of a sudden, before anyone arrived at the tomb, a badly beaten and mutilated dead Jesus made it in and of himself. He did it by his own power, a transformation. If there was a heartbeat, here's a dead mutilated body in the tomb has a heartbeat. A cold body now began to warm up and level out the body temperature. The blood began to pump through the veins and cells woke up. Brainwaves began to flash and electricity went through the central nervous system His eyes opened, he was breathing, his arms and legs moved, and he walked right through the wall of the tomb. Who could do that but God? He is God. His eyes opened. He was breathing. His arms and legs moved, and he walked right through the tomb. Others had been healed from death, but they were not able to do it on their own accord. All those that were raised from the dead in Scripture did it. Remember the apostles. The Lord says, freely I have given you, freely use it. And he gave them the power to heal. The only apostles that were ever able to do that. And they would go out. Remember Peter and John, and they're at the gate beautiful, the impotent man. How did they heal him? In the name of Jesus Christ. It's all because of him. He is the founder. He is the creator. And he has the ability to create, heal, and resurrect. Here John and Peter were approached by Mary and they surely trusted her. John's wheels were turning fast and he outrun Peter. Here, Dr. Luke, back in the book of Luke, he details this and he says also how John outrun ran Peter. We focused on Mary Magdalene, and that was the objective of John the Apostle, as she gave much action towards seeking Jesus. John writes this. And inquires and shows this, running to the sepulchre. Other women that followed Jesus down from Galilee, they also congregated with Mary. It's like they were having a Bible study at the tomb. So what happened with the women? Very incredible. What was your first response when you heard, even as a Christian, of Jesus resurrecting from the dead? Was it plausible? We live in a world in a culture where the supernatural from Jesus is really not taught as much anymore. There's all kinds of like conspiracy theories. But what do you think when you think of the resurrection? Do you ever ask yourself that? I think of what these women must have thought. They really had compassionate love. And that is the mark of a Christian. What is a Christian? Is it a cult? Is it just a bunch of little people that just hate everybody and just love Jesus? No. The whole second part of the Ten Commandments the Lord says when he told the Pharisees, love your neighbor. That's what those commandments are about. A Christian is just someone who believes in Christ. It's that simple. And it doesn't matter if they're Jew or they're Gentile or what nationality. They believe in Jesus. He loves them. Romans 10, 17 says, so then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. John had run fast to the sepulchre. He was at the cross with Mary, the mother of Jesus. He Peter they saw the grave clothes and the headliners and they saw all this. But what about Peter? Peter finally, this is the first time he sees Jesus. He had just denied Jesus three times, and now he sees him It's no wonder that on the shore in John 21, he jumps out of his own boat, takes his robe off, and John says, I'll take care of your boat, and he runs in and there's Jesus cooking dinner for him on the beach, and he couldn't wait to see him. It's no wonder. Well, here's something that we need to consider. What's so important about the women, they were the very first teachers of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They gathered at the tomb. Jesus saw Mary. She thought he was a gardener. We read in the verses. And she says, Raboni, our master, and he says, I'm in my glorified state. It was almost like he was almost afraid to let her touch him. He's not afraid of anything, but you can see how the urgency was, don't touch me. But go tell the disciples, I'm risen. They got to do the job. I love that. That shows Jesus loved the women. He protected them. He lifted them up. He he glorified them and showed how important they are to the church. And isn't it amazing? It's usually the women that are always the glue of the church. I see many of them right here They're always the ones holding together all the things behind the scenes. And it's a thankless job, but they do it because they love Jesus. That reminds me of Mary. Reminds me of the first teachers of the Christian church. See Satan buzzing around. That's a big one. That's all right. I think he's coming up. Not the Anyway, little Hornet. Well we know springs here. But it's amazing how they ran. They couldn't wait to tell the disciples, he is risen, he's resurrected from the dead, and they're the first teachers. The apostles are now alerted by Mary. And what happens next? Luke chapter 24, verses 4 through 12. I'd like to read that for you. And it came to pass as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. And as they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? For he is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee. saying, the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified, and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words. And returned from the sepulchre and told all these things unto the eleven. You see that? They went to the disciples, the eleven. One had betrayed Christ, so it went from twelve to eleven, and to all the rest in verse nine. Verse 10, it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and other women that were with them which told these things unto the apostles. They told them, they taught them. It was the women. And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not. This is the disciples' reaction. These are the men that followed Christ, that saw the multitudes, that knew the Old Testament, that read it. And it says they had no idea. The women knew. The women were smart. The women were faithful. And they trusted Jesus with everything. And the disciples are like, oh, come on. And look what happens. Then arose Peter and ran up to the sepulchre, and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes, laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. The women believed Took Peter a little bit of time, but then Peter, the Lord, just made him an incredible apostle after he resurrected. Peter goes out and look at all the work that he does. Once again, what was your first response when you heard as a Christian about the resurrection? What is the resurrection? What does it mean to you? Is it just mythical? Is it just some kind of a story, basically, that you can equate with some very incredible theological historical references, maybe like the flood, or you remember the code of many colors Or remember Daniel in the lion's den. If you all had Sunday school, remember all the little felt cutouts and the Sunday school teacher would take it and pop it right there up there on the board and you'd see all the little stories from the Bible. Is that what it is? Is it just some little historical story? John had run fast to the sepulchre, why? Peter ran fast to the sepulchre, why First time he ceased, Peter had denied the Lord and Master, but he had not denied fellowship with his followers, for he too was a faithful follower. Christ had prayed for Peter. This is a symbol of Peter's repentance, for he still loved to be around the followers of Jesus, associated with them. And you know what? What I love about the disciples? They never shut up the women. They let them teach and they listened. And when they listened, they heard and they believed and they ran to the tomb. They listened. It's a good thing to listen. I have no doubt that Peter went to his fellow disciple friends. That he went to them and he begged forgiveness. He prayed with them and he is restored. God always restores us upon repentance. Well, running out of time and as a benediction. Accounts of the resurrection. This is so important. There's one in Matthew, there's one in Mark, there's one in Luke, and here in John. Four gospels give accounts of this incredible event. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is not folklore. It's not just a feature of Christianity. It's not a myth. It's not a legend. It's not a position or perspective. It is in the Latin, it is veritas. In Greek, it is alethia, is a state of not being hidden, the state of being not just truthful, but evident. It manifests itself. And how could the apostles Paul's writing the Galatians and we're we're studying it next week, we're going back to the Galatians, Paul is begging the Galatians and telling them Don't forget what Jesus did. He crucified for you and he gives them all the evidence. Paul writes back in Corinthians, over 500 people saw him. He was on the Christ is on the road to Emmaus and he's witnessing to Cleopathus and his friend and he tells them about the Old Testament. He is alive and he rises from the dead The resurrection is not the epilogue of the life of Christ. It was his mission and where he headed to Jerusalem as a flint. Isaiah chapter 50 verse 7 says, For the Lord God will help me, therefore shall I not be confounded. Therefore have I set my face like a flint And I know that I shall not be ashamed. This is a prophecy of every culmination, everything in the Old Testament, every Christophany, everything is perfectly planned and leads up to Jesus Christ going to that cross. And he said over and over, My hour has not come yet. And when it did, that was his picking. That very second that he was taken in was of his choosing. And here the Romans and the and the Pharisees thought they had power over him. Do you know that he loved them? Do you know how much he loved the Pharisees that wanted to kill him? He cried out and said, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, I would have you like a mother hen. I would love you, but you would not. You wouldn't listen to me The Roman centurion that was there at the cross of Christ, he loved Jesus and he got saved. Do you know they found out, this isn't in my notes, that they found an inscription of in the first century, about almost a hundred years after, there was a cave. And someone went in and found it, and it's still they have the carving of it and it's an inscription. It was done in stick figure, and it's called Alexa Menos, and it's in Greek, it's called He Worships His God. And it's a picture of a cross with the head of a jackass on it, because the Romans were making fun of Christ and they made him out to be a jackass, but there's a Roman centurion with a sword up I hate the blasphemy, but I love the proof. The proof is there was a centurion by that cross. There's so many archaeological finds that prove what happened here with Jesus. These theologians saying today that He didn't resurrect from the dead. He was stolen from the grave. He's not there. Well, let me tell you something. If he's not resurrected from the dead, stop praying because you have no one to intercede for you. We have no one to sit on the right hand of the Father. That's one of the points here. But he went as a flint to Jerusalem. He was not going to stop, and it was for us. Resurrection occurred on the first day of the week. This is why we meet on Sunday to commemorate the most important event of his life on earth. Unlimited power to defeat death. No spiritual so-called leader, false god, cultist, or icon has ever achieved achieved raising themselves from the dead. His resurrection is the divine interpretation of his divinity and the divine vindication of the work that he did on the cross. The cross would have no validation without a resurrection The resurrection gives a fruition of the gospel to provide eternal life, glorification, bodily resurrection, and is essential for the forgiveness of sins. The belief and love for the resurrection of Jesus Christ will give eternal life and a bodily heavenly existence stripped of all sinful and fatal destructive natures. You realize when you believe in Jesus Christ and you die, you will never have a fatal nature. You will never have any Horrible thoughts. You won't be crying over horrible things that happened in your life. You won't be angry. There'll be no bitterness. You'll be like him. It'll be wonderful. I can't even put it into words. And so as we end this morning with the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, Always remember what Paul and Silas told to the Philippian jailer when he was about to kill himself. And they cared so much they did not run out of that prison, which they could have. And Paul said to the Philippian jailer, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and all thy house. And that's what this is all about. Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee for Resurrection Sunday, and I pray that thy resurrection will be on our hearts every day of our lives. I thank thee, Lord, that thou art here with us Thank thee for what thou did and pecal because thou died, we live, and because thou rose, we can have eternal life And that he shall see of the travail of the soul and shall be satisfied. By his righteous servant, he shall justify many, he shall bear their iniquities. We thank thee and praise thee for this message and for thy word that is perfect and true. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.