And we're continuing with the seven last words of Christ from the cross We did the first three last week, or three of them, and we got the last four of them today. And uh so we have the last word. Of course, we're not gonna talk much about the resurrection today, but we're gonna concentrate on the death of Christ on the cross and what he said and the love that he showed for others as he was there on the cross. And so we have Mark chapter 15, verse 34. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi Eloi Lama Sabactani Which is being interpreted. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And some of them that stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias or Elijah. And one ran and filled a sponge full of vinegar and put it on a read and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone let us see whether Elias will come down to t come to take him down. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, open up thy word to us this morning Turn us from our sin, turn us to thee. In Jesus' name. Amen. So we have a great picture of love of Jesus on the cross. He died for the sins of the elect. He died for our sins if we're Christians. But anyway, here he is on the cross at the ninth hour. What's the ninth hour? Ninth hour is three o'clock in the afternoon The Hebrews, they started counting time from 6 o'clock in the morning to beginning of the day. And this is the ninth hour, 3 o'clock in the afternoon. And Christ cries out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Now We know why he was forsaken. We know why he was crucified. Jesus knew that. So why did he ask that question? Well, it was a rhetorical question. A rhetorical question, so that we might concentrate on the why, why he was crucified. And you know, it reminds me of the old poem of the charge of the Light Brigade. And you know that's by Ryard Kipling, I believe, and it has the poem of the soldiers that are charging the Russians there, and it's a forlorn charge And there's no hope to it really, but they do it anyway. And most of them are killed. But it says in that poem, and these are famous words, ours is not to reason why Ours is but to do and die. Well, you know, we want a reason why Christ died on the cross. Why? And that's why Christ said this. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why? Concentrate on that. And the reasons behind things are very important. You know, science today is very advanced, at least we like to think it is, and our medicine is very advanced and all those things But most of the time, we find out how things work, but we don't find out why they work that way. Why do they work like that? And a lot of times I was reading about this one drug was bad for developing dementia, and it said Well, you know, we've found that to be probably the case, but we don't know why. Why it does that But we want a reason why. We want a reason why Christ died on the cross. And you know, these very words, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me, are right at the beginning of Psalm 22 The very words. And so we have this as a fulfillment of the Old Testament And here we have the Trinity here. The Trinity illustrated here as Christ cries out to God the Father. And you know we have three people, three persons in the Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, and those three are one. But here we have Christ crying out to God the Father. And you know the word Trinity is not in the Bible. The Jehovah's Witnesses will remind us of that. But The principle is there that God the Father is God, God the Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God too. And these three are one. So here we have Jesus in great agony on the cross. We discussed that a little bit last week, that the Romans tried to come up with the worst death possible. And the people of that time. And so he was in agony on the cross. And he pointed out the fact. Why? Why hast thou forsaken me? And Jesus went through great suffering for our sins, but not only the physical suffering, but also the spiritual suffering for the sins of the Christians. And so Christ is our great example. Why did he suffer that? Why? For us, not for himself, but for us. He was our great example of love for others. And you know, all through these seven words on the cross, you see Jesus' love for others. We saw that last time when we were looking at his words from the cross. Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. He was concerned about that unlovely thief there He said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He was concerned with his enemies that were mocking him, deriding him, and putting him to death in a cruel death. And he was concerned with other people. And so we have this word from the cross. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Let's go over to John chapter 19. John chapter 19 for the last three of the seven words that we're going to look at this morning. John chapter 19 And we read the responsive reading this morning from verse 13 to verse 22. And you notice there in verse 14, it was the preparation of the Passover. They were getting the Passover ready to be killed. Between the two evenings, the first star and the second star coming out, and right as Christ died on the cross, they were killing the Passover lambs. That wasn't by accident, that was by design. That God had that happen. And of course, they were crying out against Christ, crucify him, crucify him. On the triumphal entry, they were crying out, Hosanna, Hosanna, save now, we pray. But now they're crying out, crucify him. And then of course he had his title written on top of the cross in Greek, Hebrew, and Latin. This is the king of the Jews. And it so tells us here down in verse 20 that this title then read many of the Jews. You know, for people to read things is a witness given to them. When we give people tracks, they read the tracts, it's a witness given to them. This sign on the cross was a witness given to the people by that sign. When you have a bumper sticker on your son on your car, that's a witness. People read it. You know, going back to my bu uh barracuda, uh I had it all covered with bumper stickers. From when I was younger, I was a little more radical than I am today, but those bumper stickers are still on there. And that car was sitting in a shop being worked on for a month And what do you suppose all those people in that shop read for that month when it was been in when work time? All those bumper stickers And so that's what they were doing. They were reading the sign there. This is the king of the Jews, and that was a very appropriate thing to read. And that was exactly what happened. And Pilate, in the providence of God, said, What I have written, I have written. Well then we go on here, and let's continue reading here, starting with verse 23. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts to every soldier apart. And also his coat. Now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be That the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. These things, therefore, the soldiers did Now there stood by the cross of Jesus' mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleopathus, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, woman, Beha behold thy son. Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother. And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own house. Well, here we have the next word of Jesus from the cross: woman, behold thy son, and behold thy mother. And before that, we have the soldiers casting lots for Jesus' garments. And that's prophesied back in the Old Testament. Those many things that happened to Jesus on the cross were prophesied in the Old Testament. Jesus fulfilled them. Jesus was in fact the Messiah. And when people witness to Jews, that's what they point out, are all these fulfillments of prophecies with Jesus. Well, it was fulfilled, but they cast lots for his garment. And you notice there it's cast lots with no article, no his lot or her lot or their lot, it's just cast lots That's like throwing dice. But when it talks about when they were electing a new new apostle, they said they cast their lots. That was giving votes. And so here we have, they were casting dice, they were figuring out who was going to get Jesus' garments. And of course, Jesus was up there on the cross without his garments. He was up there naked before all the people. And that was part of crucifixion Well anyway, Jesus up there on the cross, he was so concerned with others. The whole reason he was there was for others, was for us. And then here he was concerned for his own family here, for his earthly family, for his earthly mother. Here. And it's interesting how he addresses her here. Always in Scripture that I can remember, he always, if he addresses her, he addresses her woman. Not mother. It's woman. And I think Jesus does that, even though she was his mother and he took care of her. He says woman to address the things that would happen later on when people would worship Mary, when people would pray to Mary. And so he says, Woman, behold thy son. Well, it's interesting here. Jesus was interested in taking care of his own family, taking care of his mother. And you know, up there on the cross, he could have been very well forgiven for forgetting about his mother or not doing anything with that in his agony, but he did. And he told John, behold thy mother. Now, here it's interesting. John wrote this book And so John's giving his own things. And it tells us here that from that hour the disciple took her unto his own home. Now, did John have any choice in that? You know, today I'm going to talk for a few minutes now about nursing homes. And nursing homes and institutions. And you know, uh people put their parents in nursing homes usually because their parents are inconvenient. Very inconvenient. Of course, sometimes a nursing home is necessary For somebody that's in really bad shape, or they don't have any family, they don't have anybody. I'm visiting right now a nursing home up in Westchester, Pennsylvania And we'll be going up there this week, uh, Lord willing, we've been up there a few times already to visit a guy from the Marcus Hook Church by the name of Skip. In fact, you need to pray for him. I don't know if you already are, but Skip is in the nursing home. He looks like he doesn't have a whole lot longer to live there. And he's in the nursing home. He has no family whatever. And uh so it's good that he has that place to go to And of course I've gone and visited in nursing homes, met a lot of times in the past. I used to be pastor of a church up in Chester. It was an older congregation And there were a lot of people in the nursing home. I used to spend a lot of time in the nursing homes. And when I was in the mission field, they got away from that, and right now I'm getting back in the nursing home a little bit But you know, nursing homes are not very pleasant places. They aren't. And I like to say that I have never known one person out of all the people that I've ever visited there that wanted to be there. Is they they don't want to be there. But their children put them there And whatever. Why do they put him there? Because to the most in most cases, not all cases, but in most cases, having parents around is very downright inconvenient. It's downright inconvenient to have this older person who can't take care of himself that you gotta have responsibility for, you've got to take care of him, you can't go anywhere, you can't do anything And you know, John here, he could have said, well, you know, that's very inconvenient to have Mary come over here. to my home and have her there for from now on. That's really inconvenient. But he did it and he wanted to do it And you know, was it a burden for Jesus to do things for us? No. And it shouldn't be a burden for us to do things for other people. And of course, John, he did this, you know, because Jesus told him to do it. But you know, Jesus said, inasmuch as ye have done it unto the one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. And so here we have John. He's put in that situation. Now, what about Jesus? Just imagine for a moment if they had nursing homes back there. And if Jesus had said, well, I have it all set up in the nursing home, I have got her bill paid for the rest of her life, Mary can go there. Of course he didn't say that. It's you know, but you know the thing is, would that have been just as good as having John take him home? Take her home? No. Not just as good at all And of course it's a nursing home, and people justify it by the fact that they say, don't you know they have twenty-four-hour a day nursing care there? Well, uh skip their nursing home. He's complaining that nobody comes when he rings the bell, when he rings the nurse thing And of course I will say about nursing homes also is the nursing home is uh Is probably the greatest place for ministry in our country today. Because you have their concentrated, lonely people. and in need, and it's a great place to have services. I've done it before many times and have services and minister to people. It's a great place for ministry. But it's not a very good place to be. And so it wasn't just as good for Jesus to send her to the nursing home if there was one. And let me say that I believe that nursing homes are a great curse, if you haven't figured that out that yet, but they're a curse upon us. You know, over we were missionaries in Cameroon, we were missionaries in Brazil And you know, they don't have the standard of life over there that they can have nursing homes for other people to take care of. And you know the people, what do they do with the old people that can't don't have anybody? Or what do they do with all the the old people of the family? Well, they have to take care of them and they do. And they're happy to, basically And so anyway, here we have Jesus. And you know what the one thing is with the nursing home? The thing is in a nursing home people have air conditioning, they have heating, they have three meals a day, they have nursing care, don't you know they have everything they need But what don't they have in the nursing home? What they don't have is love. What they don't have is love. And so often you go in there and the people are like grabbing at you there because they don't have any love there. And uh so and I of course there was Skip once again. Skip is there in the nursing home, and his roommate is actually a Christian guy. And he has his Bible there on the bed. And I asked him where he was reading in his Bible, his roommate, and his roommate was actually able to tell me he was reading in Ephesians. And so, you know, he's there and he can get up and walk around. He's not in bad shape at all, really, but he's there. And it's a sad situation. Well, Jesus said, Woman, behold thy son, and John, behold thy mother. And you know that's just a symptom of the breakdown of the family today. The breakdown of the family The family has broken down. I read an article this week that only one-third of families in America are father, mother, and children. Two-thirds of them are not. And you see it all all around. Broken families, you see it in Hollywood, broken families, dysfunctional families, the breakdown of the family. Well, and they talk about the traditional family. It's not just the traditional family, it's the Christian family. The Christian family has broken down in America. And it's a sad situation. But here, Jesus, he was concerned with his family. He was concerned with having Mary taken care of. And he said, Woman, behold thy son, behold thy mother, to John. Well, let's go on then. Verse 28. After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst. Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar, and they filled a sponge with vinegar and put it upon Hyssop and put it to his mouth. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up the ghost. The Jews, therefore, because it was the preparation that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day, for that Sabbath day was an high day. besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. Then came the soldiers and brake the legs of the first and of the other which was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, they broke not his legs. And so here we have the last two words of Christ from the cross that we're going to look at. And you notice once again the scriptures were fulfilled when his bones were not broken. You notice here That it says that the Sabbath day, they were getting Jesus down off the cross before the Sabbath day, and it tells us it was not just a normal Sabbath day of Saturday, it was an high day It was the first day of unleavened bread, the first day of Passover, and that was a Sabbath day with no work. So anyway, we go back here. What was the next word of Christ from the cross? I thirst. I thirst. And he fulfilled the Psalms in that as well, Psalm 69. And here we see what about Jesus? We see that he was actually a human being. We see his human nature. And through history, in the beginning of the church, there was a lot of discussion about how human was Jesus, how divine was human, how divine was Jesus And of course the Jehovah's Witnesses today still don't get it right. But the thing is they say Jesus is not God. But you know, Jesus was both human and God. When he was here on this earth. And after all the discussion in the church, they finally came to the conclusion that he was fully God and fully man. And that's exactly what he was. And here, as being fully man, he is suffering. And why would he say, I thirst? Well, because, you know, it's what do people ask for on the battlefield? After the battle when wounded people are laying around there and And they come to care for the wounded, they are asking for water, water, water. And that's because the human body, when it has a wound, it starts The process of healing that wound and the process of working on it and the body and it and then when blood has gone out, the body starts work starts working upon the process of making more blood. And so the need is for more water to get more blood. And so Jesus has been wounded. He's been nailed on the cross. And so he says, I thirst. Well, they gave him some vinegar. We said last week that that was cheap rot gut uh liquor that the soldiers had that was almost just it like vinegar. And they they gave that to him and he took some of it. And so, you know, if you need water It's a big thing to get some water. And I've been reading, I'm going to refer to it a little bit later again. I've been reading the book that I gave quite a few of you for Christmas, The Long Walk. And you know they were in the Gobi Desert on the long walk going from Siberia to India during World War II. These escaped prisoners, they ended up in the Gobi Desert and two of them died there. And why did they die? because of no water. And the guy tells about there all he dreamed about when he was there in the Gobi Desert was just running streams of water. Because water is a great necessity And remember, in Luke 16, you have Lazarus and the rich man. The rich man is in hell, in torments. And what does he want? He wants just a drop of water. Just a you think a drop of water would help him much? No. But he's grasping at straws. He wants something, some water, some something And here Jesus says, I thirst as a human being, fully human. He was in all points tempted, like as we are, without sin. And then we go on here. To the last word that we'll look at today, the second to the last word from the cross. Of course, after this word was it is Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. We looked at that last week since it was in our scripture. But let's go down there to verse 30. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. What was finished? The great redeeming work of all of history. You know, this was the greatest event of history. And do you think it's an accident today that we're in the year 2024? Is that an accident? That the counting of our years counts from Jesus, from this event You know, AD, what does it mean, 2024 AD, that has been used uh, you know, forever after death. After death, A. D. And it is finished, the great event of history, and it's not an accident that we date from that Today, of course, they want to get away from everything. They want to take down the old monuments. They want to get rid of all the sign of Christianity. And today they're trying to not call it BC anymore, before Christ. But they call it before the common era. Well, they want to get away from the Christian roots, but There's no taking away from the fact that that is the end point and the beginning point. Jesus And so it's providential that God has set it up that the dating of the world dates from Jesus. And many times in history they've had other dates, they've had the date of this king, so many years in this king, and whatever, but none of those have stuck. It's the one from Jesus. And so here we have this great event of history, the central event of history, Jesus there on the cross, he says, it is finished. It is finished. He is paid for our sin. He is paid for the sin of the elect. And there's a great discussion in theology about whether Jesus died for just the elect, or did he die for everyone? And Calvinists believe that he died for the elect And Presbyterians believe he died for the elect. And some people have all of the Calvinistic doctrine, but they reject that one thing and they call them Emeraldians. who reject the one thing there and they say Christ died for everybody. Well his death was enough for everybody But his death was only effective for the elect, for the people that are saved. And if Christ died for me, I'm saved. If Christ died for you, you're saved. And Christ's death pays for our sins. And of course, to get Christ to pay for our sins, we have to pray like the publican, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And give our life to the Lord. Be sorry for our sin. And then that death on the cross is the finishing of our sin. Past, present, and future. And praise the Lord for that. And of course, here we have John saying in verse 35. And he that saw it, bear record. And the record is true, and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe. He that saw it, who's that? That's John. For these things were done that the scripture should be fulfilled, a bone of him shall not be broken. And again, another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom they have pierced. They'll look on him and he also will have been pierced, the spear in his side. So praise the Lord That when he was on the cross, he was not showing care for himself. His great example is that he cared for others. That he cared for us. That he cared for those that were crucifying him. That he cared for that unlovely person on the cross next to him, that thief. He cared for him He cared for his mother. He cared for his own family. And he cared for us as he suffered on the cross. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just pray thou bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, just help us to be the Christians that Thou would have us to be. Help us to have that love for others that Jesus had. In Jesus' name. Amen.