We get up open our Bibles please back to Philippians chapter two. Philippians chapter two and follow along with your eyes. I'll be reading verses three through eleven. The apostle writes, Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but In lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man on the things of others Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus, who, being in the form of God, So it did not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant. It was made in likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore, God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Of things in heaven, things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Father, we thank you for the privilege to open your word and allow it to be truth to our hearts and our ears. Thank you for Paul's direction by the Spirit to write such a letter. with the intent to minister to the church at Philippi and by the Holy Spirit to preserve such a word in order to minister to the believers throughout history, even to this very moment. Thank you that it stands true as a lighthouse, bringing forth truth in a dark place, an anchor for our souls to cling to. May Father you honor your word and may your servant be hidden in Christ's name. Amen. We started last week with talking about this age-old struggle of pride and humility, one that has existed from all times, at least Knowing that it's in stark contrast one with another, and that it began with our dear first parents, Adam and Eve The seed planted when they bit the forbidden fruit, accepted the lie that Satan offered them, and all of a sudden the struggles came in. Last week we looked at pride first and found that out of the scriptures there were examples of men and women of people who were in positions of power and just ordinary folks. We also know that it is found in the godly and in the ungodly. We saw some of Solomon's clear admonitions out of the book of Proverbs. Pride cometh before destruction, and a haughty spirit before the fall. Pride, haughty spirit. We saw the word haughty, meaning lifted up. And then the six things doth the Lord hate. Yea, seven are an abomination unto him. And the first one was what? A proud look. The Lord hates. The Lord hates. In any case, Paul recognized that there was a seed of pride that had grown into this noxious weed within the church of Philippi. He recognized it from, no doubt, other people coming, but he had Epaphroditus come and bring word from the church. These things, Paul, are happening. So Paul felt necessary to write of these things that were there He was evidenced in the words that he saw, or at least we what we read in verse three, the strife and vainglory. And he used those words. He says, Nothing in life is to be done through strife or vainglory. Evidence of envy, rivalry, conceit. But whatever it was labeled, it was Mm, pride, you know, if we boil it down to that. Pride is a universal human element since Adam and Eve. We all suffer to some degree at various times in life, to some varying amounts, some more serious times than others When we've exalted ourselves to the place of pride, and again that matter of the haughty eye, Scripture reveals that God doesn't want to punish us. God doesn't want to bring us low, but He wants to forgive us and He wants to restore us. Again and again, out of Scripture, God says, humble yourselves and I will exalt you. Humble yourselves, and I will exalt you. Jesus, in the words to the publican and tax collector, he says, He that humbleth himself shall be exalted We finished up that little parable. He says, the one who is humbled will be lifted up. Humble yourselves in the sight of God. says James, and he shall lift you up. In the sight of God. Where's the sight of God? Nothing escapes his gaze, does it? In other words, there's not a time when we're expected not to be humble in the sight of God. Humble yourselves in the sight of God, and He shall lift you up. Peter writes, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. The right time, Peter says. Humble yourselves, your heart, your attitude, everything. Bring before the Lord, and at the time that God knows is proper, He will lift you up. And again from Peter, be clothed with humility, put it on, wear it, for God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. Again, I go back to that parable that Jesus gave up, but the pact tax collector and the publican and the Pharisee, the one being lifted up. And God says, I don't accept such than the tax collector who is humble and he says, I will bring you up. As heinous as pride is, I personally understand and struggle with it myself. And I take great encouragement that God writes in His Word in Old and New Testament by command and by example. that he is not there to crush me because I'm proud, but he desires for me to be humble and to be brought unto him in order that I can be lifted up. He loves me and he loves to bless me when I'm humble. And I read this letter to the Philippians, and Paul knows that. He recognizes a struggle within the church. between each other, uh some members, and we'll see that later on some weeks from now, other situations in life. And he says, this is evidence of pride. And he says, I know this is in you So he says, I want you to recognize what God wants to do through you. So he brings them to the point in verse 5, let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. We touched on that last week about the mind of Christ in the matter of pride. But what's he talking about? Let the mind, this mind be in you. This is not the my uh the the Vulcan mind blend for those of you who are Star Trekes. What's he talking about? Well, in essence, that it suggests a person's overall attitude and his overall perspective. The mind of Christ, what's the attitude of Christ? What's the perspective of Christ in life? Later on today there'll be a sporting event for which we're properly wearing green. Charlie, glad to see you wearing some green too. S some of you are wearing red, I don't acknowledge that. But this entire week, the entire week before that, and the week before that, every player Every coach, every dietitian, everyone who is bound within this organization has put forth a complete effort to do whatever it is in order to win Didn't come along and say, well, this doesn't matter, we got another couple of days. The sickness or whatever, we don't have to worry about it. He'll be better or whatever. He can go out and party. It's okay as long as he's here by practice time. No. Every effort, the entire perspective, the attitude of every player and coach and so forth was to win uh plane crash back in Philly uh and the the tragedies that occurred. But what what they what they talked about You you can you can can be guaranteed that every fireman, every policeman, every uh every uh a attendant who was there officially to do something was there to see that the fire is put out Lives were saved, and eventually that things would be restored. That was their whole effort, focused as one body, as what one purpose to get those things accomplished. What was the mind of Christ that Paul writes about in order for that church to imitate? The purpose that Christ had was to be humble. To honor his father, to do all things, but his whole life was replete with examples and attitudes of humility. The whole purpose of Christ, the whole accomplishment of what he was doing was out of humility. Hence Paul says, let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. Now Your Bible's open there. Look at verse 6, and he goes through this description of the mind of Christ or the humility that he brought. Who being in the form of God, you hear that word and you think of a what? A shape. Well, it's not a shape. It's not something tangible, touchable. But this is everything, of all of the attributes of God, Jesus carried that. Of all of God had, Christ had every attribute. Who being in the form of God, the complete definition, the complete description of God, that's Jesus, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Equality, the second person of the Trinity? He didn't think I'm robbing the Father or robbing the Godhead of anything by becoming that. Listen to Isaiah. He says, in the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon the throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, with twain he covered his feet, and with twain did it fly. And one cried to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. Who was that? Who did Isaiah see? But the second person of the Trinity, Jesus Christ, the pre-incarnate Christ. That's all of the glory and splendor and majesty. Jesus says, I rightly have all of these. They're mine. And I don't think it's robbery to say I can cling to that. No. He said this is officially rightfully mine. I am. Back to verse 7, but, and this is a huge mark, but made himself of no reputation He willingly, no forceful, he willingly put himself in such a position and took upon him the form of a servant. He was in the form of whom? Form of God. Thought it not robbery could be equal with God. Now what does he say? Became a servant. Every attribute, everything that we would describe as a servant, Christ says that was Him. He left the glories of heaven of all of the splendor and all of the majesty and all of the honor and became a servant, not just a form. But everything of a servant's heart and everything that there was, and was made in the likeness of men. Likeness, not sameness. His big difference, although he was a hundred percent God and a hundred percent human, uh he did not have a sinful condition, a sinful nature. That becomes the difference. Verse 8. And being found in fashion as a man, meaning his outward appearance. And don't be fooled by the pictures and the paintings, the statues, and everything else what Christ looked like, you know. Uh because he had no form that was unique of him. He was just like any other man. He humbled himself. It wasn't enough to leave heaven. It wasn't enough to leave the honor and the splendor. the majesty, the the the being surrounded by the the seraphim singing his praises, holy, holy, holy. It wasn't just enough to leave such a place, such an estate such a reception of worthiness. But he took upon him the form of a man, a man himself, humbling himself. He experienced everything that man does yet without sin. He experienced everything And how many times can we come and say, Jesus, you don't know what I'm going through? And he says, yes, I do. Although Hebrew says that He took upon him every temptation, every form of everything that we as humans experience willingly and yet without sin. Is a poem by Susan Omloff. She says, Hast thou been hungry, child of mine? I too have needed bread. For forty days I tasted naught, till by thy angels it fed. Hast thou been thirsty? On the cross I suffered thirst for thee I provided supply thy need. My child, come to me. When thou art sad and tears fast fall, My heart goes out to thee, for I wept o'er Jerusalem, the place so dear to me. And when I came to Lazarus' tomb, I wept. My heart was sore I'll comfort you when you weep, till sorrows are all o'er. He experienced everything. He understands I left that which is all of the majesty for all of the universe, for all time, and came in the form. All of the attributes of a servant and experience every single thing that we have. He knows he left it all for us. He says he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. While he willingly embraced our sinful nature, willingly embraced that which we deserve, he took it upon himself. And this becomes the ultimate sacrifice of obedience and humility that he did it for us. How you and I think about humility. which is the first step, can fundamentally change if we seriously lay before our hearts this mind. However, you perceive humility Well, I think of it as a matter of weakness. I think it is a matter of something of surrender to what I don't want to surrender, asking for this or whatever. It fundamentally changed, and this is what the Apostle says Put the mind of Christ, the humility of Christ before you, because He is such an example, the greatest example in history. His very act of leaving heaven, coming to earth, and taking the form of man demonstrates the unimaginable humility of our Savior. During his life, Jesus also showed this same truth in the things that he taught and what he did. It wasn't enough just to come in such a form and live such a life, but he did such. He said, I came not to be served, but to serve and to give my life a ransom for many. The disciples thought, well, we're in a certain position with the master here And and and you you indeed deserve something and he says, No, my whole life was to come to serve. And to be a ransom for many. And then John 13 we read of his last night with his disciples, and he took the towel, and he took the basin and he washed their dirty feet. And he says, you to do likewise. Think of that act of humility of our Savior, just before his final act that would bring him to pay for the ransom of sinners And he says, I am showing my humility now to you, and I want you to continue with such an act Here in the Philippians, the Apostle Paul is encouraging ordinary believers and the local church who apparently had some measure, to what extent we don't know, some measure of sinful pride in their hearts and in their relationships. The apostle calls them to seriously consider the attitude and the actions of Jesus. Seriously think about what Jesus was had in his heart and what Jesus actually did. Consider that and make application of it as his example for humility. You know the consequences of us doing that today To apply the same in everyday life, I think, would give us pause. If we have a push comes to shove, in order for me to be humble like Jesus I'm not necessarily sure I can do it. Humbling myself may cost me in the workplace. It can cost me in the community where I live. Being humble can cost me with my friends or my neighbors or the people I'm associated with Maybe people won't respect me as I should be respected. They'll think less of me as a man, or less of me as a woman, or less of me as a teenager. They'll think less of me as a human being because I'm acting like this. Something must be wrong with you. But to be honest with you, that's a short-sighted worldly viewpoint. If that's all that life is, being humble in our threes, four, and ten years, we've lost it. We've lost the whole picture what it is of having an eternal life with Christ. Because he continues, verse nine. Wherefore, meaning because of Christ's humility, God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name That the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Jesus is the example of all examples. Where was he exalted in his time on earth? The only place that he was lifted up was on the cross. Not one place did he defend himself for his humility. He could have called 10,000 angels, the hymn goes. But he took upon him that which we deserve. Those who humble themselves will be exalted. And this is meant to be our guide in living in this world. If we take care of the humbling of ourselves, we can entrust the exalting of ourselves to God. Sometimes my pride puts me in such a place that I can't do that because I'm going to lose out. I still want to be exalted. I still want to have my eyes heartily lifted up And the apostle says, through Jesus' own testimony, he says, God will deal at the right time with the lifting up. We get the parable of the Pharisee and the and the publican. He says this man went home to his house, lifted up. What happened to the tax collector? Did his life change? We don't know But he's saying his whole as God viewed him, he said that was the difference. Yet here's the elephant in the room. How do we gain the mind of Christ and humble ourselves? You know? How do we get to that place? Where's the key to it? Well the more I read about it, I came to realize that humility is not a Christian thing. It's found everywhere. Um go online and just Google it. Go to a library and look up books on humility You can find bookstores full how to be humble and you know da da da and twenty easy steps or something like that, you know. Everybody recognizes it's really nice to work with people who are humble Really nice to have a co-worker, really nice to have a boss who's who's humble. Not that it means anything else, but the interaction and the relationship show so people love to present such a truth and saying this is the best way to live. Hindus hold humility as a core virtue. Doing things with humility is one way Hindus gain a good karma. and achieve another layer of maturity. Hey here's basic unbelief, and he says You can have a better life now and later on if you just be humble. Buddhist See humility as a virtue that is seen as a prerequisite to the awakening and a sign of maturity Buddhists like to have that awakening, that that finally achievement time and place. If I'm humble, I'm I'm I'm on my way. I'm doing that as well Muslims, humility is a virtue that emphasizes being aware of one's place before Allah and treating others with kindness and respect. And we can go on and on and on to all of the isms around the world. Humility is there, is something everybody recognizes. It's key. And yet that's not necessarily what the apostle sees in Jesus. First of all, it begins when we purpose in our hearts to think about and to consider and to understand. And adopt the thinking of Jesus, his values, his attitudes to become ours. It begins when I have the mind of Christ to say, what did Jesus do? What did Jesus say? How did Jesus act? And look at his example. This this passage would have been fantastic going back to Christmas, you know We talk about the babe born in Bethlehem. But he left the glories of heaven, the angels proclaiming his coming. How humble could it have been? We talk about giving our life to Jesus. Different times churches will have that, surrendering to Him. When in reality we really do probably a 50-50 or 75-25. Yeah, Lord, I'm willing to give this much to you. I'm surrendering to you. I'm humble for you. I'm willing to listen to this. 25% of the time, I'll give you a majority, 75 But we're short-changing ourselves. And we wonder why pride is eating us up. Jesus always had a strong emphasis on humility and meekness as an example. To hold our thinking and our desires and our conduct. What lies behind what act I do? What causes me to take that step or to pick this up or to listen to this or to do this? Is there a principle of pride, something that elevates me, or is there going to be a simple principle of honoring God, which is in other words, humbling myself and allowing him to have first place. Recall Jesus washing the disciples' feet and the scene ends with these words. For I have given you an example of what? Just washing feet? It's good to wash people's feet No, he's an example of humility, of the teacher, the master, coming before the students and washing the students' feet. That you should do as I have done to you Verily, verily, I say unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. Neither is he that sent greater than he that sent him If ye know these things, happy are ye that ye do them. His values and his attitudes must become ours. Is this a cold turkey thing? Huh? Do this. You know what they say, no. It's not As much as I recognize these principles and these truths, it is a slow process, day by day, to approach Lord, bring me to that place where I recognize less of me and more of you. Allow me to Father to feed on what your word has to say and to think these things. I I I I've recognized a couple of weeks now the greatest struggle for me is is the mind. Think on these things. Whatsoever is pure, just, holy, and righteous. Think on these things. Why? Because it is the battle of the mind, the battle of the heart. Which brings me to the second point. For these things to happen, we need to earnestly and regularly pray for the Holy Spirit to change our hearts, because it is impossible to do otherwise. If I think I can make a change from being what I used to be to be what God wants me to be on my own, that's the joke. That's the key, the crux of the whole matter. I can't The whole principle of what Christ lays before us is that you can do nothing. We come to Him and we surrender our lives to Him. We don't say, how about we do 50-50, Lord? How about do we do that, you know? 2575. I've given you a majority of the vote. We can't because there's nothing in us of our nature, of our being, that is of worth to him. He says, you are unworthy. For Christ died for sinners. Christ died for unworthy people, the ungodly So when I come I say there is, as that him goes, there's nothing in the hands I I bring. Simply to the cross I cling. So if I'm that way when I accept Christ as my Savior, how can I do anything in life unless I make that recognition throughout life? Lord, I want to be humble I don't like this bitterness of pride in me. Take me, and you have to make the changes in me. He has to be the one. For it's the Spirit that convicts us of sin and reveals God's will for us in our hearts and leads us to this truth. Pray that God's Spirit will do that in your heart. And then thirdly, we also need to understand what Jesus meant when he called men and women to humble themselves. It's the idea of having the right view of ourselves before God and before others. How do I see myself? What's my view of my own life? If pride is an exalted sense of who we are in relationship to God and others Humility is having a realistic sense of who I am before God and before others. Pride says, I am better than you. Lord, I am not better than you, but I sure know a lot. Now humility comes in and says, Lord, I am nothing. I'm nothing. And yet, we have to realize that it's not an exalted sense, I am not too lowly and I'm not too high of myself. Rather, I have to have an honest, realistic sense of who I am. Some people just beat themselves to death about their oh no. But God saved you. You're a redeemed child. Of all of the people on the face of the earth, God says, I chose you. Doesn't matter what you think. You have value. You have purpose. There's reason. That I redeemed you. So the believer is lifted to a plane not to think less of himself, but not to think overhighly of himself. Listen to what Paul says to the Romans. He says, For I say, through the grace given to me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. but to think soberly, meaning honestly, according as God has dealt to every man measure of faith. Think of yourselves as God has dealt with you properly. We enter the word and we say, how does God see me? Why has he done this for me? He says, Don't think of yourself as less. Then in the following verses, after that, he teaches them how to use the spiritual gifts that he's given them to serve one another. Paul writes to the church at Rome and he says, don't think so of yourself, but just think what God has meant for you. And then he comes along and he says, God's given you gifts to serve. Not to elevate yourself, not to put yourself in a position of authority and responsibility, because there are times when there are pastors and Sunday school teachers and elders and deacons and so forth, they put themselves above others because I am. He says, don't do that. The gifts are there in order to serve another. In other words, humility is having a right view of ourselves in relationship to God. In relationship to others and acting accordingly. And acting accordingly. Paul approaches this church and he says, there's so much value that you have And he says, just because I'm not with you, just because I'm in prison, just because maybe someday I might come to you and someday they may chop off my head, doesn't mean that your value and your place in this world is not important to God. He says, recognize the danger of what's happening within your own is a danger that keeps you from being active, being purposeful, multiplying within the church. I think it's appropriate for us today. The mind of Christ doesn't put you in a place where you are, oh everybody else, you know. He says, Lord, what do you want me to be? How do you want me to live? As a child, as a wife, as a husband, as a as a a partner in a business, as every relationship horizontally and this vertical relationship with him Humility puts us in that. Ask God to help us for that. Shall we pray? So Father, we recognize what's lacking in us, even as Paul recognized what was lacking in the church of Philippi. And we see to various amounts and various times the ugliness of pride and how it destroys not only hearts and souls, but it destroys relationships and keeps us from the right relationship to have with you. Yet as we, being redeemed children, recognize you brought us into this family in order that you can use us for your glory. And humility allows us to sharpen the skills that you've given us, to use the talents, use what we have been created for. Because it all comes to you. We pray for our men in government, women in government in positions of responsibility and authority. May Father, they turn to you and find themselves as being able to do nothing to lead this great land, to be examples of godliness in an ungodly world. May they find a humble heart to be more profitable than a proud spirit. Blessed, we pray these seed thoughts, we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.