Chapter 23. Luke chapter 23. And this week and next week we want to have a series on the seven last words of Christ. The seven last words. Number of completion is seven, so there are seven of them. Just happen to be by Providence. And you know a lot of people have have had famous last words. Uh the ones that I remember are Stonewall Jackson, he said, let us cross over the river and rest under the shade of the trees. Which was a very appropriate last word. We had uh Robert E. Lee, he said, his last words were strike the tent. Which was very appropriate as well, because our body is a tenth, a tabernacle. And strike it, take it down And that's what he said right when he died. And my dad had a very good last had very good last words. I think I've mentioned it before, when he said Idolatry is serving the creature more than the creator. And those were his last words, and he died right after that. And uh And you know, I remember when that happened, I uh came back for the funeral. I came here when I came back for the funeral and uh was talking with Keith Byrd and Keith Byrd said Said, wouldn't it be nice if you got a 10-minute warning before you died so you could have some good last words? But you know, the thing is, is that a lot of people don't have a chance for that, but in the providence of God, many do. And uh Jesus, he had last words. He had seven last words. And here we go to those. Now those the the responsive reading And the uh call to worship had to do with something that I believe that that the crucifixion of Jesus was on Wednesday is what I believe Of course, you're going to have a good Friday service here, that's all right. But a little bit more technically correct, I think, is Wednesday, because How was Jesus three days and three nights in the heart of the earth if he rose early on Sunday morning? You have to have three days and three nights. And of course people have said, well, you got parts of three days. You got Friday, Saturday, and Sunday parts of them. But you don't got parts of three nights. You don't have that at all And also, the why is what is the reason that people think that Friday is the day he was crucified? It's because the Sabbath was drawing on They had to get Jesus down off the cross for the Sabbath. Well, we just had our responsive reading, and it talked about the Sabbath they had in the Old Testament with the ceremonial law. And there wasn't just the weekly Sabbath of Saturday, but there also were ceremonial Sabbaths, the first day of Passover. With the Feast of Tabernacles was first day of Passover was a Sabbath day. And so this I believe that Jesus was crucified Right at the moment when they were killing the Passover lambs for the Passover. Right at the moment, according to the promise providence of God. And you know when they were supposed to kill the Passover lambs? They were supposed to kill it, kill them between the two evenings. Between the two evenings is between the time you see the first star in the heaven and the second star. That's when they were supposed to kill the Passover lamb. That's when Jesus finally yielded up the ghost there. And that was Right then with all the Passover lambs that was showing that he was the Passover lamb, that they were pointing to Christ. The one thing that doesn't fit with that Is the Last Supper? The Last Supper was a day ahead of time. They had the Last Supper ahead of time, and then he was crucified at the very moment they had the Passover. And so here we come to chapter 23 of Luke and verse 33. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him and the malefactors, one on the right hand and the other on the left. Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment and cast lots, and the people stood beholding, and the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others. Let him save himself. If he be the Christ, the chosen of God. And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek and Latin and Hebrew. This is the king of the Jews. And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be the Christ, save thyself and us. Let's bow in prayer, O Lord. We pray thou would open up thy word to us this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have the crucifixion of Jesus. He's on the cross. Crucifixion, we talked about that this morning a little bit. It was a very inhumane uh form of crucifixion and the worst thing that they could imagine to make somebody be hung up in front of everybody and die a very slow death. By suffocation, usually, and having themselves nailed to the cross. It was a very barbarous form of execution. Today they talk about uh the executions we have in the United States as being barbarous, you know, with uh electric chairs or gas chambers or whatever they have, least lethal injections But they're nothing like crucifixion. And so they had crucifixion, and Jesus was up there suffering that horrible death, and it wasn't just the death on the cross You know the thieves there would have suffered that death, but Jesus was suffering for the sins of all the elect, of all of the Christians. He was suffering for those And so we come to his first words from the cross, verse 34. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Father, forgive them. And you know, Jesus is our great example. And you know, great leaders, they lead by example. They show how it's done. They don't just push people ahead and say you go do it. They do it too And so Jesus was a great leader, and he gave us his example here. He was not spouting out revenge against those who crucified him. No, he said, Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. And so here is the principle here of forgiveness. Here at the last words of Christ, forgiveness. And you know, forgiveness is a really big thing with Christians that we need to forgive people that do things against us. We need to forgive. That's a hard thing to do, but we need to do it Forgive. And you know the hard thing here for Jesus to forgive these people. You know, these people, at that very moment, they were making fun of him. They were mocking him. We have uh verse 35, we've got the people, the rulers derided him. Save thyself. And then we have verse 36, the soldiers also mocked him. So everybody there was mocking him, making fun of him. And even the one thief on the cross next to him railed on him, we're told in verse 39. And you know, everybody was mocking him and making fun of him. You know, nobody likes to be made fun of. You know why people don't witness a lot of times More than they do because they're afraid they're going to be made fun of. They're afraid that people will think they're really odd. Uh a religious fanatic But anyway, Jesus, he didn't mind being made fun of. All this mocking going on. He asked to have them forgiven. And you know what forgiveness is? Forgiveness is something inside the heart. Inside of our heart. Internal, we forgive people. And the opposite of that is being bitter, bitter against people and not forgiving them. And so we don't want to be bitter. If we're bitter, you know, it can even make physical problems with us We can get ulcers, we can get mental problems, we can get a lot of problems from that. And we need to not be bitter, but we need to forgive. Forgive everybody And remember, the guy asked Jesus, how many times should I forgive? And what did he say? 70 times, seven times, which means just all the time. All the time, forgive them. We always have to have a forgiving spirit. And that's what Jesus shows us as an example here. And you know, the problem is with a lot of people, they live in the past. They never forget the past. They never forget what people did to them. They just never can forget it. And you know, when we forgive, we want to forget too. Not bring it up, bring it up, bring it up all the time. And not live in the past, forgetting those things which are behind And Jesus gave us that example here. And of course, what did Jesus say? He said, if we don't forgive other people, what did he say? He said, Neither will we be forgiven of God. If we aren't willing to have that same attitude. And you know, I've brought up before uh this one movie, Five People You Meet in Heaven, and it's has some bad, not that great parts in it, but it has has one point there though, is that this guy goes to heaven or he dies and And he has to face up to all the things that he was bitter about in his life. And you know, I think we're going to have to do some of that facing up when we get to heaven. Facing up to those things that we are bitter about And this guy, he was bitter against his father because his father didn't treat him right. He was bitter because he was shot in the leg during the war and he had a bum leg for the rest of his life He was bitter, of course these are being bitter against God really. He was bitter against God because God took his wife with cancer. And he had to face up to those things and get right. And I think we may have to do some facing up. I'm sure we're going to do some facing up some way or another when we get to heaven for all the bitterness that's in our hearts. And we need to try to get rid of that. Get rid of that like Jesus did, a forgiving attitude, not an attitude that wants vengeance. We don't want vengeance. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. Well, here we go. Here Jesus is there on the cross. Notice in verse 35, they say, if he be Christ, the chosen of God. Just a little aside here, uh you know they have that uh uh series recently, the chosen which is a Christian series. And someone here in the congregation gave me an article about that. And the article was good. And it points out the fact, and of course this is where that word is used, your chosen. But anyway, it points out the fact that that that series, the Jesus in there is your best buddy who laughs and and you know jokes with you and and you know the thing is it brings jesus down to our level is the problem. Makes Jesus into our image. And you know, he's a little bit above that. I mean he's our friends, that's true, but he's not at our on our level. Not at all. And then we go on down, verse 36. And the soldiers also mocked him coming to him and offering him vinegar. Well You know, this vinegar here. Why would they give him vinegar? Of course, we're used to vinegar, cider vinegar, rice vinegar, and all those things. This vinegar here is actually a cheap wine. It's almost like vinegar. It's a real El Cheapo rot gut wine that the soldiers used to drink Yeah, Roman soldiers. And so it's called vinegar here, but it's not exactly it's a little bit more like wine. Well, it's a little bit like vinegar too And anyway, they offered that to Jesus. And we're told in another place that he actually took some of it. And you know what? I'm very strong against alcohol, and our Bible Presbyterian Church has also been very strong historically against alcohol. But you know there is a good use for alcohol And that's medicinal use. And that's what we have right here. And it was a painkiller. They were offering him this for painkiller. And back in the old time days, that's a big thing they used to give people was was alcohol when they were going to do a little operation or whatever on them. And then we go on here. There was a sign over Jesus, verse 38. And the sign was written in Greek, Latin, and Hebrew. That was very fitting. Very appropriate, because those were the main languages of the known world, the Roman world of that time. And they were written over Jesus, and it said This is the king of the Jews. That was very appropriate, wasn't it? Very appropriate. The Jews didn't like that. They went to Pilate and they said, We don't want that sign on there And what did Pilate answer? What I have written, I have written. And he left it there, which was good. That was according to the providence of God. Well, let's keep on going to our second word here from Jesus from the cross, verse 40. But the other, the other thief, answering, rebuked the one that railed on Jesus, saying Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man hath done nothing amiss. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. So here's the second word of Christ on the cross. He spoke to that thief on the cross. Today you will be with me in paradise. First of all, it's interesting here that the thief says in verse 41, we received a due reward. We're told that these people were thieves. Is that the due reward for a thief to be crucified? Well it was back then. What do thieves get today Very little. You know, you got those uh things today where they break down the front of the store, run in there and grab things and run and And not very many of them really get caught. And you know the thing is, is people get away with crime here in the United States, they get run away with crime in Brazil especially. And what happens The society is full of crime. And people fear for their lives and it's terrible. But if you have some hard punishment on crime, it makes a big difference What about America in the past? In the past, America had heavy punishments and there was no crime around. Very little, very little. And that's not an accident. You know what's interesting in the Bill of Rights of the United States, one of those Bills of Rights, it says the right to a speedy trial. Of course, that's because a lot of times they put people in jail and they wouldn't bring them up for trial for forever. But you know the thing is That speedy trial is also good for the criminals because they get speedy punishment there too. And so anyway, we have the due reward of our deeds. And then we have the thief on the cross saying, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. Lord remember me. You know, this thief on the cross, this is all we have him saying, and we know for sure that he got saved here. We know that for sure. Today you will be with me in paradise. He got saved. And what did he say? He just said, remember me. And you know, a lot of people get all hung up with formulas for people getting saved. And they gotta have this exact formula fulfilled for somebody to actually be a Christian. Well that's not really true, is that there's all kinds of different ways for people to come to the Lord. But they all include that the person is sorry for their sin and they give their lives to the Lord. But they it comes about in different ways. People say, oh, well, you have to remember the exact day you got saved. Well, it's not entirely true. And uh, you know the thing is, is here we have right here, it doesn't go according to re the uh formulas. Uh when I was in a baptistic church in the past, they used to put it down to a formula of ABC, ask, believe, continue. Well, you don't have to do that exact formula. And here, I mean that's all right for a formula, but the thing is, you don't have to do that And here he just said, Lord, remember me. And you notice the thief on the cross didn't do anything else besides that. He didn't have time. And yet he became a Christian. He did not get baptized. And that's a very good proof that baptism is not necessary for salvation. And it's a good proof that other things aren't necessary for salvation, church membership and a lot of different things. And so, here he says, Lord, remember me. Then we go on here. Jesus says unto him, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. And you know that's a very good scripture that goes against soul sleep. There's a lot of people that believe in soul sleep that when you die, your soul just sits there until the resurrection But Noah says, today, today you will be with me in paradise. Of course the Jehovah's Witnesses basically believe in soul sleep. And I remember talking to a Jehovah's Witness one time at work where I worked. And I brought up the scripture, and you know how he explained it? He explained it that you're supposed to put the today with the say. Verily I say unto thee, today you will be with me in paradise. Well, that's completely out of line. Never in the Bible does somebody say, I say to you today. Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, and that's what he said here. But anyway, it's today, the today goes with the paradise. Today you shall be with me in paradise. And you know there are some dispensationalists that believe that Jesus, after his crucifixion, between the crucifixion and the resurrection, He descended into hell or into a holding area called Abraham's bosom, and he went there and preached to the spirits in prison there in Abraham's bosom or in hell. And then they got brought into heaven because he went there and preached to them during that time No, Jesus says, today you shall be with me in paradise. And so, of course, he was going to be with Jesus in paradise for a couple days, but then Jesus was going to go away for a little bit and come back. So anyway, here we have, today you will be with me in paradise. That's a comforting thing. A comforting thing. Absent from the body and present with the Lord. That's what it is. Absent from the body, present with the Lord. And then we go on here to verse 44. to the third word for the cross from the cross that we'll look at today. And it was about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst. And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit And having said thus, he gave up the ghost. Now, when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. And all the people that came together to that site, beholding the things which were done, smote their breasts and returned, and all his acquaintance and the women that followed him from Galilee. From Galilee stood afar off beholding these things. So here we have Jesus continues on the cross here. And of course this last word from the cross is actually the last of the seven. We're covering that because it's right here in Luke chapter 23 And we'll cover the other four words in between that are in different chapters of the Bible and passages next week. But anyway, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And so Jesus' body remained on the cross, but at this point his spirit went up to heaven, up to God. And of course, that shows us that we have a soul, and not only a body, but a soul. And you know, our soul is tied to this body, very much tied to this body. But when we die, it's released. It's released to go to heaven or to go to hell. And so here we have, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And notice here it was Jesus' voluntary will here. He volunteered to go to the cross, and here he volunteered as he commended his spirit up to God the Father. Jesus here paid the debt, paid the debt that we owe for our sin. Paid it. Jesus paid it all right here on the cross. So praise the Lord for that. You go back to verse 44. There was darkness all over the earth. when this happened. Was it just in Israel? No, it was all over the earth. Everybody in the world would know But something was happening. It was dark. It says from the sixth to the ninth hour, the hours started counting at dawn. at six o'clock in the morning, and so the sixth hour was noon, and the ninth hour was three o'clock. From noon to three o'clock, it was dark. And that was a great miracle, a great miracle from the Lord. And it was over all the earth. It's just like with the flood. The flood was over all the earth. It wasn't just a local flood with Noah. And this wasn't just local, this darkness. It was all over the earth, we're told. Right here, all means all, and that's all it all means right here. And then verse 45, the veil of the temple was rent. What did that signify? The veil of the temple being torn apart. It was a real very thick veil, very heavy. And God ripped it apart to show us that there is no more ceremonial law, no more priests. is that we can go directly to God. We don't have to go through the priests. Back in the Old Testament, they used to have the priests offer up sacrifices for them. But now there's no more sacrifices of the ceremonial law, no more priests And the veil of the temple was rent. And all of us are priests before the Lord. So praise the Lord here, Jesus paying the debt for our sin. Now verse 47 When the centurion saw this, he was the guy that was in charge of the crucifixion. When he saw it, he glorified God. Here we have another guy getting saved. The thief on the cross got saved. He said, Lord, remember me. And here we have the centurion doing the whole thing. He glorified God, we're told. Glorified God, certainly. This was a righteous man. You know, they made movies about that centurion, uh, imagining what happened to him and whatever But anyway, I believe he got saved right here. And all the people, they smote their breasts, they returned, and they stood afar off beholding these things. And Jesus yielded up the ghost. Well, what do we learn for our lives today as we come to communion? What do we learn Well, one thing we might mention today is Palm Sunday. Palm Sunday was when they welcomed Jesus into Jerusalem. A few days before he was crucified, and what did they yell? They yelled, Hosanna, Hosanna And what does Hosanna mean? It means, save now we pray. And all the crowds in Jerusalem were crying out, save now we pray. Did they mean it? No, they didn't mean it. They were just say that saying it. They thought of a physical salvation or whatever from the Romans. But anyway, they were saying that with their mouth. But they didn't really mean it. We got a lot of people in churches today that do that. They say, Save now, we pray, but they're really not saved. They just mouth the words. It's not in their heart. But a few days later, what did the crowd say? They said, crucify him, crucify him. Well, anyway, that's poem Sunday. But then when you come to Jesus on the cross, the seven last words We see that number one, Jesus forgave. What are we supposed to do? Forgive, just like he forgave. Number two. The thief on the cross said, Lord, remember me. What are we supposed to do? We're supposed to say, Lord, remember me. We're supposed to get saved like he did. Give our lives to the Lord, confess our sin. And third of all, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. We need to be ready for the day that we're going to commend our spirit to God You know, lately I've been thinking about, especially as I grow a little bit older, thinking about, you know, growing older and, you know how those things work. And I go back to my Air Force uh uh time and I've b started thinking about it that uh you know you're in a plane And you're trying to take off, right? And you're going down the runway. And I figure our life is like we're going down that runway and we're going on and on and we're going to take off when we die. And you know, when we get older, what's happening? The runway is running out. The runway is running out. And soon we're going to take off. And so anyway, let's be ready to take off just like Jesus was ready. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just thank thee for thy goodness unto us. We thank thee for thy word. And O Lord, we pray that we might serve thee with our whole hearts, forgive us of our sin. Help us to get rid of our sin in Jesus' name, Amen.