Uh open our Bibles please. Uh Philippians chapter two. Yes, we're in Philippians. Philippians two, and I'll begin with verse three, and if you will just follow along, read through verse eleven. The apostle writes, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but In lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also in the things of others Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men, and being found in fashion as a man, He humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore, God also hath highly exalted him Given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven and things in earth, and things under the earth And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Reading of this word be a blessing to our hearts and to be a benefit to the Father. Let's pray. Father, we open your word and again this letter of the Apostle is before us. uh his heart's desire to uh be used of you in the uh furtherance of the gospel in the lives of the people at Philippi But by your providential hand, these words have been penned to be used and preserved for us even today. Thank you for your working. Thank you that your word is quick and powerful. It is sharper than any two-edged sword. It does pierce to the dividing ascender of soul and spirit and joint and marrow and is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. And so we come before you, open and naked, through your word. Speak to us that way in Christ's name. Amen. Some of the talk among Christians surrounding the post-inauguration period focused upon the discussion of being humble. Humility is that which is a heart's desire for those in public office as they serve. I think the irony is that once in public office there seems to be less humility Much less humility, because there's a tendency for pride to move to the forefront. I think you'll admit that pride and humility are diametrically opposed to each other. They war against each other, although we find them all of a sudden with each other. Because of their very nature, they seek dominance in us. And as we all come here today, I think we could feel that there is that same struggle in us at times, sometimes more of one, sometimes more of the other, but it's there. The late John Stott once said, Pride is your greatest enemy, and humility is your greatest friend. To the Christian, pride, your greatest enemy, humility, your greatest friend. I think pride and arrogance are, as we would think it, visible in the powerful visible in people of positions of authority, the successful, the famous, the celebrities of all sorts, and even in some religious leaders We slam on the brakes and then you say, ah yes, it's also visible in little old us. Pride is alive in the ordinary man. Yet I think it's doubtful for any of us to realize how dangerous pride is to the soul. We don't recognize how terrible it is in our relationship with our God And also the matters of our relationship to others. Humility, on the other hand, is often seen as a weakness. If you're humble, you don't have the guts, you don't have the strength to stand up for causes and purposes. Yet few of us, I believe, know very much about humility. about the matters of what it is and what it should be in our life. So, if I may For the matters of grounding our souls in good and our relationship to God and our fellow man, I think we need a clearer understanding of those two enemies, pride and humility. How they are part and parcel of the world in which we live, and how we can resist the one and embrace the other Now, if your Bibles are still open here in Philippians, you have to see that Paul is writing to them, as he has heard in some fashion or another, this issue within the Church of Philippi. It's a struggle between these two adversaries, pride and humility. Verse 3 and 4. Let nothing be done through strife. Let nothing Well, there's exceptions, aren't there? No. Everything in life is to be done, not to be done through strife, or in other words, rivalry Or vain glory, divide that word up, vain emptiness, glory, empty picking up, okay, the matter of being conceited These are all indicators of pride, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. In humility, he says, count The relationship will count the other person more than you count yourself. He's not saying don't look at yourself, don't see what you've got. But he's saying in the relationship to those who are around there, he says, count them as better. That's hard. What's the theme of the book of Philippians? The three-letter word? Oh, thank you. That's for all this time. Jesus, others, and yourself. Jesus, others, and yourself. And this is the very principle that Paul lays down here within these verses. He says, I see something going on within the church. That is an indication that yourself is more important than other things. Hence the pride becomes there. Now, verse 5, he gives a super example Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. Let the same mindset The same thinking process. Let the same attitude that Jesus had be yours, not Paul's. If we follow Paul, we're doing pretty good. Paul also says in, I think it's in Galatians, he says, follow me as I follow Christ. But he says, follow Jesus in this same principle. The Lord Jesus Christ, the one in whom was no conceit, no rivalry, no vainglory. Whatever Jesus did, he never did it as a matter of selfishness. He never did it to pick himself up. It was always for the Father. But in humility, Jesus did not look on himself as important, but he looked upon the souls and the lives of others as important. That is the personification of humility. Show Jesus Christ and you say this is humility, not weakness, but absolute strength. This is the picture that Paul wants us to grasp a hold of. I want us to look at these arch enemies, pride and humility. It is, in essence, the central theme of part of what goes through this book, this particular part of the chapter, but you'll also see it uh poking around in the rest of the chapters, too. But in essence, it's really essential for us to understand as Christians humility, pride, how these two deal with each other's in our own life, our Christian life. So, first of all, we're going to take a pride And Lord willing, next Lord's Day we'll look at humility. To begin with, I think it's appropriate to say, generally speaking, that not all pride is sinful. I'm proud to be an American. No. I'm proud to live in this country. I'm proud for our Christian heritage and the things that this country has. There are people who would be parents and they say, I'm proud of what my child did in school. I'm proud of the work that I did at the office. It helped everything out. And those in general, nothing wrong with that. It's not sinful pride. It can develop into sinful pride But for the most part we say of the good job, of the accomplishments that are there, the things that that are dear to me, I'm proud of that. I'm glad I can see that But not always develops into those good feelings. But pride crosses over the line when it defiles God. And it ruins the heart. C. S. Lewis wrote: According to the Christian teachers, the essential vice, the utmost evil, is pride. Unchastity, anger, greed, drunkenness, and all that are mere flea bites in comparison to it. It was pride that the devil became the devil. We don't think about it. Pride, he says, leads to every other vice. It is the complete anti-God state of mind. It is pride which has been the chief course of misery in every nation and every family since the world began. has to be seeded from the very beginning and has been the seed of troubles all along. I think C. S. Lewis nailed it right on the head. Pride created the devil. Pride turned Lucifer, the son of the morning, into darkness. He found himself as desirous to be something not what God had created him to be Pride enabled him to become the adversary, the accuser of the brethren, the murderer, the father of lies. Pride became him in the being the tempter and many more If we go to scriptures, we first find it in Genesis 3. And then here's the one who understood pride and understood as it being the seed of all things, coming to our first parents. He tells Eve, ye shall not surely die. You can hear the voice, you know, you're not gonna die. For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof the forbidden fruit, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. Wow. Of all that they had, all that God had provided for them, he comes along and he says to them, you know, God's not really telling you the truth. He's lied to you. Adam and Eve believed it. You're not going to die. Your eyes being open, you'll be as God. You'll know good and evil. They had everything in the garden. God had blessed them with abundance, which means that God lied to them when He said it, and our first parents could have had some semblance of equality with God if they would just take a bite. If you could just take a bite, you will be understanding, knowing good and evil, like God does. How did that do? They had it all. But in the introduction of pride, they thought they could have more. We have everything, yet pride comes along and says, you can have more than everything. You can have something that seems to be, but in reality it was not. Pride has allowed mankind to become the center of his world. From such a position, he finds God and his word to be irrelevant What what becomes the Word of God when pride is entered in? Well, this is some suggestions. There are things that are a little hard to understand. Recommendations, it's ancient writings But is not God's word him speaking to me, telling me how to live, telling me who he is, telling me right and wrong and good and evil, salvation? I don't believe that. Becomes irrelevant. And where does that place God? It places him on the shelf. It places him as being insignificant for us. The desire to lift up and to exalt self beyond our place as God's creature lies at the heart of this guide. Who is God? What does he have for me? I don't need it. Yet such an attitude leads to a serious consequence. Proverbs 16, 18, pride go before Destruction. Close. Close. Pragnopefor destruction. It's a seed of it. It is the direction, the signpost. And a haughty spirit before the fall. Right, Adam? Right, Eve? Look at their life. A proud attitude, a haughty spirit, putting them in a place that everything that God had said became insignificant, therefore they have a better plan, a better idea. a better way to do it. We look to our Bibles and we find countless lessons of these things that have been learned. I take King Uzziah, King of Judah, at the age of sixteen, marvelous indeed, ruled the southern nation of Judah, and What we would refer to, he is probably a believer, just the way that he ruled and reigned. The text tells us as long as he sought the Lord, God made him to prosper. The prophet looks back and he says, as long as in his life he was seeking the Lord, in other words, following after him, obeying him, in other words, he found that God being relevant in life, God prospered him. And prosperity isn't always in tangible things, but his heart was blessed. As you read through the life of Uzzai, you find that he became politically and militarily powerful. Judah rose up above the other nations, and Uzziah himself did well. Then things changed. The text says, his fame spread far, for he was marvelously helped. Till he was strong. When he was strong, then his heart was lifted up to destruction, for he transgressed against the Lord God. What happened? He had everything, Adam and Eve had everything, but all of a sudden pride comes in as God had blessed him, and all of a sudden he says, Look what I've done. Look at my rule, look at my reign, look at my position in life. He had the guide, the prophet Zechariah. And my guess is that he told Zechariah, I'm not going to be in church today. I'm not going to be listening to you on the radio. You know, I've kind of I I know those things. I understand those things. You know, it's insignificant to me Zachariah set aside, and slowly the king depended less upon God and more upon himself. We've gained some victories here. No need to do these other things Pride goeth before destruction. Paul's words to Timothy should echo in our hearts. Paul says, Timothy, I exhort you therefore that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, giving of thanks, for means of prayer, for avenues that prayer is directed. be made for all men, for kings, for those in authority, that we may lead quiet and peaceable lives in all godliness and honesty For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. We're admonished to pray for our leaders. Why? The tendency is, as things go well, the heart is lifted up, and there's no need for any of these other things. There's no need for such. I my son had on the w the show this past week, um or he was he's preparing one one of the governors of Pennsylvania, uh back in the eighteen sixties or something like that. And he went up to uh uh uh town just north of State College to visit his the church where this man went. And um uh he read through the text of the sermon that was given on him at that time. God being implored to lead the state of Pennsylvania, or the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. We've loss of this man. He was an elder in the church, became governor of the of the Commonwealth. Be leading that Um around the same time the Capitol in Harrisburg burned down. And they met in the Methodist church just down the road, and they met there until the Capitol was rebuilt. and the opening statements that were made of the reopening of that uh uh session in the Methodist Church. God, we are imploring you to lead us, to guide us, help us to be a voice for. We are implored to pray for those in positions of leadership. We think, well, we'll pray for the president. Yeah, we do. But what about other positions of leadership? What about all of the other layers of government? What about all the other layers of business? What about all the other layers of positions of authority and responsibility that somebody can become proud in? God caused me to pray. There's an old proverb, English proverb, that says, power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. in life. And I've seen different societies, I've seen been to third world countries where I've seen people who have abject nothing, poverty. And yet within their little tribe and their little community, there's pride that lifts itself up, even in abject poverty, even with nothing, dirt poor, yet those same things can raise up a standard in life. Pray that pride will not be the counselor of our leaders and that it will not be a counselor within our own hearts. Same principle is also found in unbelieving world in the Old Testament. We find the same stories, outcomes. The life of Haman. You remember Haman, the book of Esther? You know? Here's a man who had all things planned. He had the ear of the king. He had the the opportunity, he had the resources, we're going to build gallows, and we're going to hang these Jews and get rid of them all. How about Nebuchadnezzar? Here's a man who was given the huge responsibility of leading the most powerful nation, Babylon, at the time. And then all of a sudden find out that he says, well, look at all this that I've made. Look at all the things that I've done And the next moment, a blink of an eye finds himself out in the middle of a field eating grass like the animals. Pride. How easy it is when life is good, when we've achieved, when we've made it, when we've perceived that all that we have done has worked out When the labor of my hands or the labor of my brain has placed me in such a position that I rightly deserved, I've made it now. How easy it is to say at that time, soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. Not necessarily in those terms, but I let off on the gas pedal. I just let life go on because I've got it made. I know what to do. I know how to handle it. How about our responsive reading this morning? Kind of kind of caught you. It wasn't in the Psalms, was it? It worked out, you know. Here's Jesus giving in a a beautiful description of pride. He lays it before those who are listening and even before our hearts today. And he spake this parable to certain, what kind of people, which trusted in themselves that they were righteous. These are people who figured out that what they are or what they did put them in a position of being righteous, in the standard that God would accept as being acceptable in life. They trusted in themselves. They were certain that they were righteous. And such people believed, and they say God, I thank God, I thank thee that I am not, as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even And you can almost see him pointing the finger, even as this publican, this tax collector, not Republican by by the way, publican I fast twice in the week. I give the tithes of all that I possess. Here is pride wrapped up in the cloak of religion. People, the Pharisees who had the they were drawn from the common man, and they were in a position to rule and reign over the common man because they had the right rules of life. And what about the tax collector? God be merciful to me, a sinner. His focus is very much on his own sins and not on the sins of the other. The Pharisee, I think, I am, I am, I am, I am, I, I, I. But he humbles himself. He becomes abase. So Jesus draws the summary and he says, I tell you that this man, the tax collector, the humble man He went down to his house justified rather than the other for everyone that exalts himself. Everyone who puts himself in a manner of pride. Everyone who lifts himself up, he says Shall be abased, and he that humbles himself shall be exalted. Self-promotion Matters of reputation and influence and success are evident in every layer of society. It's part and parcel of our nature. Thanks, Adam. Thanks, Eve. But if the apostles had to struggle with it, who are we? You know? If those who walked with Jesus and listened to his preaching and heard his prayers and saw the great multitudes brought to himself were understanding the struggles of pride, what about us? Proverbs 6, 16 and 17. Six things that the Lord doth hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him. Guess what the first is? Unreal. A proud look. The word is a haughty eye. The eye is in a position in life to where it looks down. Haughty, lifting a position. I look down on. It's not is the eye, it's the mind. No, it's not the mind, it's the heart I put my heart in a position where I'm looking down on others, a haughty spirit, an uplifted spirit, and God says, I hate that. I hate it clearly The haughty eye, when elevated, looks down on others. I thank thee that I am not as other men are. And blank, blank, blank, blank, it can fill it in. Fill in the blanks. Even as this blank I do blank in the week, and I give blank in the week. I am in such a position that I can look down because of the things that I do rather than this man, because I am better than he is. rather than this woman, rather than this family, or this class of people, or whatever it becomes. Again, C. S. Lewis wrote Pride gets no pleasure out of having something, only out of having more of it than the next man. Pride doesn't say, well, I'm proud. I'm lifted up because I have some. No. He says, I'm lifted up because I have something more than the next guy. I am better the next day. I can make my comparisons, you know. I can see that the position that I'm in makes me feel better, makes me elevated. Nobody likes to be groveling. Nobody likes to be down. As we said earlier, it would be easy to conclude that pride is a special problem for the rich and the powerful and the successful. And I can't say that that's true, but many of them project that type of thing. We look to them the answer is how should the economy be accomplished or how should morality be explained? How could well so-and-so has done it. Well look at it, he's been successful. So his success in business gives him the authority to rule over as far as decisions are made? But that's wrong. Because pride takes many shapes and forms, and it affects all of us to some degree because we are children of Adam. We don't get out of it. Not until not as long as we're on this side of the earth. A man can be proud of anything that belongs to him, anything that he's achieved. A man can be associated with his name, and that makes him a proud person, but he has to realize that he's just a what? A steward of what he's been given. If you've been entrusted with this, it's a matter of stewardship because God says, I've given this to you, the ability to use your brain, or the ability to use your hands, or the heart that does this. I've given that to you because I'm going to ask you one day, what did you do with it? How did you handle that God humbled King Uzziah by striking him with leprosy when he arrogantly went into the temple and he tried to burn incense. And that knocked him out of the whole temple worship He couldn't go in there because of his leprosy. It was a powerful reminder of his dependence upon God and the consequences of pride. We mentioned Haman. Pride had taken away Hengman's noose and put it upon himself. You know, pride sought him to be in a position highest next to the king. But all of a sudden he found himself in the dirt. Nebuchadnezzar was humbled by a period of insanity which he was driven from society, and he was forced to live like an animal, eating grass in the field, until he came to the place that he could recognize the power and authority of God. Whatever I hang my pride on, be assured that God can take it away. My good looks Don't be chuckling. He can take that away, maybe never mind. You know, my wealth, don't worry about that one either. My possessions, my accomplishments, my talents, they are all gracious gifts from God and not be looked upon as something that places me in a position over somebody, pride lifting me up because I have this or I did this, I've accomplished this, when in fact God says, I'm giving you this in order that you can multiply it for my honor and my glory If such gifts move me away from him, if they rob me the rightly things that are deserved to God, be assured that he will make those divine adjustments. He'll adjust it. And it may be not necessarily in the time that we think, but it'll be in the time that he knows best. Dr. Thomas Alexander Lambey was a medical missionary, great renowned. He was formerly the director of the George Memorial Hospital in Ethiopia. He founded two other hospitals in Ethiopia. He holds the record for riding a horse across what was Abyssinia at the time, but as a medical doctor. He's the former executive secretary of the Ethiopian Red Cross. He was the personal physician to Emperor Haile Selassie. He was the former field director of the Sedan Interior Mission. He was the director of the Baraka tuberculosis sanatorium in Bethlehem until his death in 1954. He served those last nine years at Baraka with as a missionary of the independent board. He never had the opportunity to see his pride rise up because of his hard attitude. The last chapter of his book, The Doctor's Great Commission, he writes, For anything of value that has been done in my poor life May all be to the glory of him. And all the mistakes and the failures are mine. That's what it's all about. Dr. Lamby understood what happened to Nebuchadnezzar and to Haman and to Uzziah, to the parable indicators of Jesus' parable there about the about these people. And it has to be laid before us in our struggle with life. Who are we? But merely sinners saved by grace. We are not people who came in and said, Well, I've got this, Lord. No, the Lord says, you have nothing. And I don't want you to have anything, because I am your all-sufficiency. I am your complete provision. Paul sits in a prison and he writes back to the church at Philippi and he says, I notice that there's um some interactions between you people. And be between the people around you in life, he says, Let nothing be done in the matters of strife and vainglory. It goes nowhere. But put yourself in a humble position that God may lift you up at the right time. We as Christians want to be strong in the Lord. We want to recognize that he is in charge of all things, that we may be tempted at times to be able to put ourselves higher than we ought. May the weeks and months in years ahead that God would give us the opportunity. May we honor Him by showing a humble attitude. May the Spirit that defined Jesus Christ be that which defines us. Lord willing, we're going to take on the bigger section of this passage next week in the matter of humility. But pray this week that God will help us to understand the emphasis that is laid upon us in this passage. Let's pray. Father, we pause just at the end of this passage here and recognize how strongly you speak. About the matters of pride, and how we readily admit that it's found in us because we're children of Adam. It's part of our very nature, and yet that nature doesn't have to dominate because if we turn our lives over to Jesus Christ, we can can confess our sins. And we can recognize your cleansing and your spirit working in us to cause us to stifle such a feeling. Maybe we recognize that the Lord Jesus Christ ministered with authority and power and not pride. He benefited the world at that time more than any other it ever existed, blessed them with the clarity of the word of God uh simply because he approached it humbly and that pride was not his to be is not ours to be also is his children Seed these thoughts in our hearts, we pray, and we ask that you will encourage us through this week to pray for a cleansing of pride attitudes and looking forward, Father, to the uh the the clearer picture one day as we come to the Lord Jesus about his humility. We thank you in Christ's name. Amen.