And in a he's so incredible where he is just his wisdom, he just has a veritable, endless, perfect wealth of knowledge. And now we start to see an opening on what his objective is here with these plays. So in Exodus chapter 10, God, we see the opening, if you have a Thompson-Chain Bible, God threatens to send locusts. Verse 1. And the Lord said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of the servants, that I might show these my signs before him. And that thou mayest tell in the ears of thy son and of thy son's son what things I have wrought in Egypt and my signs which I have done among them, that ye may know how that I am the Lord And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews, how long wilt thou refuse to humble thyself before me? Let my people go, that they may serve me. Else, if thou refuse to let my people go, behold, tomorrow will I bring the locusts into thy coast, and they shall cover the face of the earth that one cannot be able to see the earth, and they shall eat the residue of that which is escaped, which remaineth unto you from the hail, and shall eat every tree which groweth for you out of the field And they shall fill thy houses and the houses of all thy servants and the houses of all the Egyptians, which neither thy fathers nor thy father's father have seen since the day that they were upon the earth unto this day. And he turned himself and went out from Pharaoh. And Pharaoh's servant said unto him, How long shall this man be a snare unto us? Let the men go, that they may serve the Lord their God. Knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed? And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh. And he said unto them, Go, serve the Lord your God. But who are they that shall go? And Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with our sons. And with our daughters, with our flocks, and with our herds we will go, for we must hold a feast unto the Lord And he said unto them, Let the Lord be so with you, as I will let you go, and your little ones, look to it, for evil is before you. Now here's where it gets tough. This is where Pharaoh starts really digging his heels in. Not so. Go now ye that are men and serve the Lord for that ye did desire, and they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thy hand over the land of Egypt, for the locusts, that they may come upon the land of Egypt and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail hath left. And Moses stretched out forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the Lord brought an east wind upon the land all that day and all that night. And when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts. And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in all the coasts of Egypt. Very grievous were they. Before them there were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such. For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land was darkened, and they did eat every herb of the land, and all the fruits of the trees which the hail had left. And there remain not any green thing in the trees or in the herbs of the field throughout all the land of Egypt Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste, and he said, I have sinned against the Lord your God and against you. Now therefore forgive, I pray. My sin only this once. Remember that. And entreat the Lord your God that he may take away from this death only. And he went out from Pharaoh and entreated the Lord, and the Lord turned a mighty strong west wind, which took away the locusts And cast them into the Red Sea. There remained not one locust in all the coast of Egypt. But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the children of Israel go. You don't barter with the Lord. You don't try to make some kind of promises and say this is what the Lord's going to do when he tells you what to do. Here's the problem. What we read this morning, I love this, in Psalm 67. We've sung this for many years. It's a wonderful Psalm. This is God's word sung from the Psalter. I think this is the part that perhaps Pharaoh was listening to. If you read the beginning of this song, he might be saying, Oh God to us show mercy and bless us in thy grace, and it stops there. Take away the plague, but this is what they didn't do. Cause thou to shine upon us the brightness of thy face. That's not what he wanted. That so thy way most holy on earth may soon be known. Pharaoh wanted to be known. He wanted to be known. He was the object of absolute worship according to himself. And look what it got him. We see here there was greater detail given in the plagues last week where God instructed Moses that there would be more plagues. Here we see here In verses one to three, we see that there we're we're looking at a whole new twist, basically something that the Lord's teaching us in this plague, but last week we see that there was a most devastating plague that was poured upon the spirit of Pharaoh with his servants and his people, and we saw all the way back to the watery grave of the Red Sea that hail and fire came down from heaven. And all were warned. But in most cases the wicked would not listen. They lost their cattle. They lost their crops. And when it's all said and done, there were a few crops left. And that then and they're not going to survive either. Here's the preamble to the message this morning. I'd like to read you this and I wrote a few days ago Look now at the preamble of this plague as Jehovah speaks to Moses and now gives him a great reason why all ten plagues will come to pass. Surely it was from the hardening of Pharaoh's heart, but here now we get another dominion mandate on why he says to Moses That thou may tell in the ears of thy son and of thy son's son what things I have brought in Egypt and my signs which I have done among them, that ye may know that I am the Lord Those are the two main reasons. I'm going to look at those. What God is saying to Moses is that the ten plagues of Egypt must be inflicted that they may be recorded for the generations to come. is undeniable proof of God, His inestimable, unlimited power. He has dominion over all nature, all creatures, and authority by the counsel of His determinant, perfect will And that's what this is about. This for us is an encouragement. We're hearing a lot of pessimistic negativity and a lot of destruction going on. But you know, always remember in the midst of his wrath, there's a land of Goshen for his people. We see that the the most instructed servants as hearts their hearts were hardened. And Moses and Pharaoh's purpose was to work a treaty and to try to talk to Pharaoh and to get All of these people. And remember by now it's well over a million Israelites because remember how the women were on the birthstools and they were they were having babies left and right and Israel was multiplying incredibly Over and over, and they were just really growing, and all of a sudden Pharaoh's looking that and saying, Wow, more workers for me We see that Moses and Aaron had been astonished at the obstinacy of Pharaoh, but perhaps they were somewhat compassionate to the desolation of Egypt, and they had a compassion that the Lord had given them to go in and to plead Moses didn't go there arrogantly and with some confidence and go in there and start throwing jokes around and saying, we're going to wait till you see what God's going to do to either this time. No, he had real godly compassion on his heart. And he, as we talked about in the adult Sunday school class this morning, Moses was a type of Messiah. He was a messenger of God. And we see that Christ spoke to him personally and told him what to do and directed him. We see that there's a greater purpose that lies in the root of all these plagues. And verse 1 to 3 tells us how once again Pharaoh hardens his heart. Says, that I might show thee signs before him. Tell it in the ears of thy sons. Now I'm going to go away from the locusts for a minute. We're going to get to that. And I want to read a couple of places of the Bible where this is fascinating. I love what he says. Here is the twist to the plague. The Lord says, I want this recorded all ten plagues. Now he doesn't say that until the last plague when he knows Lord God Jehovah tells Moses Pharaoh's not going to change his heart. He is hardened. I have hardened it. He may not know that, but he's blind. How many times did Christ say, he that hath ears that can hear, let him hear? Well basically everything went in one ear and went out the other and the Lord says now all ten plagues are coming. That happened at the seventh plague, the perfect Number 7. Now I'm going all the way with this. And he says, that I may have you tell your sons and your son's sons. It didn't end there, did it? You might tell your son's sons, your son, your son's sons, your son's sons, sons. Your sons, sons, sons, sons, all the way to September 22, 2024, in the pulpit. They're gonna he we're gonna re- I'm gonna record this. And there are gonna be a lot of people that are gonna see how I can deliver my people and how I love them Use this as an encouragement. Don't use this as a liability. Don't sit back like Peter, oh that's a fire brimstone service. Thank God for fire brimstone services. You haven't even heard one yet. Let me tell you something. You get into starting the teachings of health, and we'll do that one day. I'm telling you right now, what the Lord did here was merciful. It was merciful. Here is the magnificent superlative in the statement. Here we see two primary dominion mandates given all the way up to these first four verses. As to why Jehovah will bring the locusts from the ends of the earth to Pharaoh will not comply, that ye may know how that I am the Lord and worship me. That's number one Number two, that thou mayest tell in the ears of thy son and of thy son's son what things I have wrought in Egypt. Now this is Jehovah Shema speaking Have you ever heard of that name? There's a lot of wonderful Hebrew names. I got a whole page if you want it. Names of Jehovah. Jehovah Shema means the Lord is there. And the verse that backs that up. Last week we talked about Jehovah. Jehovah Nisai. No, no. Jehovah Shema, I think it was. Again, we talked about Jehovah Shema, but we talked about Jehovah Nisai as well. Ezekiel 48,35. That's Ezekiel 48, verse 35 says, It was round about 18,000 measures, and the name of the city from that day shall be, the Lord is there. God wants his words recorded, preached, sung, and worshipped as a memorial to his greatness and glory. And it must be done with reverence and respect. And he makes that very clear. There's a way to do that. Now, if we go away from this a little bit, talk about recording words. Remember Job. I always love to talk about Job. Job's agony from the loss of his children, cattle, health, and reverence of his wife, he lost even the reverence of his wife, took him to a place he never thought he would enter I have never personally believed that God will never give us more than we can handle. Have you ever heard that? Oh, God will never give you more than you can handle How do you handle the death of ten children? How do you handle some of the stuff that we have to handle today in this government I mean everything that we have to handle, we couldn't do it all without God's giving us the heartbeat, the breath, and the brainwaves to be able to get through it. So without the Lord, we can't handle anything. That's how I think about that statement It's nowhere in Scripture. And look what Job's purpose-driven life is here. Think about how Job loved Jehovah so much that when his trials consummated his sorrow, he would that others would know what he went through to them to trust in the Lord. He wanted to be a testimony of God. And look what we read here, Job chapter 19, verses 21 to 25. That's Job 19, verses 21 to 25. Have pity upon me. He says it in a superlative degree twice. Have pity upon me. That's another one. Remember how many times we've talked about Hebreism saying to I've missed this one. It's a good one. Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends, for the hand of God has touched me Why do ye persecute me as God and are not satisfied with my flesh? Oh, that my words were now written. Oh, that they were printed in a book. Oh but Job knows it. Look at that. Oh I wish there he says as the Lord said to record to your sons and I sons Job says Oh, that I wish my words were printed in a book. Verse 24. That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and he shall stand in the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroyeth this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God Look what he says. He says, not only does he say I wish it were printed in a book, he says how we wish this was printed, that it was graved with an iron pen and it was and it was carved into a rock What did back 19, I believe? What did Christ say? That if the preachers won't preach, he said the rocks will cry out. Where do the rocks cry out? Huh? Yes, cemeteries. Go all the way back and look at some of these old cemeteries and look at the King James Bible verses on them. And they're all you go down to the you go once again, you go down to Mount Vernon, you go down to you won't see any Baba versus hardly in the house. They've all pretty much took them out of the Mount Vernon house. Go down to the cemetery. It's right over the The crypt of George Washington of John 11, 25 and 26. Little did Job know at the time that these words would be etched in the rocks forever. I never get weary of that statement of Job. I think it's beautiful. Here's another thing. We're looking at the first four verses, then we'll go forward. I find this fascinating. In verse 2, we read, and that thou mayest tell in the ears of thy son and of thy sons what things? I have wrought in Egypt. Do those two words mean anything to you? Well, they mean a lot to me. Christ was on the road to Emmaus after he rose from the dead. He's glowing. And then the women at the tomb thinks he's a gardener. He goes out, and that very day he goes onto the road to Emmaus and he hears two men speaking. Cleopath and his best friend. And all of a sudden, it's like Christ just appears out of nowhere and he starts talking to him. And Cleopatra says to him, Haven't you heard about this thing about this this this cr the the the Lord and how he was he was crucified on the cross and the things that happened to him? And Christ comes back and he says Luke chapter 24 verse 18. Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, Cleopatra says, and has not known thee things which are come to pass there in these days? Here's what Christ's reply is in Luke 24, 19. And he said unto them, What things? There's those two words again. What things are here in Luke 24, all the way in the New Testament, and they're right here in Exodus 10, verse 2 What things? And they said unto him concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. Then you switch to verse 27 and Luke 24. Look what Christ says. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. In other words, Christ with Cleophys and his best friend. They don't say what the name of his best friend is. He literally gave Jesus gave a sermon about Jesus through the whole Bible, talking on the way to the road to Emmaus And then their hearts burned within them. Remember that? And then they turned around and they ate with him and he vanished. Poof. He was gone. And he said what things? You know, that's like the I am statements in the book of John. I am the resurrection and the life. I am the bread of life. And we see here how Jehovah says, I, that you may tell them that I am the Lord. Look at that incredible connection between the first two offices of the Godhead. And what does this all mean? These signs are a message to the Lord's people of a future recurrence of these plagues in a future times These are prophetic. He even says in Revelation chapter 22, anybody that changes the words of my book, I will bring the ten plagues upon them. This is a declaration it's made. Thus saith the Lord, identifying God as the designer of all that befalls Egypt glorifying his name. He says, How long wilt thou refuse me? And this question stands over and over and over. We see God's sovereignty through this. We see how he's just, as all creatures are given the responsibility to hear the word, that recorded word, repent of their sins, submit to Christ. And Pharaoh, thinking himself that he's his own deity, is no exception in the eyes of God. Nobody gets a free pass against anybody that does not believe on the name of Christ, which we read this morning in the Sunday school class, they don't get a free card. They don't free get a free get out of jail card We see here how God's grace is paralleled by his sovereignty to teach us all these things that are of him, and we are responsible to search out his word and to submit to him. And we see, and we learned this morning once again in the Sunday school class about God's grace. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9, we learn, for by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is the gift of God. Well the next three verses. Not of works, lest any man should boast. Then we see God's sovereignty here in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 13 in the New Testament. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and opened under the eyes of him with whom we have to do. That's a sovereign God, knows everything And we see here how God's glory is manifested through the categorical and systematic hardships placed on Egypt. You know, you'd think that Nefer would have learned the lesson by now, wouldn't you? Just think if they had a radio station. And the the number one hit for the for the previous couple weeks would have been, I've seen fire, hail, and rain You know, maybe W E G P or whatever. That's what it would have been like. You would have thought that he would have learned from that That was tough. We didn't even get to the parts about the fire. We ran out of time, and you know, that's not the only time fire occurred in Scripture. Remember Genesis 19, all the way before that, fire came down on Sodom and Gomorrah Talk about a fervent. He is coming to him to come into this world again with a when the Lord comes. He's going to burn this earth up, he says. Well, he says, else if I refuse, and this opening phrase points to certain consequence, a punishment, you refuse to let my people go? Here, Moses is giving another directive. Locusts shall cover the face of the earth. One will not even be able to see the earth. You always think about that when you're here in Maryland? You always think about where we're at in that 17-year time frame? Every 17 years those goofy little grasshoppers come up with these beady red eyes and they're jumping right on your shoulder They're all over the place. And you know they can be kind of pesty, right? You know, they've got these Chinese bugs that are out there right now. You go over to the yard, we have this one special tree where there's millions of them And every time I see him, I'm like looking at him, I'm just taking those things and just killing every one of them I can get my foot on. And they're grinning they smear all over the uh oh it's all red and I'm like I'm gonna kill 'em all as you're supposed to. And then they come over and then they hop on your shoulder and they're in your hair and then you're in your hat and then they're in your truck and all like that. That's that's annoying. Well now look outside of that window and look and see locusts covering every square micro inch and you can't even see the ground. That's what this is like. You know, we're gonna look at this in a minute, what locusts are like. But when God gets involved, you can take one locusts. I'm gonna tell you right now, you can't even count how many locusts this was So Moses did just that and he went to m Moses went to Pharaoh. And I have to bring this up again and I'll bring it up the next couple plagues. Pharaoh had every right to take Moses and cut his head off. I mean, he's powerful, but there's one over him that wouldn't let him do that. And Moses knew that. By this time, after all the objections, when we started this thing back in Exodus 3, and Moses, you see all the how brave Moses is, he didn't want to do this He had all these objections. They won't listen to me. They won't listen to who your name is. I'm not an eloquent speaker. Well, the Lord says, okay, well, I'll send you your brother. And of course Moses does most of the speaking anyway. And then he goes, how are they going to be able to tell you that I am? And I'll you tell them I am that I am. And now Moses seems to be getting a little mojo here. He's standing up on top of that over that river, and he's looking down at Pharaoh again, and he's saying, locusts are coming. Christ appointed his disciples to depart from those who would not receive them. Matthew 10, 14 says, And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart of the house or city, shake off the dust of your feet. And this is what Moses is trying to do. It's time for him to get out of there. He wants out on his people, and he wants them as far away from that pagan cult, and he wants to start teaching them the Bible. That's what his objective is He's well, he's actually teaching and he's writing the Bible as we can look back and look over sixty-six books. He's not even into the Right now, he's not even into the book of Jeremiah yet. And they're and their history's being written right here in front of us. And this is how Christ directed his disciples. Pharaoh is willing to enter into a treaty. Now that was a dangerous thing to do. Pharaoh, that was not a smart thing to do. We see Pharaoh's advisors negatively evaluated the state of the country. Utter destruction drove them. We see here as we're reading basically And Pharaoh's servants in verse 7 said unto him, How long shall this man be a snare unto us? How long is this guy going to bother us? Get him out of here. Just get him out of here. Well, you know, they had a good idea there, but Pharaoh's thinking about this and he says, you know what? We can get rid of the men because they're the godly part. They're the ones that are always complaining about this Jehovah. But if we keep the women and children, we'll break their backs. And we can use them and they can work for us. And and here so Pharaoh starts coming up with his own part of the treaty. And we see in verse 8, and Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh, and he said unto them, Go serve the Lord your God. But who are they that shall go? Let's talk about this. Sounds like one of these lawyers, you know, let's talk about it. You know science and Kirk or whatever there. Pharaoh tells Moses to take the men or the elders and go worship. Moses wants the whole nation of Israel, women, children, and even all their wealth to go and completely exit Egypt. We must hold a feast. What does that mean? This is why he doesn't just make some kind of a generalization. We just need to get out of here. We've been here for 430 years. Oh, it's time to find our purpose-driven life and go somewhere else. We have an objective that the Lord's given us. We must hold a feast. Those that serve God must serve Him with all that they have. We must have our families and our women and our children and our animals to feast upon and sacrifice. This is a massive call to worship in the place that our Lord assigns us to go worship him. And Moses and Israel were to go out and to worship no matter what. And this is just as contemporary as anything could be Because it's the very same dominion mandate we have today. We're to take our families, our children, our grandchildren, we are to worship the Lord and we are to honor Him. Exodus chapter twenty-five, verse eight, we read, and let them make me a sanctuary that I may dwell among them, according to all that I show thee about the after the pattern of the tabernacle. And the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make it. Then you read in Leviticus chapter 19, verses 30 and 31. Ye shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary. I am the Lord. Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after wizards to be defiled by them. I am the Lord your God. Nehemiah chapter ten verse thirty-nine. For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring the offering of the corn, of the new wine, and the oil unto the chambers Where are the vessels of the sanctuary and the priests that minister and the porters and the singers? And we will not forsake the house of our God. What is that telling us here? There's one common thread in all of these verses. You are to get up and get out of your house and go to the sanctuary and worship the Lord in spirit and in truth, and you are supposed to go And get yourself ready and get out of there. You're not supposed to worship and on Zoom and sit there in your pajamas with a coffee and some eggs and sit there and put somebody on for half an hour. That's all right, I'm fine, I'm out of here. No, that's not acceptable worship Where do these people that do this today, and you still see the signs all over the place? Well, we have in-house worship and we have house, we have like internet or email worship. Where do you take communion? And you want to know why these churches are doing that? Because these people are hitting a tiny little square and they're sending money, and that's all they care about. The shepherds need to get their people into the church. Moses says, No way, for the first time he says, Pharaoh, you're in trouble. But Pharaoh will not attend to this duty. And then here you see the barter, and you see the Lord. Doesn't even reply through Moses to Pharaoh. When Moses tries to present, and Pharaoh tries to make this barter and tries to make this accord from his own law school of business. There's no talking about it. Immediately the Lord sends the locusts. Immediately he sends them. He doesn't even talk about it. He just does it. And Moses stretched, oh what a rod. Wouldn't you like to have Moses' rod And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the Lord brought an east wind upon the land all that day and all that night, and when it was morning an east wind brought the locust. Let's look at that The Lord sent an east wind to bring in the locusts. God uses natural means. Most probably what this was was a spring hot wind, and it's called a sarako. You ever heard of that? What's a Sorako? It's a hot wind, often dusty or rainy, blowing from North Africa across the Mediterranean to southern Europe, many times from the Libyan or Sahara Desert to bring locusts in the country from the Arabian Peninsula where there were many locusts. This Soraka, he brings this east wind. And the Lord makes it look very natural. It's an east wind, and that's how the locusts were brought in. But there was one problem. These locusts were multiplying like the Israelites, and there was billions of them. There were so much you couldn't even see the earth What about how do how do we know that this is another object of the worship that Pharaoh had the Egyptians worship the locusts? Why would you worship a locust? Did they worship locusts? Well here this. Egyptians also worship a god that protected them from locusts. According to John MacArthur, and I love his study Bible. Locust invasions were feared in Egypt to the point that the farmers often prayed to the locust god Serapus. Look up Serapis. That was the locust god. A Greek god that was thought of to unite the Greeks and the Egyptians, this god was a symbol of protection and resurrection. Farmers often prayed to this god to ensure the safety of their crops The true living God turned this plague against Egypt and against their God and these devouring armies of locusts. They left nothing green. Look outside again and everything's brown with locusts. What would we look at? Like the win everything all the vegetation. These locusts eat through things like it's nothing. They put holes in trees, they eat through all the vegetation, and they eat the vegetation that the other cattle and the other animals are supposed to be eating You know, I was watching this, uh we were talking about it this morning, about this thing about this new atheism, and this guy had a really good documentary, and he said, one of the things that atheists like to do is bring things out of nowhere and make new things So they had this wonderful, they think they thought was a wonderful idea because they loved to hunt in America. The Europeans would come over and they would hunt in America and they loved rabbit hunting many years ago So they thought they would have this brilliant idea and take rabbits over to Europe and start breeding them. Breeding those rabbits, it was such a conducive area to breed rabbits. The rabbits were breeding so much that they ate all their fields and all of the food that the cattle could eat. And there were so many rabbits they were killing a million of them a year And they weren't even scratching the surface of how many rabbits they needed to kill. That's why there's so many rabbit skins out there. And it was horrible These rabbits were like like little furry locusts and they ate everything in the sight. I mean it was horrible. And that's what happens here. In Africa We see here swarms of locusts will cause plagues reminiscent that we see reminiscent damage today. Years ago, remember there was a uh there there was a documentary on South Wales and Queensland and Melbourne and southern parts of Australia Where swarm swarms of locusts destroyed already wilting crops and caused damage by the millions The University of Oxford's research stated that the swarming behavior of locusts stems from overcrowding. Locusts bounce off of each other, thus raising their serotonin levels, causing them to eat more. And making them breed more rapidly. And you see here in Africa, locusts triggered by rain swarmed areas of Kenya. Locust eggs buried in the stand began to hatch, and for five weeks they're crawling in stages and they're just everywhere Then they fly killing fruit trees and any other vegetation in sight until hot droughts kill them off. The locust or the family, it's called acrytidae, any of a group of insects order orthoptera that are distributed worldwide, the common name of which generally refers to the group of short-horned grasshoppers that often increase greatly in numbers and migrate long distances in destructive swarms. Here in America they're called cicadas because they're every 17 years. But in some areas they're all the time. They're horrible. The desert locusts, isn't this amazing? Because Egypt was a desert land. The desert locust is the most destructive species. Called Shisticero Gregario, and they're known for their devastating impact on agriculture and food security. It's horrible. This eighth plague was perfectly brought on Egypt by God. He called the devouring army of locusts, and they ate everything in sight, even the remaining debris from the hailstorm They darkened the earth and there was no such locust as they we see it describes this grievous, ferocious, hungry locusts. The Lord took these locusts and made them locusts two point zero And when they came out, they did it all. They swarmed, they ate, and he showed his power through this. It's incredible. We see in verse 15, for they covered the face of the whole earth, so that they the land was darkened. And they did eat every herb of the land, all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left, and there remained not any green thing in the trees or in the herbs of the field through all the land of Egypt. Remember back in the seventh plague, remember the Lord spared some of their herbs. Remember that? And that was a chance. Had Pharaoh repented, they still had crops. They still had plenty of crops, and they were going to be okay. Defies the Lord again. He even took that away He just grabbed it and took it away. Pharaoh calls, finally calls onto Moses and Aaron in haste. Quickly get in here. I've sinned against the Lord your God, but what does he say? Alright, I'm gonna say that I sin, but I'm not gonna say that I'm gonna repent of all my sins because I don't sin a whole lot, but this time I sinned. And I only believe that I sin because if I say it, that I believe that I can snap my fingers and God will take this plague away. But he's so stupid. He's not counting He knows that there's ten plagues coming. He's at the eighth plague. And of course, the Lord will take this one and only to bring a much worse one And that's what he's going to do. You don't go up against God. Look at some of the other areas in Scripture. Yeah, I figured I was out of time. Look at some of the other areas of Scripture where the Lord used locusts. We see in Psalm 105, verse 34 He spake and the locusts came and caterpillars and that without number. You couldn't number them. Look at Isaiah. We see fair fair Pharaoh was persecuting the Church of Christ And Isaiah describes what pestilence that God will bring upon those that persecute Zionist church. We see Isaiah chapter 33, verse 4 says, And your Spoils shall be gathered like the gathering of the caterpillar, as the running to and fro of locusts shall he run upon them. We see present times of Israel written about by Joel. Israel was under attack by Tyre and Sidon and Philistia. Swarms of locusts had invaded the crops and a severe drought had plagued the land. Joel speaks about it He used the four stages of growth of locusts to describe the state the the stages of the devastation In the day of our Lord. Look at Joel chapter 1, verse 4. That which the palmer worm hath left hath the locust eaten. And that which the locust hath left hath the canker worm eaten, and that which the canker worm hath left hath the caterpillar eaten. See some of these horror movies out there with the flies and all that kind of stuff. That's nothing compared to this. This is bad. The locusts are uh there's lo of locusts elsewhere in scripture. You know, I find a very, very fascinating part of scripture that talks about locusts. Everybody knows, remember Jonah? We all well know Jonah and the great fish and how Jonah wanted to go over and he wanted to go to Tarsus and hide from God. Not another another another not a very wise thing, not a very wise thing to do. And the Lord grabbed him by his neck. He was on the boat. He tried to get away from God. And eventually the storms came up. And he, Jonah, said, You know, I've offended the Lord. Throw me over. He didn't know whether he was going to die or the great fish pulled him in and the great fish um spit him up on the shore. And here's what happened. The sequel to the book of Jonah is that little prophecy from Nahum. That's the sequel and it explains the ruination of Nineveh How contemporary is that today? You want to know what Nineveh was? Nineveh is the capital city of Assyria. And look at the horrible shape that Assyria is in today. Here's what happens in Nahum. First of all, the locust elsewhere in Scripture, the book of Nahum, forms a sequel to the book of Jonah, where God delivers the Ninevites who are, they were Assyrian Gentiles. In Assyria, the Ninevehes, their walls were a hundred foot high with moats of a hundred foot wide and sixty foot deep. And a hundred years after God delivered the capital of the city of Assyria after the destruction of Sennacherib, A century after Jonah's prophecy, Nineveh returned to idolatry. Violence and a high degree of pomp and arrogance, and look what happens. Nahum chapter 3 verses 15 to 17. You know we don't hear from Nahum enough. We haven't heard from Nahum in a long time. Nahum chapter 3 verse 15 There shall the fire devour thee, the sword shall cut thee off, it shall eat thee up like the cankerworm. Make thyself many as the cankerworm, make thyself many as the locusts Thou hast multiplied thy merchants above the stars of heaven, the canker worm spoileth and fleeth away. Thy crowns are as the locusts, and thy captains as the great grasshoppers, which camp in the hedges in the cold day. But when the sun ariseth, they flee away and their place is not known where they are. Well, that's not the end of the locusts. Anyone know where else the locusts show up? Revelation chapter 9. Locusts have always been an instrument of destruction in Scripture, unless they were eaten. That was one of John the Baptist's favorite order on the menu. Revelation chapter 9, verse 6 we read, And in those days shall men seek death and shall not find it, and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses, prepared unto battle, and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were as the faces of men. And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as the teeth of lions. And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron, and the sound of their wings as the the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle, and they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in their tails, and their power was to hurt men five months. That's that's a bad locust. They'd have the faces of men. I don't know what kind of face some of those locusts will have, but I see one of those coming to my window, I'm a big fly swatter or something. That's that's devastating. Here the devastation had reached new levels, and all the vegetation was now gone. So we see in verse 17, now there forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and entreat the Lord your God that he may take away from me this death only. And he went out from Pharaoh and entreated the Lord, and the Lord turned a mighty strong west wind. He turned that Soraka, that wind around, and took him out, and where does he take him? Right where Pharaoh's gonna wind up, right into the Red Sea. Isn't that incredible? They go right to the Red Sea. It says here and east And east wind led them right into the Red Sea. There remained not one locust on all the coast of Egypt. But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the children of Israel go. Pharaoh now recognized his country was in deeper distress, but not enough. Moses and Aaron warned him this was an expedient confession just to stop the plague. It was superficial, just like people Many people, they they want to make a barter with God, like a loved one's dying or their job's failing. Alright, God, if you do this for me, I'll do this for you. Most of the time they never do it. Just like Pharaoh here. But you know what Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 says Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lead not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. We see here a merciful God, and the Lord turns around and he takes away the locusts and gives them another chance Remember how God treated Noah. Remember in Genesis. And God remembered Noah and every little thing and every little living thing and all the cattle that was with him in the ark, and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters assuaged. He has power, the Lord has power over the winds and the seas. Remember when the disciples were in that boat and that great tempest came. And that megafear, the mega calm, and the megastorm. And what the biggest fear was not the winds and the seas It was when they said to Christ, What manner of man is this that the winds and the seas should obey him? Their greatest fear was realizing they had just questioned the creator of the universe when they said, You're going to let it kill us? That was the greatest fear. And so the call this morning, a call to exhortation this morning, don't have a hard heart. Don't let your heart be hardened. You're going to have tough times. We all do, but don't let your heart be hardened. Our call here is to read, as we said in chapter, this chapter 10, verse 2, I am going to the Lord says, record this plague so that you can You can record it and you can tell it to your sons and your son's sons. This is the problem with kids today. Parents do nothing. No Bible studies, no devotions, never. Have them at least once in a while. Get them to Wednesday night prayer meetings. Get them to some kind of Bible conference. Get them somewhere where these words that were recorded were recorded for a reason to give them to them. And teach them. That is the first call of exhortation and encouragement from this message this morning. And to worship the Lord Jesus Christ in obedience and faith. You know, Moses profited from this. You know what I love about Moses? Right now he's only probably in his mid-80s, and I only say only, because he lives to be 120. And he has the greatest funeral everybody anybody could ever have on this earth. The Lord buried in himself. And he honored the Lord. And guess what he never did? He never retired. He never looked for a pension. He went all the way to his death and he loved us. It was a process, wasn't it? At first, he's swinging at God. He's objecting. I'm not doing that. I don't want to do it All these five objections from Exodus three all the way up to the middle of Exodus four. And all of a sudden, all throughout this the Lord he starts seeing the Lord all these miracles. And it took he even spoke to the Lord audibly And it even took him time to come around. And I'm not going to say it's not going to take us time, but work at it. Do the actions. Do the work that the Lord gives you. And let's all encourage each other with that. Our Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank thee, Lord, for teaching us this eighth plague. There's so much doctrine in it. We see the doctrine of election, the doctrine of justification by faith. We see so many covenants, Lord, that thou gave. All throughout Scripture, and we thank thee, Lord, for the Mosaic covenant here. Thou told Moses that those people were going to be taken out, and they were going to be emancipated from Egypt after 430 years of hard times. Lord, we can't even begin to know whether we're going into hard times like that now when we've been enjoying all these years of freedom. But we know that thou will be with us, thy rod and thy staff they comfort us. So let it encourage us this morning as we go forward to remember these words. To remember that they were recorded for a reason, for us to learn on them, to read them and to feast upon them. And just bless us, Lord, and keep us from falling. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.