There's always so much nation. And I think that it's incredible to see here how basically the Lord worked in David's life, and I can see why this is actually called the Martyr Psalm. Very important to know that Psalm fifty one in verses one through six we read Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin, for I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, thee alone have I sinned Against thee, thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden parts thou shalt make me to know wisdom. We see here basically in Psalm chapter 51 that David is basically calling out the sins that he had created, the sins that he had fabricated, the lies that he gave Over in 2 Samuel chapter 12, when you go back and we see the incident with Bathsheba and what he had done to Uriah, what he had done to his kingdom. what he had done to his family, what he had done to his pastor. And he comes out with three petitions here in Psalm chapter 51. The first one, he says, according to thy loving kindness, and he shows that that is the mercy of God that can forgive him. And he says in the second petition, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, backing up the fact that it is Christ's loving kindness that is forgiveness. And then he says, he begs the Lord, wash me thoroughly. My sins are putrid. You know, he actually says in Psalm 38, he says, For my wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness. You're talking about the king of the northern and the southern kingdom who is basically the most powerful man in the world, and he basically says Basically, Christ is King. If you look basically at the 76th Westminster Confession of Faith question and answer, that question is what is repentance unto life? That is Psalm 51, what is actually called in the theological ranks. This is the chapter of repentance of life, and the answer is it is a saving grace. We see that by example that the Apostle Paul, he had revealed to us in his prison epistles, his letter to Timothy, on how to stay the course and to teach those who oppose these things that they too could receive saving grace. We never know. We never know who we're speaking to. We never know who the Lord's going to open us up to and who those that are hurting and those that need saving grace. We need to always be ready. But in David's third position he says, Have mercy, O God, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me. David magnifies these filthy stains that have taken him and have grabbed hold of him because of the adulterous affair with Bathsheba, because of what he had done to her husband Uriah, who was a faithful man and he was a Gentile. He would be saved, he was a Hittite, and he had him killed by his general. And we see basically what happens later on is we see how his pastor He's giving this parable and he talks about this little lamb that had been taken and stolen. And David said, I will crush that man who took that lamb who killed and who killed. And he Nathan says, You're the man You are that man and David's like, whoa. And then all of a sudden from that we see how the Lord deals with him Bathsheba was carrying his child. The child dies. It's a young little young boy, little a precious little baby boy. And David says He will not come to me, but I will go to him. And he cleans himself up at the end of 2 Samuel chapter 12, and he goes in and he worships the Lord. And from that point forward, his life changes. In great in many ways. Isaiah 118 says, Come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. We see that our Lord's faithful promise directs us directed at these at the humble repentance of David, where in verse 1 he says, Have mercy upon me according to thy tender mercies. He says in 2, if we just convert in verse 2, wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. And in verse 3, I want to go forward to that extremely, and it's extremely important because in verse 3. He says something amazing. I acknowledge my transgressions. Do we live in a world today that acknowledges its transgressions and sins and calls them out? Does the judge of the courts and the pastors and the elders and the deacons call out sin in the churches? Well, David's not bartering with God. David says basically, I just put myself at your mercy. He doesn't politic. He doesn't make promises. He doesn't barter. He doesn't say, Lord, I'll do this. I promise to never lie. I'll promise to never commit adultery. I promise that I won't. I promise. He knows he doesn't have the ability to make that promise. He knows that he's susceptible to these horrible sins, and it's only the Lord that holds him back. That's one of the most dangerous things we can do when we see sin and we hear about it and to say, I'll never do that. I'll never do that. We're all we all have the propensity to commit the he most heinous sins without the incredible, wonderful grace of our Lord holding us back. He doesn't say according to the dignity of my birth because I'm the line of Judah and Jesus will be. He doesn't say because of my public service as a champion. And a warrior of Israel, he doesn't say, because of all of my victories, David always believed that his victories were of the Lord. You look at the refrain in Psalm 136, he says, uh uh David cries out and he says, Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks unto the God of gods for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks unto the Lord of Lords for His mercy endureth forever. All throughout the chapter He gives Christ all the glory Does he say, Oh Lord, have mercy upon me because I'm a king? I'm a king? Well that sounds familiar. David knew that it was God that anointed him as king. David never questions God's sovereign sovereignty. Wow, we've heard that in the last several weeks. No kings, no kings. David didn't think he was a king. George Washington didn't think he was a king. And I'm going to say Donald Donald J. Trump, our president, he doesn't believe that he's king. All three of them all in have said the same thing. I am not king. Jesus Christ is king. He's king of kings and lord of lords. And Donald Trump did physically say that. Praise the Lord for him for saying that. David says, blot out my transgressions, but he says, I acknowledge my transgressions. He speaks of his sins in the plural form. Nathan says to him, David, thou art the man. David later replies, I have sinned. We see David's contrition for his sin. It was not some emotional temporary therapy or impulse, but it was abiding grief in him. It's a saving grace. We see in verse 4, against thee, thee alone have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight that thou mightest be justified. When thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. How many times have we talked about how dangerous it is to pray for the justice of the Lord and what we deserve? If that verse stopped there, if there was only four verses and you saw that as the fourth verse and you read that, you would be like, wow, this is dangerous. Is he actually praying that the Lord would be clear and speak when he judges and pound on him? You've got to go to verse 5. Because if you go to verse 5, David, he creates this conundrum and he says That thou mightest be justified when thou speakest and clear when thou judgest. But wait, Lord, don't forget verse 5 that I was shaped in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. I'm nothing. You're talking about the king of Israel telling the Lord, I'm nothing. I was shapen in iniquity. I was a wicked sinner. And I just heard again another message that came up that popped up a little excerpt of it where the pastor says, children are basically abdicated because they do not know their sin until their age of accountability. I just heard that. Can anybody tell me what the age of accountability is? When can someone I know people that are 70, 80 years old that don't have an accountability that don't understand that They have no interest in the Lord whatsoever. What is the age of accountability? That age of accountability is that conception. In sin did my mother conceive me. That's why we have infant baptism. That's why there's infant circumcision. Because they babies are sinners. Can the Lord take them up? By his mercy, of course he can. But we don't put that onus, we don't put that obligation on the Lord in saying that there are human beings created that are absolutely, completely without sin. That's not what David said. That's verse 5. He says, I was shaped in iniquity. In sin did my mother conceive me. I am a vile, wicked sinner. By David proclaiming these sins, it's also, he's also proclaiming in what we learn actually throughout Scripture, that this magnifies the actual wicked sins of horrible, horrible Israel and the horrible, wicked idol worshiping that they did. Here's some questions here to consider. God would remove Himself until when? Till they acknowledge their offense and they seek my face. What or who will eventually make them repent, acknowledge their transgressions, and seek God? We know that it's the Lord We see in verse 6, Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. And I'm going to stop there because if I keep going all throughout here, we'll be here until a long time. But this is only part of the message. The reason that I wanted to make this the preamble basically to the message is this is called the Martyr Song. And I'm going to start on Reformation Sunday by giving you an example of a martyr, and I hate to say it, but this is Ladies First. We actually have a female martyr here back in the 16th century. During her leading up to her death, before she died, she quoted Psalm fifty-one. That's why it's called the Martyr Psalm. And it's one of many. If you study the martyrs, if you study those that went to the stake, the ones that we will be describing, they loved the seven poetic penitential psalms. And many of them quoted Psalm 51 because as they were getting ready to present and to be presented, they knew that they were going to die, and they were going right to the judgment seat. And that all they could do leading up to that is to have that contrition and that that heart in their s their their soul to cry out, Lord, forgive me I don't deserve anything. Were they afraid? Of course they were. Had they ever seen the gates of heaven? No. Had they ever heard about the pangs of hell? Yes they did. And they still, as they are faithfully defending the faith, defending the name of Jesus Christ, and they would not recount, they would not turn. They still wanted to repent and they still wanted to cry out to the Lord for his mercy. On February the twelfth, fifteen fifty-four, a martyr mounted a London scaffolding having denounced the Catholic's doctrine of salvation by works, transubstantiation. and papal authority, even though a simple verbal assent may have proved life-saving. As from so many other martyrs, it was Psalm fifty-one that they were heard quoting, before the axe fell and the tender was lit. And this martyr's name was Lady Jane Gray. She was only seventeen years old. Why Psalm 51? Why the confession of an adulterous murderous king? The confession of the king stating that Christ is not God. He was basically honoring the Council of Trent. He was honoring these horrible confessions and he was basically saying these terrible things Why was it that Lady Jane Gray could not turn her back and go and worship the papal authority? The sweet lips of this young girl and countless others willing to die would not recount their faith. Like King David, Lady Jane Gray held the throne, albeit for merely nine days. It was only nine days. She didn't even want to be queen. But she was put in that position for nine days. Neither sought the throne. She didn't s she did not seek the throne, and she had no royal similarities with many around her. But what she had was the thing that was held in most com common with martyrs is the God that they served. And in her time of deepest testing, it was the failed king's psalm of repentance that sprang from Lady Jane Gray's lips. And that was the martyr, the martyr, the Psalm 51, which is the martyr psalm. Here's what she had said to her sister right before she died. Now I'm going to read you some names. I don't understand. This is very hard in a short amount of time to understand all these names. There were so many things going back and forth with so many different people, but you get the gist of what's happening. I'll read it to you She wrote to her sister Catherine right before she died, I have sent you good sister Catherine, a book, which also although It is not outwardly framed with gold, yet inwardly it is more worth than precious stones. It is the book, dear sister, of the law of the Lord. It is his testament and last will, which he bequeathed unto us wretches. which shall lead you into the path of eternal joys, and if you with a good mind read it, and with an earnest mind do purpose to follow, shall bring you to an immortal and everlasting life It shall teach you to live and learn you to die. What kind of life experience produces the kind of spiritual maturity in the face of this persecution? I tell you it's incredible. She says, isn't it incredible? She says it's not a book that's that's covered with gold. What was the book that was covered with gold? That was from the papal authority when they had the their Bible, their Vulgate, they had it tied to the lectern, and you were not allowed to read it. That was covered in gold. And that's what she was talking about. But she studied Tyndale's writings in English. Listen to this. What kind of what kind of woman was she in nine fifteen thirty-six Lady Jane Gray is born to conniving parents, Henry and Francis. Oh, they were the worst. Remember what the scripture says, My mother and father forsake me, the Lord will take me up? That's really what happened in an attempt to gain access to the British throne, commenced an unusual method of education with the hopes of marrying their daughter off to Henry VIII's son Edward. This is where all these names come up. But anyway, in fifteen forty-two, Providence places Jane under the tutelage of Protestant John Almayer, who instructs sixty-year-old Jane in Greek Hebrew, Latin, French, and Spanish, and more importantly, the Tyndale English Bible. She becomes so proficient in the language That she eventually is able to correspond in Latin and Greek with noteworthy reformers such as Martin Bucer and Heinrich Bollinger. And she also met and she knew Hugh Lattermere, Nicholas Ridley. There are two giants, giants in in in the Reformation. But anyway, what happens here in 47, 1547? King Henry VIII dies, and nine-year-old Edward becomes King of England, but quickly falls victim to scheming Uncle Edward Seymour, who assumes custody and thus control of the throne. Edward Seymour's brother Thomas, now married to King Henry VIII's widow, Catherine Parr, she's a good woman. She teaches Lady Jane Green about the Protestant Reform what's going on in the Reformation and teachers teaches her scripture. This is incredible. And Catherine Parr, she's busy with convincing James's father and all of these things. She has this incredible influence. Catherine soon dies in childbirth and there's this wicked conniving uncle named John Dudley. Dudley retains hopes of marrying his ward That is Lady Jane Grey to King Edward VI, and it becomes apparent that the young king is in fact dying of tuberculosis. So sixteen-year-old Jane, which is her coronation, is actually her execution is instead forced to marry John Dudley's own son, Guildford. Dudley keeps a foot in the royal door by demanding the marriage be considered unconsummated in case the young king pulls through and an annoyment can be made, freeing Jane up to marry him, but then King Edward VI does not pull through. He dies A month later and a half later, amending the original document of succession to name his Protestant cousin Lady Jane Grey as heir to the throne, rather than either of his half-sisters 17-year-old Jane is proclaimed the new Queen of England. And then Mary Tudor is furious. Mary Tudor has steam coming off of her head. She hates Christians. She is the basically the post Nero's Nero. She is a lady beast. She has so many Christians killed, it's just incredible how wicked she was. Here Lady Jane reluctantly holds the throne just over a week before her Catholic cousin Mary arrives with troops to depose her. Queen Jane hands over the crown and spends the rest of her life in the Tower of London with her husband, and then both are beheaded. 17 years old, and she was told there were all these doctors. It's like today. Everybody you meet is some big, high, up, you know, highly educated, every doctor is this, doctors that there were all these doctors. And I think one of the name was Dr. Smith, I think one of the ones. And they were they're the doctors. It was the doctors that would go to those that were being condemned to death and say, Listen, really the reason why this is all happening is basically if you would just assent to a couple little things, do you realize you would not you would save your gospel and you would save your life If you would just all you have to do is just sign the paper and recant and then you'll be fine. Lady Jane Gray would be like I would rather I don't know how you're gonna kill me yet But I'd rather do it any way you want. I'm not assenting. I'm not doing that. What a seventeen year old girl. And she's killed. And that's it. And she quotes Psalm 51. Let's turn over to 1 Timothy chapter 2 Why? What was it? What did Did she do it for Confucius? Did she do it for Gamaliel? He was the Pharisaical professor who taught Paul. Did she do it for Buddha? Did she do it for any false gods like Baal or anything? Why? Why would she go to her death in such a manner? And who was it that she was lifting up? And we perfectly know the answer to that, thanks the Lord. And we see in First Timothy chapter two verses five through eight we read For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. Whereunto I am ordained a preacher and an apostle, I speak the truth in Christ and lie not a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity. I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. In like manner also that women adorn themselves in modest apparel with shamefaceness and sobriety, not with broided hair or gold or pearls or costly rain. I've gone past verse 8. And Paul goes into family living. I wanted to point that out because he always does that He goes from the details of basically what's happening with serving Christ, and he goes like he does in Romans chapter 12 and all the way to verse chapter 16. He goes into those verses and he shows that when he's talking about doctrinal issues and standing firm for the faith, he speaks about how women are to adorn themselves, how men are to love their wives, how women are to be submissive but not subordinate to their husbands. He talks about how we're supposed to love and we're we're we're supposed to be holy to each other and love one another And let love be without dissimilation. But here we see Paul is an apostle of Christ. He's teaching his young apprentice Timothy in understudy to be engaged in prayer. He's he's telling him that as a leader of the church he has authority to live peaceably in godli godliness. And we see all the way back in Acts 16, verse 1, where Timothy is presented, then came he to Derby and Lystra. Paul did, and behold, a certain disciple there was named Timotheus. the son of a certain woman which was a Jewish and believed but his father was a Greek. But so this made it kind of hard for Timothy Paul had to undo some things in Timothy because of his Timothy's basically his uh his his his being taught by a Greek father who believed in Greek philosophy and all of that was very pagan. Paul had taught Timothy and Timothy loved it. We can see that this is a preamble basically to what what Paul was teaching Timothy and Christian living, that Christ is the center. And this is the answer to why so many would go to the cross. They would go to crosses. They were crucified back in the Old Testament. Way I mean in the New Testament, all the way back in the days of Christ, there were many crucifixions. There were many that were killed for the cause of Jesus Christ alone. There's one God. We see here in verse 5, what Paul is saying here is there's one God, one mediator. And one that gave a ransom for our lives. That is, Solo Christos is one of the five solos, foundational principles of the Reformation. Christ alone. There is no plurality of gods and relativism is not the way of salvation. And if you didn't see that movie this today, if if anyone wasn't here, basically what was confirmed here These men who are supposed to be of evangelical ranks, when they are not confirming that Christ is the only way to heaven And they are trying to form an ecumenical movement to bring everyone together. They're worshiping false gods. There are other gods that they're crying out to. There is only one God, one true and living God, one trying God. God is it. It does not say in Scripture in the beginning Pharaoh, Baal, Dagon, Caesar, Buddha, or any of the popes. It's God, one God. This God's name is defined, it's all throughout Scripture, endless, infinite proofs of his being. Hisety, his nature, his works, his attributes, and his mercy. Isaiah 42:8 says, I am the Lord, that is my name, and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images. And those that worship other gods, they are not of the faith. They are hated. They are pagan. They are liars. Those that say that there's another way to heaven. John 3. 18, we read, He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. This is not negotiable. There is no in-between And I'd like to read another reformer to you. We have a few minutes and then I'm gonna I'm gonna go to a to to a couple things and we'll finish up. But the Bohemian pre-reformer John Husse, why do we call him the pre-reformer He who goes back a hundred years before Martin Luther. The Goose, 1372 to 1415 He was a catalyst to the Prague Czech Reformed movement prior to the Reformation. He wrote against papal authority, proposed a Bible translation into the Czech language, and introduced congregational singing to the Bohemian church. He inclined John Wycliffe's writings to translate Scripture. He was a Catholic priest translating Scripture. What else could get you killed? You weren't supposed to do that. That was big. No, no. You didn't do that. Solo Christos was the foundation of his conversion a long way as a Catholic professor of theology at the University of Prague. Upon Christ's irresistible call of grace, Hose's life changed dramatically, taking on a simple life and simpler lifestyle and growing steadily in the faith over time. He quoted, rejoice that the immortal God is born, so that mortal men may live in eternity. Christ alone, he said, not the Pope As for Antichrist occupying the papal chair, he said, it is evident that a pope living contrary to Christ like any other perverted person is called by common consent an Antichrist. That's what he called the popes. 1415, Hoos was placed on trial for Ycliffism, because he translated the Bible Order to condemn Wycliffe's works, John Wycliffe's great work proved to be his translation of the Bible in English, Roman Catholic Church used Jerome's Latin Vulgate and refused to translate it into the people's language. How many churches today do not want people reading scripture? That in and of itself is a pagan, absolute, wicked idolatry. Well, he translated what is our Bible today from Latin. Wycliffe did what an incredible job. Here who was a accused of Wycliffism and told to recant his work and writings, Husse was handed over to the Emperor and proclaimed, I refuse to do so, unless they should be proved false by Scripture. He was taken and burned at the stake, but not before calling out, today you are burning a goose. However Think about this. Now do your math. A hundred years from now you will be able to hear a swan sing. You will not burn it, you will have to listen to him. Martin Luther. His name was the swan. And he was never burned. He was never burned at the stake. How did he know that? There was Luther. Why? Why? Why? What was so bad about Jerome's Vaugate? Why would people want to read that? They were told that was God's word. They were told that the papal authority, being the vicar of Christ, was God's word. So the people wanted that. Wycliffe knew it was a lie. So he had the original transcripts. He knew what to write. And he wrote it in English so people could understand it. And Luther did that in the Tower. He did his translations in German You translate the Bible. Oh, we sit there. Look at us. Look at look at we have our libraries. We have our little coffee tables with our little pictures and our little flowers, and there's some poor Bible sitting there with dust covering it. And we sit there and our Bibles sit there. I hope it doesn't in our house just sit there in our homes. We have all the liberty in the world to sit and pick our Bible up and sit there and open it up and read it and have our soul filled with the truth. 43 people in the Democratic District of Congo in the last month. If you've been reading, 43 were reading their Bibles and the Muslims came in, took nine children, killed them. They had to carry these nine precious little babies out. Little young children, killed them, killed their parents. Killed everyone there, and over over at least a hundred kids around the area were taken and and they were sold off into the trafficking. That's just one time. That's just one quote. Because they were reading this Bible Well, here's the problem. Here's the Council of Trent. It's amazing how Luther, how he he went against this. It's amazing how Latimer and Ridley, which I am not leaving here until I read you the account of Latimer and Ridley. That's coming up here real quick. They died in 1555 and 54. just nine, ten years prior, the Council of Trent made its encyclical. I'm going to read these. I want to read each one of them to you because John MacArthur did, and MacArthur explained them and I think he's incredible. I want to read these to you, and if you think outside of the box, you will see how these encyclicals have funneled into the evangelical church even today. And basically what happens at the the refrain, I'm sorry about the refrain of each one of these, but when I say it, you'll see why. Here's an encyclical from the Council of Trent, 1545, number 9. This is the original. There were many councils down the road, down years later, of course. Number 9 states, if anyone says that the sinner is justified by faith alone, anathema, let him be damned. Number eleven. If anyone says that men are justified either by the sole imputation of the justice of Christ or by the sole remission of sins to the exclusion of the grace and the charity which is poured forth in their hearts by the Holy Spirit and remains in them, or also that the grace by which we are justified is only the good will of God Let him be damned. Let him be anathema. What what what this tr what this encyclical says is if you think that God alone Jesus Christ alone and the Holy Spirit resides in you and cleanses your sins alone without the mother church, let you be damned. Number 12. If anyone says that justifying faith is nothing else than confidence in divine mercy, which remits sins for Christ's sake alone, or that it is the confidence alone that justifies us, Let him be damned. Let him be anathema. Boy, that's just tearing apart all of the justification by by faith by Jesus Christ. Number 17, if anyone says that the grace of justification is shared by those only who are predestined to life, But that all others who are called are called indeed, but receive not grace, as if they are by divine power predestined to evil, let them be anathema, let them be damned. That means if you think you're only saved because of Jesus Christ and there's others out there who cannot be saved by the Mother Church, let it be damned. That's what it says. Number 23 If anyone says that a man once justified can sin no more, nor lose grace, and that therefore he that falls and sins was never truly justified, or on the contrary, that he can during his whole life avoid all sins. Even those that are venial, except by a special privilege from God, as the church holds in regard to the blessed virgin, let him be anathema, be damned. Oh, God can't remove your sins. You've got to have the blessed virgin. Number 24. If anyone says that the justice received is not preserved and also not increased before God through good works But that those who are merely in the fruits and signs of justification obtained, but not the cause of its increase, let them be damned, let them be anathema. That means There is no work we can do going to the Catholic Church, offering up confession and all of that. As Christians, we know that that's all a lie. They're saying no it isn't If you're saying that that has no merit in your salvation or your entrance into purgatory, you're damned. Number thirty two, this is the last one. If anyone was a lot more, but this is Pheno. This is as far as I could go If anyone says that the good works of the one justified are in such manner the gifts of God that they are not also the good merits of him justified by the church Or that the one justified by the good works that he performs by the grace of God and the merit of Jesus Christ, whose living member he is, does not truly merit an increase. Whoa. A merit, a increase of grace, eternal life, and in case he dies in grace, the attainment of eternal life itself, and also an increase in glory, let him be damned. It says here, Christ isn't enough. Just in case he dies in grace, it's not enough that he's saved by Jesus Christ. It has to be by the church. It's amazing how these are these are all like carving copies of each other. There's no detail, there's no reasoning, there's no prophetic order. There's no going back thousands of years ago and looking at what the prophet says All it is is looking at the encyclicals and looking at what the Pope has to say. We have one mediator. The Church of Rome maintains a plurality of gods through a plurality of mediators. by the Pope's counsel, who was designated blasphemously as the vicar of Christ, the mediation of priests and bishops, and confession, one must turn to Rome for intercession and not go to Christ alone. Not supposed to do that. What a what did Peter do? Well who's supposed to be their Pope. Luke 22, 32, he's look Look at what will what happened with Simon in Luke chapter 22, verses 31 and 32. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon. Behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as we have prayed for you, that thy that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren So who is the mediator? Who is it? Is it the Mother Church? Who is it that can coup? Who is it that go up against Satan and can stop Satan. Always remember in the Lord's Prayer, which is not for the Lord, but it's for sinners, it says it's it towards the end Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever and ever. Amen. And many people leave that part out now. What does the evil mean? Well the Catholic Church has it meaning criminals and bad things all around us. You know what Christ is saying here? Only Christ can deliver us from Satan. Only he can deliver us from that pane ros or that infectim, the unbridled assault of Satan. Stop what the Mother Church says. If you believe Christ is the only way, then you are damned. And we see here, Paul says that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands. In verse 3, he says Christ is the only way. He says in verse 5, there is one God, one mediator, but God and and the man, the man Jesus Christ Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. And he says, I am ordained. I'm preaching this in verse 7. And he says, I will let every man pray and lift up their hands and pray to the Lord and go to our Lord Jesus Christ. Okay, I know it's getting late, but I'm going to read you this. We've heard from two reformers. I have many more, but I we've heard from two. For years I've wanted to read this and I've never had a chance to. First of all, in verse 8 is a call for prayer, and Paul's petition to Timothy is retransferred to us as a herald of our Lord Jesus Christ to pray everywhere. not confined to a designated place of worship, but even in our own private prayer closets to pray in our house. He makes intercession, Isaiah 53. 12, he made intercession for the transgressor. Our Savior prayed on Mount Olivet. Matthew 14, 23, and when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray, and when the evening was come, he was there alone. And when Hugh Latimer and Nicholas Ridley were taken, they were scholars, they were pastors, they were students And here's the account of what happened with them right less than a year after Lady Jane Gray was beheaded. Look what happened to them. You can't really hear Latimer's name without Ridley. That's all you offer here is Latimer and Ridley. I mean it's like they go hand in hand Then Dr. Smith, of whose recantation in King Edward's time he heard of, began his sermon to them upon his text of St. Paul. If I yield my body to the fire to be burnt, and have not charity I shall gain nothing thereby. Dr. Smith is trying to teach them to recant and saying, if you really love yourselves and your congregations, you won't let yourself go through this. Wherein he alleged that the goodness of the cause and not the order of death maketh the holiness of the person, which he confirmed by the examples of Judas. He was actually using Judas as an example and of a woman in Oxford that of late committed suicide and hanged herself, for that they and such like as he recited might then be a judged righteous which desperately slunder their lives from their bodies, as he feared those men that stood before him would do. But he cried still to the people to beware of them For they were heretics. He's saying Nicholas and uh Latimer and Ridley are heretics, and died out of the church. And on the other side he declared their diversity in opinions as Lutherans or Zwinglians who also was another reformer, of which sect they were, he said, at that was the worst, but the old Church of Christ and the Catholic faith believed far otherwise At which places they lift up both their hands and eyes to heaven, as it were calling God to witness of the truth, the which counsel they made in many other places of his sermon where they thought he spake amiss What's saying is while this Dr. Smith was out there quoting and he was trying to pastor, he was the one giving the execution and the message, which was totally pagan, Ridley and Latimer were praying Listen to this. He ended with a very short exp exhortation to them to recant, and came home again to the church, and saved their lives and souls, which also were condemned. His sermon was scant in all a quarter of an hour. Dr. Ridley said to Master Latimer, Will you begin to answer the sermon, or shall I? Master Latimer said, Begin you first, I pray you. I will, said Master Ridley. Then the wicked sermon being ended, Dr. Ridley and Master Latimer kneeled down upon their knees toward my Lords Williams of Pain, the Vice-Chancellor of Oxford, and diverse other commissioners appointed for that purpose who sat upon a form thereby unto whom Master Ridley said, I beseech you, my Lord, even for Christ's sake, that I may speak but two or three words. And whilst my Lord bent his head to the mayor and vice-chancellor to know, as it appeared, whether he might give him to Give him leave to speak, the bailiffs and Dr. Marshall, Vice-Chancellor, ran hastily unto him and with their hands stopped his mouth and said, Master Ridley, If you will revoke your erroneous opinions and recant the same, you shall not only have liberty to do so, but also the benefit of a subject that is to save your life. Recant. Sign the paper. Not otherwise, said Master Ridley. No. Quoth Dr. Marshall, therefore if you will not do so, then there is no remedy, but you must suffer for your desserts Well, quoth Master Ridley, so long as the breath is in my body, I will never delight. Deny my Lord Jesus Christ and his known truth. God's will be done in me. And with that he rose up and said with a loud voice, Well then I commit our cause to Almighty God, which shall indifferently judge all To whose saying Master Latimer added his old posey, Well there is nothing hid, but it shall be opened, and he said he could answer Smith well enough if he might be suffered Incontinently they were commanded to make them ready, which they with all meekness obeyed. Master Ridley took his gown and his tippet. and gave it to his brother-in-law, Master Shipside, who all his time of imprisonment, although he might not be suffered to come in, lay there at his own charges to provide him necess necessary. They're pulling him out of the jail now which from time to time he sent him by the sergeant that kept him. Some other of his apparel that was little worth he gave away. Other bailers took He gave away besides diverse other small things to gentlemen standing by and diverse of them, pitifully weeping, as to Sir Henry Lee he gave a new growth And to diverse of my Lord William's gentlemen some napkins, some nutmegs and raises of ginger, his dial and such other things, as he had about him, to every one that stood next to him, some plucked the points off his nose Happy was he that might get to to any rag of him. Some people were going after both of them and trying to touch them and get some of their things. They wanted they wanted mementos Master Latimer gave nothing, but very quietly suffered his keeper to pull off his hose and his other array which look unto was very simple, and being stripped into his shroud, he seemed as comely a person to them that were there present as one should lightly see And whereas in his clothes he appeared a withered and crooked silly old man, he now stood bolt upright, as comely as a father as one might lightly behold Then Master Ridley, the younger understudy, standing as yet in the truss, said to his brother, It were best for me to go in my truss still. No, quoth his brother, it will put you to more pain, and the trust will do a poor man good. Whereunto Master Ridley said, be it in the name of God. Do you know what's happening? They're now bartering for a hotter fire so that they can burn quickly. This was horrible Be it in the name of God, and so unlaced himself. Then, being in his shirt, he stood up upon the foresaid stone and held up his hand and said, O Heavenly Father, I give unto thee most hearty thanks. For that thou hast called me to be a professor of thee, even unto death. I beseech thee, Lord God, take mercy upon this realm of England and deliver the same from all her enemies. Then the smith took a chain of iron and brought the same about both Doctor Ridley's and Master Latimer's middle, and as he was knocking in a staple, Doctor Ridley took the chain in his hand and shaked the same For it did gird in his belly, and looking aside to the smith, said, Good fellow, knock in it hard, for the flesh will have his course. Then his brother did bring him gunpowder in a bag, and would have tied the same about his neck Master Ridley asked what it was. His brother said gunpowder. Then said he, I will take it to be sent of God, therefore I will receive it as sent of him. And have you any? said he for my brother, meaning Master Latimer, yea, sir, that I have, quoth his brother. Then gave it unto him, said he betime lest ye come late. So his brother went and carried off the same gunpowder unto Master Latimer. In the meantime doctor Ridley spake unto my Lord Williams, and said, My lord, I must be a suitor unto your lordship In the behalf of diverse poor men, especially in the cause of my poor sister, I have made a supplication to the Queen's Majesty in their behalf. I beseech your lordship For Christ's sake to be a mean to her grace for them. My brother, hear hath the supplication, and we will resort to your lordship to certify you thereof. There is nothing in all the world that troubles my conscience. I praise God. This only accepted while I was in the while I was in the sea Of London diverse poor men took leases of me and agreed with me for the same. Now I hear say the bishop that now occupieth the same room, will not all my grants unto them be made? But contrary unto all law and conscience hath made from their livings and will not suffer them to enjoy the same, I beseech you, my Lord, be a mean for them. You shall be a good deed and good and God will reward you. So as they're being taken, they're being chained Latimer now is taking trying to get gunpowder and put it around themselves so he'll burn quicker, and they're bequeathing their last rights basically to their family and saying to asking the bishops to protect them Then they brought a faggot, kindled with fire, and laid the same down at Dr. Ridley's feet, to whom Master Latimer spake in this manner. Be of good comfort, Master Ridley, and play them in. We shall this day light such a candle by God's grace in England, as I trust shall never be put out And so the fire being given unto them, when Dr. Ridley saw the fire flaming up towards him, he cried with a wonderful loud voice, In manus tees, doma domine commendo spiritum meam Domine rest in peace spiritum mayom saying I commit my spirit unto the Lord. And after repeated this latter part often in English, Lord, Lord, receive my spirit Master Latimer crying as vehemently on the other side, O Father of Heaven, receive my soul, who received the flame as it were embracing it. After that he had stroked his face with his hands as it were, bathed them a little in the fire, he soon died, as it appeareth, with very little pain or none. That's Eulatimer. And thus much concerning the end of this old and blessed servant of God, Master Latimer, for whose labor travails, fruitful life, and constant death, the whole realm hath cause to give great thanks to Almighty God. But Master Ridley by reason of the evil making of the fire unto him, because the wooden faggots were laid ab About the gorse, the gorse is these vines, these from peas, like vegetable gourds that were that were very flammable. They didn't put them on him properly. And over high built the fire burned first beneath, being kept down by the wood, which when he felt he desired them for Christ's sake to let the fire come unto him, which when his brother-in-law heard, his hear here Ridley's brother-in-law is still standing off, but Mount Well understood, intending to rid him out of his pain for the which cause he gave attendance, as one in such sorrow, not well advised what he did, heaped faggots upon him, so that he clean covered him which made the fire more vehement beneath that it burned clean all his nether parts before it one touched the upper. His legs were already burning, he was still alive And that made him leap up and down under the fagots, and often desired them to let the fire come unto him, saying, I cannot burn! Which indeed appeared well, for after his legs were consumed by reason of his struggling through the pain, whereof he had no release but only his con His contemptation in God. He showed that side toward us clean shirt and all untouched with flame. He turns around and the shirt hasn't been touched yet. Yet in all this torment he forgot not to call unto God, still having his mouth, Lord have mercy upon me, intermingling his cry, Let the fire come unto me, I cannot burn. In which pangs he labored till one of the standards By with his by with his bill pulled off the faggots above, and where he saw the fire flame up, he rested himself under that side, and when the flame touched the gunpowder he was seen to stir no more, but burned on the other side, falling down at Master Latimer's feet, which some said happened by reason that the chain loosed, others said that he fell over the chain by reason of the poise of his body and the weakness of the Netherlands. Some said that before he was like to fall from the stake, he desired them to hold him to it with their bills. However, it was surely it moved hundreds of tears. in beholding the horrible sight, for I think that there was none that had not cleaned, exiled, all humanity and mercy, which would not have lamented, behold the fury or the fire, so to rage upon their bodies Signs there were of sorrow on every side, some took it grievously to see their deaths, whose lives they held full dear, some pitied their persons that thought their souls had no need thereof His brother moved many men, seeing his miserable case, seeing, I say, him compelled to such infelicity, that he thought them to do him best service when he hastened his end Some cried out of the fortune to see his endeavour, who was most dearly loved him and sought his release, turned to his great greater vexation and increase of pain, but whoso considereth their preference in time past the places of honor that they sometime occupied in this commonwealth, the favor they were in with their princes, and the opinion of learning they had in the university where they studied could not Choose but some sorrow with tears, to see so great dignity, honor, and estimation, so necessary members, some time account, and so many godly virtues, the study of so many years, such excellent learning be put in the fire, and consumed in one moment. Well dead they are, and the ward of and the reward of this world they have already. What reward reward remaineth for them in heaven? The day of the Lord's glory, when he cometh with his saints, shall shortly, I trust, declare So you'll hear about this maybe in the future, maybe Lord willing, if there's any accounts, if you hear any s m messages or sermons online or anything of Reformation or on the radio, whatever. And when you hear of Latimer and Ridley, they wouldn't bend It's like the three Hebrew boys, they would not bow and they would but they did burn, even though the Hebrew boys did not. But isn't it amazing how how Ridley cried out, Have mercy upon me, O Lord, Psalm fifty-one, the beginning of the Martyr Psalm. Heavenly Father, I just pray that thou wouldst have mercy upon us, O Lord, according to thy loving kindness. According unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out our transgressions, and I pray, Lord, that we will repent. Thank thee, Lord, for what thou hast taught us this morning, and I pray that it will lift our hearts and give us opportunity to share it with others. Have mercy upon our church. I pray that thou wouldst keep it together, keep it going forward And I pray that thou would just bless us on all these things we ask in thy name we pray. Amen.