Our uh responsive reading. So that way when I say turn to Ephesians four you'll be not have to be searching and searching. Most of your Bibles have a little string that's in there and Once you found that. Now where are we going to go normally? Philippians. Our 4365 message on the No, not quite. Just a faster review of what we've seen so far for those who who were here even last week and forgot and for those who weren't here um we look back to Philippians 4 1 and he says therefore my brethren Dearly beloved and long for, for my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. Stand fast. And he means for them, because of the trials and struggles that they were facing, to stand fast in the Lord. And he answers that in verses 2 and 3 of chapter 4, talking about Jodius and Sintiche. Two ladies there in the church had some conflicts. First floor. First floor, he talks about joy and rejoicing during conflicts, how the Lord brings that. And we've gone through those things Verse 5, we saw the matter of having moderation or behaving graciously to all men during times of conflicts and trials. Then last week we saw anxiety, verses six and seven, be careful for nothing, or be anxious for nothing. And then the use of prayer in the matter of allowing with thanksgiving to be able to be God's provision for bringing peace in the heart. Then the final two verses of this particular section, verses eight and nine, he talk about what we are to do and what we are to think about. Hence, mind your business in case you were wondering about the title there. These verses apply to everything in life. All of life, although specifically he's talking about the struggles that this church had. the con conflicts with the world around them and the the uh the attacks that they had going on in the church at Philippi, uh it can apply to everything in life. So chapter four verses eight and nine We read, finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just. Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things Those things which he have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do, and the God of peace shall be with you. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we've all approached uh worship time here with uh various backgrounds and various situations. Yet the commonality we have is our desire to look to you to be our strength, our our redeemer, our friend, that one to which we have committed our hearts and lives and wanting to see how this word can be applied in our heart. It's not possible in the flesh to accomplish it. But by the work of your Holy Spirit, receiving this as it is the Word of God, and hiding your servant and allowing our Lord Jesus Christ to shine through that, we can make application of it by your grace that we might be better servants for the Master's use. Forgive us of our sin, we pray, as we approach this word, handle it with love and care that it deserves in Christ's name. Amen. They say there's between twelve thousand and sixty thousand thoughts a day that goes on between your ears, you know. Uh and for some that's quite a you look at it as quite a distance There are times when mama will say to me, What are you thinking about? And I tell her, nothing really. Which kind of speaks to say like not much going on in between the years, you know If you have any uh problems with understanding that, probably like me, you're around the twelve thousand thoughts a day or maybe even less. And if your person is actively thinking, actively involved in the process of lots of things, you're probably closer to those 60,000 thoughts a day. It's a lot of thoughts we're dealing with. Yet it's a mystery how the brain works. I've grown up, and I've heard even recently, that we only use about 10% of our brain. Have you heard that? Well, I looked up and Mark Hernett from the McGovern Institute says, quote, all of our brain is constantly in use and consumes a tremendous amount of energy. Despite making up only 2% of our body weight, it devours 20% of calories. Even while we sleep, our entire brain remains intensely active. So it shows that for those of us who have a little bit more girth than some of the others, we're not burning enough calories between the years, you know. But it's interesting how uh the approach has come here Last week we ended verse 7 with the understanding that the God of peace will guard our hearts, hearts that were often filled with anxiety. cares, burdens, and we're filled with him in that as we turn them over to him, he brings peace within our hearts. Now those minds were calm because of God's peace. But what God does for us and in us requires our active participation. He doesn't magically bring all of a sudden I bring peace in your heart Peace in your mind that requires our act of participation. Peace involves the heart and the mind. And oftentimes you see in scripture they're used interchangeably We say mind, we're not talking about the gray matter between the ears. When we say heart, we're not talking about that muscle that is born underneath our chest. But they're interchangeably used of the inner man, the person who's there. Isaiah 26. 3 seems to be talking about Jerusalem or the people of Jerusalem. Listen to what he says Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusteth in thee. Perfect peace, because his mind, just his thoughts, it's not just his thoughts, it's his heart, it's the inner person. His heart, his mind is stayed, it's anchored on the Lord. And he says, because he trusts in thee. I find trust in God, the sovereign will of God, the sovereignty of all things that God does, his love for me. Therefore I trust in him and I find peace and harmony. So what occupies our minds either brings peace and harmony or brings anxiety and conflict. That's usually the way it goes. There's not too much in between, unless really not thinking of anything Scripture is clear about the importance of the mind, and again I use this interchangeably with the understanding of the mind and the heart as it's compared to the Christian life. Solomon says in Proverbs 4. 23, Keep thine heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Keep the heart, anchor it, secure it, because through our heart passes our thoughts, our affections, our choices, and it's critical that we keep a guard on it. That we watch what takes place with that. 4 to chapter 4, verse 23 of Proverbs, Solomon says, no, I'm sorry, 2719, he says, As in water, face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man. That's a little hard to understand. But if I go to a water and I look in the water, what do I see? I see my reflection. It's like a mirror Face answereth to face. I look and I see that. So the heart of man is seen by what the man is seen, what's going on about him Jesus helps us with this in an explanation in Mark 7. Jesus says, and he said, that which cometh out of man, that defileth the man. For from within, out of the heart of man, proceedeth evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness An evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. All these things, Jesus says, come from within and defile the man. We say he's a sinner because he did this act. No, he's a sinner because he is a sinner, and out of that sinful person comes the acts. Jesus says, it's from the heart of man. It's not what he's doing on the outside, but it's from the heart of man that proceeds out of that the sinful acts. And it's not the action that causes the person to be the sinner. Sinful acts are evidence of a sinful heart. So, what our heart focuses on will be what we will say. What we will do, how we will act. What my heart focuses on, and again it's not the matter of thought per se. It's the heart and the mind together, the person. What that is focused on is going to be what you're going to say. I'm going to tell them what I think, what I do, how I act. Romans chapter 12, verse 2, Paul says, and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove What is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God? Don't be in the image of the world around you. Well, how can't I be? How can I not change? I'm I'm I live in this world It's all about me. Well, Paul says, but be transformed, changed, by the renewing of the mind. Again, the matter of the heart, the thought process, what goes in my heart. So that becomes changed, and therefore you're able to know the perfect will of God. It is a mind activity minding your business. Now go back to your Ephesians 4 there in in your responsive reading where you tore out a piece of that bulletin and stuck it in their Bible. Ephesians four, look at verse twenty-two that ye put off Concerning the former conversation, and again, Old English, former conversation is your former way of life, the old man, which is corrupt According to the deceitful lust. Remember the lust coming from the inside, the heart of man, and be renewed. in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on the new man, which is after God, is created in righteousness and true holiness. Spiritual transformation, the change takes place in life. It begins with the putting off of the old man, verse 22. Get rid of it. And this isn't just a switch process, it's a long-term process throughout life I slowly become more like the person God wants me to be in less of the person that I used to be because of the work of God's grace in me. How is it accomplished? Verse 23, we think differently, a mind renewal, and be renewed, a freshness, a change in the spirit of your mind. And then that's accomplished by what? Verse 24. Put on the new man. A put-off, put-on process. Throughout life, a put-off, put-on process. It's not enough to just stop sinning, which is the old man. We have to replace our sins with virtues, in other words, the new man, and adopt a new way of thinking. I can't do it the old way anymore. God demands it of me to think differently, my heart to be adjusted to different things. My mind has to be changed, a renewal of it, in order that that new man can be put on. A century ago, a Scottish preacher by the name of Alexander White wrote this: Your heart is the best and greatest gift of God to you. It is the highest, the greatest, the strongest, noblest power of your nature. It forms your whole life Be it what it will. All evil and all good come from your heart. Your heart alone has the key to life and death for you. The heart. And again, it's not the muscle that beats in between your chests. It's the idea that this is who you are. This is the new man or the old man. This is God's gift. I've been given a new life, a new heart in Christ. That's what we've put on. It all begins with the thoughts. What occupies your mind. Our thoughts not only reveal what is now, you are now. But it also reveals potentially what you're going to become. It's a basic principle of life. If you want to live right before the holy God and right before your fellow man, the process of the heart has to be changed. It has to come with right beliefs which lead to right behavior. And again, Paul said back in Ephesians 4 that unless we change the way of thinking, The put-off, get rid of the old man, the old nature, get rid of all those things, there is no chance of having any change. All change will be only temporary. Scandal today is a church full of Christians with no Christian mind. We had a maybe I've shared this illustration before, but we had a seminary classmate His dad had one of the big churches in city of Philadelphia, not in the very best neighborhoods, um, as especially in the later years. Uh his son eventually did take over, but he the dad came and spoke to us in the chapel one day. And uh he said, My kids were afraid his wife had passed away, he's on his own. My kids were afraid that people are going to break into my house. So they put these deadbolts in my house. And it's the ones that, you know, you click it and you just slam the door and it's locked. And he says, because at my age, he says, I keep forgetting that I don't have a key with me So they'd go in and give a key to the neighbor, you know. And uh his son kept saying, But dad just always quit w didn't want to bother the neighbors, so he quit going over there. So you know what he did? He left the back door open. The deadbolt shut on the front And the back door unlocked and open. And so for many Christian lives, that's what it's like. I'm all locked in with all of those things which are available visible and available to me in the front. But I always keep a back door unlocked and I can live as I want to live as the old man and the old nature from before. The way I think and the way I act and all of the process that goes on My heart hasn't been completely locked into the Lord, but it's been kind of just in case type of living. Mind your business. The process of all of these things comes about. How do we develop a strong, beautiful Christian mind? Look at again in our passage, verses eight and nine. And this is what's behind Paul's thinking. Finally, brethren. Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are good, report If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Those things which have been both learned and received and heard and seen in me do And the God of peace will be with you. At first two words there, Paul says, finally, brethren. Well, he's not saying this is the end of my message, because as you see, there's a lot more in the letter that he's got. But he's saying finally, and I'm finishing up with those four admonitions. uh the first passage first passages in chapter four that is here. These admonitions are finally coming to an end. But Paul says in my letter has still much more to say, and we're going to have much more to say on this in weeks ahead. Some people get excited when the preacher says, finally. That means he's going to be finishing. Well, again, as Paul hasn't finished with his letter, so we're not finished with this message But secondly, I want you to notice these verses contain a conditional sentence. Ah, English, grammar, you know, a conditional sentence. If then If this happens, then this happens. If I get early sleep on Saturday night and sleep through the night, I won't be tired on Sunday morning. Conditional sentence. If this, if that, then this. So eight verse eight, and the second half of it, he says, if there is any virtue, and if there is any praise, then is is is understood. He says, think on these things. If there's virtue, if there's praise, and we're later going to be going on all of the things of the words that were said in the first part of this verse. But if those things are contained in it, then you think on these things. Then you put that to the heart. Paul says that these principles of praise and virtue, this is what characterized Christian thought, Christian actions. He commands, think on these things. Let me also say that in this phrase he gives here, think on these things. We don't see it in English. But in the original Greek it's understood as always think on these things or be in the habit of thinking. You know, think on these things, or I can do that, and and pretty soon it's in one ear and out the other But Paul is saying here, be in the habit of thinking on virtue, thinking on praise, thinking on the things that are there We live in a fast-paced society where our Christian minds are so distracted that we may have lost the ability to do this. To stay on one task mentally for 10 minutes or 15 minutes, I think we're kind of stretching it, you know? How can I do that? Well, I have to process the thoughts that are there You ever seen the TV show Survivor? I hear some mm, so that yeah, I understood that. About twenty people, uh average about uh forty days on an island, and uh the end process is a million dollars for one person And they do whatever they do uh throughout that time. That the show is an hour-long show, and yet you know within the period of time when the show starts until the show ends So life in general is go is goes on. They do their personal responsibilities, eat and and do their Bathing in the salt water or whatever, the whole process. But what's in their minds? What are they thinking? Chiting, you know, a million dollars. Think on these things. I I can go about life and I can do all that I have to do. But my interactions with others in in this competition or in this contest or whatever, what's behind it is thinking on how I can get a million dollars. That's that's uh thinking on all of these things uh in the process of putting them together all the time. When Paul says, think on these things, what's behind you? Praise, virtue, the thought process of life that I am here to honor God, when I make a choice. a decision. Should I buy this? Should we go here? Should I listen to this? Should I accomplish this? It's all keyed in by the idea of understanding what God's Word says. Scripture encourages us to meditate upon the Word of God, the truths of the Word of God. Joshua 1:8, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. In other words The word, the law of God, to be said all the time. It's brought out. He says, that thou mayest observe to do according to that which is written therein. And then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Establishment of a principle of meditating upon the Word of God before we enter into the promised land God's word is to be ever before me. Ever before me. Why? Because it's going to help me in making my choices. What's God's will? God's will is known within my heart because I've I've repeated it, I've said it, I've meditated on it. This isn't sitting again, like we mentioned last week, with your legs crossed and you're sitting in some oom position and mumbling silver words, but just repeating the truths that are there within the Word of God Think on these things. The first psalm says, of a man who is blessed, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he Meditate day and night. The man's blessed when the Word of God is before him day and night Well, I only blessed because I come to church and there's an hour period or two hour period or three-hour period during the week where I'm before the Word of God. No. The blessedness comes when the Word of God, when I can meditate on it at all times, and it brings forth truth for me, turning it over and over in my mind. Whatever we choose to focus on will form our values and it will form our choices. It will shape our habits. It will shape our character. And ultimately it shapes the path that we're going to take. It's like the old computer adage, you know, gigo. Garbage in and garbage out. You know, you program a computer with faulty program, it's not going to be able to handle it. It's going to spew out nothing So the idea of what enters into my heart, what enters into my mind, enables me, as I meditate upon the Word of God, the truths that are there, the value that I have involved. Our minds function in the same way. Garbage in, garbage out. What enters into the heart and mind be the eye gate? V the eargate, the the the heart of man that is there, those are the things that will be processed. So about the way that we think The way that Paul commands, thinking about these things that are true and honorable and just and lovely and commendable and excellent and worthy, then your character will turn out the same way. The character of the man, the heart of the man develops those things, and my life will show it. My life will be processed the same way. There's a former BP minister from out on the West Coast, Dr. Robert Rayburn, had a sermon on this passage, and he said in part of his sermon, you must take care about what you think about. What you let your mind dwell on, you have to take your mind off of certain thoughts, certain daydreams, certain images. and place it on purpose on other thoughts and other dreams and other images. You must on purpose think about certain kinds of things and not on other kinds of things. Your heart, like wax, is susceptible to impressions, and you need to take care and work hard to ensure that it is receiving the right kind of impressions. And being shaped by the right kind of influences and habits. The heart, the inner man, who I am What is what is that which is feeding my thought process? What are the things that are going on? As parents we often use uh Proverbs and training up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it. So sometimes we go along with that thought process and we say, well, I'm not a child anymore. To a teenager, I don't want to be a child anymore. I can think on my own. And as an adult, I can do it on any way I want. But all of life is a training process. Train up my heart in the way it should go. And as I continue to grow older, it will not depart. That will be my steps, that will be my thought process, that will be the actions that I'm involved in And obviously on the negative side, train up my thoughts and my heart in the wickedness of the world, and all of a sudden I wonder, why did this happen? That's because of the area that I've been trained up in Training and molding and shaping our hearts does not end at a certain age. I think we could all say that it's not an easy process. Our world and our lives are filled with distractions. And as soon as we try to focus our minds and hearts on things that are true and lovely and just and pure and honorable Satan comes along to bring us false and dishonest and unjust, impure, unlovely and disgraceful thoughts. And if you're honest with yourself, you say these are one of the hardest things to talk about I'm struggling my heart with these thoughts or with these actions. And I'm not going to say anything about it. I'm just going to keep it. It's encouraging to know that God's word calls us to such. Verse 8 may sound simple. Whatsoever things are, and it lists them all there. But if you've ever tried Paul's instruction, you know what's very difficult. You know it's very difficult to think on those things that are laid out before us. The great work of the Christian life is to trust and to love and to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. But the way that work is done is an application of our will to the thoughts of our hearts. I must tell my heart I will do this in order to honor the Lord. I can't go by the old man, the old nature anymore. I must improve by processing the will to accomplish it. Paul is here giving us a clue to the formation of our spiritual life, the purposeful, intentional, active control of what a person chooses to think about. Think on these things Think on these things. I remember in a church that we used to go to where I grew up, and we left that church long ago, but uh during uh church in the summertime they had these uh no air conditioning but they had these windows that would open up on the top to like a circulate the air around. And in the summertime all the we as kids would just sit there and watch the bees come in through it. Think on these things. No, there's no process. Whatever pastor was talking about, that's fine. As soon as church is over, we've got a youth group to get together with and goof off, you know Think on these things. It's a purposeful process to say this is what I have to be moving my heart and mind on. You heard of psychosomatic illnesses? You can think yourself sick, can't you? All of a sudden, oh man, it must be this. And all of a sudden I start to get a pain. You go to the doctor and he says, Well, there's something real there, but how did it start out? Well, I was thinking I had this and all of a sudden I had it, and it developed. The control of the minds and what we think about is a key part of our spiritual transformation. The key is standing fast in the Lord. Are you in control of what you think about? Who processes the thought process? Who filters those things? Spiritual algorithm social media algorithm. Have you ever heard the algorithms where they talk about what's going on in the computers and so forth? Yeah. It's amazing how it let me give you the definition A social media algorithm is a set of computational rules and procedures used by social media platforms to sort prioritize and deliver content to users. These algorithms analyze user behavior, preferences, and interactions to personalize the content that they see. If you have a tendency to like sports, what do you think your computer, your your your s your your phone or what is going to show you? Gardening? Sports. If you have a a certain bent towards Philippine life, you know, all of the things that are there. What is your what is your what is your your phone going to start feeding you? Gardening? Sports? Philippine life. It feeds your your the the desire that you have, what my mind wants to see. All of a sudden he says, okay, I'll give you more of that. And this can really go down the path, can't it? It can really be very, very destructive. It'll supply you with anything that you ever want to think about. Brethren, take control of what you're thinking, what goes on in your ear gate, music, the lyrics The autobook content, teachers, preachers, friends, family, co-workers, commentators, experts Everything that you hear, the process of your your beautiful computer-binded body, the heart and mind is listening to all types of things, and you've got to filter out the old man stuff. And allow the new man, a Christ, to enter in. And if you want garbage, it'll provide you with garbage. And there's all types of people. Uh I got two friends, one down in in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and another one up in in uh the Bronx area of New York. And they had some very and I haven't talked with them now in about two years, simply because when the conversation came about, this is what happens And uh the the one up in New York was saying, well, this is it I said, Richard, I says, how do you get that kind of stuff? Well I saw something online and I thought And about the same week, one of these times, my friend from Chattanooga, Tennessee calls me and he says, and it's the exact same stuff. And both of them are swallowed up in this and you can't get them off of it. They feed and they feed and they are then they are What, thousands of miles away? But they're convinced that this is the way it is of life. And both of them are professed Christians. And we tried to bring him back. I have another fellow up there in New York who who tries to talk to me says, everything we talk about, we talk about cars or we talk about this or that, he always brings it back to this certain bent that he has He says, Richard, how do you get to this? And he just becomes I become so infuriated with him because that's his mind thinking. The ear gate. What goes into your heart through the eye gate? All that you could possibly see Everything you evaluate. I see this as go, well, that looks better. That's good. And we evaluate things through the ear gate and the eye gate. And it all enters into the heart and the mind. And it causes me to act Because this is the way the man's heart, mind think and process. Be careful of what it is You better believe that your adversary will do his best to freed from the table, from the grazing field that he is offering, rather than from God's word. In the third century, there was a movement in the church where men withdrew from society and became known as hermits. And they would live far away from the cities. Some would live up in caves. They even had their food brought to them and lowered on baskets and they would bring them up and so they would they wouldn't have to mess with people Because where the cities were and they were corrupt, he says this is we've got to get away from the cities, we've got to get away from the people, so we can be with pray and and read God's word and so forth But they failed to see that the source of the problem is the heart. It wasn't always the influence of the outside. Hiding away from those things doesn't change. The heart has to change. The heart has to understand. Understand, we can't keep false and dishonest and unjust and impure and unlovely and disgraceful thoughts from entering your mind. You can't plug your ears and say, I'm not going to listen, you know, cover your eyes, I'm not going to watch this, because it's already there. It's already there. You have to purposefully, in your will, process truth, things that are lovely, things that are good, things that are things that God has laid before us to make those for our hearts and minds. It's worth the time and it's worth the effort. Lord willing, next time we get together, we're going to go through those eight guideposts that Paul's talking about you know, the things that are lovely true they f all the way down the line to specifically understand what he's asking us to do. But right now it's sufficient to say We have to put a uh a filter in life and purposefully, intentionally, think on the things that God has laid before us. If we don't The fire just goes out. Brethren, this is key in life. Let's pray Father, these have been nothing but s just a a lot of words. Save your spirit, take them and bring them into our hearts. They can truly be seeds that will be planted on parts of soil that are fertile and willing to grow. And we would uh humbly pray for that. In like manner they could be seeds that we'd be planted and the moment we depart from this place the fowls of the air come and and eat 'em up and they're simply d gone No purpose. Lord, put a put a guard on our hearts. Put a guard on our minds Those who are professed to be lovers of the Lord Jesus Christ, may that be seen in what we ingest and in what we display. And we thank you for this truth in Christ's name. Amen.