Oh Father, that no matter what our status and life, our situation, our position, our place, we can call upon you from the highest mountains or the deepest valleys Your ears are attuned to our prayers, and we offer them up even now as we approach your word with love and care, for it is the word of God. Not the words of man. And whatever your servant presents, may it be truthful and faithful to that word, to your words, that it might be anchored upon our souls. um bringing forth abundant fruit to your glory for our prophet in this world to serve you better in Christ's name. Amen. I know some of you are very well conscious of what you eat and or what you do eat and what you cannot eat, you know. Don't bring that gluten stuff near me. Uh-uh. Or protein. I love my protein. Oh, I can't have enough protein. Or I love chocolate. Anything chocolate. Or you couldn't pay me enough to eat those vegetables So many of us are very mindful of what is brought into the pie hole, you know, uh because it's a matter of health. It's a matter of, in essence, longevity in a certain sense But we're not so mindful as to what we feed our minds with. Good old Pat Buchanan once said The food that enters the mind must be watched as closely as the food that enters the body Could have come out of Proverbs, you know. Didn't think Pat was like that, but it's true. We're careful to watch what goes in ingested into the body because that's that's our health But we don't necessarily watch it as much in our minds. There's a food in the Philippines called Pogpug. Do you ever have Pogpag Irene? Uh Pogpog is made by the people who are in kind of like the poverty conditions and they'll go to where restaurants, garbage dumps and forth, and they'll Get 'em out, out of the fast food places and so forth. And they'll clean it up and they'll fry it up or they'll boil it up and so forth and mix it up and and that's their meal. And you wouldn't eat that. The government says that's full of bacteria and so forth. We're we're not recommending anything like that. We wouldn't eat that. And yet there are times In our minds, we walk through the sewers and the cesspools of the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life, and we think nothing of it. It's so much easier to just say, no, I'm not going to eat that or touch that. But up here it is a different story. In a sense, the brain is a powerful computer that runs on the fuel of thoughts and the intake of what we bring into our senses with our senses, our eye gate and our ear gate. What fuels your brain? What do you see? What do you read? What do you watch? What's coming in over the T V or the Internet or that book? What music do you listen to? What audio book maybe? Or what about the conversations of people, maybe purposeful or unpurposeful? Are you listening? I hear that. On the phone, online, or even in person. As the day opens up, we unknowingly approach the day as a mental smorgasbord, you know, this giant buffet of all types of senses It's before us all. On our way in, driving down the the uh the interstate there and Mama was continually oh look at those trees. Well I mean she's loves the colors, you know. Naturally I'm keeping mindful of everybody's going ninety miles an hour down uh the the interstate, but uh Th there there's things that are there to approach it. And other stuff, you know, we don't necessarily think about. The endless supply, what will feed your mind and your heart in the next hour? Or this day, or this coming week, or the year ahead. As we said last time, that what our heart focuses on will be that which we will say. Or that which we will do, or in essence that which we will become. What our heart, and again we're talking the heart, the mind, the same principle within Scripture, what it focuses on is that which We regurgitate in life. What we bring out. Solomon's words, keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Through the heart passes our thoughts, our affections, our choices. So we need to put a guard on it. We need to be it filtered because it affects me and affects everybody around me. What goes on? So it's so critical that we watch and we guard our hearts. Let's open our Bibles to Philippians chapter 4, and I want us to use our eye gates and our ear gates. Okay. What I read is going to go in through your ear gate and what your eyes see through your eye gate. Philippians four, just beginning at verse six, we've gone through these verses before, but we want to drag it a little bit to emphasize. Be careful for nothing. Remember what we said was careful, full of care. Don't be anxious. Don't be burdened down with. Don't allow your mind to be pulled in different directions. But in everything, every situation, everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving Let your request be made known unto God. Pray with thanks for every situation you are in. Pray with thanks to God for whatever you are anxious about, or worried about, or burdened about, because what? What's the result in verse 7? And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Anxiety is not going to rule. Worry is not going to rule. The burdens of life are not going to rule because I've committed it to the Lord and the peace that God will give will. Verse 8. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest. Whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report. If there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on. Be in the habit of. Have it always before you. Think on those things Those things which we have both learned and received and heard and seen in me do. And again, what's the result when I do it? What does it say? And the the God of peace shall be with you. Wow. We lack peace Paul is saying. And again, in the context, the church at Philippi had trials and tribulations. They were burdened by the Jews. They were burdened by the Romans. They were burdened by life itself. And Paul says, Don't. And here's a man in prison. And he says, I could face death the next day, but I'm explaining to you why I don't have that, because the peace of God rules and reigns in my heart. National Institute of Health recommends the following as a heart healthy diet Eating vegetables, fruits, and whole grains, eating fish, poultry, beans, nuts, vegetable oils, and fat-free or low-fat dairy products limiting foods that are high in saturated fat and sodium. What the Apostle Paul offers us here is a heart healthy, I mean spiritual heart. Spiritual heart-healthy diet. He uses this as a principle of flexibility, a principle to ingest in guidelines that which will feed our hearts and minds. That's all. So let's take the ones that are mentioned here, starting in verse 8. Whatsoever things are true. This is for why do you think he put truth first? As we came in catch the tail end, this is like the whipped cream of the Sunday school, you know, you catch the frosting on the end, I heard Truth mentioned a number of times. Principles of truth. Why is truth mentioned? Because it's the foundation for everything else in life. Whatsoever things are true, what things are true, brethren, truth is not flexible It doesn't change. It's consistent. Yet in our world, you'll hear oftentimes, what's true for you is not true for me. What you believe is to be right isn't necessarily going to be right for me. There's got to be some flexibility. There's got to be some change that we have to accept in the lives of other people. The late John MacArthur wrote: People no longer ask, is it true? But they ask, does it work? And how will it make me feel? Doesn't matter if there's principles of truth or not, but is this going to be something to work? How will it make me feel? So he says, truth in our world is whatever works and produces positive emotions. That's a disaster recipe written right out, isn't it? And yet that's how many people live They love to have truth to be anchored to, but all of a sudden they say it doesn't fit with my lifestyle. John chapter 14, Jesus was with the disciples in the upper room nearing the time of his departure, and they were all a little bit confused. Jesus made some statements and Thomas comes to him and asks him, What's going on? Where are you going to go? I I don't quite get it. What's taking place? So he brought them to an understanding with a declaration that I think we've memorized. I am the Way, the truth, and the life. And nobody comes to the Father but by me To anchor their souls and anchor their confusion, their anxiety, their worries, and their burdens, Jesus didn't say that he was a way or he was a truth But he says, I am the way, no other. I am the truth, no other. And it's an important distinction to make in life. Tell me if I'm wrong, but if Jesus is the way, or is the life, then anything that is not Jesus is what? Death. If Jesus is the way, then anything outside of Jesus will lead to a dead end, to nowhere, in essence, an eternity in hell. If Jesus is the truth, then anything outside of him is a lie. Now there are a lot of things that are factually correct. You know, we keep the 1 plus 1 as 2, unless you really don't know your math very well. But the principle of the matter of what truth is or who truth is is in the person of Jesus Christ. Truth is Christ. You have to anchor your souls, your minds, your heart on that simple basic principle. Truth in Christ. Number two, whatsoever things are honest. The word honest in our text today is often translated as honorable. Noble, respectable, reverent, or dignified. And in the New Testament, anytime that word is used out of the Greek, it comes across as talking about somebody's character their character, which is something that we think we know. Taking these descriptive words, I would challenge you to find evidence Of such character in men, in business, and in institutions. Thinking those principles, I'm looking to something, I'm I'm I'm approaching this or whatever And I look for character in it. I look for principles of honesty. Is it a respectable TV show? Is it an honorable public servant? Are they dignified families? What is the honest in character oftentimes shown up in practical terms as integrity? The whole principle of whatsoever thing is honest, whatsoever things are honest, whatever it is, it's backed up by the idea of this is integris. This is integrity. How has your mind been recently? Are the thoughts you dwell upon filled with honor? Are they reverent? Are they dignified? Is there a thought in your process thinking that is worthy of respect? If there's some concern, focus on Jesus. If there's any concern about the thought process in life and what's going on, as I evaluate individuals, institutions, life in general. A focus on Christ, whatsoever things. Third one, whatsoever things are just. The word here means straight as opposed to crooked A just measurement, the weighing of that which is right and true. Being honest and fair in all dealings and relationship speaks volumes You have an implicit trust and feel uh good about somebody because they are just, they are trustable, not looking to take advantage of anybody or anything. And in his three years of public ministry, at least all that we understand of that which is written in the text of Scripture, who was the most just person in life but Jesus? In all of his dealings, in all of the abuse he received, and all of the backs that were turned against him, and all the advantages that they tried to take from him, never, ever did he do anything that was unjust Evaluate each situation in life, and I take Jesus Christ and I put him up, and I put him up high He, in essence, is the one who is honorable and noble and respectable and reverent and dignified by Jesus. Whatsoever things are pure, chaste in thought, chaste in feeling, in the relationships between men and women. Purity seems to be strangely absent in our society. It's something that's challenged invariably all the time. By definition, pure means to be free from defilement, free from stain, that which will not contaminate, that which is morally and inwardly pure. I believe our current culture, our current situation, not only in America, but in essence around the world, seems to be uh rivaling that of Rome. The more I read and hear about uh how the Romans acted, especially towards the end of their empire, uh we are as degenerate or even more so than they were And yet, who lived at that time but Jesus? Jesus didn't fall, didn't say, I can't minister, I can't do this and that, because I'm not like them. I'm Pure. Dwell in the things that are pure. Whatsoever things are lovely. Paul's not talking about the lovely flower bouquet He's not talking about the lovely hillside or the changing leaves or how lovely the service went this morning. Amen. Just a lovely service. That's not what he's talking about. No fluff. Lovely. William Barclay writes, There are those whose minds are so set on vengeance and punishment that they call forth bitterness and fear in others. There are those minds who are set on criticism and rebuke, that they call forth resentment in others. The mind of the Christian is set on lovely things: kindness, sympathy, forbearance. So he is a pleasant person whom to see is love. Here, has there ever been somebody so lovely as Jesus? As they evaluate our Christian life, as I evaluate the life of other Christians, am I seeing those principles, those characteristics of loveliness, sympathy, kindness, forbearance? 6. Whatsoever things are good report. Literally, this is a report that is praiseworthy, something that was received, regarded as high, and well thought of. It's something or somebody that deservedly enjoys a good reputation. And it may not necessarily be in words. Well we think of a good report as that which is spoken of, but good reports can indeed come from what is seen. It's been said by someone will say that the only Bible somebody reads is going to be a quiet, consistent testimony sending forth grace and truth of Jesus Christ in your life. Men never pick up a Bible. Men never read quotes from Scripture. But they would find a good report in the way the believer acts, the way he does business, the way he treats his fellow man. speaks volumes. The last two we put together, numbers 7 and 8, and Paul sums up everything in two words. And he says, think on the things that have any virtue and any praise. It's kind of a kind of a summary towards the end of it. Virtue is not a word that we really ever use. Proverbs 31 talks about the virtuous woman. Maybe that's the only time of the year that we'd ever mention virtue, but it really covers the ground on the first four things that we mentioned Virtue is true, honest, just, and pure. Then he says, is there any praise? And that's summed up in the last two, is something lovely or of a good report And he says, think on those things. In other words, anything out of the realm of what we mentioned in those four words, and then the last phrases that were mentioned there, anything outside of that, if there's any virtue in it. If there's any praise, have your minds focused on those things. Pastor, I'm a little still confused. When you talk about thinking on those things, what do I do? Or what am I supposed to do? It doesn't come naturally to me to think about Jesus. It's something that doesn't naturally, because I'm feeding on all types of stuff and all the senses all around me, and to think about Jesus doesn't always come out right. And I'll be honest with you, to filter out the things that are not true, filter out dishonesty and unjustice, so I can concentrate on the things that are good, that's hard. It's extremely hard. What do we do? How do we handle it? Let me take you to one other passage I think that will help. Jesus' great prayer, high priestly prayer, it's often called in John 17. Praying to his Heavenly Father, he's nearing the end of his ministry, his earthly life. And he says, Sanctify them through thy truth, thy word is truth. Sanctify is a word used in Scripture to mean set apart. This sanctuary is sanctified. Because we don't have dances in here or we don't turn into a bowling alley or whatever. It's set apart for worship This place is sanctified for the honor and the worship of God, of prayer and the reading of his word and so forth. So Jesus turns to his heavenly father and he's talking about the elect, the chosen, the believer. And he says, Sanctify them through thy what? Truth. In other words, the avenue of setting the believer apart, making him holy for God's use is truth. And then he concludes it by saying, what Thy word is truth. What's truth? Obviously, it's in the form of Jesus Christ. The personification of truth is Christ. That's the written word. Who's the living word? Christ. And so we have before us all that we need to know of God. All that we need to know of our relationship between God and man and that which is between each other, the horizontal and the vertical. Obviously, Paul is talking to the eleven originals. Judas is dead by this time, and Paul has not been made a disciple or apostle yet. But surely it's obvious that it applies to all disciples of Jesus. To remain spiritually stable, we must stand on and consume truth. And we must do it every day for our spiritual diet to remain healthy, our spiritual heart spiritually remind truth must be prevailing each and every single day of our life. Which begs the question. Are you daily in the truth, so that truth can daily be in you? Are you in the truth? There's the truth of the Word of God in you on a regular basis every day, so that truth can become a part of you. Are you feeding on the things that are true and honest and just and pure, which is the word? And if not, don't be surprised if you lack the peace of God because all of a sudden there's no truth to anchor. There's no truth to be able to cling to. You're overrun by anxiety and burdens and worries and care. Think on these things, in essence, is meditating upon these things, taking the Word of God to heart. You know, Christians are called to meditate in the Word of God. It's nothing like those Middle Eastern guys that sit in the yoga position and give the um, um, you know, and so forth. And they tell you, empty your minds and allow whatever comes in to filter your minds. And you go through, and there's a whole bunch of just garbage for that. Taking meditation upon the Word of God focuses upon filling the mind with Scripture and connecting with the one true God. Let me throw out a few passages. Psalm 12. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. He loves the word. He says, I meditate on it day and night. It's before me. 119. 97. Oh, how love I thy law. It is my meditation all the day. Is the psalmist just writing that so he'll seem more pious? Oh, I just love the Bible. No. He says, I'm meditating on it day and night and whenever it is. Remember the last time we were here, we talked about the folks at uh Survivor, you know, that the TV program In the the whole program, 40 days of the program, we only see spots. But throughout that program, no matter how they act, the key is behind every mind is what One million dollars, you know, and they may talk about and do all types of different things, but what's surviving in their heart and mind is that I've got to do whatever it takes to make a million dollars. Same principle Meditating day and night the Word of God and not the fact of getting a million dollars. Psalm 77, 12. I will meditate also on all thy work And talk of thy doings. Now there's an application. I'll meditate not on the word, but of what you're doing. What is God doing? We think of the beauty that's around us, but we have the privilege to see it. The prayers that have been answered, the the the victories that have been given in life. I'll think about You know, the heavens declaring the glory of God and the firmament showing his handiwork. They can send all types of satellites up into the sky and say, Oh, look at this But my Father has created those things and He lays them out for us to see and meditate upon it. Psalm 119, 15, and 16, I will meditate on thy precepts And fix my eyes on your ways. I will delight in thy statutes. I will not forget thy word. And that's only a sampling. Meditation is a picture of a person who is devoted to God and delights in saturating himself with the Word. He delights in it. The Word is special to me. I personally feel that memorization and meditation are natural disciplines that work together. You say memorization, well I can't memorize, you know. And that was something I stumbled with, struggled with when I finished uh Shelton College and we moved up to Philadelphia to go attend Faith Seminary We moved into the the attic of uh Dr. and Mrs. Lindray Gordon into their house. Mrs. Gordon had almost been completely blind for years, but she had the ability to teach And so Jeff, about three or four years old, she had him in her classroom a couple of hours each day and taught him to read. His first reading was out of the Bible. She taught him to read the scriptures. And her memory method was read three times, recite three times, and rehearse three times. Read the verse three times, physically in front. Then turn away and recite it three times, and then go back and read it three times. Well, mom and dad had had to do the same thing along with this four-year-old boy. And we did. Not only did that ingrain truth into us by memorization, but the value of it was precisely meditation's value. Jeremiah 32, 17. Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heavens and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee. He memorized that, and so did mom and dad. No, no, it's just a memorization of a verse. But what did that mean? Lord God, you made the heavens and the earth by your great power and your stretched-out arm, and therefore there's nothing too hard for you. Did that stick with me? That that became a part that I can meditate on in any situation of life? Lord, this is impossible! Jeremiah 32, 17. No, it's not. I come back to the truth, and it brings me encouragement. Whatever the path is, it may not necessarily be my path that I'm thinking of now, but God says, don't worry. I'm in charge. I know what to do. Psalm 119 eleven. Thy word have I hid in mine heart that I might not sin against thee I hide God's word, I memorize God's word, I bring it in in order that it may speak to me that I shouldn't be doing this or that I should be doing this Part of memorization becomes a part of meditation and brings my heart in healthy situations of life. Do you have a favorite passage? Scripture? Something more than one verse. How about those little cards that you go to the funeral and they will pass out of the card? What is that usually? Twenty-third Psalm, you know, almost invariably. Uh we went through this psalm some probably a couple years ago. But it became that which is important as we studied it, and all of a sudden it became something that I found really joyous. First verse, the Lord is My shepherd I shall not want. What does that tell you? Think about what's being said. The psalmist is saying, the Lord God is my shepherd. What is the shepherd going to do? Take care of his sheep. He's my shepherd. He's going to take care of me. Whoa, who am I? I'm just this sheep. The principle of meditation will be valuable as it comes to I shall not want, meaning I shall not lack. If my heavenly father has all things at his control, is under all of his supervisory capacities, and his graciousness and his mercy is there. He is my shepherd and I will not want anything. Doesn't mean like we've you know, it's not I want this you know see the little kids are I want that you know that's not what he's saying. You're not gonna lack. Nothing lacking in life. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, he leadeth me beside the still waters. Green pastures. Get the picture. Beautiful. Supply. Gives me a place to rest. He leads me to a place of rest in life Turmoil everywhere. But he brings me to a place in life where I can be amongst the pastures and feed, be cared for, be provided for. He leads me beside the still waters, not the rushing waters that I can get pulled away because life is like that. But he brings me to a place where I find peace. That's my Heavenly Father. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. How's life? He restores my soul. It doesn't mean that it's all going to be all well and good all the time. Noah says he's going to restore my knee. Let's hope so for that. He restores all the busyness, the worries, the troubles, the fade away. I am restored, I am renewed in his presence. It doesn't take away the worry, but it is the supply that he provides for. You see what it deprives for us in not taking in the Word of God and feeding it from a regular basis? The things that are true and honest and just and lovely, things of any virtue, things of any praise. That's my Jesus. But it is also the word itself. And my diet all of a sudden becomes that which is, you know, don't have my phone with me. That's what we well that supplies. You know. That supplies or whatever this supplies or whatever that supplies. No, it's what God supplies. And if I'm feeding daily from it Sometimes people have well we'll get to this later, but it's the idea that his supply is there and it's a righteous supply in life Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. It's not a mountaintop experience. In a lot of Christian life, we think that. I've asked Jesus to save me, and all of a sudden everything's going to be right. But it's not. Because we're still in this world. But he is with me in the valley. He's with me in all of the situations of life. He's not left He is my shepherd. He's brought me through. He's made me takes me to the pastures. He gives me the waters what is there. And then when I have to go through the valleys, when I have to go through those things I'm surrounded by his love. You see, that is what I mean by memorization and meditation going hand in hand. As the Word of God filters my heart and filters my mind and brings out on truth, all of a sudden I can say, the world is not telling me truth. But the word of God tells me truth. This person, this individual, this corporation, this government, or whatever it is, is not telling me truth, but God's word tells me truth And I'm able to find peace in my soul about that. Thomas Brooks was a Puritan preacher from the 17th century. 17th century. This is what he says. Remember that it is not hasty reading, but serious meditation on holy and heavenly thoughts that makes them prove sweet and profitable to the soul. It is not a mere touching of the flower by the bee that gathers honey, but her abiding for a time on the flower that draws out the sweet. It is not he that reads most, but he that meditates most that will prove to be the choicest, sweetest, wisest, and strongest Christian. It's not just going through I've read, you know, I read through the whole Bible this year. I said, What do you learn? You know. And sometimes we say, look, Pastor, I can't memorize because you're just flying over at at uh 30 feet off the ground and what did you see? Everything? No. Sometimes you've got to just stop. And you look at the verse, the Lord is my shepherd, what's he telling me? I shall not want, I'm not going to. You've made the heavens and the earth, your great power and your stretched-out arm. There's nothing that I have to worry about. And so taking the word and spending time in just a verse, having half a verse, Mrs. Gordon says, if the verse is too big, break it up Read it half of it three times, recite it three times, and look back and read it again for three times, and just keep going on it. And then the next day you go over that same verse again and it's yours. It's yours Part of the problems of our our cell phones is what's so-and-so's phone number? Oh, let me look it up. You know, there was a day that I could spew off PL2 PL2 2282. That was a phone number when I was a kid. You know. Had to memorize it. Don't go to school unless you memorize your phone number, you know? B six seven five two nine four. That was my military number. Stencil it on everything. You better remember that number, you know? It's with ya You take the word of God and you memorize it and you bury it in your heart that you don't sin against God, that you love His Word, that you find it to be there. It says, mind your business. Your mind is your business. Do with your mind, feed it well. Allow the Word of God to saturate it. Learn to love Jesus more each day. Shall we pray? Father, there's so much that we lack. And yet your word clearly teaches us in an example and command that That you know our weaknesses, you know our frailties, and yet you still chose us because we're important to you. Life is important to you. And so may we find ourselves feeding on your word to draw us closer to you, to be able to tap the abundant resources that are made available to us in your word to see our Jesus, my Savior, my Redeemer, my King, the one to whom we'll sincerely look for in the day that we leave this earth. See him face to face and know him, even though we've never seen him. We'll know him as he is. May Father these things be that which will delight our souls in. And then Father give us the the guidelines on what we shouldn't be feeding on, the things that are not true and the things that are dishonest, the things that are unjust, the things that are ugly of this world The things that have no virtue whatsoever, the things that are have no praise for eternity's sake, help us to filter them out. And to be spiritually heart-healthy for you in Jesus' name, amen.