Actually your third song plus a little something else. We're going to jump away from Philippians today. The next section that we would be looking at, Philippians chapter three, Paul says, Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. Uh to write the same things to you and indeed not grievous, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers. Beware of concision. That wasn't an appropriate passage for Mother's Day. So he said, stepping away from our study today for a few minutes dealing with that which we all have party to, and that's mothers. If you're here today, you have a mother. In truth, in addition to those basic truths, we have mothers to be, we have birth mothers, we have stepmothers. We have adopted mothers, we have surrogate mothers, we have grandmothers, we have great grandmothers, and in this world sad world that we live in, we have those who identify as a mother, but they're not Mother's Day garners national attention on that one side of your handout. If things go south here and get a little boring, you can read that. Otherwise that's for later on. But it gives in a unique article about the origin of this particular day and helps us to understand that it is a kind of an American holiday, per se. Lady from Pennsylvania sorted uh roots that she had Other countries celebrate it, uh, usually on the second week of May. Some part participate in uh in a date that they particularly choose, but it's, I think, followed after our American pattern. Much like Father's Day, there is no specific biblical command for Mother's Day. You go in the book of Leviticus and you find God talking to the children of Israel and telling them, we're going to set aside feast days. We have Passover and we have Pentecost, we have tabernacles, and yet you can search in there and you find God never telling the children of Israel to set aside Mother's Day. There's no mention of Mother's Day. Jesus never celebrated Mother's Day, nor did the apostles ever teach those who were followers to send greeting cards, candy. Um cute little trinkets of jewelry, you know. Uh make breakfast for their mothers. None of those things were ever given by the disciples Honoring mothers on a specific day of the year is completely absent from the history of the Christian church. And yet we are in the position today that if you are a son or a daughter or a husband, however, you find yourself in one of those positions. You find yourself forgetting or ignoring this day in some way to honor your mother or in your particular case your wife You'll come to the understanding of the words of the idiom of William Shakespeare. Hell hath no fury, woman scorned. So, I trust you've given such honor. I say that in good fun, yet in some way we who have trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior find ourselves in the most honored position that we above all the people upon the face of the earth ought to remember and rejoice in the gift that God has given us in such especially godly mothers. It is a most honorable profession. But as we speak of biblical mothers on this Mother's Day, I want to take the rest of our time just to look at out of the pages of Scripture. mothers, some that are mentioned that are not necessarily under the good category, and others, well, we'll see their testimony later on. I begin with a few again under the category of not so good. And the first I'll pick was Eve. Why would I take her? She is the first. Mother, thank you. I'm glad I understood that one. The first mother, the first woman. And you might argue um putting some harsh category on Eve, but before she ever bore her first child, Caleb, she made a choice, she made a decision that affected all of humanity. Her choice to disobey God, to eat the forbidden fruit, had ramifications, not just for herself, but for all of history following that. So, as it will be with all the mothers we'll talk about, decisions that they make quite often have consequences far beyond what they thought when that choice is made. When that decision was made. We tend to base our decisions in life for all of us looking at the here and now. I choose because this will make me happy now, or this will satisfy me now, or this will meet my need now. And we don't necessarily think about what's coming after that just for me, but for those in my life or even well beyond that. What it will cost me, what it will cost them. In that nobody knows the future, I think it's best to make our choices based upon the guidelines presented by the one who does know the future. Best make my choices, my decisions based upon the one who lays down right and wrong and good and evil. Trust and obey. The second one, and she's probably the most notorious about not being a good mother, can you guess who that would be? Jezebel. Jezebel, you know. Queen, uh mother, uh wife to Ahab, the king of Israel. When you go to the dictionary and you see the word Jezebel, you're not necessarily referring to this individual, but to a definition that says An immoral woman who deceives people in order to get what she wants. You're a Jezebel. And they're not saying oh a busic biblical character, you're saying you're immoral. And the choices you make are only to pad your own pocket. Yeah. Nobody names their daughter Jezebel anymore, or at least I hope not. Marriage that they had was a political one. Ahab, as king, decided that he needed to strengthen the borders where they were. And so he chose Jezebel, who was the daughter of the king of Sidon. Not only was king of Sidon, but he was also the high priest of Sidon. So Jezebel grew up in an immoral, idolatrous country, uh situation And yeah, there was no marriage counseling in this particular relationship that came about. But Ahab was weak, and I think Jezebel found him to be easily controlled. easily molded, and what she brought with her in the whole package she laid before Ahab and she controlled him. You know the story of Jeze Jezebel and Ahab you'll know how many times that this had occurred in their marriage relationship. Needless to say, they had hardly Entered into a situation where there was great uh joy in God's eyes. Uh the prophets were persecuted And the Lord did provide for them three children. So at the death of Ahab, the two sons uh reigned consecutively. Uh the older one, uh Ziah, uh, and then later on Jooram Uh Joram, I think, only reigned about two years, and God judged them, uh took them out, uh removed them because of the uh the way that they had lived following their mother, but let left a daughter, Atheliah. Athelia's story is a sordid one. And I think you could almost say this would be a great story for a Hollywood movie, you know. Horrible woman, deceitful. power hungry, idolatrous, just like her mother. And as she seized power, she did become the only queen, the only woman to rule Judah And she had the entire family of the royal family murdered, except for one little boy who was able to be captured and hid until he grew older. Think of all the incest that was piled upon this. You know, there's a verse in Proverbs, Proverbs 22, 6 that we often use. Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. And as Christians, we often look at that verse and we say, if I train my child in righteousness Learn to love the Lord Jesus Christ, make him the center of his life. He will be in a pattern to follow after godliness And we we have confidence in that. And it may not necessarily seem obvious initially, but that's a pattern that we hang on to. Most of parents encourage themselves in that. But I think the verse can be used just as the opposite in the case of Jezebel. She trained up her children in the way that they ended up going. And when they were old, they didn't depart from it. They destroyed not only their families, but they destroyed their own testimony. They saw mom's testimony, they heard her words, they followed after example, and the only thing that could be done is that they were judged by God, just like they judged, he judged their mother. Brethren, God only knows how many generations will be affected by sinful self-will. Our sinful self-will. How many generations will be affected by our insistence on having our own way instead of God's way? I want to do it this way because this affects me best That's the way I was raised, that's the way I understand it. We need to pray that God will give us mothers and fathers the incentive to put off self-will. and to yield ourselves to do God's will in each and every case ahead of us. Another woman we choose, and she doesn't have a name. Can you guess who that one is? Only known by the name of her husband. Lot's wife. Unreal. The scripture tells us, but his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt. Jesus words to his disciples, remember Lot's wife. And it must have been really well known in that time where the Lord was, her particular testimony. We really don't know too much about the rest of her life, but it's worth noting that the only thing the Bible mentions that she disobeyed God. He told her to leave Sodom and Gomorrah and leave right away. And it was a simple command, but it was that which the Lord expected him to follow. Was she a good cook? How about recipes? Did she have some good recipes there in Sodom and Gomorrah? Maybe seamstress. Maybe she was known for the cloaks that she made. Or maybe she did some buy and sell on the side to help her husband out. Maybe she was known for raising her daughters, lovely girls, teaching them the things that were right. We don't know. We know nothing about her. Her entire life, however old she was, whatever things she had done in her whole marriage life, there is no record of it. And we won't know. The only thing we'll know is that contrary to what God wanted, she disobeyed. She failed miserably. There were no second chances. But but all she did was just take a look back. I mean, what's so bad about that? They're exiting the cities. heading away as a direction that God had said. Lot, the daughters, heading forth, and he said to him, Don't look back. And all she did was What's so bad about that? Sometimes we, as parents, don't necessarily evaluate what God's Word says in the light of his meaning. We could go on, I think, with others, but we look back to all of these situations, and they were choices and decisions that these women had made, and quite possibly on their own will, that affected the lives of others. I think we can say clearly that there are no perfect mothers in the Scripture. There are no perfect mothers outside of Scripture, even today. And I know you kids Kids often think that my mom's perfect, you know, and stuff like that. But I think as we review mothers in the light of history, the matter of faith and obedience is that which would stand out beyond their weaknesses. We flip to the other side and I want to look at some other mothers that might give us better examples. There's one, and actually we'll count this as two, Ruth and Naomi. Ruth and Naomi. Ruth demonstrated the most remarkable faith that we find in a book that bears her name. The book of Ruth. The first chapter, because of a famine, we find Elkana, his wife Naomi. And their two sons leaving Judah and handing over to a neighboring country called Moab. Elkanah dies. The two sons marry Moabitus women, and in ten years they die. Well, happy Mother's Day to you, Naomi. In that particular waited moment, Naomi tells her daughters-in-law, go back home. He says, I've been crushed. My husband's dead, my two sons are dead, you go back to your city, your town, your people, your families, and just stay with them. And one did. But the other, Ruth, decided, no, that she would stay with Naomi. The words to Naomi at this very crossroads in life are forever secure She says, and Ruth said, entreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee. Whither thou goest, I will go, and where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. Where thou diest, I will die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee from me. Powerful words. Powerful words. You know, we've mentioned the lessons in life that mothers teach their children before. the testimony of a tarnished testimony before the old test some of the Old Testament ones that we mentioned earlier. But I can't help but believe that Ruth's years with Naomi were filled with powerful lessons. Not of greed or not of selfishness, not of my own way, but years of listening, learning of God's faithfulness to Naomi and what kind of a God he was. Ruth sat there and watched as Naomi said goodbye to her husband. Powerful, painful time. She watched also ten years later as her sons were put to the ground and buried. Again, very powerful lessons in that. But she saw Naomi never lost her faith and trust in God. These two ladies never sat down for a Bible study. They never sat in a prayer meeting in midweek and said, let's see what the scriptures have to say about mothers and daughters and relationship to husbands. But I think, I believe, I'm convinced that Naomi taught her as her own daughter. She taught to her of the things of the Lord. by her own example. And what Ruth saw in Naomi was the example of a woman who, despite all of the pains and the tears, and they would continue, she says, That's what I want. That's what was missing in my life. So Earth responded, the only way possible, thy people shall be my people and thy God my God. Just for a few years, listening and watching. Ruth was a Gentile outcast, and yet she experienced God's grace through a kinsman redeemer, a man by the name of Boaz. And he fulfilled the prophetic plan. Boaz begat Obed by Ruth, and Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David, the king. And Jacob bare Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called the Christ. Matthew 1 Mothers may not be perfect. They may not be the Proverbs 31 women that sometimes they're often elevated to. But as they allow God's hand to guide them in their particular times of woe or victory, the ups and downs of life, their faith and trust in God through these times He will accomplish his purpose through them. They will be blessed even as they are a blessing. A second, or actually third one, if we put Ruth and Naomi together, is Jacobed. Anybody know Jacobed? The mother of Moses. The mother of Moses. Well, it's the most interesting life, short-lived as far as the scripture texts are concerned, a mother of faith. Pharaoh had decreed that the baby boys were all to be killed, of a certain age. And here she is, bearing a child, and she finds out that this is uh the fate of so many of the children of Israel. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months from his parents because they saw he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandments. She was born. He was born. They hid him. Can you imagine a squawking one month, two months, three months baby? You know, soldiers looking around for every child of that age to have them thrown into the river in order to well why? Because the children of Israel are too many. We have to start to get rid of them. They're a threat to us They hid the boy of that time. And then what did they do? She makes a reed basket. She puts the basket into the river, floats on down, she sends her daughter uh uh along the riverside and they see it come to a landing. In providential hands, here is the daughter of Pharaoh. And she comes in and she says, Oh, a baby. And so Moses' sister comes along. He says, You can't raise this child. Do you want me to find a nursemaid to care for that child? And who was that? It was Jacobed Hebrews 11:24 By faith Moses, when he was come of years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction. with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, for he had r respect unto the recompense of a reward. Moses, how did he know right and on? He spent how many years with mama? Eleven. And of all that time under Mama's Tutelit, she's then taken from there on into the palace of Egypt with all of the rituals and all of the idolatry. And all of the paganism that was bound within the lifestyle of Egyptians. And all of a sudden, he comes of age. He decides that I can't follow my Egyptian heritage, but I have to follow Christ. So how did he know that? Did it come from the Egyptians? Came from mom. And I say mom just probably because dad was a servant working in the fields or building up uh uh the the pyramids or whatever his particular craft was I think Jacobed spent his years spending bringing God onto his heart. Train up a child. Faith believing what you've taught him in godliness and righteousness will be seeds that will be planted and will be produced fruit in one day. In the same chapter as Jacobed, I'd also mention Hannah. Hannah was one of the two wives of a Jewish man by the name of Elkanah. His first wife, Anina, had children, and Hannah was unable to have children, which made her kind of a laughing stock amongst the ladies. I've got children, you don't And so she went one year to Shiloh, where the tabernacle was, and at the entrance of the tabernacle she stopped and paused to pray. She prayed from her heart, as she later describes, but only her lips were moving, and the high priest Eli sees her there and she says, What are you doing? You're drunk. She says, I'm not drunk. I'm not drunk, I'm praying. She said, O Lord of hosts, if thou be if thou wilt indeed look on the affection of thine handmaid and remember me and not forget thine handmaid, but will give me thine handmaid a man child. Then will I give him unto the Lord all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head. Eli hears her testimony. He says, I'm not drunk. I've been asking the Lord. I've had no children. This is my particular situation. And Eli was pleased with the prayer and he prayed that God would bless her. In giving this child. In God's timing, Samuel was born. Somewhere between the ages of two and five, the scripture says, when he was weaned. So Generally speaking, in Jewish history, it's between two and five. She brings him back to the tabernacle. This is her time to surrender her son back into this. And it says For this child I prayed, and the Lord hath given me my petition, which I ask of him. Therefore also I have lent him to the Lord, as long as he liveth For he shall be lent to the Lord. Can you imagine? Imagine how hard it was to surrender him He says, I've waited so many years for a child, and all of a sudden now I have one. But her heart was attuned to the fact of being obedient. What do you think she spent in those from from birth until possibly five years old? What do you think she was doing with his with Samuel? How was she preparing him? Think of what Jacob was doing with Moses. Think what Hannah is doing with little Samuel. She did see him every year. She brought him a new coat. But much like Jacobed, Hannah recognized that he was God's gift. And she willingly surrendered him to God's service. We have no idea what she taught him or how much he received, but whatever he did He was blessed by God because there was none like Samuel in Scripture. He becomes the nation's first prophet, he becomes the nation's last judge. He ruled righteously. They would have had Samuel as a king if they could. No man was like Samuel. Pertinent years under mom. We can't go on without mentioning Mary briefly. I think of the earthly mother of Jesus, probably no more famous woman on the face of the earth. We're not talking about the same one that was mentioned this past week by some guy dressed up in a clown costume taking the rule of a church, but you know that one But at a very young age, he was told by the angel Gabriel that he's going to be giving birth to the long-awaited Messiah. And you've heard messages before about this. The words that came to her, a virgin, she's going to bear a child conceived of the Holy Spirit, and he will be Messiah. She knew her Old Testament. And there was the public risk of scorn and shame. She surrendered her body to that providential plan of God to bring a Savior unto mankind. Even Joseph, her husband, Betroth, they weren't married, but Betroth had his doubts. And Mary entered into suspicion amongst all of the people who would have seen her that she did not commit an immoral act. But she had faith and trusted and lived even as God was directing her heart. She eventually faced the horror of watching the public ridicule his sacrifice upon the cross. And she followed her son to the foot of the cross. Yet Mary was rewarded in faith, the resurrected Jesus came to them all in the upper room with the other disciples. What things she held in her heart, what things she had laid before this infant Jesus, the things that she taught him, the things that he watched, they were very close. The last two I mention, Eunice and Lois. The Apostle Paul mentions these two as being stalwarts in the life of young Timothy. Paul's protege in the ministry and partner in church planting. But who were Eunice and Lois, but that which taught Timothy God's word Paul says, and that from a child, in Greek, that means an infant. From the very earliest time of coming to know, the ability to learn, to teach. From that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures where it's able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. a dear teacher, uh half-blinded Mrs. Maureen Gordon, who taught our son at the age of three to read, and his first words came out of the scriptures themselves. You know, to learn to understand not only what this is God's word, but what it says and what it means to your heart. They can learn, and they do that They were simply a mother and a grandmother. I think we can generally say with all of these that mothers, grandmothers are the first teachers of faith. That which they bore within their hearts in their relationship with God brought before their children. They planted seeds of faith. They encourage their children's hearts through daily interactions and teachings. Those who we saw in the positive side Children watching them. How did mom react? What did grandma say? How was this put together in God's word? How does it see isn't just do what I say, but do what I am doing Follow along in such. They were often the ones that provided spiritual guidance and teaching about the Lord and encouraged their godly living, encouraged their steps, encouraged the way that they go. Oftentimes they become modeled as Christian living, their faith, their character, their actions influencing the children. And proposing unto them in life what a life of faith is, what it can mean to hard times and victories. I think we also see them as important in values of self-sacrificing and love and compassion. The longer I live, the more I see sacrifice in the likes of mothers and grandmothers And then last of all, the importance of prayer. I think prayer is often seen as a central aspect of the Christian mother's life, both in herself and in children. Those mentioned in scriptures, they were people who prayed. Moms who understood the responsibilities that were laid upon them and the relationship with God could only be achieved in prayer. Many mothers seek to engage their children in prayer and teach about them and their communications with God in the most simplest sense. As a boy, I remember my first and only prayer, God bless this food, amen. And how far away was that? I thought it was just something you say. Now we lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep. And those two great prayers that lasted me for twenty years until I came to Christ. It didn't mean anything. But godly mother and the godly grandmother brings forth the spiritual guidelines supporting in their journey of faith the truths of teaching. May not recognize the things that go on in the lives of the children who are under your tutelage. But moms should do a great job. It may be not ever recognized here upon the face of this earth, but one day we'll stand in the Lord's presence and we'll recognize all of the hands and all of the prayers and all of the situations that we have gone through. You are not perfect, but you recognize that God is. And He desires hearts that are willing to be used of Him. Shall we pray? Father, as the text present to us women, Old and New Testaments alike. And we come to understand that your word is here for our profit. It's good for and profits us in doctrine. Reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness, that the man of God, that the woman of God can be more thoroughly perfected. unto each and every good work that lays before them. Help us not to be discouraged as we see the world around us falling apart and the families continue to be a unit that's attacked. But help us to find the greatest joy that we can in Christ and entrust into Him the direction of our mothers, our grandmothers, our great-grandmothers. Moms who are surrogate spiritual mothers, those who are aunties, those who are neighbors, whose interest in the lives of the children around them, irrespective of the age. Find Christ as the source of those such. Encourage them this day, and we thank you in his name. Amen.