Philippians Chapter One Did anyone read the chapter beforehand? May I encourage you this coming week to read Philippians chapter one. You know how long it takes? Three and a half minutes. That's all. I didn't have time. You know? Busy day. Wait, let me check the sports scores out. Only three and a half minutes to read through it. You could do that theoretically once a day, frightening as it may be. Let's pray. Well, Father, as we approach your word in this delightful, encouraging, strengthening letter from the Apostle Paul. May we understand his intent as well as the direction that the Spirit put upon him to not only write the letter, but that which is in his heart. May we, Father, find understanding in our own hearts, as your Spirit would lead us to grab these truths, and they might have application in our hearts, in our day, in our lives. And we rejoice in what you can do and what you shall do in Christ's name. Amen. I think I trust you'd all agree with me that whatever the results of this upcoming tribunal on Tuesday, it's not going to affect the lives of people for the most part. You're still going to have trials You're still going to have struggles, you're still going to cry, you're still going to have pain, you're still going to have all types of tribulations, not only here, but around the globe Changing of political parties, the rise and fall of a president or a prime minister or kings and queens have occurred and will continue to occur And for the most part, even if I get a new job or if I get a pay raise or I graduate or I get a clean bill of health, none of these things will remove the spiritual battles that are going to take place It's part of life. It's part of what we have. We're in a spiritual battle, and it requires us to pray for one another. The necessity of that which we live in here in this earth, from the time of Adam up until this very moment, requires such. Let me read a little from another prison epistle of Paul's Ephesians 6, he says, finally, my brethren, kind of a summary of what he's written, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places Wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand, to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand And familiar with Ephesians 6, you know, he then he goes on to the various pieces of armor that's listed there. But he concludes with this statement in verse 18: praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication. Pray for all saints. The spiritual battle is evident. Paul's admonition to the Ephesians and to us is something that we've heard again and again. Yet the principle comes out is if all of this armor that we put on, all the things we're to do, he says, praying always for all saints. The principle of intercessory prayer cannot be escaped. How important is intercessory prayer in respect of the spiritual battle that's waging against the church? And I say the church, I mean individual believers, they are the church I don't think we can emphasize it enough. Yet will we stand against spiritual forces of darkness? I don't know. Different places in the history of the church finds that some did and some did not. We need to understand that God has designed the church in such a way that intercessory prayer is vital Absolutely, absolutely most important for us to do such for our mutual spiritual success. We have a duty as Christians to pray for one another. If we fail to do that duty, if we fail to grasp onto that responsibility, the church will suffer. Are we fulfilling that duty? I don't know. I trust we are. Hopefully the answer is yes. But intercessory prayer needs to go beyond the principle of the thought, the practice of duty. There are times when we get to say, oh, this is my duty, I've got to pray. Brother Tim gets up there and he says, So and so, would you pray? Oh, it's my duty, I've got to do it. But in intercessory prayer, it comes down to the principle that I have to have a passion for it I have to love to pray in intercessory prayer. I've got to have a heart for me to do it. This is my sincere desire in performing such This is the prayer we find in Philippians 1, 9 through 11 that Paul gives. Before we go there, though, I want to just briefly make a review. Need to remember what Paul is dealing with here in these Philippians, the relationship that he had with them. Verse 3, he talks about how thankful he was for the memories. The people. And again, I emphasize the idea that he knew them by individuals, he knew them as families, he knew them by faces. They weren't just, oh I stopped by and I preached there. He his heart was in it. He thanks them for the memories that they had together. Verses four and five Talks about him being thankful for their participation in the gospel from the first day when he first arrived until that very moment. Participation. We talked about the word fellowship, partnership. He says, you people, we partnered together, and and he's 800 miles away. He's in Rome, in jail But we partnered together. And he says, I'm thankful for that. Verse six, he was thankful for the work the Lord had done. In them as individuals and as a group, and that the Lord would complete it until the day of Jesus Christ, until the day they were taken home, or until Jesus returns. Then in verses 7 and 8 he explains why he was so confident that this work was going to continue, why the Lord would complete it. Look with me again here in chapter 1, verse 7. Even as it is meat, in other words, even as it's the right thing, it's appropriate, even as it's meat, appropriate, right for me to think this of you all Because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my bonds, his chains And in the defense and the confirmation of the gospel, ye, you Philippians, are all partakers of my grace. For God is my record. In other words, God's witness. I'm just not talking sweet things, just not giving out religious talk here. God's my record. He's a witness. He knows my heart. How greatly I long after you, all in the bowels of Jesus Christ. And immediately following those words, he says, and this I pray. See how he expresses himself It's not a duty. He says, I love you people. My heart's in you. It's a passion that I have. But I think you'll note in that the prayer that is is coming up here, it's again, it's a deep, sincere love for these Philippians. And what I'm hoping that we'll get the understanding for us is that we as Christians Ask the Lord to give us a heart for the people we pray for. Not as a duty, a responsibility that we have to drudge through and get it done with as fast as we can. I think there's no doubt we see this attitude of Paul not only in the church of Philippi but in the other churches that he goes to. In other words, this wasn't just a unique church. It was unique, but Let me read a couple of other passages from Colossians. He says, We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you. He says, oh I pray for you all the time. Yeah, right. You know, we we use that. Oh I pray for you all the time. Well, when it comes to my mind or when there's an occasion, you know But I can't help but believe that this is Paul says, this is on me. A little bit later, verse 9 of chapter 1. For this cause, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you. and desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding I'm doing it again whenever it comes up. I have a sincere desire to pray for you. And one last verse just shows the idea. 2 Timothy 1. 3. I thank God. whom I serve for my forefathers with a pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee and my prayers night and day. Timothy Whenever I pray, every time, night or day, whenever it is, you come to mine and I pray for you. He he he he he was partnered with him. He was partnered with the Church of Colossae. He was partners with those in Rome. He was partners with the Philippians. And it not as in the sense of duty, I've got to check this off. I prayed for you people. That's done. Now go do something else. Paul had that within his heart. For sure, intercessory prayer is a vital importance of our spiritual health and vitality. And to continue and to be lasting, we have to be motivated by love. We have to be motivated by love Brings us to Paul's prayer here in Philippians, and they ask you if your Bibles are right there. Let's read together verses 9, 10, and 11. Philippians 1, 9, 10, and 11. Together, and this I pray that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment that ye may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God. That is his prayer. Now he writes it down. And obviously this is something that he prayed. Whether it was these exacting words or whatever, we don't know. Why he writes it down, I think, is of emphasis to them, because he's teaching them a lesson about this matter of intercessory prayer So what do we learn from Paul's prayer to the Philippians? Just looking at the text, he is saying, he's praying for that their love would abound. In knowledge and in all judgment, and that's going to lead to what? A life filled with righteousness, the fruit of righteousness. The purpose of my loving prayers for you and that you would apply this is that the fruit of righteous, righteous living will be there with us. So let's break this down with see what Paul was praying for. What I'm hoping takes place is that as we see this, we better understand in the praying for ourselves. and praying for each other. Again, verse 9. This I pray that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment. When we talk about prayers for each other, what do we normally pray for? Well, so-and-so is sick, and so-and-so is needed money, and so-and-so said this, and us, you know But Paul doesn't focus on this. And typically in prayers, he's not praying for a financial situation for the Philippians. And I generally think that they were poor people. Christian church was not, you know, obviously we talked about Lydia and her selling of purple. She had some funds. I think that was important to that, but I don't think that the Christian church in this city at this particular time was wealthy. But he doesn't pray for that. Yeah. He doesn't come in here and he starts praying about the attacks from the enemy And there were no doubt attacks. The Romans, the Jews, everything was against the Christian church He doesn't talk about that. It doesn't mean that he didn't pray for those things at other times. But this prayer, as I'm praying for you, he says, I'm not praying for that. I'm praying for something more important I'm praying for something more purposeful for you. Here he simply wants them to know that he is praying. For one important thing, that their love would abound more more and more in all judgment, in all knowledge. What's Paul praying for? I think it's important for us to understand that Paul says, in this I pray that your love will abound. This love is something that they possess already. They're believers. The love that was given unto them through what Christ had done upon Calvary's cross, the redemption that they received, their understanding, the growth that they've had over these ten years. He says, you have God's love. But he says there's something more for that, for them to understand that they did not generate that love. It's not a love that they could bring out of themselves. It wasn't sourced in them. It was sourced in God, in him alone. This is what we call divine love. He wants God's love, which is the fact that they are enjoying to abound more and more. And the reason he talks about this divine love is the word that he chooses. In the Greek New Testament, there's three words used for love. Uh one is ergo. Um we get the the the the word erotic, uh sexual, pleasureful types of love. That's more of a love of the world. There's phalao Which is a love of friendship. If you travel down to my city or up to my city, you will see that we are a city of brotherly love Don't chuckle at that. But that's where the name comes from. But then the third, which is probably one you've also heard, agape This is the word Paul chooses to refer to the love of God. God's love serves unconditionally. There are no qualifications put upon it ahead of time. This is the way he expresses it. God's love is given and extended in serving others, irregardless of any mitigating circumstances When we talk about relationships with human beings, oh I love him because he loves me. I love him or she loves me because she gave me this, you know. God's love isn't like that Romans 5:8, but God commendeth his love or his agape toward us in that while we were yet what? Sinners. Christ died for us. Now that should have been a mitigating circumstance for him to say, I can't love you because you're a sinner. I can't put my love upon you. I can't redeem you because you're sinners. You're enemies of mine. But that's the agape love that he presents in the text. And that's the agape love that God provided for them. The world is obsessed with its love, Eros, but it's not the love of God. The love comes from the heart of man, and it is in an essence a serving, self-serving, conditional type of love. That's the way it has. I think if there's any doubt to all of this, all we have to look at is the behavior of men Yesterday or yesterday afternoon we headed up to North Jersey for the wedding of a the son of dear friends of ours up there And had a beautiful service, um all in the same facility after the service we had a the reception right there with them. And the service was a a godly representation of the relationship of Christ to this husband and wife. And they talked a lot about love, their love relationship and so forth. in the scripture verses and and the testimonies and so forth. And then even later on in the reception, the the music and the things that they said Uh we're we're absolutely beautiful. It it showed the the the binding of together that is that is there with them And yet for as many times as we have seen couples being brought together speaking about love for one another, in many cases it becomes Nothing more than a bitter conflict, and within months, maybe even years, they're enemies. There's no relationship found with them as being in a love relationship as they thought it would have been Paul is praying that the love that comes from God would abound in them more and more. The God-seated love, the agape love that he was seated within their hearts to bring them to himself. He says, I want this to grow. I want this to be a source of your relationship. I think more to the point how important it is for Our operation in the sphere of God's love. Our day-to-day relationships, our contacts with others. What type of love expressions do we have and are able to use? Listen to 1 Corinthians 13, a familiar passage where in the King James he dis he translates that charity could be translated love. But I'm going to put in the in that space, I'm going to put divine love. Though I speak with tongues of men and angels and have not divine love, I am become as a sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. I'm able to vocalize in such a way that people say, boy, what a fantastic order, what a sweet sweet word, what a sweet talk it is. And he says, if I can do all of that But if I don't have God's love, my words are just like a ding ding ding ding ding, you know, worthless And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains. And have not divine love, I am nothing. Well, talk about a powerful spiritual person, you know I know the Bible, hand it out. I can you know I can quote this, I can I know all of the doctrines. I can I have so much faith, I can say to that mountain, move, and it's going to move because God has ordained it so. But he says, if I don't have divine love He says, I have absolutely nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor And though I give my body to be burned and have not divine love, it profets me nothing. The ultimate sacrifice that man gives. If I'm not doing it out of divine love, it's absolutely worthless. If our so-called good works are not a result of a heart that is being controlled by divine love, a selfless, unconditional love then indeed they have no value in God's sight. They are worthless. So when we pray for ourselves and for another, a very good place to begin is in the area of love. Not a conditional love, but the unconditional love that God has generated within our hearts. The love that God has provided, generated by the Spirit in ourselves, that we become a living sacrifice It seems far-fetched. It seems unattainable. And yet Paul expresses this out of his own personal testimony. Now, God doesn't only want us to love in our present lives, he also wants us to love abounding. He wants this love to continue to grow and grow. I recognize what God's done for me. He's redeemed me. He's saved me. I have his love within me. But he says now, he says, I want that love to abound To be multiplied, to be growing and growing more and more. Remember the word joy, the theme of the book Here's Jesus, others, and ourselves, or yourself. He says this is indeed the attitude that has to be found. If Christ cannot be first in my life, and then uh love for others and then myself as last, then this whole pattern of relationship, of ministry, of life is not even found within the scriptures themselves. Paul certainly experienced this abounding love during his lifetime. A good example was a letter that he writes to the Church of Thessalonica. He starts out in chapter two and he's talking about he says, You know when we came to you He's been time since he's been in the city When we came to you, we didn't come with uh kind of flattering words and tricky speech, and we didn't present ourselves as something like a salesman, you know. But he says, instead, but we were gentle among you. Even as a nurse cherisheth her children, so being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you not the gospel only, but also our own souls. Because ye were dear to us. Ye remember, brethren, our labor and travail for laboring night and day because we would not be chargeable unto any of you. We preached unto you the gospel of God. You are witnesses. And God also how holy and justly and unblamably we behaved ourselves among you who believe. As that you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father doth his children. That she would walk worthy of God, we have called you unto his kingdom and glory. Paul's love was so abounding. He says, I'm willing to give my life, my our very souls for you people. We would do whatever it takes because of our love for you. That was the kind of love that I think that we could say was following in Jesus' footsteps And if you know anything about Paul, he talks also about his love for the Jewish people. Romans chapter 9. I say this truth to Christ. I lie not. My conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost that I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart. For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh, who are Israelites. He was redeemed out of that bondage. He was brought to a place of enlightenment where he understood salvation was not of any works that he was bound to, but through grace by faith. And now he says, I love my Israelite friends, my brethren so much that if I could be cut off from Christ, accursed from Christ, I would do it because of them, because of what I desire for them. How about ourselves? How about our brothers and sisters of Christ? Do we seem that same dynamic worked out? There are times we have empathy towards uh I remember when the war first started with Ukraine and Russia and a lot of words came out about the churches, Ukrainian churches that were there and the brethren that were suffering. Well we have empathy for them. Love to hear what's going on and all of a sudden that just kind of kind of disappeared. The attacks that occurs in Israel last October We have an empathy, we have a feeling towards the the the people of God who are there, even the churches and the other brethren are there. But now it's just kind of backed off a little bit Is our love and the love for others, brothers and sisters of Christ, abounding more and more? Is it growing or does it get watered down? I trust the answer is we are growing. So what should we be praying for? We should be praying that our love and the love for our brothers and sisters in Christ would abound more and more. But just because we possess divine love, if I'm a believer, I possess that divine love that God has given. And that love might be abounding more and more doesn't necessarily mean that we've arrived, that we've made it It's one thing to possess the love of God and it's quite another thing to express it properly. How many times in our lives are we willing to do whatever's necessary to care for somebody else and yet we just don't know what to do? I have that heart feeling for them, but I just don't know what to do. This is also in Paul's prayer request. He's praying just not for a love and a love that would be a divine love and a love that would abound more and more. But he says that he prayeth more and more in what? Two things. In Knowledge? What's the other one? Judgment. And all judgment. He says, I'm praying that your love is just not thrown out there, but he says, I want it to be in Knowledge and judgment. I think better translated, if we love it properly, it would be in knowledge and full knowledge and real knowledge and in discernment. So what does Paul mean by real or full knowledge? When you think about it, the Christian can have an out understanding of knowledge in the Word of God. Tell me about what it means to be saved. And the person can go through the Romans road and talk about this is how you come to know Jesus Christ. You know, oh, okay, that's good. But what if the person has never experienced sitting there with somebody else and talking about it and witnessing to them to be able to see that? He can do all of those things without the experiential knowledge of explaining it. Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you, writes Peter. Somebody could say, I see somebody who is really troubled, hearts really trimmed, casting all your care upon him for he careth for you. Great verse, and that person can be picked up with it. But what if the person who's explaining it has never really experienced casting their care upon the Lord because God cares for them? Both principles are the same. Both can teach it. The babe in Christ and the mature believer. But the difference is the mature believer says experience the love of God. He's experienced the care that God has given. And when he comes and he says this to you, he says, I have all knowledge. In other words, I not only know what's being said here, but I know it because I've experienced that. How much of the love of God have we experienced? Really felt? How much of what God's word has presented to us can we say, I've tested it, and this is true, it's faithful. This is honest by God's word. When the Christian has put the word of God into practice in his life, Then he's got what Paul is talking about. And again, it's the difference between a young convert and a matured believer. The young convert hasn't had the time to long and long enough in life to be assured of all that the Word of God has, but the mature believer does. Do you remember in Acts The Apostle Paul was starting out his second missionary journey and and he comes along and and Barnabas is with him and all of a sudden he says, uh, uh let's bring along John Mark, you know, the young guy And John Mark's coming along and Paul says, no, I don't want him along with me. And Barnabas says, no, he's actually he's Barnabas' nephew And he says, uh, no, let's have him alone. He says, no, do you remember what happened on the first missionary journey? We got part way down the road and all of a sudden John Mark got scared and he went home. Here's the young believer, the immature believer, and and Paul says, I don't want that along. He hasn't experienced all of the things that we're going to test and try and so forth But later on that division ended up working for their profit because John Mark goes with Barnabas and he learns from Barnabas and Paul goes on with Silas to make it their own journey. This is what he's talking about to the Philippian saints. He says, I don't want you to just have a head knowledge of the love of God, and it may abound more and more. But he says, I want you to experience what God has done in yourself. So when you give a testimony, this is what God has done, this is what God can do, because I've tasted it, I've seen it I've walked with it. It's been part of my life. That's the real knowledge that Paul is asking that they would pray for How important is it to know the Lord in this way? And as a result to discipline ourselves to spend more time with him in his word and prayer. I can repeat, I can just pour out stuff like taking a test. Well this fills in this blank and this fills in this blank. I know in my head and I know in my heart it's true But to experience it, to go into God's word and say, this is what he's saying. Lord, help me to understand this. I'm going through this trial. I'm going through this tribulation. I've had this windfall. It's been a blessing. Now, how do I go and where do you want me to take this? Yes, I want my love to abound more and more. Yes, I want my love to abound more and more in real knowledge. And may that be that which will guide and shapen us. The last part in this prayer, he has one more thing. He says, in real knowledge and also in all judgment. Again, the better word to use in here would be discernment. The word best translated discernment, that their love might abound yet more and more in real knowledge. experiential knowledge of what God's word says and discernment. The literal translation of that word means senses. that I understand I and we've used the word before. You can you discern what this means? What do your senses say Let me read a little story from Pastor David Curtis, experience that occurred in his church a number of years ago. Years ago, a man came into our church looking for a place to stay. And I told him that we supported the Union Mission and that I would be glad to take him down to the mission. He responded by telling me that he couldn't stay at the mission because he needed a private room. I told him that that's all he could do, that I take him to the mission, that's the best I could do The man's response was, I thought Christians are supposed to love. I said, we are. But we're not supposed to be suckers. That paraphrase was discernment. This made him angry, and he got violent. He ended up calling the police and he was taken to jail. We need to be discerning. Feeding and putting up with a person who is too lazy to work does not help them. Do you know what God's cure for slothfulness is? Hunger. If a man's hungry, then let him work for it. Discernment. The situation, this is how God's given me this love and and he can say, okay, yes, we're to love you and we'll give you whatever you need, but that wasn't discernment. He prayed with all knowledge and an understanding of what God's word is presenting. And these is, Paul says, you Philippians, this is how you're to live. This is the direction you're to go. People who don't understand this doctrine of discernment, well, in practical application, they don't have a deep knowledge. So your love is controlled by your theology and your discernment by the practical application of theology. We can take all types of things out of context in your Bible, but a practical application of what you know is right in the Bible will help you to make the right decisions and the right choices in life. Friends, we're in a spiritual battle. We need to pray for ourselves and pray for others, but pray with a heart of love. A divine love that God has placed in us, that it would abound more and more and more and more, that it would continue to grow To affect every single decision that we make, every single choice, every single application and relationship. But beyond this, prayer needs to be a prayer of love, of divine love With all real knowledge and discernment. It's a good place for our prayers to begin. Will you do that for yourself? We do that for each other. I have a duty to pray for my wife. That's because we're husband and wife, you know. Pray for my children, my grandchildren, you know. Beyond that, do I have a duty to pray for others? Yes, to pray for believers. But do I have a passion? Do I have a love for the believer, the lost, those who have needs? I have to ask God to do that. I have to bring me to a place like Paul for him to say, I'm in jail, I'm in prison, but the relationship that I have is so effectual That as I pray this, I want you to understand it too, that even in my absence, you continue to grow in that relationship. That's what we need to do. That's the principle laid before us. Pray for our brothers and sisters in Christ. Let's pray. Father, we close these few verses, a little simple prayer, a few words. from Paul to a church long ago, far away. And yet the words affect us in our hearts today because we know the all scripture is given By your hand, and it is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness, that the man of God may be thoroughly furnished unto all good works. May our works be supplied by your love that is born within our hearts. And may they be multiplied by the love that your Spirit can give us. Help us to pray and to live with all knowledge, knowing what your word says and how we can best apply it. And then in application, may your spirit lead us to a right discernment of the actions of those things that are within our hearts to pray for. Lord, this is not easy. We live in a world of tremendous upheaval. Our souls are wrenched by the spiritual warfare that continues on all around us and around this globe. And we know not what to do except come to you. May Father Paul's prayer feed our hearts this day and throughout the coming weeks. In Christ's name. Amen.