It's been a long winter. Let's pray. Our Father, we're thankful that as we approach the Word, we first recognize that it is indeed the Word of God. It stands faithful to what it says. It provides us with light to our path. It gives us truth and encouragement. It shows us where we have erred and brings us back to a righteous understanding of our life. It brings to us the truth of creation, the earth-sustaining power throughout all the universe. This tells us especially of the sin of mankind and brings us to the climax of our our life and the salvation offered to us through Jesus Christ, your Son, our Savior. Thank you for the letters that are here before us even today. The writings of Paul and his provision to a church far away. Nonetheless, the words speak and have spoken truth to generations of believers over the years, and even may it do such with us today. May Father we tackle these issues with an open heart and trusting in your Spirit to guide us. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. I know each of us, if we're totally honest with ourselves as professing Christians, that we'd admit that there are some things that we surely are not appreciative of that we are, that we'd like to have changed There are some things in our lives that we don't want to be there, but they are, and there's some things that are in our life that are there and we need them to be there. things that would make our lives better, things that would make the lives of those around us better. But who's responsible for those changes? Self-examination. We're not talking about somebody else. We're talking about ourselves. Who's responsible for changes in life? The theological term we use is sanctification. Sanctification. Shorter catechism says that sanctification is a work of God's free grace. whereby we are renewed, made new, in the whole man, in the image of God, and are enabled more and more To die unto sin and to live unto righteousness. In other words, change. We are enabled by the grace of God to make change, changes in our life. Are we responsible for those changes or is God responsible? That's kind of the question before us. More so is God responsible or are we responsible for this work of sanctification, bringing us from what we had been to bringing us to the pre people He would have us to be? If you look in your text, chapter 2 and verses 12 and 13, we consider this issue. The apostle writes, Wherefore, my beloved, and that's beautiful, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only. But now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Those two verses introduce a second time of Paul's introduction of to what he had mentioned earlier. We talked about this in chapter 1, verse 27. He said, only let your conversation be as becometh the gospel of Christ. In other words Paul gives these two issues, chapter one and now in chapter two, of being more like the believer, being more like Christ. The changes that were necessary in your life. So here it is in verse 12. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Paul wants to make sure that those professing believers in Philippi understood clearly what had happened to them when Jesus saved them. talking about the role responsibility of believers in sanctification. Wherefore, my beloved brethren If ye have always obeyed not in my presence only, but much so or in my absence, work out your own salvation. The key is what? Working out your own salvation But kindly note here that what he's saying, he's not saying working for your salvation. And some people get confused with that. There is no effort upon us that is ever able to be acceptable by God to be saved to work. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace are ye saved through what? Through faith, not works. It's an issuance of the relationship that we have with God. Not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works Lest any man should boast. If it is any work, he said, then you'd be boasting, but it's not. It is God's gift So salvation is a gift of God that must be received as we received any other gift, understood in this case by faith. Nothing else is required, and hopefully everyone here this morning, in this room or online, has found some time in your life and past convinced that you were a sinner. Sometime in your life that you understood truly that you had no way to save yourself Hopefully anyone has come to the point in time that you recognize that you were in such a miserable state, not only because of your sinful condition, but the consequences of that miserable state. And you desired to be set free from all of that, recognizing you could not do it yourself, and that you took the free gift of God, believing in Jesus Christ, God's only begotten Son. the one to whom he paid the price, doing that which we could not do, paying the debt for our sin. I trust that's something that has been part of your life. So if working out our salvation doesn't require anything on our part, For our salvation, what then does it mean? Working out our salvation means that we exert the necessary effort to live out a life of obedience. Consistently with a gift of salvation that has been received. I receive salvation gracious gift of God freely. Now my responsibility is to work that out in my life. Again, verse 12 begins, wherefore, my beloved brethren, as ye have always obeyed Not as in my presence only, but much more in my absent. Paul says, boy, I'm thinking about you people, and you were an obedient group. We we w they were together a number of times, sometimes for extended periods of of of time. And he says, the relationship that you had with the word and dealing with your sin and the relationships with others, you were obedient to that. But now he says, even in my absence, I'm in prison, some 800 miles away, and I write, understanding these things, and you were even stronger in your obedience at that time. When Paul left the Philippian church finally imprisoned, he recognized that they needed to step up. It happens in churches at times. Shifts of leaderships in other situations occur. And it's a kind of situation that People have to step up in obedience to the work of the gospel in order to see things accomplished. So what kind of effort did Paul expect from these Philippians, and what kind of effort does the Spirit of God, as he writes this, expect of us in this situation. The verb work out in the Greek is actually a very strong and consistent word. Work out Think of some guy in the gym and he's really way on the iron and is exercising so spiritually. This is a workout, a very heavy effort in such Are we being passive in respect to our obedience? Are we being layback in respect to our salvation? Salvation comes in three forms. It's the initial gift of salvation when I make that profession of faith. I accept Christ, the work that He did on the cross. Salvation in the second stage is my sanctification. I'm working it out. And then finally, ultimately, salvation is the the day that I'm in glory. I finally culminate with seeing Jesus all those years waiting for him. If you see that you are an impatient person, for example, what are you doing to change? Think of all of the things that we need to change in life that God wants us to be like Jesus Christ, the work of the Spirit working in us. And for example, if it's a matter of impatience Have you understood the issues that is there? Are you exerting any effort to search out the scriptures for help? Lord, this is a problem that I've got. What saith the scriptures And then as I find those scriptures that are necessary to help me in that, am I memorizing them? A key to be able to overcome part of that which is necessary for me to work out my salvation, am I memorizing them Am I prayerfully considered how that's going to be applied in my life? Am I considering how that will improve my walk with him? And am I committing to a faithful examining of the scriptures in light finding out more about what patience is in Scripture? I was thinking of another example. Are you a negative or a critical or a judgmental person? What are you doing to make changes? Are you searching the scriptures for what the scriptures speak about? The issues that they bring light to your life? Are you searching out those things for the matters of this area of weakness and are you memorizing scripture? The scripture that helps me to do that which is necessary in God's sight to rid myself of these things? And are you committed to prayerfully examining your life in light of what the Word of God says And learning about being negative and critical and judgmental. Based upon what we've learned here in verse 12, who is responsible for making the people of God the way he wants them to be? God wants us to be perfected, like Christ, the working out of our salvation. Who is responsible to do that? Seeing in another way who's responsible for our salvation, our sanctification. Based on chapter 2, verse 12, we are responsible for our sanctification, for living out A life that Christ would have us to live. It's nobody else's fault but me. It's not your mother's fault, it's not your father's fault. It's not your husband's fault, it's not your Weiswort It's not the school that you went to. It's not the understanding of anything else, but it is your fault for not doing it. It's your fault alone. Yes, God is going to do his work. I want to read to you a little story out of the Old Testament, a familiar one. Where the children of Israel have just fled from Egypt and they're being pursued by the Egyptian army. It's one that's been portrayed in flannel graphs and in movies and everything else, you know. Who was it? Child and Hestan? Who is the Moses? Yeah, yeah, you can see him on that, you know. Chapter 14 of Exodus, verse 10, and when Pharaoh drew nigh The children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold the Egyptians marched after them, and they were sore afraid, and the children of Israel cried out unto the Lord And they said unto Moses, Because there are no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken away us to die in the wilderness? Wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us to carry us forth out of Egypt? Is not this the word? that we have that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians. For it had been better to serve the Egyptians than we are to die here in the wilderness Moses said unto the children of Israel, Fear not, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he drew, which he shall show thee this day For the Egyptians whom ye have seen this day, ye shall see them no more forever. The Lord shall fight for you and shall hold your peace. At this point, who's responsible for their deliverance? The Lord. The Lord. They called unto him. Moses calls unto him, brings out the great facts of those things. Actually, Moses says, stand by and see the salvation of the Lord. You remember how the scene goes. You know, the waters open up, they cross on dry land to the other side, and the Egyptian army comes out and whoo Down they go. Actually there's been some remarkable archaeology found recently, or fairly recently, of chariots, pieces of chariots in the Red Sea, just as they had been uh from that day. That's a marvelous picture. A wonderful thing that the children of Israel, all they had to do is just stand by and watch what the Lord do did put their hands in their pockets and just say, all right, Lord, deliver us. We would think that would be the answer of all But that's not the end of the story. Verse 15. And the Lord said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me, speak unto the children of Israel that they may go forward But lift thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and divide it, and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea. Yeah, God is going to do something pretty spectacular. A miracle for absolutely sure. fully dependent upon him to deliver the children of Israel with this great provision, and exerting a great effort for them to cross from one side of the Red Sea to the other All right. Let's ask the question. If the people of Israel chose not to go forward, whose responsibility would it have been for their destruction? God was going to deliver them. But the children of Israel had to get up and they had to walk. They had to go from one side of the Red Sea to the other. They had to do it. If they were to say, well, God's going to save us, God could have incinerated the Egyptian army. He could have gone, psh, you know, and that was that would have been it But he didn't. He brought them to the place where they had to work out their own salvation. God provided, but they had to do that which was necessary The importance for us responding to this command therefore and responding to Paul's concern has serious consequences. Understanding in our own hearts and lives. Look again, verse 12. But this time look at the very first word, therefore. Therefore. So in other words, when you see the word therefore in Scripture or wherefore, you have to say what came before? So we have a therefore and a wherefore. Make sense? You look before that and get the understanding. So they are to work out their own salvation. It's a Christian necessity in response to the exaltation of Christ. Why do it? Why am I to work on my own salvation? Because, therefore, the exaltation of Christ. If your Bibles were open, look back to verse 9 of chapter 2. Wherefore, there's another wherefore in there, in light of the humiliation of Christ, and we saw all those passages before, because he was humiliated God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven, of things in earth, things under the earth And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Now, verse 12, first word, wherefore? In light of the exaltation of Christ, the verses we just read, 9 through 11, wherefore, because of those things Philippians, in us as believers, we are to exert a strong, consistent effort to be obedient in life. Why? Because of what Jesus had done for us. He humbled himself, took upon himself our sins, and then he was exalted And because of his exaltation, we have a responsibility to be obedient to those things that are set before us. How can we confess that Jesus is Lord and say that we have bowed a knee to him when in actuality we haven't? I just resist. I do what I want. I think what I want. It isn't true in my life. There's a problem. This understanding helps us to appreciate the next part of the verse. Verse 12, wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, Not always in my presence, but much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Fear and trembling. Two qualifiers there. The apostle used first of all the word fear. In the Greek it's phobos, where we get what? Phobia. It's a powerful, strong word, an understanding of increased intensity. And then the word that follows it, he emphasizes it even more Tremble, tromos in the Greek. It means to shake involuntarily with fear and excitement. We get the word trauma in the English. So he says, fear and trembling. He says there's a presence that is before you of responsibility, and you need to look at it seriously, believer. Understand what it is. The words very graphically show the depth and the fear that Paul wants us to feel working out our salvation. In other words, to live it out in a life of obedience Paul says it is necessary to do such. Listen to Matthew chapter seven. 21 to 23, not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that Doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many shall say in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name cast out devils And in thy name done many wonderful things, many wonderful works, and then I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, thee that work iniquity. We need to work out our own salvation with fear and trembling because there are those who are deceived in their own thinking. by their own religious activity. You know, I cast out demons, we've done this, they prophesied in such and such and such and such. And they are self-deceived No bowing the knee to Christ. They fail to demonstrate that they have bowed the knee to Christ in obedience and lifestyle. Makes me think, looking at what Jesus has done for me, what am I to do for him? Do I continue in the same old path of what I was? There's got to be change. We need to take this obedient lifestyle seriously. And we need to think about it and talk about it seriously. to produce a healthy fear. And there's nothing wrong with that. We're not talking about fearing like we fear here in this relationship so going into a part of a city that we uh don't like to go. But this is a fear of I'm coming before a holy God. Let me read again the first nine verses of our responsive reading this morning and a good understanding of of this relationship. The psalmist says, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord and he heard me, delivered me from all my fears. They looked upon him and were lightened, and their faces were not ashamed. The poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. The angels of the Lord camped around about them that fear him and deliver him. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. O fear the Lord, O fear the Lord, O fear the Lord, ye his saints For there is no want or no lacking to them that fear him. Tim mentioned Granny's favorite verse, you know. Now in this matter of trusting in the Lord, and there were so many occasions uh there at the hospital up at at Riddle that they said uh she had been in there a number of times for her hip replacement for her re hip replacement, um, some other issues and so forth, and and all of a sudden the people would start to look her up. You know, where is where is oh you you remember me from umpteen years ago, you know. And she'd start out a verse and the person would go back and they respond to the verse. Respond to it. That's my trust in the Lord. My belief that, oh, I have this is my life. I'm just entrusting my life into Him. Fearful, but no. No fearful. Brethren, we need to consider our walk as not being sufficient as it is right now. The work of the Spirit of God is a work of sanctification changing each of us, enabling us to do it. But we have to want to do it. We have to see what's there before me, and this is not pleasing in God's sight. This is not I'm not doing that which I should, or I am doing things which I should not I need to go to God's Word and find where He brings me to some clarification as to that particular issue and allow me to deal with it and asking Him for grace and help. Paul's first concern is working out our salvation. I think if we have a healthy fear of the Lord, we can make a consecrated effort and on a consistent basis to live more obediently. I answer to him. I answer to him at all times. And one day we will stand before him. Give an account of what we've done. May we continue to love the Lord Jesus who died for us. But always in fear of the Lord, because he is exalted on the right hand of the Father even now. May we do such in our hearts. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for the blessings of the challenges of life. And the world in which we live, a world that hates you, despises your name. seeks to bring down that which is so pure and true and always has been. May we understand that we are your representatives, your ambassadors We are children of the Most High God. Not to be satisfied with what we have been or what we are now, but to strive in the process of sanctification again. working out our salvation, to leave those things behind, whatever it is in particular, to set them aside and allow the word and the promises that you've given to strengthen our resolve to live for you. And then, Father, as we go forward, that we would find grace in your sight to be the men and women that you would have us to be. We thank you for it in Christ's name. Amen.