This morning is basically our journey with Moses, going from his objections to the miracles that were set before He and King Pharaoh, and now we're in the midst of some very difficult times for the Egyptians, which is incredible. So last week the qu the question in your homework was what are do you if you remember what is the fifth and the sixth plagues? Anybody remember? I gave a clue, if you see I if you have your uh your bulletin, a moraine and a blame. It does rhyme. So I thought that was a pretty good title. Moraine and blame. There's fifth and fixed Plagues we're going to look at this morning. And if you don't remember them now, you'll know in a few minutes, so it's no problem. Exodus chapter 9, picking up in verse 1. We see here how once again the Lord said unto Moses, let's go, in Exodus chapter 9, verses 1 to 12. Then the Lord said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh and tell him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews: Let my people go, that they may serve me. For if thou refuse to let them go, and will hold them still, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thy cattle, which is in the field, upon the horses, upon the asses. upon the camels, upon the oxen, and upon the sheep, there shall be a very grievous moraine. And the Lord shall sever between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt And there shall nothing die of all that is the children of Israel. And the Lord appointed a set time, saying, Tomorrow the Lord shall do this thing in the land. And the Lord did that thing on the morrow, and all the cattle of Egypt died, but of the cattle of the children of Israel died not one. And Pharaoh sent, and behold, there was not one of the cattle of the Israelites dead. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people go. That was not very wise. And the Lord said unto Moses and unto Aaron, Take to you handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward the heaven in the sight of Pharaoh. And it shall become small dust in the land of Egypt, and shall be a boil breaking forth with blames upon man and upon beasts throughout all the land of Egypt. And they took ashes of the furnace And stood before Pharaoh, and Moses sprinkled it up toward the heaven, and it became a boil breaking forth with blames upon man and upon beast. And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boil was upon the magicians and upon all the Egyptians. And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not unto them as the Lord had spoken unto Moses. Well, there's a lot of questions here. One, what is wrong with Pharaoh? What is wrong with that man's head? that he would defy God at such a superlative degree, and I can say that from a Hebrewism, because whenever you say something once, you need to listen to that. When it's said twice in the Old Testament, both ears, you better be listening to it. When it says three times, like holy, holy, holy in Isaiah chapter 6, is the Lord God Almighty, you better really listen to it, because that's in the highest approval degree. But we see the Lord telling Moses over and over to tell Pharaoh more than three times, let my people go. And that is what's pro of the problem with many people today. I can tell you I was one of them growing up. One of my hardest things on my report card says does not follow directions And that means people have a problem with listening. Well, we sang this morning what Pharaoh's problem is. Fools won't be shown. The stupid can't accept this truth to him unknown. That's what the problem was. The four plagues had their own unique composition, orchestrated and perfectly designed by God, would slowly penetrate the rock solid hardness of wicked King Pharaoh, only enough to eventually let Jehovah's people go by his appointment of Moses. Now you might be asking this morning, what in the world was that if you were paying attention? What was the responsive reading about this morning? Why Zachariah? What does that have to do with Acts? I mean I'm sorry, Exodus chapter nine. What does that have to do? Well you should see verse 15 talks about exactly what this is a messianic prophecy. What Christ Himself will do to those that rise up against Jerusalem. God help Palestine right now. I wouldn't want to be them for nothing. Hamas I wouldn't want to be them. Cause it right here and shows what's going to happen to them. Says he's going to strip them of their cattle He's going to take everything away from them. This the Lord says way after this deliverance out of Egypt. With the people of Israel, he said this hundreds and hundreds of years after that, and he never goes back on it. He delivered his people. He goes back on that deliverance many times. He spoke All through to the prophets. When you read Christ on the road to Emmaus, when you read Stephen, when he's being stoned by the Jews, he brings this up about the deliverance of the people of Israel out of Egypt. And how are they delivered? Well, they didn't do it on their own. That's the main point. These plagues were all directed for an agenda, for all to see God's ever-present power in systematically opening the door for his chosen Israel to serve him. Nothing would stop it. The objective was to get them out of Egypt, to get them out of pagan worship and to get them into the temple, to teach them What God had expected for them as a master plan and a dominion mandate of obedience to Lord God Jehovah and not to the pagan gods It's amazing how the Lord brought the plagues, the very plagues, each one are attached to a certain form of worship of this Egyptian culture. This plague is yet another attack to the economy of Egypt. It is against the livelihood of the beast. Thus saith the Lord of the Hebrews, You see here, let my people go that they may serve me. If you refuse If you're going to hold them still and you're going to keep the Israelites, get ready. The Lord is saying, get ready. You haven't even begun. Seen the blood in the water, you've seen the flies, the lice You've seen all the other plagues. You haven't seen anything yet, is what he's saying here. We see in verses 1 and 2 that the cattle in the field were the next target. Once again the wrath of God is revealed from heaven, both in his word and his works, against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. It's God's wrath that sends yet another plague that is upon the cattle in the fields. This was not some scientific some s some scientific mess up where it just happened out by chance. This is a divine appointment by God and we see that there's actually a date on the calendar set for it. It's very simple. You didn't need your you didn't need your Google calendar if you were Moses. He said very plainly, Tomorrow this will happen. You know, those that own small businesses depend on their products or services for a living. When the value of the product or service is affected, it then negatively the company suffers. If you take the cattle in the Old Testament The cattle was their stock market. You can even see today in the stock market there are futures and commodities that involve cattle and livestock and sheep, goats. you know, cows and for them, that was it. I don't know if I'm going to get to this yet this morning, but I want to say this. There is an agenda here for the cattle. Basically, Egypt was worshiping the cattle. Israel had cattle, but the objective for Egypt was to worship the cattle. What was the objective for Israel? Yes So look at it this way. You know how down the road basically sacrifices were greatly great just today. Like just like today in America. Do you know that less than four percent of people I'm not talking about citizens of the United States of America. I'm talking about evangelical Christians, less than four percent tithe. And when you get to the 10% thing, it drops even higher the harder than that. What if you look if you want to really grasp these 12 verses and put it into perspective, here's what it is. God had the power, and we're going to look at this in a minute, to take away all of Egypt's cattle All of them. That means the firstborn calves, the bullocks, the highest level of worth of a livestock, all of it was taken away. So is it unreasonable for God when He spares the Israelites' cattle to just ask for one of their best bullocks, just one? When he took away all of Egypt's So if you're an Israelite and you got half a brain and you're listening to Moses, you're going to say, he has a powerful God and he put a moraine on all this cattle. Hey, if I'm gonna give him one every couple times for passover this year, that's not a problem. That's how we are we should be with tithing. We should want to give. Sometimes we don't. Remember old Baptist pastor, he goes, well, of course he's always trying to get money. He was a great guy. He goes, Lord loves a cheerful giver, but he doesn't mind a grumpy giver every now and then He used to say that. But that's what happens. The cattle was worshipped by Egypt. And that is basically the fruition of God's wrath on them saying, You're not going to worship me. I'll take it all The people of Israel, I'm gonna let you keep your cattle, but let's see what you do with it. Are you gonna obey me? He expects it Isn't it amazing that only the cattle in verse 3 in the field of Egypt Look at verse 3 And the Lord shall sever between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt, and there shall nothing die of all that is the children of Israel. There was a land of Goshen around their cattle. This cattle of Israel, there wasn't not even one scratch on their cattle Nothing would happen to them. How is that possible when a moraine is an infectious disease and it's very contagious? It actually can be transferred to people and it can kill them. How's that possible? I guess that was another scientific faux pas, right? Apparently stabled livestock did not succumb to the pestilence. There were some cattle still alive after the plague, although most had died. There were some, but for the most part, they had been hit with the disease and most they were killed. The cattle were gathered, they were gathered, and horses had been brought over in the years. There's all kinds of different ways of looking at the types of animals that Egypt had. Egypt during the Hyksos period in 1700 BC. Camels had also been domesticated many years prior. Camels at this point were sporadically used. Widespread use of camels did not take place It was possible that merchant traders from Arabia with their cannibals were referred to here, and this is around this time period. What I'm trying to say is there was so much different livestock, there were so many different ways that Egypt used them I mean you could not even today to get into the desert on some of the mountainous terrain, you have to have a camel in order to get around. This livestock was for eating, it was for transportation, it was for plowing fields, it was for hauling carts It was for irrigation. There were so many things that the livestock was important for, and Egypt would lose them tomorrow, as of verse 5. Egypt depended heavily upon these animals for their economy, just as they had depended on the Nile River when it was turned into blood blood, and we see the frogs, the lice, and the flies had been God's instrument of wrath, and now he's going after their economy even as hard. We were just talking a couple minutes ago about how the Egyptians worship their cattle. Listen to this The athus bull was a sacred animal of the Egyptian god Patah. Pta was to be the leader of the opening-of-the mouth ceremony performed by priests to release souls from their corpses. Ta had manifested himself in the aphist bull according to the Egyptian myths. This was proof that Egyptians worship the cattle. This was a grim reminder of Egyptians Egyptians' worship worship of cattle How it showed their disobed disobedience. You know what's so sad about this? What was this shape? of the idol that the Israelites would worship when poor Moses was way up there on the mountain with the thunder coming down and he sp His head is is just illuminating with with this bright light and he's up there speaking to God and as Lisa brought up this morning there was a Border around the base of the mountain you were not supposed to penetrate. Moses goes down and what are they all dancing around naked? A golden calf. Where do you think they got that from? That's bad. And we can see how Israel many times was was going after by the Lord very harshly. We see that this was the hand of the Lord immediately. We see the stretching of Aaron's rod was upon the cattle, and what followed was his hard pestilence. Egypt made Israel impoverished. Now God Almighty would strike down the wealth of Egypt once again. And this one hurt terribly because wealth had not been restored since then. This was the beginning of the end for their economy I mean what happens eventually? Pharaoh ten times defies God and says, I will not let your people go. Then finally he does And then if he's not hardened enough, he takes 600 crazy horsemen to go after God's people and he winds up drowning in the very sea the Lord parts. I mean this never stopped. You fight God, you're going to lose And the what the and the first way that you start understanding how to not fight God is to believe that He exists. That seems to be the going, the the going uh the going uh uh lesson today in the country, it's not even doctrine anymore. It's movies that say God is real. I mean it's now we have to go all the way back to square one proving that we're not we don't come from apes or primordial slime, that we come from a Transcendent God. Well, hand of the Lord is upon thy cattle. We see here that there's a separation here as revealed to us as readers. The cattle refers to the cattle of Egypt, and then you see the cattle of Israel Here the word you're here is the dividing line between Israel, God's people. You are my people, and Egypt is not my people. We see that word When God's judgments fall on the righteous and the wicked, he makes a great distinction that they are not the same to be the one or that they are treated the same as the pagans Many times God came after his people, but at the end of him coming after them, he restored them. Now there's a couple of tough stories we know about. One is Jonah. He was punished for fleeing Tarsus. He did not want the Gentiles to come into the household of faith. He was furious. But Isaiah said that there will be Gentiles who were going to be brought into the household of faith. Jonah missed that. He defied God, and what happens? He became part of the vomit of a big fish. And that fish was an absolute instrument of salvation, or else he'd drown to death. And so that's what happened to Jonah. There was a good ending. Well, you could say that maybe this was not a very good ending for one Israelite, but it was for another. Remember in Joshua 7, when about Achan, when Achan stole the riches on the battlefield And hid them under the tent. God had Joshua stone him and his whole family and burn them and put stones over them. Joshua was he he didn't know what to think. They had lost 30,000 of their soldiers And he didn't know what was going on. And the Lord said, Go into Achan's tent. You'll figure out why I told you not to take one piece of silver. Don't touch it. Don't take any of it. Achan took it And once his family, once that was, and the Lord told them to do it, then they be restored. The Lord did restore them. He didn't damn Israel all the way to complete destruction. Here we see Israel's cow cow cattle was separated Most likely they had been taken to separate stables, perhaps. They were definitely protected. And the Lord, we see in verse 4, and the Lord shall sever between cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt. This additional declaration on the safety of Israel's cattle was underscored what was to come to pass with the wicked of Egypt's army being destroyed and the people of Israel restored. I love Psalm 36, verses 5 and 6, and it describes the righteous mercy of God and the distinction of his judgments. In Psalm 36, verse 5 and 6, we read. Thy mercy, O Lord, is in the heavens, and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds. Thy righteousness is like the great mountains, thy judgments are a great deep. O Lord, thou preservest. Man and beast, thus confirming who has the power over man and beast. This verse perfectly describes what happens to Israel. He preserves man and beast. Now, I'd like to take a look here at this word moraine. We see in verse three. Just be patient with me on this because there's a lot to this. First of all, this verse perfectly describes what happened to Israel. He preserved man and beasts, what we just read. Pharaoh was warned. He was warned, and not only was he warned that the cattle would be affected, but that they would be affected tomorrow in verse 5. This plague was perfectly on schedule for tomorrow. That was the schedule appointment of this dreadful plague. Now, before I go into the next part of this The question is, when the Lord said it would happen to tomorrow, what did that mean? It would happen tomorrow. Did it I think that's really good evidence and the infallible proofs that God says what He says He's going to do is going to come to fruition without any shadow of turning or any doubt. Here's what I love about the King James Bible. This is going to be my plug for the King James Bible for today. This is what I love about it. The NIV calls verse 3 and says in verse 3 that there shall be a very grievous rain, a terrible plague. That doesn't quite cut it for me. The contemporary English version says it's a disease. The national or the NAS new American standard, a severe pestilence. The ESV calls it a severe plague. You know what I love about the King James Bible? I love the words. Moraine. That gets your attention. Oh, it's a plague, it's a pestilence. Okay. It's a moraine. Well, there's a reason why that word's there. We're going to look at that and see how important that is. We see that this plague is coming from God's Word, and his word is sure and endureth forever. In 1 Peter chapter 125, we read, But the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. This plague happened because God said it would. The moraine was a fatal and extremely contagious disease that killed the cattle. Listen to the word moraine. And you're going to this will be a little bit familiar to you in a minute. It's from the Middle English word moraine, M-O-R-E-Y-N, from Middle French Maureen, M-O-R-I-N-E. And Anglo-Norman moraine, moraine from the medieval Latin morticinium, or from the words mortician and mortality come from that, ultimately from a form of the Latin word morior, M-O-R-I-O-R. Now, listen to this. Does it sound like this with plague, pestilence, or disease? What does the word moraine mean? Take the first three letters and you get the word mortician, mortality, mortify. That word means that there was death. And what this also means with the word moraine is that somewhere, somehow, God brought death upon these people. See if you just arbitrarily say from these other translations, which I really struggle with, ah, it was a great disease, it was a pestilence. You can live through a pestilence. Okay? We've been living through a pestilence for the last three and a half years. There's this there's this coronavirus. You can live through that. But when you see a moraine, the word, the first, the prefix M-U-R, the Lord said this was death, and this was his wrath coming down. How could only the cattle of a specific chosen people not be touched? How could some die and some not? Could science explain this? Science, one of the reasons that the theological uh the the non-godly theological theologians, they say scientists have explained this plague plague by being a product of the Nile River turning to blood They say that, well, after a while, it was the Egyptian cattle only. They had drank from the river of blood and they had carried this disease and it killed them. It wasn't anything from God. Well that's not true. We can see all the timing here Well, we can see basically how timed and how this was an incredible way that this came together. This is a distinction that reaffirms that there was absolutely no loss of livestock to the people of Israel at all. We see, remember the covenant that was given in Genesis chapter fifteen, fourteen, and also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterward shall they come out with great abundance Great substance meant livestock, cattle, sheep, horses, donkeys. God kept his work perfectly, and that was proven by the protection of Israel's cattle during this deadly plague. We see that the Lord did this thing on the morrow. Cattle, livestock were stuck with this deadly, contagious disease. And basically, if you go down and you study more scientific evidence of what happens in a moraine It's like anthrax hitting the animals. And it's contagious and it's very dangerous. You know, today we see mad cows disease or the swine flu, or it's called black leg, and many other diseases are still present today in our nation. Mad cow and swines can be transmitted to people. God has sent these as a warning to this nation and as a reminder what can happen, just like Egypt. Do you think today that most of the people in this country look at that What about all these the these uh hurricanes? Remember when there were these great famines down south, and remember there was that governor of Georgia, he actually had a prayer meeting out in front of his courthouse, and it's funny how the following Monday actually after months and months of no rain it rained. But I remember on I remember on CNN, you know, the Communist News Network and all, you know, they were laughing at the j uh at this governor. They were laughing at him And they were just saying he was crazy. Oh, he's going to stand in front of his his courthouse and pray? Well the following m Monday it rained. People laugh at this stuff. I remember when Dobson and some of the other pastors said that when down in New Orleans when all of these hurricanes and all the levees broke and all, he said it was God's wrath upon the filth down there and some of the things that happened down there in New Orleans Oh, they they cried out against him and they said, that's not true. Does God still preside over these things today? Of course he does. You know, this disease hit the Egyptian economy horribly. Egypt worships its cattle and God took many of it and showed Pharaoh that he would not take Israel's This only hardened Pharaoh's heart harder. He noticed Israel's cattle escaped unscathed, and all that did was make him roll his sleeves up, look at the Israel's cattle. It didn't bring his knees to repentance. It caused him to get a stiffer upper lip, didn't it? Can you imagine that? Pharaoh, that must have really infuriated him. He saw Israel's cattle looked great, they were fine. And I truly believe at this point the Lord made it very clear, you're not even going to touch their cattle. And he looks over all his land and his cattle's gone What we make of an idol of it is just what God can remove from us and we can be embittered by it. Isaiah 19, 1 says, The burden of Egypt, behold, the Lord rideth upon a swift cloud, and shall come into Egypt, and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it. I wonder what idols are killing America today. 1 John 2. 15 says, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If a man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. America loves the world. Look at most of the commercials today, promote global unity. America is consumed today by the world order. And it now promotes all of the pluralism and the relativism of the gods of the pagans, where God is nothing but a handful of religion thrown into the same bucket. Sadly. Why can't we trust God fully? Why do we always ha why do we always have to have the answers? Look what what did he do for Israel in the midst of all this carnage? You know, we we we last week we read in our responsive reading Psalm ninety-one. You know that Psalm ninety That is a psalm that was written. That was from Moses. Did you know that? And after I heard a message about three years ago, I didn't really I didn't realize John McKnight gave this message up at the uh Thanksgiving service, so he gave a beautiful message He also believes that Psalm 91 also was written by Moses. And it would make sense. The literature is very similar. Psalm 91, verses 4 and 5 and 6 we read encourages us, he shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust. His truth shall be thy shield and buckler, thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, nor for the hour that flieth by day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness, nor for the struck destruction that wasteth at noonday. And before we go to the next four verses, the last four verses, I'm here to tell you this is the prophecy for you as a Christian in the future. The earth will be destroyed. The skies. You talk about global warming? Oh, I believe. Al Gore. I believe he's right. He just does he he just has the uh he has the platform a little wrong. Yes, there will be absolute global warming. Fervent fire and heat from the Lord God Almighty is going to destroy this earth. But here the Lord tells us He's going to spare us from that. Just like He spared the cattle of Israelites here And that's a very, very good encouragement and a very good prophecy. We see here moving forward to verse 8, and the Lord said unto Moses and unto Aaron, take to you handfuls of ashes. So what happens up to verse 7? Pharaoh does not listen. The cattle is gone. Basically, the cattle has been struck with a moraine, a pestilence, and basically he says, forget it. I'm not going to let your people go. Now how could you do this to my cattle? I'm going to roll my sleeves up. The Lord says, go ahead. That's no problem. And the Lord said unto Moses and unto Aaron, Take to you handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it towards the heaven in the sight of Pharaoh. Now human health was targeted. Aaron and Moses took two handfuls of ash. What was the significance of this strategic direct move by God? Where were the Israelites stuck with ashes? I remember the brick kilns. Remember they had to work in the hot brick kilns a lot harder because Pharaoh says no straw. So they had to work harder, they had to gather the ashes, and it was way harder. They had to double their efforts and triple their efforts, work around the clock, or else they were beaten unmercifully We can imagine that the center point of the work that the Israelites had to perform revolved around the seeding hot brick kilns filled with the dusty hot ash from the formation of the brick God commands Moses to sprinkle the ash from these furnaces towards heaven. This was how God showed men that their sin and their punishment. Egypt had oppressed Israel in the furnaces, and now the ashes of the furnace are made a terror under the people of Egypt. Boy, if you want to talk about a metaphorical boomerang, what comes around goes around, you'd think that by now Pharaoh would start getting it. Most don't. The ashes were turned into these painful boils or a blane, much like that of Job's. Remember everybody remember Job? That's just what he had. He had a blame. He was in horrible condition. Job 2 7. So when Satan from the presence of the Lord and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot into his crown You know the word blane comes from the word shill blame. C-H-I-L-B-L-A-I-N, it's a noun. It means cold sore from the 15th or the 16th century, the 1540s, from chill plus blane or it means inflamed, swelling, or sore on skin. There's another word, bale, it's called B H E L. It's It's also a form of a Proto-Indo-European root meaning to blow, to swell, with the root with derivatives referring to various round objects. So basically with all of this entomology, it's a round object, it's blown up, and it basically is inflamed and it's in agonizing pain. It gets dry, it itches, it bleeds, it can have all kinds of nasty things inside of it. And I'm sure basically these boils were to the superlative degree on the Egyptians Remember how one little boil threatened the life of Hezekiah. Remember that? And we're back to 2 Kings 20, verse 7, and Isaiah said, Take a lump of figs, and they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered. Hezekiah begged the Lord. He was an Israelite and he was a good king. Remember what Pastor Olson said? One of the few good kings? And this actually, this boy will actually uh There's a lot of writing about that. I've read a lot of his commentary. It was actually a tumor. It was supposed to be a cancerous tumor. And he Hezekiah, it was deadly, and Hezekiah begged the Lord and said, Lord, give me fifteen years Okay. I'll give you 15 years. I wonder, well, I don't know exactly how long Hezekiah lived after that, but I guarantee it was more than 15 years. It's incredible This plague is referred to in Deuteronomy as the botch of Egypt Deuteronomy 28, 27, the Lord will smite thee with the botch of Egypt, and with the emrods, and with the scab, and with the itch, whereof thou canst not be healed. That's tough. This is in 1 Samuel 5, we hear about this also. It describes what happened to the Philistines when they brought the Ark of the Covenant of the testimony of God into the house of Dagon. Oh that's a bad day for them. That was a real bad day. That was stupid. These boils were a beautiful infest I mean a beautiful brutal infestation and served as a reminder of what God can do to the wicked. He controls his creation. He controls the animals. He is in charge of our health. Isn't that incredible? The Lord is in charge of the cattle. He is in charge of his creation. He is in charge. Look at all of the incredible components to what's going on here in the fifth and sixth plague. He's still guiding Moses. He's still given Aaron the rod and given Aaron the words to give to the Israelites. And he sends them both to Pharaoh to give him a proclamation of what God expects And when we see how God is completely annoyed, he is annoyed by Pharaoh because they he is the Pharaoh and the Egyptians are in total defiance. God takes over. He brings us moraine. He brings the blame. He brings this horrible horrible pestilence to the animals and to the people. And when it all comes around, basically, once again, he talks to Moses again. Now here's something very interesting. And Pharaoh placed a very, very high degree on the magicians. Something was wrong. How many times, how many times do we see how the magicians tried to copy these plagues? Remember how they copied the sorcerers, copied the The the snake being thrown down and it turns into a staff and then he and then Moses bends down, grabs the snake, brings it back, turns into a staff. They fixed that one. They did that one. They were able to copy a couple other ones The Lord gave them a little bit of like slack on the rope. Now all of a sudden, they don't want to copy this one because now they are completely covered with boils and they can't even move So the Lord won this battle too, didn't he, even with the magicians. You know, the sorcerers, how how wicked. The magicians now were dealt a great blow by God's wrath. They were driven back by boils as they laid in wait to possibly to give more a more state of confusion. Their master, Satan, is given a name by Paul in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 2, who is their master. Wherein in times past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. And there's that name, the prince and the power of the air. And here the Lord defeated them again. Right there, they had no power. None. You know that Satan is referred to as the Prince of the Power of the Air, and that the ashes filled the air from the brick hills as a sign also of defeating and choking out Satan's attack on God's people. Once again we saw in Daniel chapter two verse two that the magicians once again, and they had failed horribly, reminiscent of these magicians. There's astrologers we see in Scripture, there are sorcerers that were summoned to reveal King Nebuchadnezzar's dream back to him, but who's the only one that could reveal that dream back to him? And that was Daniel. Of course, Daniel was the one who was sent of God. And here, as we wind down this morning, We see here in verses eleven and twelve, and the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boil was upon the magicians and upon all the Egyptians And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkenet not unto them as the Lord had spoken unto Moses. And so the calling this morning is: are we listening to the Lord? How can you listen to the Lord if you're not reading the Word of God and you're not praying to Him? I think that one of the greatest ways to set your Bible studies is to open up with prayer. Confess your sins, pray for others, read your word, word of God, and close with prayer and thank the Lord. That is a wonderful way to get close to Him, to learn, to see what He has in store for us. And when you see the outcomes of what happens to those that defy Him, That shit is a Christian. It should strengthen, it should lift you up. This is proof that we do not worship a God who loves people unconditionally. He does not. And if you take that and you see we were speaking and we were talking back and forth about this, we had really good correspondence Wednesday night at the prayer meeting. We were talking about this very, very same application from Proverbs chapter 8, we worship a God that we know has us under a dominion indictment because we've sinned against him. And that might sound like fire and brimstone and sound like something well I didn't really feel like hearing that this morning on Sunday. But you know, when you listen to the message from Jonathan Edwards from July 8, 1741, and he preaches the sinners in the hands of an angry God, and he has people basically hanging off the back of the pews with their knuckles. He comes back and he gives them the gospel He gives them the antibiotic, the remedy. And that's right here. It's woven all throughout scripture here in how God is the remedy and his salvation. And he loves to save us. He does. Did you hear the verses this morning? That whosoever believeth on him shall not perish but have eternal life. And we go on down a little bit more down verses 17 and 18. He that believeth is not condemned. That means he that believeth is saved. Their cattle is saved. They have a land of Goshen. Around their heart. That blood that Jesus Christ shed is sprinkled on the door frame of your heart And the death angel will pass right through it. And that's a perfect analogy and a wonderful commentary on the Passover That is what he's given us. He that believeth is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, for he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Today, you mention the name of God fine. You hear that all the time. What happens when you hear the name Lord Jesus Christ? That's sad that even in America, that name is such an offense to so many people Isn't that sad? So we end this morning. Two major words to remember: moraine and blain. The moraine, the death of the beasts. And that the only salvation and the only healing is God. You remember you go to the doctor, you pray You have surgery, you have problems, you take medicine. You know, the doctor can water. The doctor can plant, but only God can give the increase. Only He can heal, and you need Him for that. Always And so we'll see, we'll go forward and look at the other plagues next time. And hopefully this gives you encouragement in your heart to see what a wonderful God that we serve. Always remember, it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. He is very faithful to us. Our Lord and our God, we thank thee and we praise thee, Lord, for these wonderful words of life. We pray, Lord, that we will consider all that's woven in them that we're seeing different attributes of our Lord God Almighty. Thou art Jehovah Elohim, the great creator and judge of the earth. Thou art also Jehovah Jirah, the great provider of all things, and we see here how thou provided for thy people. I ask, Lord, that we will not take these words lightly, that we will ingest them, that we will learn them, and that thou will hide them in our hearts that we might not sin against thee. And Lord, bless us, Lord, as we meet again. Back here at 7 p. m. on Wednesday evening, and I pray that we will be able to pray together and hear thy word once again in the name of Jesus Christ. We thank thee and praise thee. Amen.