Philippians one Looking at verses 9 through 11. Oh wait, didn't we do that last week? Yes, but we're still gonna do it. Verses 9 through 11. And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment, that she may approve the things that are excellent. That ye may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Christ Jesus unto the glory and praise of God. Father, now we approach this time to open your word and expound upon the truths thereby. Your servant has no abilities in and of himself, but the Spirit of God to speak through him these principles and truths that have been foundational through the church in history, even to this little church at Philippi, even on up till us today. Remove any distractions and allow us, Father, to be students of the Word, feeding upon its banquet table, filling our hungry souls with that which is needful. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. In this prayer to the Philippians, Paul asks one thing. What was that? But the silence is deadly. What does it say in verse 9? I pray that your love may abound more and more in knowledge, in all judgment. As we said last week, he's not speaking about a love that was generated by man, not a feeling type of thing, but that which came from God, supplied by him and him alone. He's speaking of the love of God that was provided through Christ. I think it's a very appropriate prayer for those Philippians and especially for us here today. Just as God's love abounded to them and to all believers in history through Christ, for God so loved the world, as you know. So that he wants us to have that love to abound in more and more in us. In other words, for it to grow, that which God has supplied for it to grow in order that we can be people, instruments of his grace to supply such to others. There's a beautiful hymn by Harper Smith. None of the hymnals, so we we're going to sing it. And even if I did put it in, Bob would have said, well, we don't know this one. So In any case, this is back in 1903. And the first stanza is: Is your life a channel of blessing? Is the love of God flowing through you? Are you telling the loss of the Savior? Are you ready his service to do? And then the refrain is, make me a channel of blessing today. Make me a channel of blessing I pray. My life possessing, my service, blessing. Make me a channel of blessing today. He says, may your love abound more and more in you. But in order that you may be a channel, an indicator of flowing from you to others. As much as fundamentalists often dismiss the idea, love is a very important and it is a core of our Christian faith. It's going to be seen by others. It has to be seen by others as our faith is worked out in everyday process. As it's provided opportunity by faith in Christ, they will see such a love. However What have we shared concerning this love of God being a channel of blessing to others makes no sense at all to the people of the world They are deaf, dumb, and blind to the reality of what God has given in Christ for all their life. Dr. Donald Gray Barnhouse, who was pastor at 10th Press for 33 years, I think he died in 1960. And he's still on the radio. His program is provided by many programs. He tells of encountering a young Japanese girl who was a receptionist at a hotel in Tokyo. And as he got to introduce himself and talk a little bit, he saw the occasion to ask her. He says, Are you a Christian? And she said, no, I am a Buddhist. And as they're he's checking in, the conversation goes on a little bit more. And he gave him an opportunity to ask her, he says, Do you love Buddha? And she kind of was taken a little back, but she says, I didn't realize that love had anything to do with religion Don't think it had any part in the relationship that we are to have. Of course, the story is told to her as one who is completely foreign to anything that she had ever heard. People in the world, such as this Japanese girl, even very religious people who are Hindus and Buddhists and Muslims and other religions. have no concept that their deity has any affection, any love towards them. It's just not part of the makeup of such Having personally loved by their deities. And so they can only relate to their deities as subjects that need to be served, as personalities that need to be honored. But they do that in a relationship that has no love whatsoever. They are not received love from their deities, and they cannot, or not expected to have love towards their deities. But in contrast, the born-again believer is seated with the affection because we know that God loves us. First John four nineteen. We love him because he first loved us before we were yet knowing him. Before we were listed as the godly, before as we were still ungodly, Christ gave his love for us. So not only am I an object of the love of God, but I can and have been become a vessel of His love to others. He has chosen me to provide his love to me. And therefore I ask, Lord, make me a channel of blessing, I pray. So in understanding this, we pray for ourselves, so we pray for others that God's love would abound more and more in us, and as a channel to them that they would come to recognize such. We are, brethren, tremendously blessed, and hopefully we will be a blessing to others. Thank the Lord for what He's given in such an opportunity. But how should this love abound more and more? Paul goes on to say, in what? In what's the verse say? Love abound more, more in knowledge and your judgment We talked last week about being the idea of all knowledge and discernment, judgment being the principle of discernment, real knowledge and discernment. He wants our love to flow out of a deep relationship with God. This is what Paul means by saying, in all knowledge. I just don't have it But out of a closer walk with him, I fully more understand what he's doing in my life and what he's doing in the lives of others. It's knowing him and just not knowing about him. He also wants this love to flow with a clear understanding of God's moral principles. And that the choices that they make would be the best choices. In other words, discernment. As I love To be a channel of blessing to others, showing God's love to them, I must do as a closer walk with God and understanding Him even more. And is it easy to love others unconditionally? Is it easy to serve others unconditionally? I guess hard enough to serve others, period. The whole understanding of service to other people without the strings attached is very difficult, but to do it unconditionally Just do it freely, willingly, that becomes the bone of contention in our life Deepening a relationship with our Lord, though, and a growing understanding of His Word, it can be done. And I think as we grow in the Lord, we come to find out it's easier and easier. When this is in place, wonderful things are produced, glorious things are produced that far exceed the mundane issues of life. Sometimes we make these little mundane issues to be the the the great impossibles, and yet all of a sudden the love of God that flows in my heart grows in a love for others, all of a sudden those mundane issues become Nothing whatsoever. I think of the disciples of Jesus, who for the most part, we could say they spent about three years with him. walking with him, hearing his teachings, seeing the miracles performed. Yet if you were to evaluate those men before the uh well, before the resurrection, you would see them as men who lacked in an awful lot. They were selfish, they were proud, they were boastful, they were fearful, and even on occasions they were cowards. They were people just like us. Yet following the resurrection, the Holy Spirit coming at Pentecost, all of a sudden they became not so much focused on themselves. What does life mean to me? But their lives became focused upon Christ. All of a sudden things changed in their eyesight. They spoke and they acted with confidence and boldness. They even risked their lives. To proclaim Christ. Before that, they never would have done that. Tradition has it that all, except for the Apostle John, died horrible deaths, yet they did so for the love of Christ. They spoke and they acted with confidence and boldness to such an extent that they were indeed vessels of God's love, serving unconditionally the Lord Jesus Christ until the end of their days. How could such a change take place from being people who are just like us to being people who were giving lives unconditionally to be just like the Lord Jesus Christ? It was the love of God that found its root within them today. Far too many Christians And I think far too many Christian churches die in the vines simply because the love that was given in Christ to them does not abound. It doesn't grow. It remains as it is. It did not grow in real knowledge and discernment, and they died on the vine and withered away because they did not abide in Christ. The word abide in John is to remain the faithfulness of the believer to Christ. Hopefully, as we understand the prayer of Paul and why he prayed it, It'll dramatically impact our prayer life and impact the way we think about this attitude of my heart towards others and towards Christ. So I ask, why did Paul pray what he prayed? Why did he tell them, again, this is a prayer But the question is, why did he write to them that, I pray that your love will abound more and more in knowledge and discernment? Why didn't he say that? What does the text say? Again, go back to the verse. And this I pray that your love will abound more and more to knowledge and all judgment. Now, verse 10, that Or you could put in there, in order that ye may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ. In order that ye may approve. It's a word in the Greek that talks about like testing metals the the purity of the the the the the the wholeness of it you're you're testing you can test in other words it's a spiritual discernment The ability to choose between the gold and the dross, between the wheat and the chaff, the ability to choose in those things that are genuine and superficial. And an abounding God source love that's in us with real knowledge and all discernment enables you to make those choices. Enables you to see as you would have them to be seen. In other words, act according to the things that you would need to act as. Cars and trucks needed to be tested by what they call the torture rack. You'll put a vehicle on this thing and they'll shake it and they'll go all over and then they'll put it on a road course and they'll run that vehicle around and round and they'll put it under heat lamps and they'll put under freezing temperatures and pouring rain in order to prove or approve the vehicle to be worthy to be on the road If that car, as they were designing it, the brakes fail, it has to go back to the uh to the designer and say, these things aren't right for this vehicle for this time You're going to have to make some changes, some readjustments, because people's lives are at stake. People's lives are in order. So to test the brakes, though, there needs to be standards for good breaks. God's abounding love would empower those at Philippi and us to make good choices that are aligned with God's word. What are the good choices in life? What should I do? Where should I go? How do I understand this political situation or this economic situation? How do I understand these things? God says, I've got a standard for you. I've got a principle for you to live by. Decision-making. This means discerning between what is good and even what is best. Sometimes we as Christians allow, just do what is good enough. But he's saying here, the provision that's given to you as the love of Christ fills your heart And it allows you to share that with others, that you make choices that are best, that are the best for you. As we all know, Christians are hardly exempt from making some stupid decisions. Amen? Yeah, that's not 100%, but you know what I mean. I think it mostly occurs though when we rely upon someone else's opinion. An outside source. They're good friends. This is what they told me, their advice. Social media, my own experience. This is just a gut feeling. I'm gonna do it this way. because it seems to be the best. And what I've done is I've taken what God provides as being his plan or his pattern, and I've set it aside. And all of a sudden, how did I get here? Why did this have to happen? Look at the direction we're at now. Because I decided to go it my way and not God's way. That ye may approve the things that are excellent. Approve, discern, judge the things that are best. Why? What does it say? Why do I do that? That ye may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. That ye may be sincere and without offense. In the days of Rome there were a lot of artisans. Anybody and their brother who could find a hammer and a chisel liked to say, well, I can do some carvings, I can make statues and so forth. I can chisel away something and make some money that way and throughout the old world this is what happened. You go to museums, you go to Rome and and and you see all of these statues Some of them have been weathered over the years with arms and heads knocked off or whatever, but they would do that. And just like today, somebody who says, well I can chisel it out, all it takes is one false whack on that nose, and all of a sudden the nose goes off and the whole statue's done But they were pretty smart. They would take some of the dust from the m from the the the the marble that they were chiseling and they would mix it together with wax and they would put the thing back together So you didn't know and you go to the shop and you say, boy, there's a nice statue for our hallway, our entranceway. Let's buy it. And you buy it and you put it in the entranceway and every day you go in and you say, boy, that was a good move That was a priceless move. That literally looks good. Looks good for the family. Until a hot day in the summer, when all of a sudden the wax melts and you come in and you see the thing putting the nose down and it's down his chin and it's their piece laying on the floor. all of a sudden you recognize what has taken place. So the Latin word for sincere literally means Was without wax, without phoniness, not genuine. To be sincere No phoniness about it. Paul says the ability to make choices and to approve the things that are right, in order that you would make choices that are approved of God. Anybody can be sincere You can be sincerely wrong. The world out there has all types of religions that they are sincere in their beliefs We've had some people in the past week who were very sad about the things that took place. They were sincere in the beliefs that they had to be the right thing for the country, to be the right thing for everybody else, and they were sincerely wrong. And yet here's the choice that Paul says that needs to be made. To be made in such a day, to be completely transparent. genuine about their faith, no phoniness, representing Jesus Christ without offense. In other words, I represent Christ and I'm not a stumbling block to somebody else The way I live my life, the choices that I make, the things that I say, the business that I interact with, everything that he's saying, you as Philippians have to understand You do it to be sincere, to show forth the fullness of Christ in all that you do, in order that you can be not a stumbling block. He says, till the day of Christ Well when is that? We saw it earlier in verse six. The idea that when Christ returns, or when they end up standing before Christ. You stand before the Lord and Paul says, you know, I'm ready to go. I've finished my course. I've I've done the whole work. I'm ready to stand before the Lord. Do we feel like that sometimes? Tim prayed this morning as we began. He says, you know, this could be the day. You know, we like to believe that there's uh a day marked still down in the future when the Lord's going to take us home. We were getting ready this morning and and from our bathroom window you can see the number of houses down the road and Millie's calling I say, What get down there is an ambulance down in front of the house and then a police car Uh it's a couple and their daughter lives with them, but they are not healthy healthy people. I see them once in a while get out and the walker and very slow and so forth. And we don't know. It could be any day. To be sincere, in the day of Christ, the day the Lord takes me home. The accident on the highway, all of a sudden, you know, the heart attack or whatever it is. Am I ready? Do I know the relationship that I have with the Lord as I've given my best? The work of becoming sincere and without offense, though, is really God's work in us. It's not much I can do by myself. I have to daily say, I can't do it, Lord. I have to surrender myself each and every day. I can't be the husband I ought to be. I can't be the father-grandfather I ought to be. I can't be the pastor I ought to be. You have to be the One to provide such Because if I lean on my own understanding, if I lean on what I think that I have, all of a sudden I find myself walking away from what Paul is offering. Filled with the fruit of righteousness, bearing fruit that is a result of abiding in Christ. He is my righteousness I hear people say, well, none of us are perfect. Well, amen to that. Nobody's supposed to be. My perfection is not in me. My perfection is in the one who saved me. He is my righteousness. He is the one to whom the Father looks upon. He says, oh, I look at Keith and I see all kinds of stuff. But if I look at Jesus, he says, in my Son I see perfection. My righteousness, he stands for such. So bearing fruit is always a result of abiding in Jesus As we abide in him, we receive the life and the nutrients that are necessary to bring forth all to the glory of God. John 15, abide in me, and John again using the word abide to, in other words, to remain. Abide in me and I in you, says Jesus. as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine. No more can ye, except ye abide, remain, in me I am the vine. This is Jesus. I'm the vine. You are the branches. If ye abide in me and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me ye can do Zip nothing. But I've done this. Well that wasn't in me. That's that's fleshly work. If I'm abiding in him His love is in me, and I'm growing in that love. I become a channel of blessing to others. And if it's in the knowledge of God, an understanding, a growing knowledge of Him, knowing what He wants me to do then I'm able to make choices that are discerning and right. And I can be then sincere. In other words, I can be without blame because it's Jesus who does it all. Lawrence of Arabia came to Paris at the end of World War One, and he brought some of his Arab friends with him. And the story goes that he took them around to see the sites of Paris, uh, much like today. Yes, Notre Dame is going to open up A little bit ago, you know, they would have taken him to there, you know, to see Notre Dame and the Arc de Triomphe and the the the the uh the museums and the tombs of of the great people The story says that he found little, these men, Arabs, found little interest in any of these. What really brought their intent of excitement was the faucets in their bathrooms Mm and the tubs. And he said they would spend other hours turning on the water and turning it off, and turning on the water and turning it off, you know. And so they finished their time in Paris, headed on back to their the east where they came from, and he went to find them, and they were in the hotel bathrooms, and they were with wrenches trying to remove the faucets. And he said, You see, in Air Arabia it's very dry and we need these faucets. If we need to have them, we can have water wherever we want. To them, the simple understanding that faucet provided that which was so lacking back in the home country. Many people are living lives that are dry as as well in the desert. And they think because they have the faucet, they have the the out outer workings that all of a sudden it can supply everything that's necessary. But that just doesn't happen. It can't work. They have to come to God through Christ. Others are also parched. For other reasons though, because they're choked on the impurities that choke up the lines. Uh Lawrence told him he says These faucets are supplied by the whole water work system that's found within Paris and beyond. And you take it beyond that and you go to the mountains where all of the waters that come from the melted snow and the rains and the supply that is there. They don't see the source of the waters in their spiritual lives, and sometimes there are people who don't see the spiritual source of the water that is in Christ. That the Holy Spirit should have free reign to produce fruit in our lives. There has to be a willingness to have such. This is a simple prayer. And we went over it again simply because I don't think we approach it enough. This past week, for those of you here last week, you know, how many of you ask the Lord, Lord, would you bring my heart to abound more and more in love? You know. Nice message, Pastor. You know, sh we're gone. We got lunch. We get gonna watch the Eagles beat the Cowboys today and Whatever else goes on. It isn't just a routine, because that's our pattern. And yet the source of that which is who we are in Christ remains the same. The provision that God has provided for us in this prayer is our challenge. It's our challenge. Final verse of that hymn by Harper Smith. She says, We cannot be channels of blessing if our lives are not free from known sin. We will barriers be and a hindrance to those who we are trying to win. Make me a channel of blessing today. Make me a channel of blessing, I pray. My life possessing my service blessing. Make me a channel of blessing today. It's your choice You know, however you decide, however you look at it, to ask the Lord to fill your heart with the love that He has redeemed you with. It's that he's redeemed you. If he's not redeemed you, you don't know the love of God. You're like the Japanese girl there in the in in the Tokyo hotel And don't recognize that God loves you so that he gave his only begotten Son to you and to a world that is such a sinful world that doesn't make any sense And if you've done that, if you'd taken him as your Savior, such a love there to provide and is to abound, not to remain in an infant stage. Not to remain in in in in in whatever. It's to grow. We went around and cleaned up pots of flowers and uh yesterday and in in every single pot there are these acorns down on the bottom. I says, How did they get down in there? Well those little furry creatures have been going and spending all the years burying those things in there, they're not going to produce a thing. They're not going to produce a thing. They've been buried and they're gone What God buries in our heart is to produce fruit. That's Christ's desire. Take some time this week and ask the Lord to fill your heart with the love that He's asked to be received in you and that it would grow. in knowledge and understanding of who he is, and knowledge of his word, and that you would be such a channel of blessing, not just a faucet that brings forth nothing. Let's pray. Father, in the quietness of our morning now, we are most thankful for uh this simple prayer that Paul not only prayed but wrote about. that they knew even though he was um eight hundred miles away from them, they felt his presence They knew that his prayer was sincere, not only just a prayer of one time, but that it was a constant prayer. That they as believers in Christ From various backgrounds, various situations in life, had received the gift of God, received the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior, and that love that was uh seated within their hearts was to grow, and that love was to be uh a channel to know the Heavenly Father The channel to share such a knowledge, the choices that they will have to make in the years ahead would be theirs, but they could be guided by the principles that are found in the Word These Lord are the same choices and the same things we need to make today, each of us, as individuals, as couples, as families. May Father you guide us in such give us a willing heart. Give us the ability to come to you whenever and ask for your blessing in Christ's name. Amen.