Just for clarification, no, I did not forget her this morning. Nor did I tell her if she's not ready at a certain time I'm leaving without her. I don't dare do that. But she's had some congestion and cough and such this week and it's just been uh real bother and she would have liked to come but it just well just not able to to pack it in so Acts chapter two follow along I'll be reading verses thirty seven to forty seven Now, when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? And Peter said unto them, Repent, be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call. And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this untold generation. Then they gladly received the word and were baptized. And the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and the breaking of bread and in prayers. And fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles. And all that believed were together, and had all things common, and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need And they, continuing daily, with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat, with gladness and singleness of heart Praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added unto the church daily such as should be saved. May God bless our hearts the reading of His Word. Can we pray? Lord, as we approach uh this um portion of the scripture text, we are thankful that um we stand in a long line of those who have gone on before us. um had been convinced and convicted by the preaching of the word of our sins and the working of the Holy Spirit to bring us to a place of repentance. and receiving the adoption of children of God are brought into your family. As we consider Lord the Uh uh the day that's ahead of us, but the year that's ahead of us, may we be challenged afresh to look at our relationship with you, our walk with you and and the the potential of what can be accomplished as we yield ourselves to you. Thankful Father for the word as it's laid before us. uh put a hedge about us from any um attacks from the wicked one and allow your spirit to be our teacher and we pray in jesus name amen A few of you, and I think maybe only a few, maybe Charlie just might recall the TV show, started back um maybe in the early 50s, and I think it went into about the early 70s It was was hosted by Walter Cronkite, and it used the newspaper reporting techniques to go back in history, and the title of it was You Were There That's oh my brain hears that, you know. And what they would do is go back to a place in history like the the Hindenburg disaster or uh the the the the raising up of uh uh the titanic or the singing of the titanic or or some other event and they would have like uh at the time, um in the fifties and sixties, uh microphones and camera equipment and so forth. So like you're going back in history and you seeing it as it really was. And it was kind of an interesting um show I enjoyed it very much. When I get to reading the scriptures, I'd like to be able to put myself in the position of, you were there. Because it takes me to a place, not just as words are, as reading them and having them, being familiar with an occasion, but that in my mind's eye I can see what's taking place as best as I possibly can. as best as I can see the things that are going on because it helps me uh put myself in the in the place of the characters that are there. 1 Samuel 17, we see uh very courageous young David, and he approaches uh in the valley on one side the armies of the Philistines, and on the other side the armies of Israel. And he is called by the Lord to be able to un uh uh uh unhinge um what has taken place and he buries a stone into the forehead of this giant, uh the champion of the Philistines, and down he goes, and he grabs his sword and he lops off his head, and the route is on uh the troops of Israel fall in and and follow after this very courageous situation and the Philistines take off I would have liked to been there. Not in the battle, but you know, to actually see it, the things going on. You could feel the excitement. You could feel the things that were taking place Other passages like Luke 23, a very familiar scene outside the walls of Jerusalem. There's soldiers. There's the masses of onlookers, crowds, and three crucified men. We read of a situation that was full of emotion Physical pain, a lot of tears, a lot of fear, a lot of loss, a lot of great disappointment. But there's no excitement in the air like back with David. It's a situation that is uh totally different. It's darkness and despair. It's not a place and time that I would ever want to have gone. I wouldn't want to have seen it firsthand. I can envision it, but it's not where I want One more scene is from our text today in Acts chapter 2. The scene follows the resurrection of Jesus. his forty days on earth as he went around in his post-resurrection, post uh ascended uh body And and now he's ascended into heaven, and it's the responsibilities of the apostles to take up the chest, the task that they've been called to do. We began our reading with having Peter preach a very powerful and a very clarifying message to the crowds that were there. They were there for Pentecost. And as the people had all gathered around into the city, the crowds following after the particular situation, and we read in verse 41 Then they that gladly received his word, meaning Peter's message, sermon, were baptized. And the same day there were added unto them about 3,000 souls. Can you imagine you how that felt, what was going on? You put yourself in that situation. And obviously, Luke is writing this from uh perspective of past. But he's gaining the information and he gives a a general picture and he says, about three thousand. Wow. You know, uh I'm sure that wasn't an exaggeration, but it was great truth. For over a month now, the talk was that Jesus was not dead, but alive Everybody's was crushed because of the the the failure of what this prophet had expected to take place, what he said he was going to do. And and they were just down for 40 days All of a sudden words start to but he's he he's not dead. He's alive. And then many more saw him. And there was a fresh hope and an excitement again, but again a different excitement from that of of David and the slaying of Goliath. Their hearts were lifted up. Lives were changed. Here Peter preaches a sermon that cuts right to the heart. This is no quick show of hands. How many of you like to receive Jesus in your heart? Huh? How many of you like to do that? Nothing like that. But this is an act of the power of God and the proclamation of the Word, working through the Holy Spirit. And at least 3,000 gladly repented of their sins and were powerfully drawn into the kingdom. What a day to consider. What a day of great rejoicing and power. Yet what happened next to these believers? And again, this is from the perspective of Luke as he looks down the days and the weeks that had progressed until he sits and he pens these things and put them in. But verse 42 gives a summary of what takes place to these people. And they continued, meaning those who had gladly received and repented of the word, and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in the breaking of bread and in prayers. Though they had been converted, brought into this New Testament assembly, again not a church building, uh the the the assembly of believers, the the the church itself They were exposed to persecution, no doubt, hatred. They were victims of trials and tribulations, unlike anything that we could have ever imagined. Yet, the record says that they obeyed the doctrines and the duties as followers of Jesus. It's an amazing picture, it's an amazing testimony. The New International Version says they devoted themselves. They were continually devoting themselves to You see a heart motive, a heart change when the Holy Spirit came in and brought them under conviction of the Word, and they were, What should I do? Repent, be baptized, be brought into the body of believers. The King James, as we saw, they continued steadfastly to do what? To demand the rights of senior citizens that they were preserved? How about that the government would leave them alone? Or that church services would be entertaining and enjoyable. We want steadfastly to be able to see that we have comfortable chairs and the air conditioning is just right and that the sun doesn't come through and and reflect, you know. That was the demands of the church. I didn't know it had anything to do with that. Didn't have any touching on the rummage sale proceeds, going to properly designated positions, blah, blah, blah, blah. The fingerprints of a true church are seen in its members as they continually, steadfastly devoted themselves to four things. The Apostles' Doctrine, Fellowship, Breaking of Bread, and Pray. And it had nothing to do with anything else of the current church, because there was none. This is the Holy Spirit working in them and bringing them to such a place. and their actions. I don't know about you, but when I read that, I kind of think that's the kind of church that I want to be a part of. They devoted themselves continually, steadfastly. These are the corners of their testimony. Now obviously they did their other things. They they obviously had other interactions and and witnessing and other stuff like that. But these are the four things that Luke says as I look back, this is what stood out These are the characteristics of a church. The apostles' doctrine, or we would say Bible teaching. They received what the apostles taught, and they retained it, and they acted on it. We receive a lot of things in our ear gate, you know, and at the comes time for a test, they'll say, Do you remember this? Yeah, I remember it. But do you put it into practice? Not necessarily so. These believers heard Not only from Peter, but from the others, and they received it and they accepted it, and then they put it into practice. How do we know? Because of the way the church grew. The way the church had profited in that day Remember that there were no books because of the proximity of this situation to the resurrection. There were no books that they could use. We're going to have a Bible study on Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John, the Gospels. No, they weren't. You can't, because there was no Matthew, Mark, or Luke, or John. Possibly they had any one of the the the apostles there who taught them. Or possibly one of the students of the apostles, one who heard the apostles and and was groomed by the apostles in those early years. You know, I heard it firsthand, and I'm telling you firsthand, this is what took place. They took the apostles' doctrine and they taught and preached. Notice their first target was not aimed at a praise and worship songs. which is good in its place, but it was based upon the pure milk of the word. Put first by Luke purposely in this order. They steadfastly devoted themselves to the Word, the Apostles' teaching. As Peter says, as newborn babes desire, the sincere milk of the word That ye may grow thereby. These are babes. These are babes in Christ. They didn't have their ancestors who were Christians and they were born into Christian families. These were babes because they heard the word first from the apostles. They repented of their sins. And they were brought around to that place. In the time as they grew, the milk would become the meat of the word. And it's a kind of a spiritual diet that brought them closer to Christ. And that was their desire, wasn't it? Those who saw Jesus, the miracles he did, they had their great hopes dashed because he was arrested, he was abused. He was crucified, he was buried, but he rose again from the dead because that's what he proclaimed. And their lives were changed because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And we want to know more about that So as the apostles taught them, and we have the benefits of the four gospels, we have the benefits of the whole New Testament and the Old Testament, but as they were taught these things, they grew in Christ-likeness. They wanted to be like Jesus, and that's what took place. One man wrote: If there was no intake of the word, there will be no growth in Christ-likeness. You believe it? If there's no intake in the Word of God, the written word of God There is no Christ-likeness that's going to be displayed. We can put on airs, we can dress up, we can come to uh formal gatherings or whatever, but if the word is not part of my regular diet Spiritual diet, I'm not going to be like Christ. I'm going to be like whatever I've studied, whatever I learned in other areas of the world in which I live. Also, please notice that this single-minded, steady focus wasn't referring just to the apostles' teaching. But it was referred to including fellowship and the breaking of bread and in prayers. And they didn't do it casually. They didn't do it passively, they didn't do it half-heartedly, every once in a while, but they were steadfastly devoting themselves to the apostles' doctrine, fellowship breaking of bread and prayers. It meant important to them in order that they could be like Christ. It was born within them by the Spirit of God, and they had to ask for it. Lord, bring me to such a place. They were completely involved. The second category that they were completely involved in continued steadfastly was the breaking of bread. This is done unlike services today in every single service, every time they gather together. This is uh having the Lord's Supper there. Unlike churches will do it monthly or quarterly. Paul wrote to the church at Corinth the words of Jesus and he said, This do in remembrance of me. When we partake of the Lord's Supper, we do it to remember Him. What? Remember his what? His death, his burial, his resurrection, and his second coming. They were so close to the death of Jesus. They were so close to the resurrection of Jesus, yet they felt it was so necessary to be able to continue at the Lord's table in the breaking of bread and the the cup that they would remember exactly again and again and again again because without that there's nothing. Without that, there is absolutely nothing. This first century infant church, this was important. And I'm afraid today's church has somehow diverted itself, shelled the significance of the sacrifice of the Savior to maybe one week, maybe a good Friday and an Easter Sunday And even that is kind of suspect in the way sometime churches will look at it. How can they be devoted continually, steadfastly in the breaking of bread? But the fact that that they did not want to forget what the blood fellowship had brought them to. They didn't want to forget such You remember there's something else the Apostle Paul wrote to the church at Corinth when it came time for the taking of the Lord's Supper. He says, But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. Yes, this letter to Corinthians was written long after the first church grew But I think it's important because what Paul said, he says, when we partake of the Lord's Supper, we are to examine ourselves. Look at me. Am I worthy of what's taking place? Is there sin in my life? Are there those things that have no place here in remembrance of the Lord's table that I have to take care of? I think when they got together for the Lord's Tupper and the breaking of bread and the Lord's Supper, I think it was a man of examining our own hearts. How often do we do that? How often do we take an examination of self? What is it what is what is sin to me? Is it a delight? Is it something I can just pass off? I think they were devoted to this, continually devoted to this, because it caused them to be able to say, this is why Jesus died because of my sin. Because of my actions, because of my thoughts, because of the very person that I am. So I think it was necessary that they brought these things together. The third one, prayer. In the context of what we're talking about here, this is not private prayer. They were devoted as a body of believers, assembly of believers in prayer. They got together and as they got together as a congregation It was a time for prayer. But it was a regular part of their worship service Acts 1. 14, just following the ascension of Jesus, quote, they all continued with one accord. That's always a kind of a joke about being in the Honda, you know. They all continue of one accord in prayer and supplication with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with the brethren It was a habit, one accord, to be together to pray. It's supplication, supply, Lord. It was a habit to do it as a group, as a gathering of believers that were there. They were devoted to prayer and they continued steadfastly in prayer. How committed are you to prayer here in this place? When you came in this morning, did you pause and say, Lord, I'm here in your sanctuary? Would you bless to my heart the things that we're going to do? As I sing, may I sing unto you and say, Give up my tithes and offerings, as the word is open before me Because if we don't sanctify this and set it aside, me, my heart, what takes place? I got all the other thoughts and everything that's going all around it, and I bring it on him, and my heart's not focused on him My heart's focused on whatever I brought in. Recognize that somebody leads in corporate prayer and I prayed and And Tim prayed and and we we do it as somebody leads the body. But it's it's a prerequisite of the believer to get together and and pray as within the body We mentioned the needs of others. Well, you know some needs of others that weren't even mentioned publicly. And Lord, we enter here, we're going to pray for this person. You know, I I I I'm trusting that you will take care of them. Uh it is the designation of my heart that you would do such Charles Spurgeon said, prayer is the slender nerve that moves the muscles of omnipotence. It is a slender nerve. It's not a lot. But it moves the muscles of the power of God. That doesn't mean that we have control over God. But if I don't recognize who He is, if I don't recognize the avenue and the access that I have to Him, I'll never pray. Can God do? Yes, God can do whatever God wants to do. He is the power. And I have to recognize that as a body of believers, to pray, to be a part of that steadfast, continually, doing a devoted aspect of prayer, it's going to cause things to take place. And all of a sudden, for some people, you say, well, well, that just happened to do it. No, it's because people prayed about it. And God acted in such a way. Fourth one is fellowship. And as you note in your text, this is a little bit out of order, but I wanted to take a little more time for fellowship than instead of adding it in the order that it was in. As we said in times past, on numerous occasions, we are often in the habit of announcing fellowship as a gathering. Youth fellowship time, fellowship of need believers down at the table downstairs, fellowship around where we can have something to eat or drink or get together with those who are retired Women or men or youth or the bowling alley or whatever it is. Is that what they were devoted to in the first century? As they came out of their darkness and all of a sudden their eyes were opened to the gospel and they were brought into the family of God. And they were devoted, they were steadfastly bound together to continue to do this, to sit around and have food together? As delightful as the food is, as delightful as the recreation is, that's hardly the case. The word fellowship is the Greek koinonia. It's often translated as communion, not the Lord's Supper, but it means that which is together. It probably means having things in common, or participation, or fellowship It may apply to anything that we possess in common, or apply to that which we partake of that we have in common. So, in the most general sense, we assume that as believers we have things in common. It's our bagels and cream cheese that we're eating. We're all doing it. Or it's the Facebook article that came up and the picture that we saw. Oh, we have that in common. Whatever. Therefore, Christians have in common the same hope of heaven, the same joys, the same hatred of sin, the same enemies to contend with. Thus they have the same subjects in conversation, in feelings and in prayers, hence they have the same communion. When we get together, that which is common, the thread that ties us all together, has brought us to a certain place to be able to say, these things we all have in common And it's not what I bought. It's not what I'm eating. It's not the recreation or the things that we have in common, like sports or whatever. It's Christ. It's Christ. But you see, what we have in common is not what we often do. Our real fellowship is ours by adoption. When you like those who came to Jerusalem for the feast and were preached to by Peter and the working of the Spirit, brought to the place of being uh seeing your sin as it is and they repented of such, you were brought into, adopted into the family of God. They didn't say, well, I didn't choose you as a brother in Christ, or I didn't choose you as a sister in Christ. My sister and I often bucked heads at that, you know. Uh-huh. We won't go into the stories about that, but it wasn't until quite later till I finally recognized what a nice sister I have, you know Uh same with my brother, you know. Uh I I didn't ask for the Lord to bring them into our family. I was doing real good as the oldest child of the family. We don't have that same relationship with those who are the children of God. We don't somehow appreciate what fellowship is. Christians should feel that they are a band of brethren and that however much more they are separated before they came as Christians And if we would sit down to talk about where we've all come from, you know, all of our backgrounds we would say, Wow, I couldn't believe that But out of what we were is what we are now, and that which we have in common is in Christ. We are united in feelings and goals and dangers and conflicts and opinions and in the hopes of the blessed immortality. So fellowship is not something that we are going to get in participation downstairs or a camp or some retreat at the shore. Fellowship is what we are born again with. And yet our fellowship is something we have to develop. Like everything that they were had in common the the apostles' doctrine, the the breaking of bread, the prayers and fellowship, any time they could just drop off Eh, I don't need this. You know, we've got some Roman games coming. I'd love to go be able to see the chariot races. I'm gonna miss this week, you know. Hardly is the case. Until well into the twentieth century, most relationships here in the United States existed in short-term distance. perhaps even a walk from where you lived. As a matter of fact, when do researching my family tree, I found there's a website that uses uh copies of old newspapers and they've got them from I don't know how far back. up until the nineteen forties. And you can put the name in and they'll bring you all the list of these newspapers. And an interesting aspect of it was when I put in like uh my grandfather or whatever and and they'll show every time that my grandfather and his wife went to visit another couple. Whoa, you know. But when you think of the time in which they lived, early 1900s, you know, uh even into the twenties, thirties and so forth. Th there wasn't a lot of getting on my phone and sending him a text. What are you going to be able to do? You know? They got together. They they they had uh he had a big farm and And uh they had a a family reunion and one talked about they had eighty members of the family get together at the farm to be able to share all of these things that were going on. It was absolutely fantastic Today, much of what we do, our job, our communication with family and friends Our banking, our paying of our bills is done often without seeing the person at the other end. We don't have any conflict, any relationship with who's at the other end. Cashless society is assisting that quite nicely, you know. I don't have to do it. I don't see them I can and often do communicate with, as I mentioned before, people from around the world on a weekly basis. It's a blessing because I can get it done right away I send a message, an email or a text message, or a cacao message, or a WhatsApp message, or a call and boom, and find out what's happening with the viewers. Jim gives me a call and how you doing Jim? You know he's way thousands of miles away in Chile. But as a result of that time spent on the computer, I've lost any personal contact with others. I can do it rapidly. I can assign all of these things and put it all together, but I don't have that contact personally of things that are going on. Why does it seem that the more I have and the faster I can accomplish things, the more distant I feel from people? My relatives, they'd just get a, well, let's just go on over to Uncle George's there in Niagara Falls, and they'd load up the car and they'd spend the day over there. Go on town to Lockport, you know, and do that. Because they wanted to see them. They spent the whole week working, doing their personal things, but we're gonna go and have personal contact with them at that time We react and interact with people primarily through glass or through some sort of technology screen, like a TV or a monitor. And we seem to know the characters of the TV better than we know our neighbors. Right across the street. We used to, when I was born, we lived in the city of of of Buffalo, down near the river. And uh no air conditioning as you know many of the places at that time. Um and people would sit on the porch. Uh my uncle would say, well where's your vacation? Well we're going to V Verand Beach, meaning his porch. That's where they go And they knew the actions of the things that were all everybody in the neighborhood, they knew what the kids were, everything that was going on because it was all personal And today I can go down that same street. I probably wouldn't because it's not a good neighborhood anymore. But I could go down that street and there'd be nobody who would be out They'd all be inside with the AC on and and the windows and the stuff barred up and closed up and nobody's out. The contact, the personal relationships is gone So I think we shouldn't be surprised when our church relationship seems distant or shallow or artificial. Would you think it fair that you go to a job interview electronically? Someone looking for a job and everything you do, I'm just going to put it on and there's There's all kinds of websites, you know, whereas Indeed and and some of these other ones, you know, but you don't know me. You don't see me face to face. Dating apps, you know, a guy can get a girl to find out her information, or a girl can find out that this guy was just send him a message. Oh, he looks like too many. You're gonna see him personally You know, my mom and dad, we're gonna get a get get my daughter a wife, you know, or husband a wife. We do it, no, personal relationships How should we honor the time-honour traditions that are mentioned in Scripture, a face-to-face of understanding what life is? Can we pretend that it doesn't have an effect on relationships or on fellowship amongst Christians? I believe we live in a world that we are starving for koinonia, for real fellowship. I'm convinced that so many struggle in this very area. And it's just a matter of words. It's just a matter of words. One man wrote that all the words can be put into two piles. One pile is used for communication, and the other pile is used for communion. Words used for communication are used for buying stocks or selling apples or directing traffic or teaching physics. However, words used for communion tell stories, nurture intimacies, develop trust, and speak of love. Both are necessary communications, but really only one provides us with a strengthening of fellowship amongst believers. The relationships that we have are our opportunity of choice and what we do with it and how we handle it I want to close with a look back on the low-tech times of the first century, the timeless times when the Bible speaks of how directly contemporary words were done. Let me read from John. Second John twelve, having many things to write unto you I would not write with paper and ink, but I trust to come unto you and speak face to face that our joy may be full. This is the word empowered by the Holy Spirit to believers from an author who says, you know, we have to have communication, but I really want to see you. And it didn't mean he could have see he could have given all of the words and and there's a lot of words about great communication within that book. You know? He could have given them all and a letter and sent it. And they said, Boy, isn't this a nice letter? But the difference is coming to them, he said, I want to come that our joy, my joy and your joy, might be blessed in that relationship. 3 John thirteen, fourteen. I have much to write to you, but I do not want to do so with pen and ink. But I trust I shall shortly see you, and we shall speak face to face. I got a lot to say And and obviously because the letter was there, a lot was said, important things. But he said, My trust is that it'll be face to face. Why? So he can see how angry he is or how happy he is? No. He wants communication. He wants to see the people as they are. Hebrews 10 25, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, so much the more as ye see the day approaching. Not forsaking assembling, obviously in the context of uh church gatherings, but the assembling of the gathering together of believers, not to Pass it off. Not to cast it off. I got better things to do. I'll make up for it. You know, whatever it is. The reason was because you got it and you you got to give your tithes and offerings. No, it's not about that It's because the benefits of the binding of fellowship, the benefits of feeding off of each other and growing with each other, and saying, we have the same things in common The same loves, the same interests, the same hates. Those are the things that we need to build each other up in. And it ends up, where do we find most of our assessment of those types of things? I left my phone back in my uh seat back there, but isn't that it? If I need to find out anything, I'll ask Google Siri, find out this for me. You know? And and with AI now, all of the pictures here. Well, I saw his face there. I saw them there. It's gotta be true. When the source of having the Word of God in front of us and the source of having people that are part of our family right face to face can't be beat But we oftentimes pass it off in order to do the artificial aspect of it. New Year's resolution. I think that's all a bunch of bunk simply because we oftentimes make up something and and just pass it off. But can't I say, Lord? cause me, starting today, to look at these principles of this church, the principles of of the teaching of the Word of God the principles of of what really is bound together in the breaking of bread. The principles of of s of prayer that is that is so important to draw my heart close to you and to my brothers and sisters in Christ and the principles of fellowship. Ask the Lord. Do it. And who do you think doesn't want you to do it? Satan, isn't it? Satan's whole interest is to keep us away from those four things or understanding those four things. And when he's done that We fall apart. We can't have that. Purpose in your heart to accomplish, uh ask the Lord to give you strength to do this. Shall we pray? Father, in the quietness of our morning now as we conclude this portion of your worship We pray that Spirit would speak to our hearts as you know each of us much better than we know ourselves. And you know our frailties and you know our strengths. You know our weaknesses as well as the goals that we have set. We pray, Father, that you will cause us to look upon us with favor, that you would continue to be gracious, giving us that which we don't deserve. And shower us with your mercy holding back that which we do deserve. Allow us, Father, to find joy as these first century believers. uh did and impacted the world, the furtherance of the gospel. We're not looking to the world right now, Lord. We're just looking in this community. Help us, Father, to that very end. In Christ's name. Amen.