When was the last time you cried? Yeah. Maybe watching our favorite sports team bomb out their season again, or maybe slamming your finger in the door Or some of those onions when you're slicing them bring some tears to your eyes. Cleveland Eye Clinic writes that there's three types of tears. I always thought there was just tears and just tears. First kind they mentioned is basal tears. There's three complex layers of tears that coat the eye, give nutrients to the outer structure. When dust and debris gets into your eye, it's the basal tears that wash them out. They protect the eye, protect the cornea. And your eyes are constantly shedding basal tears, you just don't mention, recognize it. Probably that's why some people need eye drops. You know, basal tears aren't quite working The second one is reflex here, as they mentioned. This is mostly water, it's produced by a response to an external stimulus. The bug comes along and you know and then it washes the eye out. It cleans out the eye from that external stimulus. And then the third one is called emotional tears. One probably we were most familiar with. We f have these flows with outcome of motion, scientists say that endorphins are found in these tears. Matters of stress or pain or great joy. Bring forth those types of tears. Crying. As you know, today is Palm Sunday, often spoken of as Jesus' triumphal entry, as we struggle to sing those two hymns. in this uh hymnal today. I think it's hard to gauge, but probably this was the most publicly joyous collection of people gathered together for Jesus. There were times when he did great things and they were happy and so forth, but this was probably the most exuberant time in his earthly ministry Following the event of bringing his good friend Lazarus back to life when he was there in Bethany The event that brought uh crowds around to see what had taken place, and then coming to Jerusalem with a memor memorable two-mile walk, uh not necessarily too far, paths that often were taken. The crowds coming out of Bethany, following Jesus, because it was coming up to Passover, people recognizing what he had done with Lazarus and feeling that this is something special, and then others coming out of Jerusalem, seeing him coming. And they saw the other crowds gathering together. Although it's never mentioned, I'm pretty sure there were tears shed amongst the crowd. Some basal tears because of the dust, you know, no real paved roads. Probably some reflex tears because of getting poked in the eye with a palm branch But I think a majority of them were probably emotional tears because of the occasion and the things that they had seen When they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they took branches, palm branches, and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the King of Israel. that cometh in the name of the Lord. Palm branches were often used in parades or in uh occasions where there is a war, a battle, victory, and they were used as kind of an elevated uh excitement. A very great multitude spread their garments in the way. Others cut down branches from the trees and strewed them in the way. And the multitudes went before him and cried, Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Uh they cried, and no doubt a lot of that was the shouting type of cry, and maybe there were some crying of tears at that occasion And they were unknowingly quoting from Psalm 118, Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord, O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you out of the house of the Lord. It was an emotional gathering. People gathering together. Yet in the context of what was going on, Jesus knew the week ahead of him was going to be a tremendous challenge. He knew the events already before he had come to Jerusalem. He knew that he would be teaching his final lessons with his disciples. There would be the last supper in the upper room There would be the departure, go into the garden. There would be the betrayal of Judas. There would be his request with his three disciples to pray with me Spent much time in prayer. There would be the horrible beatings, the foolish mock trial, then his crucifixion. Physical pain, but also the pain of having his father say, I can't look at you Almost in stark contrast to the joys and shouts of delights that were shed on this day, Christ knew what was ahead of him. He knew the situations that he was facing. I want to share this morning three occasions which Jesus is spoken of as shedding tears of crying. The first, John 11, 35, you know that verse by memory. Kids always say, oh, well memorize the verse. You know, Jesus wept. Jesus wept. This is the first of our trio of passages, the first in the timeline of events, and it occurs just before Palm Sunday. All three will be in a row here. Leading up to this verse, we find Jesus and the disciples probably resting along the Jordan River, peaceful time. Word comes to them all of a sudden that he whom thou lovest is sick. I don't think names had to be mentioned, but they knew it was Lazarus Lazarus, his good friend, the brother of Mary and Martha, had come down with something. Yet instead of heeding their plea, immediately going out, and I think most would say, well that's what we ought to do. Let's go. He's sick. Jesus said, the sickness is not unto death. but to the glory of God that the Son of Man might be glorified thereby. And so they waited two days. Maybe the disciples are sitting there saying, eh, maybe he knows something that we don't. Maybe it was a bad fish they ate. But they did recognize what Jesus recognized. By the time they arrived in Bethany two days later, everyone realized that Lazarus is already dead. As a matter of fact, Jews don't wait around. They'll wrap them up automatically. Grave clothes sealed together in the tomb, and he's already in a state of decay Jewish tradition has that the big leaves of of fragrance and oils, perfumes are wrapped in with those cloth in order to keep the stench from a decayed body out, but by this time perfumes had only lasted so long. As Jesus and his disciples arrive, the one sister, Mary, meets him, sees him, no doubt, coming across the field and with the disciples And with no doubt great emotion and tears, she says, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. If he'd come, he wouldn't have died. And it shouldn't be thought that unusual that Mary comes to him next. Sees him also. Word got around to the crowd. Jesus is coming. She says unto him, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. Don't you care? Don't you care? He's just been with them just a few days before in and and spent the time with them. And they talked as many times as they did, as they fed, and they talked around the table of good food and fellowship. Had to be the theme, Don't You Care Jesus? was in everybody's mind. The family Those who came relatives, those in the community that were people who were interested, the mourners and so forth, didn't he care The disciples even ask those same things. You've healed so many in the past. And as you read through the New Testament account, you find that You can't get an exact number, but there had to be hundreds, if not thousands, of people that Jesus brought life back to them, healed, strengthened them. They knew his record, they knew his testimony They knew his ability. You could have done something sooner to prevent this, but you didn't. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and this was Mary, and the Jews also weeping, which came with her, he groaned in the spirit and was troubled, and said Where have he laid him? And they said unto him, Lord, come see. Jesus wept. Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him. On his way to the tomb, the crowds that were there, he no doubt passes Mary and Martha and all of those who were crying along the way He saw their situation, and it was a time for him to share with them. He cried with them. It wasn't a sign of weakness. It was a sign of compassion. It was a sign of love for these to whom he felt as real close friends. It was a sympathetic heart with Mary and Martha and others who were there. That's our Jesus. How many times have you felt that the Lord simply didn't care? kind of passed you by, the words that you expressed, a situation that you found yourself in. Seemed like he was distant to your conflict, to your hurt, to your pain. We kind of like to have answers right away. Tim mentions, well, our prayer list, you know. Well those names sometimes change, but for the most part, those names kind of remain the same. The healing didn't take place. The supply wasn't there on time, or what we perceived as on time Lord, if thou hast been there, my brother had not died, my sister had not died. Remember? Lord, if you had done this. or that. The children of Gaza wouldn't have been slaughtered. Those folks in the towns in in Ohio and Kentucky and Tennessee, as the tornadoes went through and just s d shattered their their homes livelihood. What do we do? Lord, if you had done something on time, these things wouldn't have happened. I wouldn't be taking these cancer treatments. I wouldn't have to work three jobs to care for my family. I fill in the blank. Fill in the blank. How many times we think where we perceive that this is the time, this is the day for a rescue, this is the time for him to listen. Hello? Where are you? Where are you? But in reality, Jesus does care. And he always did There were 5,000 on the hillside hungry. And he fed them with just a handful of fish and bread. There were the lepers that were cleansed. There were the blind that were made to see again. He brought life to the son of the widow of Nain. John writes, and there were also many other things which Jesus did. The witch If there should be written every one, I suppose that even the world could not contain the books that should be written. Amen. We just don't know all that Jesus did because he did care. But you know what? He's not here anymore. Sure, Jesus is there, and he walked amongst them and he ate with them and he performed the miracles and he healed and he raised from the dead. But that was back then, he's not here anymore Seems to be so distant. Yet even though our Jesus has ascended into heaven, we are to be confident that He does hear, and His compassion continues not to fail. That he is one to whom we can find, that he feels our pain and our loss and our grief like no other. Author of Hebrews says, For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. His position today is one to whom we can say he knows my every weakness because he was tested and trying in each of those. He understands every situation that there, and his tears for us are his compassions for us. We can never say, Lord, you forgot me. Lord, you didn't answer this. And there are times we've thought of that like five years ago or ten years ago, and he says, boy, you know, that turned out right. The way the Lord answered that, that was perfect. Hold those to our hearts. Jesus wept. The second one is out of Luke 19, verse 41. And when he was come near, he beheld the city and wept over it All right, this is the second in the timeline, and here we find Jesus after Palm Sunday. He's entered into the city of Jerusalem following this great triumphal entry Fanfare is done, no more echoing in the streets, and he comes to the Mount of Olives and he stands there and he gets this panoramic view. of the city of Jerusalem. He looks over the things that are there and bursts into tears. He's not crying like he was with Mary and Martha. Jesus wept, not just shedding some tears, but this was a strong crying. And when he came near, he beheld the city and wept over it. What did he see? As he looks on the city of Jerusalem, what are the things that brought his heart to a place that were so burdensome to him? Some of you talk about parts of Baltimore or surrounding areas, places that you grew up in or worked in. places that you found that you could drive through and say, boy, that was a beautiful place and we come and we see it and it's no more It's painful. Almost bringing to tears when you reminisce over those days, over those situations. And how today it's such a mess, it's heartbreaking. A few years ago we broke drove back to the town where we once lived, where the church we once ministered in Most of the houses and that little street and all the surrounding areas needed paint. I mean terribly. In the place around back of the church, the the roads were so pothole filled There was like a battlefield. The front of the church where one young lady that I know used to do the flowers and they were beautiful. No more. Plain, barren. It almost was to the point of tears. But is that what he was crying about? The condition of Jerusalem? The graffiti that was sprayed all over the walls, you know? Could it be that there were street lights that were left out? That there were trash everywhere? Abandoned carts and broken down chariots Is that what he saw? No, it wasn't that. But as you see what Jesus wept for, we find it in his own words recorded in Matthew. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as an hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not Picture it. What God had done for his blessed beloved Israel. The prophets came to warn them to repent. to turn back from God, from away from the sin and turn back to God for all they had done, the sins that were there. But they killed the messengers. Because they hated the message. They didn't want to hear this principle of repentance. And Jesus gives a very simple analogy. As the mother hen tenderly cherishes and cares for her young by hiding them under the wings. And I've seen that at times. Chicken putting her wings out and the little ones come underneath. Well he's protecting them from the hawk. As the hawk flies over and sees them and she's there, covers them over. In the days of Jesus, it was the Roman eagle, the Roman eagle that pronounced its rule over Israel in all things, but they too refused them. Jesus knew what was coming. By 70 A. D. the people were devoured. The last rebellion of the Jews came along, and the Romans says, we're going to put this down quite fast. Jerusalem became a waste. History records that over one million Jews perished, and 100,000 were enslaved. Josephus, the writer of Jewish history, records how the bridles of the horses of the Romans rode through the streets and the blood was all the way up through the bridles of the horses. It was a disaster. But worse than that, they rejected the Messiah, and he beheld the city and wept over it. He wept over what was going to happen to the beloved Israel. The one God would have easily brought them under and protected them from Rome or Babylon or anybody else. But they said, no. But nothing to do with it. We may be brokenhearted over the plate of our cities, or saddened over the neighborhoods that we once lived in. We may be angered over the direction that the country goes in and bring tears to see what's happening around the world with the unborn, with children, with those who are the innocent The problems of immorality are prevalent and the willingness that we have to cry for our country. Yes, as we go about on our daily duties, driving in our streets and our neighborhoods, do we care for their souls? Do we care for the souls of people? We may shake a fist at the way they've treated our former house or our church or or the community and they're not taking care of it. What about their souls? What about their hearts? Do I care for the clerk at the bank that we frequent? Or my barber? Or my uncle and aunt? What about the neighbor that I've known for 30 years and never even thought to talk to them about the Lord Jesus Christ? What about the nearly eight billion people that will spend an eternity in hell because they know not the Savior? Do we care at all? The church is the lighthouse, proclaiming truth to those to whom God would send it. He beheld the city and wept over it. The story is told by an evangelist as he visited Francis Schaefer and his wife Edith in Switzerland. Some sixty years ago, after a dinner one night and the conversation raged about very s theological topics and to have Francis Schaeffer there and to be able to glean from him what were the answers. What do you think? What about this and what about that? Everyone passed around their great theological questions. Answers were given Finally, he asked them, What will happen to those who have never heard of Christ? And they looked to him, watching for his answer. He said nothing. Whatever happened to those who have never heard of Christ? The profound intellect response came nothing. Instead, he bowed his head and he cried. What do we think about the lost? Hebrews chapter 5, verses 7 through 9 is our third and final time that we find our Lord Jesus Christ weeping. Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong cryings and tears, unto him that is able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared. Though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered. In being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him. Our third and final scene goes to the Garden of Gethsemane. If you think of the events that took place on this week, Triumphal Entry, Monday, he starts right in with his teaching. Having the disciples in various locations talking about a number of things that are only mentioned in the end times. Jesus finally gets to the time of going through the bringing in of the time with the disciples around the Lord's table for their Passover meal. And he's physically exhausted. You know, we think of the things that we get tired of and have to rest. He's helped us all. The Passover meal was eaten. He goes to the Garden of Gethsemane to prepare for a very demanding physical and mental and spiritual battle that he faces. Just thinking ahead of time, and you know how exhausting when we have something that's giant ahead of us, just the thoughts of preparing for that can be extremely demanding He takes three disciples with him, Peter and James and John in support. And yet there they were, snoozing. And he wakes them again and he's snoozing. He wakes them again. And Judas, well, he was about to betray him. His trial and his crucifixion were just hours away. And what was he doing? He was praying, earnestly, earnestly praying, with strong crying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. He has that burden which is tremendous upon him But what is laid to his heart as his only repose is to find his heart to pour out to his heavenly Father. Unlike much of the time that we have in prayer, I'm sure this was not a one-and-done. We have a list We have some things that come to mind. We have a certain time of the day or a certain time of the night or a certain time of the week and we go through the list and we pray and it's a one and done. We're satisfied with that because I've I prayed. But here's Jesus with this tremendous burden before him. He poured out in sincere prayer again and again and again. For what? He could have called ten thousand angels from heaven and cleaned it all up He had the ability, he had the power to demand legions of faithful supporters to annihilate the opposition. But he didn't. Some say that he prayed for himself, not to have to go through this horrible agony, that that was tempered with the fact that he was willing to surrender it all for you and me. What has somebody done for you that you really appreciate? Think of the things that people have done and we thank them for it. You know, we exchange gifts. We should give somebody a little thanks so much, you know. And what Jesus has come to us in providing a reality He had done what we could never have accomplished in giving us eternal life. And being in the agony, he prayed more earnestly And as sweat was, as it were, great drops of blood falling down to the ground. He poured himself out so earnestly in prayer. Sincerely burdened with that which is ahead of him, not for himself, but for us. The immensity is impossible to imagine. Consider these crying out when we read in Scripture. Jonah in the belly of the great fish cried out to be rescued. Lord, get me out of this! You know, we've never been swallowed by a fish, you know, or a whale or whatever it was. But you can imagine the stench and the slime and all this other stuff recognizing that he could be just a part of a digestive system. And he cried out earnestly Hezekiah's cry to God that they were about to be invaded by the Assyrians. Hezekiah did so well for so many years. And then at the end, just kind of wandered off, and here come the Assyrians. And Hezekiah had some issues himself, and he goes in and he prays, turns his face to the wall, and he just pours his heart out for his nation. He cries unto God and God blesses. David in Psalm 6 writes: All the night make I my bed to swim. I water my couch with my tears. I started up asking when was the last time you cried Here's David, and he says, my bed, my couch, that which I recline on, which I rest on, it's wet. It's not a leak in the ceiling. He's pouring out his soul for something, that which is burdened to him. Blind Baradimaeus. And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. Obviously, crying out again can be just very loud. He cried out, but blind as he was, there have to be tears in there. Be merciful to me, Jesus. Be merciful to me. These all cried out in a loud voice, and they called from a heart that I'm sure was accompanied by tears that brought pleading before the throne of grace. So, what our Savior's prayers that night in the garden? Well they were unlike much of our prayer life, which is often filled with repetitive Christian phrases. We pray and we'll throw in a f part of a verse or add to this or add to that. And it's not a reflection always of how my heart feels. When we lived in the Philippines, we worked with her sisters, a number of them, and I think there's one brother came And we presented some Bible stories and lessons and presented them the gospel and asked them, I says, you know, would you like to ask Jesus into your hearts? And and they said, Shia, yeah. I said, Well go ahead and pray. Uh you know, Nahiya. You know, they they were they were ashamed. They were they were I says, why Well, we don't know how to pray. Your English is so good, God will hear you. You pray. I said, no, that's not the point. From your heart. You come to him and you tell him what's on your heart. In whatever language. You think God only knows English? That God only knows this one? He's not proficient in all of the tongues in the world? He knew them all. When Jesus prayed unto him that was able to save him from death, it was his father who listened. We don't know the words. We have the words of Lord teach us to pray, and we go through the Lord's Prayer. But these words, similar, I'm sure, in the same pattern, how he came before his Father, he prayed from his heart. Friends, we saw three recorded instances where the Lord Jesus Christ cried. at the tomb of Lazarus, because of his love, his compassion for us. There was the time in Jerusalem, and the people that were there, he wept over them, knowing what awaited them. We know what awaits the rest of the people in the world without Christ. Finally, the Garden of Gethsemane. Strong cryings he did on our behalf. He did so It doesn't mean we go around weeping, you know, oh you know, there's a lot of communities and a lot of situations and countries and cultures. They pay for mourners to come and and you have a funeral. They well let's just get people we'll pay them to come and cry. We'll pay them to just weep along, so it sounds like we have a very spiritual time together around this person who's gone from our hearts. Not sure about your tears, nor a time mine. But if you know the Lord Jesus Christ and know him as your Redeemer and your Savior, you know He is a soon coming King There's one mention of tears that affects us most. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, that's just not shout voices, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. It'll be worth it all. How many ever days do we have left here upon this earth? It's the time to pour out ourselves because of what Jesus had poured out for us. Because one day all of that's going to be gone. It'll disappear. Every funeral we come to and we see this person there and all of the suffering that they've gone through He said there's no more tears that they're healed, you know. There's no more pain, they're healed. There's nothing to look upon because of what Jesus had done. One day we'll join them and rejoice in what He's given. Shall we pray? Father, in the week of ahead of us, there are certain events that those scriptures spend time in. Giving us a historical chronology of our Lord Jesus Christ, his last earthly week In the flesh, as he revisited friends and family, as he taught those who were his faithful disciples. As he presented to them truths that would affect them at that time, and even those things which were still to come, even things that we look forward to ourselves. But in these three instances, we see the true humanity of our Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, how he loved them and how he loves us. How he has compassion on them and how he has compassion on us. How he has concerned for those to whom have not heard the gospel. Who have not been set free by the power of the truth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And how indeed He looks upon us and He prays for us and intercedes on our behalf The word assures us that even now he sits on the right hand of the Father and He intercedes. He stands for us. He is our lawyer in glory. And he says, I was suffering and crucified for that one and that one and that one. He can do such. Praise your Father for as this week goes on, may we spend maybe a little more time than we have in the past in reading through this history of the chronology of our Lord Jesus last week. And finally come to an understanding of just how much love He has for us. We repeat it in Jesus' name. Amen.