Philippians 1. Just follow along if you would, please. I'm just going to read the first six verses, verses one through six. Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ to all the saints in Christ Jesus, which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Always in every prayer of mine for you all, making request with joy for your fellowship in the gospel. from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ Shall we pray? Father, thank you that the word continues to provide us with great insight and hope in the day in which we live. We need such. And so as it had been the staple for believers in generations and decades and centuries past, so it is to be our staple today. That which is before us, this little letter from the apostle written to his beloved church in Philippi. May Father the words feed our hearts. We ask your Father to give us clarity of mind as to the things that are presented will be truthful to you in your word. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. How man how many of you have your maps from last week? You don't need them. But I did ask you last week to do something. Remember what that was? Read chapter one. And I'm not going to ask if you read that, but I trust that you did. And before we return again in a few weeks, ask you to read chapter one again. And there's a theme that we find in chapter one and in chapter two and three and four that permeates it's in a one w one word theme. And what was that word? It starts with a J and ends with a Y, and there's only three letters. Joy. The word joy permeates this letter of Paul, and some have gone ahead and said, and I think rightly so. Abbreviated is Jesus, others, and ourselves. Jesus, others, and yourself. And that's the attitude that Paul has, although he doesn't think of those things. That's what he presents. Jesus first. ourselves second, our others second, and yourself last at all in memory. He begins by saying, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you This letter was written about 10 years after that first visit, that first missionary trip, where he spent time with them, seated out of the brand new church, and he says, I thank God You know, somebody could really come along and said, Paul, this is an opportunity for you to do a little bit of Not boasting, but telling the people what you've gone through for them. You know, kind of lifting yourself up a little bit, making things known. Tell them how many months you spent with him, how the travels that he uh to get there and back, and all of the personal sacrifice involved. You could express a little bit of that you know, to say the things that have gone on. Don't sell yourself short, Paul. You're thanking God, but give yourself a little credit. Last week we talked in Acts 16 where uh the apostle got to the place where he cast the demon out of that woman. You remember that? And in that occasion, all of a sudden, the employees, employers, decided that this man is ruining our business. All of a sudden, she no longer is making money for them, so they grab them And they rip him down the streets, they dismantle him of his clothing, and brought him to the magistrates, whereupon he is beaten along with Silas. uh an inch of his life, uh stripped and whipped shamefully. Thrown in the prison, stocks are put upon his feet and they sit there for we don't know how long Paul could have said, hey Philippians, every time I remember you, there's a tinge in my back from where they opened me up. Or the arthritic uh pain from the stocks as it uh corded my my my feet down. He could have said that. But he doesn't. There are many other things that could have been thought about and said, but he didn't. So Paul presents to them, which is sincere and out of his heart, Jesus is most to me. Then you and then myself. Joy is the theme of Paul's life and joy is the theme of this book You know, brethren, I pray that Paul's humility will teach us something. You know, we live in a world where that joy is exactly the opposite. Why, the yourself, always comes first, or at least in the majority of lives. When there are decisions to be made, I think of me and how it's going to affect me How will it give to me? How will it make me? What choice that I make for my sake when it comes to making those decisions? Then we think of others secondly. We have concern for others and their needs and their well-being, but mostly after my needs are met. I can think of other people, but I really am kind of short myself, my time, my talents, whatever it is. So if I have extra, then others. And then last of all is Jesus. Um how many of you, 30 years ago, how many of you wore the WWJD bracelet? Some of you weren't even 30 years old, so you have no clue about that. But did any of you wear one? It became really hugely popular, you know, for quite a few years, or say a decade after that. What would Jesus do? And it comes down to the place where we need to ask ourselves, what would Jesus do? The priority of having him first. Well, I think of myself and I think of others, but I don't necessarily think what would Jesus have me to do in this choice, in in my planning stages, in the direction that I go in life. Obviously Paul never thought of that. Why would I go to this town? These people are going to hate me. They're going to throw me in prison I escaped out of one city by a basket down lowered down. Maybe I'm just in the wrong business. But it was always Jesus first. Always Jesus first. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Literally all my remembrance, all of the things that facilitate the idea of these Philippians, his total ministry there. brought him total joy. When he thought of them, it brought them joy. There were no regrets, and we'll see why later on. But in truth, every time the name Philippi came up, Paul could respond, thank you, Lord. Every time the people that were there come to his heart or his mind. Somebody visit, I went to Philippi. Thank you, Lord. You know, it was a joy to have such there. Yet the question is, who are you in every remembrance of you It's not a singular. There are places we'll go that I remember a certain person or whatever, but he's saying collectively as a as a unit, you, as a whole group, remembrance of you all You know, it really doesn't mention this, but I think he could almost name them person by person. Again, when we were thinking back in Acts 16 about the things in the exchange of stuff that went on He first met Lydia down by the river as the Jew Jewish Jewesses I guess that's plural Jewesses were worshiping down there. And he meets with them and then it becomes Lydia and her household and maybe some of the others that were there And then all of a sudden this slave girl who becomes uh free from the demon that was possessed and and he thinks of her. And then there's the Roman guard uh were in charge of the prison where Paul was held and Paul and Silas were held. Um, he can think of them, a Jewess, a a pagan girl, a Roman soldier. And over the next ten years the congregation grew It grew in number, because we see in the beginning of our letter he says to the bishops and deacons. In other words, they were of a a size of a group where they could elect what God had appointed elders and deacons in the church. But I really think the idea is that he's thinking of them as a group He's joyous over this group because of the joys that their theology, practically put, was made there in pr in truth Fond memories of all the names and faces fueled thanksgiving and joy. It's noteworthy if you read the prayers of the Apostle Paul. that he generally never thanks God for things. He thanks God for people. He requests prayer for people and things, but when it comes to thanking God, it's always for people. And it's because that's what God's heart is. God's heart wasn't joyous over things in life. He never redeemed people for things, but the pattern of his prayers were of such I think it's a sound pattern for us to practice. Things, brethren, as you know, are temporal, but people are eternal. Christ gave his lifeblood for people, not for things. Christ gave his life to redeem people, not things. So we need to graciously thank him for that. And I think when it comes time for our prayer life, for our closet prayers, when we are by ourselves or when we are collectively with a group, to thank God for individuals Have your mind go through the people whom God has put in your life intersecting. He knew the right time and the right place for a certain people, a a family, a group or whatever. And I my own mind goes back to our years even as being married and how God had placed a certain couples or certain individuals, maybe for a short period of time or maybe for a longer period of time. And what a blessing they had been. And and like Paul, they bring joy to our hearts. And therefore we need to do such. And I think also if those people are still around, be worthy to go and thank them personally for what they've done. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. You know, as people see our lives They witness it sometimes from a distance, maybe at an office, maybe on the road or at a store or a gas station or whatever, or a regular family within the neighborhood What do they see in us? Do they thank God for our testimony? Do they look at us and say, that person has been a spiritual blessing to me? Maybe we only saw them once or twice, but what lasting memory was held? What seeds were sown in the lives of other people by us? What did we give them to remember? What did we give them to profit? Were they seeds of discord or seeds of harmony? Were they kind thoughts of encouragement or were there thoughts of discord? Were they hate or charity? And I think in the long run, people are spiritually edified when we are around them, when we consider that we, like Paul, have the responsibility to do our very best for the Lord Jesus Christ for them. Now we get to verse 4. You don't see it as such, but verse 4 is a continuation, a continuing thought from verse 3. So I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always In every prayer of mine for you, making requests with joy. In all of my praying for you, I find joy in offering up such prayers. All my prayer time. And that doesn't mean every time he prays, he's praying for the Philippians. But when uh a seed thought, when he hears a name, when he s knows a uh certain place or or whatever that's associated with them. And he says, every time I pray, your thoughts come to mind, and I do it with great joy. It's a happy feeling, it's a joyous feeling Where is Paul, by the way? Yeah, he's in heaven. I don't mean that. He's in jail Now it's under house arrest. It's a little bit different. There's another prison that he goes to later on in life, which is a prison set aside for those who are going to be executed. But at this particular time he's chained to a Roman soldier. That's why these letters are called his prison epistles. And he writes them and get to Philippians and he talks about the the armor of the Christian armor, we're no doubt looking at a soldier who's right there with him. He sees the helmet and the breastplate and the sword and everything else like that. So he's got that. You think about Paul being limited, he can't go out and preach the gospel, he can't go out and say anything to anybody, but his prayers are not limited. He's coming to this place in time when he writes them and he says, In every prayer of mine, making requests with joy, as I pray, I'm re praying again, supplying you folks with the joy that's upon my heart. Look what God has done for them, such a testimony. And then again, a very difficult situation. And it produces joy I know there are people in your life, as I have in mine, that when I think of that person or people, it brings joy to my heart. I I pray and I I I think of them uh a a spouse or a child or children or grandchild or grandchildren or other relations And when you think of them, it just fills your heart with joy. It just overflows. I praise God for them. I pray for them. It's not a burden. It's not a labor to pray in such a situation. And that was for the Apostle Paul. So that's the content of what's behind it. So I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, making requests with joy. Verse 5 For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Again, these are all together, in essence, one one continuous thought, provided the purpose of it. Now, verse five, Can you see what Paul is saying here? The fellowship was the cause of his prayer, not the object. Why was Paul praying? Because of the fellowship, the relationship. It isn't the object of his prayer Whenever Ph Philippi comes up, whenever the occasion comes to remember them, he's filled with joy because of what? Their fellowship. What's fellowship? Word has even come up, I think, in the announcements today, you know. Uh church speak. We're going to have youth fellowship meeting tonight. We're going down to the fellowship hall and have fellowship. We're going to have food and games and and chit-chat and so forth. It it's kind of becomes a a a church-speak word that we don't necessarily think about it. In Luke 5. 10, we read, and so was also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simeon. So here's James and John brothers, and they're fishermen, and who are they partnering with? Peter. That word partner is the same root word as fellowship. Koinonia, Greek word koinonia. In secular Greek, partners or what is used in koinonia means essentially partnership to the mutual benefit of those involved. A partnership mutually beneficial to those involved. So James and John and Peter, fishermen, they partner in this boat. Maybe they uh worked on it, uh paid for it together. They partner in the nets, they partner in the fishing, cleaning up afterwards, uh mending the nets, uh selling the fish, the proceeds and everything. There's a partnership. They mutually benefit from each other in this relationship that's there. Same root word. So Christian fellowship then is the mutually beneficial relationship between Christians. Who can't have their identity, identical relationship with those who are outside the faith. You cannot have fellowship with unbelievers. You can have friendships, you can have relationships, you can have interchanges and exchanges, but you can't have fellowship because the root that is found within the believer's life is their salvation. The center focus of it is Jesus Christ. Fellowship focuses like a wheel. It's a the hub of the whole thing. Christ is the center, and however else that fellowship goes all the way around Ties them all together in such a relationship. This relationship is based upon that redeeming work of Christ. We are united to one another in common beliefs common purposes and common goals. Here is Paul, house arrest, chained to a soldier, not necessarily knowing how long he is going to be under this situation. But he sees great delight in what? The fellowship. What's the fellowship mean? They are partnering together with those who are back at Philippi. He has nothing to do with it. It's a hands-off. Outside of his prayers, I can do nothing for you people. But Paul is saying, I can do much because I rejoice in it, because this is what God is doing in your life. He is providing such a joy and blessing. It is the outworkings of such fellowship that brought him joy. Every time that he mentions the church at Philippi, he's joyous because of what is taking place in their lives. the partnering of it. They all exchange and such. Yet I ask myself, how is it being accomplished? How is that fellowship long distance being accomplished? Second missionary journey, he spends probably about three months there. You saw in your maps that you don't have, or some of you do. He comes guy again on the third missionary journey and he stops there again to Philippi, but not for such the same amount of time. So he's back and forth with them, and then he writes this letter to the Philippians once and again. It's a hands-off ministry, but for the most part, he prayed and he had trust in what? Or in whom. What does the verse say? Being confident of this very thing. Verse 6 That he that began a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. His fellowship was based upon what Upon whom? Upon God. The outworkings of His prayers, the outworkings of the sowing of the seed of the gospel the outworkings of his his intent to to to enjoy himself to them and plan it wasn't based upon anything else but that Being confident in verse 6. I am convinced. I am fully persuaded of this very thing. Does Paul have doubt here? And I hope the church grows, you know. I hope these I hope these guys are gonna do okay, you know. Sometimes we have our doubts, our human doubts. But Paul has no human doubt here. What was he so confident in? He was confident in that the Philippians were the best Bible students he's ever known. They can memorize scripture like nobody else. Boy, when they got together in a prayer meeting, these Philippians could pray and pray and pray and pray and pray. They were super spiritual people. They were great prayer warriors. They loved to witness from the very start. And Lydia. Lydia's business of selling purple, you know, she knew how to turn a shekel and this church could really give because of her business. I'm confident of this very thing None of those. Not in the people, not in the individuals. His confidence was in the fact that God was there. None of these things but is attributed to the success of the ministry was his partnership, his fellowship being accomplished by God and God alone. Sometimes we feel failure with the church. And who's been the one? Well, it it was the pastor's fault, or it was the deacon's fault, or it's somebody's fault, you know? It's the elders' fault. He shouldn't have been out chopping wood or whatever in the case. We could blame somebody, but no. It's all in God's hands. It's his work It's his work. He, only God, which began the good work in you And it had to, because we were dead in trespasses and sins. From the moment that he chose us, we didn't choose him, but he chose us. And from that moment that he picked us out of the Biery Clay and placed this upon the solid rock, from that moment on, he says, he will continue to do his work. He will perform it. He will complete it. Until that day of Jesus Christ. In other words, to the day that the resurrection takes us and we are joined together before Christ. He started the good work in us, and he will perform it. Now what work is that? Just to see that we're saved? You know, we have that confidence. Once saved, always save, you know. That's not really with the whole picture. Paul says, my confidence is in the fact that The work that he began in you was just not to redeem you, but to make you a people that I want you to be. Prepare you, equip you. Binding, working in ministry together. And the rest of this letter continues to talk about those things. God starts the good work, and he alone finishes it. Think of God as the preserver of his children. Does he give up on any of us? There are times when I wonder. But he doesn't. The psalmist says, Ye that love the Lord hate evil, he preserveth the souls of his saints. He preserves our souls. He protects us. He holds us in the hollow of his hand. He brings us to a place of life and eternal life. And then he says, we are going to work together despite all of the things that we think are taking place. It is his work. He says he will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ, completed when our glorified bodies are resurrected. John Piper wrote this paragraph. He says, Philippians 1. 6, the verse we just read, is one of the greatest and most often quoted promises in the Bible. And well it should be. It is a promise. We don't think of it as such, but it's a convincing argument that Paul states that this is what God has promised, that the work he started, he'll perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He says, the fact that God is at work in his people, changing the thought patterns And preference of our sinful nature so that we love what he loves, retooling the grooves of our brain, knitting together the complex strands of our emotional wounds. and infinitely greater skill than the world's foremost microsurgeons. There is no greater promise than this. Look what he's doing in us. Look what he did in the Philippines, you know. Uh uh this this and again The demonic wom the woman who's released from these demons, we don't have her name in here. We're not saying she's a believer, but I can't help but believe by her statement, you know These men are serving the most high God. I can't help but believe that she would have followed all. It would have been a natural move of God to open her eyes and bring her to that place. He said, look at what this woman was and look what she is now Uh look at this Roman soldier, this this garrisoned to a prison, and and he was about to take his life because he knew his life was going to be taken. And look what he is now Whole family, Lydia and her business, and all of these things, and all of the people that are in between. And he micro-changes their hearts and minds. Sometimes we become discouraged when people don't spiritually grow like we want them to be. Why don't you see that? Can't you see this is what the what the Bible says? You know, can't you read this? Can't you apply this? Why are you still so fearful? Why are you still so angry? Why are you this, you know, and it's not up to us to Put your hands around their necks and shake them. You know, it's up for us to trust in the one, have confidence in the one who is organizing all of the pieces as best as he knows We don't run, as I said last week, we don't run ahead of them and we don't lag behind, but we stay right with them. And that's where Paul finds this tremendous confidence in that You know, what lies before us, you know, coming in today, I was thinking, think of all of the things that are going on in the world right now, you know? Israel, again, they bombed out Beirut again and and that kind of thing. And pretty soon they're going to do something to Iran. And then pretty soon somebody else is going to do something to this and it's back and forth and back and forth. And China continues to send its ships down to the Philippine Sea and they're going to take over more land there And then Russia continues on this war with Ukraine. I got my finger on a a nuclear button here, you know? And on our own land. The the the mud that's being back and forth and back and forth in this political campaign. is painful to watch and to listen to. Uh our own lady who works in our uh mailroom Um Bonnie, I've mentioned her before. She was has macular degen degeneration and she has something additional. And uh so she we were at the office on Friday and she says Her her good eye was her left eye, and she says, uh my right eye all I can see is just there's a spot in the middle, and and I could only see just what's around the spot And they told her what it is and the the word is about thirty letters long, so we can't describe what it is. But I came back from lunch and she says I was looking at the computer and all of a sudden I don't see it anymore Her other eye went, you know. So now I have to say, Lord, you know, she's She's gonna be sixty in in in December. So she in essence she's young. And what happens to Bonnie's life now? And we still have to be able to find some replacement for her and do the work that Bonnie did. All of these things they compound one after another after another. And it just seems to add up. And you say, is there no pattern of good here, righteousness? And I come back to what Paul is, and you sit in a situation that was not made because he did something wrong, but because he was doing the things that were right. And God says, don't worry All of this is going on for your good. And Paul says, I've got confidence. You Philippians, you know, thousands of miles away, God's going to work in you what he does within me. Be confident in this very thing that the one who began the good work in you is going to perform it. And he's not going to say, oh, whoops, boy, I goofed up on that one, you know. Oh, maybe I should have done it differently. No. Everything that he does is perfect. And that's the confidence that we have in our own life 1988 Steve Green wrote a song and you've no doubt heard it. Um it's not in our hymnals and you probably know it anyways, but uh He that began a good work in you and the The the text goes if the struggle you're facing is slowly replacing your hope with despair, or the process is long and you're losing your song in la in the night. You can be sure that the Lord's hand is upon you, safe and secure. He will never abandon you. You are his treasure, and he finds his pleasure in you. He who began a good work in you, he who began a good work in you will be faithful to complete it, will be faithful to complete it. He who started the work will be faithful to complete it in you. No matter what you or I or at the church or our nation or this world is going through, he will complete the task. He is in charge. Nobody's going to second guess our God. Be confident in that. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for the boldness of Paul's statement. This one verse in particular, which redounded to your glory, he found joy in what you were doing. He found joy even during troubles in what you were doing in the lives of other people. Because to the apostle, Jesus, his Savior and our Savior, became the first. person in his life. Christ had the preeminence. And then others. And then last of all, Paul saw himself. So Lord grant unto us just a sliver of this truth to be applied in our day-to-day actions and to give others the hope that they don't know. And not in the better medicines or not in a stronger economy, uh not in a more powerful um uh w weaponry or uh military or anything, but our confidence is in our Savior Jesus Christ. For it's in His name we pray. Amen.