We're going to be looking this morning at First Timothy chapter two verses five through eight. As always, scripture must prevail. We're going to read first and then we'll go into basically an incredible look at base the ref at the Reformation. We'll talk about that in a moment. In 1 Timothy chapter 2, verses 5 through 8. For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. Whereunto I am ordained a preacher and an apostle. I speak the truth in Christ and lie not, a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity. I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. Let us pray Our Heavenly Father, as we see this incredible passage where Paul the Apostle is reaching out to his young apprentice, Timotheus. And he's teaching him. He's teaching him how to pray and to pray first, to pray hard in the ministry and to pray for all around and to pray everywhere. We thank thee and praise thee for these incredible words, as Paul the Apostle is now not very long from leaving this earth. In its passage, we see he's writing Timothy from prison. We pray, Lord, that thou wouldst just increase our faith this morning as thou teaches us that we all learn together. We thank thee for this opportunity, and we pray that Scripture would prevail, and that thou wouldst just bless our learning. For it's in the name of Jesus Christ we ask thee. Amen. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, is teaching this young apprentice and understudy that first of all to be engaged in prayer. We will see how, why, where should we be engaged in prayer? Through supplications? Prayers without ceasing, giving thanks for all men. He exhorts Timothy to pray for kings, for their authority, to live peaceably in godliness, to be honest, and most of all it should be on heart to honor what is good and acceptable in the sight of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We first saw Timothy back in Acts chapter 16 verse 1 and we read, Then came he to Derby and Lystra And behold, a certain disciple was there named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was a Jewess, and believed, but his father was a Greek. I will say that this morning we'll be reading a lot of scripture. I may have to go just a little bit quicker than normal because it's a lot of information. So if you can't make it to that verse, that's okay, you're welcome to just sit back and relax, but if you'd like to go look, that's great This is called the preamble of 1 Timothy 2. Paul opens up and does not begin by teaching that there are many ways to heaven. That all gods are acceptable in the eyes of the Lord, that relativism and pluralism are woven into the Christian faith. Not at all Paul is teaching and imploring and demanding that Timothy know unequivocally there is one God, there is one Savior. And yesterday I was at a Reformation conference and there was five speakers and there was five tenants and basically we had we were preaching on the five solas and I was so thankful that I was given solas christas There you have sola fide, faith, sola gratia, grace, we have sola scriptura, sola cristos, and solideo glorio. I was so thankful to be able to get the one. It was such a blessing to be able to preach that message, and this is that message. Paul is teaching and imploring and demanding Timothy that there is one God, one Savior Solo Christos, we can understand that this is magnified by the preaching, teaching, and the sacrifice and the backdrop of what we know in the Christian faith faith as the Reformation Solus is a word from 1599 in the Latin, and it means solely defined as alone. All we have to do is just remember, let's put this, bring this down and make it practical. Who was on that cross? Was it a plurality of God's on that cross? Who is the one that shed his blood and rose again and died, rose again on the third day? One God, one Christ, no others. Here we see Christ, here Christ's church in Ephesus is retained in the care of Timothy to garden it and to pray. For all men in general in authority, those around us, those that are seeking prayer. Paul is saying that Timothy must take care of the ministry. Paul knows he's dying. He's already his health was horrible, but he's about to go under Nero the Beast and he's about to be executed. And he's leaving his young apprentice to all of these wonderful treasures Not just to him, but isn't it incredible over 2,000 years later we could sit here and read this? Isn't that incredible? Verse 5, we see there is one God, Paul the Apostle. He's the mentor of Timothy, brings us here in verse five. One God. What Paul is saying here is that there is one God, one mediator and one that gave a ransom for our lives. This is Solo Christos, in other words, Christ alone. There is no plural plurality of God's There is no metaphorical mountain with many different roads, tunnels, trails, or other transportation by different means to heaven. Have you heard that Have you seen that today at all, basically in our society, where you believe in Jesus, that's your faith, that's okay, but this is what I believe in. And I find out that most people that say that, I ask them, well, what is your manifesto? And they can't answer that. What do you believe? If you don't believe in Christ, what is your way to heaven? Basically it's being it's said like this. There's many tunnels, there's many pathways, there's many avenues to heaven, there's all kinds of ways, it's not just one way. That's not true. When we go to the book of John, Christ says, I am the resurrection and the life. I am the way, the truth, and the life. The only way, and I and I maintain this, there's one way to heaven. There are many ways to hell. And that's very, very serious. We see that there is but one God. If you can get past the four first words in Genesis chapter one. You can really understand scripture, can't you? Does anybody remember what those first four words are? In the beginning, God, right? Does anybody remember that bumper sticker that was real popular back in the 70s and the 80s? There was a bumper sticker. And it was great because There was it was from uh when when basically there was a landing on the moon with Apollo and all, and it was a bu it was a bumper sticker that had the moon on it and a black backdrop, and you just see the moon said, in the beginning God. Isn't that incredible? We had a great way greater respect for God back in those days, sadly. We need to get that back today. God is in the first four words of His holy inspired word. It does not say in the beginning Pharaoh or in the beginning Baal or Dagon or Caesar or Buddha. or any of the popes, it does not say in the beginning Obama. It says in the beginning God. That's simple. You know, God's name is we would we see that God's name all throughout scriptures that there are endless, infinite proofs of his being, of his assayity, of his nature, of his works, his attributes, and his mercy. We see that we're not to be deceived in such a thing as a plurality of God's. There is no plurality. There is but one that resurrected. Think about Isaiah chapter 42, verse 8. I am the Lord, that is my name, and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images. When someone says that is your faith, and I have my faith, if their faith is not Jesus with Christ alone, they have no faith What they have is a pagan ritualistic lying cult that has no eternal value whatsoever, and they are damned to hell, because our Lord says in John 3. 18, he that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already because he hath not believed in the only in the name of the only begotten Son of God. This is not negotiable. But there is one way. There's one way to heaven. And I have a question today for the Christian church today. And I think it's very important for us to consider those questions. This question. When we get back to the Reformation, basically the hinge point, the main word was Protestants It was Protestantism. And my question today is, does the Christian church today even remember, even know what they're protesting today? What that protesting was, what they were protesting. Well we're going to see that now. Sola Cristos, this is one of the five solas of the Reformation, where these Protestants were in defiance of the papal authority. having the attention centered to having prayers offered through confessional, through priests, through venerations, through disobedient communion, and commanding their people that eternity was predicated on works and deeds Let's start with the pre-reformer this morning, the Bohemian pre-reformer, John Hoos, or better known as the Goose. Has anybody heard of him? But pre-Reformer back in 1372 to 1415, he was 100 years before Martin Luther. And let's see how this kind of pans out. This is incredible. He wrote against papal authority. He proposed a Bible translation into the Czech language and introduced congregational singing to the Bohemian church They had never heard this. John Hoos, he's a Catholic priest. He had the Bohemian church singing the songs. They had never done this before. And here he has them singing, and he has them praising the name of the Lord alone. He inclined John Wycliffe, remember that name. writings to translate scripture. Solo Christus was the foundation of his conversion along the way as a Catholic professor. He was a Catholic professor and a priest of theology at the University of Prague Prague. Upon Christ's irresistible call of grace, Kruse's life changed dramatically, and it took on a simple lifestyle. Because he had gotten all of this confusion out by having to venerate other people and pray to other people. And what was the foundation of the center of his wonderful ministry was Christ alone. Once he had Christ alone, he had this peace that passed all understanding, even all the way when he was martyred. Upon Christ's irresistible call of grace, Husa's life's changed dramatically, taking on a simpler life. Hoos preached fervently against clerical corruption in the papacy, and he ardently opposed the selling of indulgences. Jean Hus he quoted, this was his words, rejoice that the immortal God is born, so that mortal men may live in eternity. Note Christ alone, not the Pope, not your pastor, not your elder, not the bishops, not your deacon. I don't care what kind of religion or what kind of church you go to. It's Christ is in the epicenter of your faith and your religion. He is everything. July 14, 15, Hoos was placed on trial for Wycliffism. So why Ycliphism? He translated the Latin Vulgate, he translated into English, and that's why we can read this scripture today. And it infuriated the mother church. Roman Catholic Church used Jerome's Latin Vulgate and refused to translate it into the people's language. They didn't want the people reading it. Well, who thought, wait a minute? Where do the people go to learn about what's really going on and to test the spirits, as Paul said? They need to go to Scripture He was accused of Wycliffism and told to recant his work and his writings, and Hus was handed over to the emperor, and he proclaimed I refuse to do so unless they should be proved false by Scripture. And he says basically Take me to the stake and burn me alive until you can prove to me that Scripture can say that I'm lying when I say that the people that are studying, the people that want to go to the Lord's house, they need to read the Bible. And he was right about that. He says, I refuse to unless they should be proved false by Scripture. He was taken, he was burned at the stake, but not before calling out something. I have this written down, but I know what happened to Hoose. I remember the story. I've read it many times. You know what they did to him? One of their own, by the way. They took him down into the palace below all of the courtrooms and all, and they stuck him there for 75 days until there was nothing left of him. He was basically starving to death. And then when they finally convicted him and he would not recant, they put a paper hat on top of him. It looked like a Pope's hat and it said heretic. shaved his head, he was as sick as a dog, and they took him right out to the stake in front of everybody. Totally that's what they would do is complete, completely take all of your dignity away. And here's what he said. Where do you hear this Today you are burning a goose. However, a hundred years from now you will be able to hear a swan sing. You will not burn it. You will have to listen to him, and this is the lead-in to our next great reformer. A hundred years later, there was a man named Martin Luther, and guess what his nickname was? The swan. Hundred years later you're going to be s you're going to be hearing from a swan. How did he know that? Well he knew the Lord. The Lord knew him. This is a great and great lead-in for the next reformer. Martin Luther was the swan. And their hoose was taken, he was burned at the stake. And and they tried to put out that fire that had been stoked. But who started something? And this for the next hundred years, this was catching on. The flames were catching on, and all of a sudden many other reformers came onto the scene, one of which was Martin Luther. The German reformer, he was so giant that he that he in his present-day theologians he was described as an ocean. He was born on November the 10th, 1483. He studied at Eisenbach Law School by the stiff direction of his father then at the University of Erfurt to study philosophy. Luther in 1505 at age 21 was caught in a severe thunderstorm and knocked to the ground by a near lightning strike, and he cried out to the Catholic patronists of minor for help and to to find divine acceptance with God, he became a monk. And all of a sudden this Stepping stone to him becoming a follower of Jesus Christ was probably one of the hardest ventures that I've ever heard of a Christian. He goes into the monastic orders. He starts he starts starving himself. He was fasting and he was doing all these things to try to have something to do with his works They could be part of his salvation as a joint venture with Christ, and it never worked. He tried all these things. He tried freezing himself. He had vigils. He had he had fasting and prayer. And he he had all these things. He was torturing himself. Then, all of a sudden, out of 66 books of the Bible, he goes to Romans 1. 17. Anybody remember that verse? Well, I'm going to read it to you. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. And that's not just a gospel theology New Testament Bible verse that goes right back to Habakkuk 2. 2. The just shall live by faith. Question is Martin Luther, the center of John Hustle's life, became who the goose was Christ. Then all of a sudden, here we see Martin Luther doing all of these things, all these works. And you have to ask the question, what happened? Faith in who? Faith in what? Martin Luther's fortress of truth was built around the works and persons of Jesus Christ alone. Some theologians believe that Luther's conversion was in 1508, but that's not true. Luther said it himself, it was 1519, after he had posted the 95 thesis How can you even think about the Reformation without thinking of him taking that hammer and whacking that 95 pieces on the front door of that church? Boy, what a message he sent there. Why did he do that Do you ever run do you ever wonder why that there was you know in the many times in major events in the lives of Christians, it could be apostles, it could be during the Great Awakening, like with George Whitfield, Patrick Henry, when he was furious at what was going up in Boston and he said the time is not right, it's rotten, we need to go, we need to move, we need to save this country We need to defeat the British. There's always some monumental event. That's what happened with Luther. He was furious at something. Very, very upset at something. What was that? Well, 1519, two years after he had posted the 95 Theses in Wittenberg, Luther's passion for the defense of the truth of the gospel of Christ alone sparked a reaction to the German Dominican friar Johann Tetzel's abuse of the sacrament of penance. Tetzel taught on the indulgence for the dead indulgence for the dead with a view That gifts to the Roman Catholic Church were to pay off expensive debts for the rebuilding of St. Peter's Basilica by the approval of Pope Leo X. Pope Leo saw something The guy was brilliant. Give him credit. To this day it's worked. He was brilliant. He thought if Johann Tetzel's, if this marketing strategy worked, they could make billions. And to this day they can And what happened? He said, here this was the mark see if you all remember this. This was the marketing slogan from Johann Tetzel. When in the coffer the coin rings, out of purgatory the soul springs. Flip some dimes and some dollars and a bunch of money and you can get your loved ones out of hell and get them into purgatory. Anybody can find the word purgatory in Scripture if you can find that word. I'll give you a thousand bucks today Find it. Little did Martin Luther know that these did this thesis Come read 'em. You can leave. It's easy to find them on the internet. 95 Thesis. Read 'em. You're gonna love it. 95 Theses. And he thought he was just gonna take one little piece of paper, put it on the door, and forget about it. Somebody grabbed that And they went and printed it. And hundreds and thousands of copies started printing and it took off like a fire and it went all through Germany. It went all over the place. And all of a sudden now he had a price on his head We see that Luther's reality of his conversion was solo Christos. He now knew that he did not have to attempt to work his way to heaven by self-torture. and monastic orders, he came to realize that his conversion was unmerited favor of Christ for the dead in spirit. Christ breathed that new life into a lost soul, and only Christ can give that eternal life. John 17. What is that you talk you heard about the Lord's Prayer? Okay? And we know that that Lord's Prayer, that was the Lord's Prayer that He gave to us. as beings that are sinners. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Now that's the Lord's Prayer. It's called that, but that's given to sinners. The Lord's Prayer that was between him and the Father, you can read that at John 17, the whole chapter. Verses 2 and 3, he says, Christ is now. Flip the page, John 17, and in John 18, Judas then betrays him and he goes right to the cross after those kangaroo court trials and being beaten within the hair of his life. This is the last words that he said before he goes to that cross. John 17, 2, As thou hast given him power over all flesh that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. That was for us. Who has power over all flesh? Christ alone. Who should give eternal life to as many as thou hath given him? Christ alone Whom might they know? Jesus Christ alone, who was sent down to this earth by Jehovah Elohim, the great creator and judge of this earth So what happens? Luther was later taken before Emperor Charles V at the Diet of Worms. All this stuff is all happening. The thesis was out. Luther's out there preaching. He's giving the gospel of Jesus Christ, and this is all taking off And all of a sudden, this emperor he finds out and he says, get that little man. This man is really he's like a little bug. We gotta smash him, bring him in here, and we're gonna tell him to recant. Once again, that word comes up a lot in the Reformation. So he goes before the Diet of Worms in 1521. It was an imperial diet, a formal deliberative assembly of the Holy Roman Empire called by Emperor Charles V and conducted in the imperial imperial free city of Worms. Martin Luther was summoned to the diet in order to renounce or reaffirm his views in response to a papal bull of Pope Leo X, in answer to questioning, he defended these views and he refused to recant them. I love his words. Luther knew that Christ was the only way, the truth, and the life for salvation. He stood before the papal order when ordered to recant, and here's what he said. These were his exact words. Hold on to this Unless I am convicted by Scripture and plain reason, I do not accept the authority of popes and councils because they have contradicted each other. My conscience is captive to the Word of God. I cannot and will not recant anything. For to go against conscience is neither right nor safe. So help me, God, amen. Here I stand, I can do no other, so help me God. Amen. Wow, boy, those are powerful words. Luther was hidden in his former town of education in Eisenbach. He would later hold Bible lectures on the book of Genesis, held table talk meetings with college students discussing scripture and preaching at the Augustinian monastery with poor health and kidney stones. He passed away in 1546. What an incredible life. What an incredible conversion. The Lord can do that. He can do it with anyone One mediator. We're talking about Solo Cristo. Here we're reading here in 2 Timothy. I mean 1 Timothy chapter two verses five three, there's one mediator. He gave himself a ransom to be testified in due time. One mediator, the Church of Rome, maintained a plurality of God's throughout a plurality of mediators by the Pope's council, who is designated blasphemy blasphemously as the vicar of Christ, the mediation of priests and bishops and confessional One must turn to Rome for intercession and not go to Christ alone. And I'm not just picking on that part of religion today. There are many churches where the people go to the polity of the church and pray to them They don't pray to Christ alone. We are to pray to Him. He is one mediator. You go all the way to Isaiah chapter 53, verse 12. It says, therefore will I divide him a portion with the great. He shall divide the spoil with the strong because it says he became intercessor for the transgressors You go through that verse, and the last phrase of Isaiah 53, consider the first gospel in Scripture, He made intercessor for the transgressors. He's the only mediator. He made intercession with the transgressors. Remember when he was speaking with Simon. Luke 22, 32, Luke 22, 32, 31 and 32. And the Lord said, Simon. Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted. Strengthen thy brethren. He teaches Peter how to take care of his church. Remember, remember at the end of John, remember when they have that little meeting? I thought it was a massive meeting. It was Peter and Jesus. And Peter, Jesus goes to Peter. You know how Peter was very impetuous. He says, Peter, do you love me? Peter, do you love me? Yes, Lord, I love you. Feed my sheep. Second time. Peter, do you love me? Yes, Lord. Feed my lambs. Third time Peter, do you love me? And all of a sudden Peter's starting to get a little bit annoyed. He says, You know that I love you. Peter Lord, you feed my flock, you feed my sheep, you feed my lambs, you take care of them, and you love them That's what ministering is, is taking care of the flock. So who is this mediator that gives us this covenant of grace? And it is grace. The mediator is our Lord Jesus Christ, who being the eternal Son of God, of one substance and equal with the Father I think we all know John 1:1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And the Word, you go to verse 14, and the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. But it's incredible how the mediator became a man and he took on himself a true body and he has a soul. Matthew 26, 38, we read, Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death, tarry ye here and watch with me. And we see here the corporeal work of Christ. how on this earth he became hungered like us. He took on this mortal coil, as we read in Shakespeare, this mortal coil that's subject to death. And even though he can maintain a perfect existence here on this earth and he fulfilled the law, he still had a body like us. And he did that to show us how much he loves us. We see in the confession of faith is a really important question. Why was it requisite for the mediator to be God? For Jesus Christ, this mediator to be God? A lot of people don't believe that Jesus is God. They believe that he's a good teacher. They believe that he's like some prophet parmixum or just another teacher among us. No, he's prophet sui gainerus. He's the prophet in the class all by himself. Why was it requisite or why was it required for this mediator to be God, that he might sustain and keep the human nature from sinking under the infinite wrath of God and the power of death. Hebrews 9. 14, we read, How much more shall the blood of Christ, and through the eternal Spirit, offer Himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? And for this cause he is the mediator of the New Testament, that by means of death, for the redemption of transgressions that were under the first testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. I saw an interview with a um, sadly, very sadly, I mean it really it made my heart heavy It was an interview of that came on with a little soundbite with Al Pacino. We don't know Al Pacino, the big actor, you know him And he was Dan Rather was interviewing him about a year ago so and he looks at him and he goes, You were so close to death. Evidently he he received some form of this coronavirus, whatever you call it, and he was on death's door, and he said, What did you see? And now Pacina said, Well I didn't see light. I didn't see any angels. All I know is this. What I have learned about how close that I was is all that's left when I leave this earth is two words. No more. Once you're dead, you're no more. That's it. There's no life after death, so save your breath. That's what they believe. If this is your best life now, you're on your way to hell. This is not your best life now. This is a portal. What happens next is wonderful. Christ gives us eternal life. He's our mediator. He is our conduit. He is our He is our everything to eternal life. How could you even begin to say that when you leave this earth, I mean when you're dead, there's no more? What hope is there in that? So sad. He gave himself a ransom for all. The Holy Spirit is our engagement ring and inheritance. An inheritance, a ransom, the payment. The propitiation is Christ that he leaves us the Holy Spirit. Hosea 13, 14, we read, I will ransom them from the power of the grave. I will redeem them from death. O death, I will be thy plagues. O grave, I will be thy destruction. Repentance shall be hid from mine eyes. Matthew 20, 28, we read, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. Well, if we die and we are no more, that just totally annihilates and blasphemes what Christ did for us that we might have eternal life. Ransom is a result of love that Christ has for his church by propitiation. What does that mean? It's the act of gaining or be or regaining the favor or goodwill of someone or something Christ is the appeasement. He's the propitiation. That's why none of the works that we have ever could be a joint venture with what Christ did for us on the cross. He did it all. Jesus, how many of you all son? Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. He was the appeasement. 1 John 4. 10 says, Herein is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Hebrews 9, 16 to 18, we read, For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator. He testified of this. Here we read this in verse 6 at the end to be testified in due time. He not only said it, he lived it, and he played it out. He testified of it physically. For a testament is of force after men are dead, otherwise it is of no strength at all, while the testator liveth Whereupon neither the first testament was dedicated without blood. And we see here, testified in due time means that the testimony of our Lord Jesus Christ, that there was no error, there was no untruth And what I love about the Book of John is when you read the book of John, which I love. I've I've I've read it, man. I remember I was studying, I would take seven chapters at a time and read it over and over and over again You get done John and you flip over to Acts 1, and it says these are infallible truths that Jesus Christ is who he said he is. There's endless proof and endless truth, so we don't have to say when we leave this earth no more. We say this is the beginning John 21, 24, we read, This is the disciple which testifieth of these things and wrote these things, and we know that his testimony is true, and there are also many other things which Jesus did. the which, if they should be written, every one, I suppose that even the world of self could not contain the books that should be written. Amen. Look at Paul. Paul is called by our Lord Jesus Christ as we go to verse 7 on the road to Damascus to be an ordained preacher, an apostle, and a teacher to the Gentiles in faith and verity. Well, I'd say that most of us here probably are Gentiles. And for this, we should be very glad for this verse. Incredible. Where it says here at the end of verse 7: a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity. Well, let me bring this out a little bit. What was Jonah's reaction to going to Nineveh? He ran to Nineveh. He couldn't wait to get onto the first cruise ship right into Nineveh and start giving them the gospel and handing out Jack Chick tracks and you know and giving all that kind of stuff. He couldn't wait. No He went to the opposite direction in Tarsus and he was trying to tiptoe around, proving you can't hide from the Lord. And the Lord grabs him by his neck, sticks him on a ship. Let's dive off of the ship into the belly of a great fish. And where did he wind up? Exactly where the Lord told him to go to the Gentiles. Jonah didn't want these Gentiles to be saved. He's a Jew. He doesn't want anything to do with them. He says, I'm not going there. Let them all die. And the Lord says, you're going. He went, thank the Lord, that we see here in the Old Testament that there were many prophecies that the Gentiles would receive the gospel. Paul was called by Christ to publish to the Gentiles the marvelous tidings of the gospel, the good news, to be a herald of the works and person of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to apply that to our lives by getting to know Him and to follow Him. John 8 12, we read, Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. Well we see that there are many Gentiles in the Old Testament the Lord had spoken about them. He got in big trouble for that, didn't he? Talk about the Gentiles and how nobody wanted anything to do with them. He went into his own hometown and he starts talking about in Luke in Luke four, verses twenty-six to twenty-seven, he spoke of the woman of Zarepta, Naaman the leper were Gentiles Go back, and if you remember Uriah, who King David had killed, he was a Gentile. You know, the Gentiles got a really bad rap in the Old Testament. And then Jesus brings them up when he was in his hometown and he starts preaching. What did they do? Oh yeah, let's all reach out to the Gentile. No, they grabbed him to throw him over a cliff. They were furious that he was talking about Gentiles. And so what did he do? Christ basically immaterialized and walked right through everybody that was trying to throw them over the cliff. Oracle to the Gentiles. Here you go, Isaiah 11:10. And in that day thou shall be a root of Jesse. There shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign of the people. To it shall the Gentiles seek, and his rest shall be glorious. Isaiah 66, 19. And I will set a sign among them, and I will send those that escape of them unto the nations, the Tarshus Paul, to Ludd, to draw the bow to Tubal, and Javan to the isles afar off, that they have not heard of my fame, neither have seen my glory, and they shall declare my glory among the Gentiles Right up there, Psalm 96. 3, declare his glory. They would declare his glory to the Gentiles. Look at the if you have you have to study the Hebrew names of these towns. These were the towns that Paul went to. This is a prophecy of Paul's missionary journey. And Paul has three missionary journeys. He goes all the way up to Europe, and after that, he's beheaded. Just like that 95 thesis, by the way, all these words that are written down, they just They just go everywhere. They just basically are everywhere. The Word of God, and that is exactly because of Paul the Apostle, what brought the gospel of Jesus Christ to the shores of the United States of America That's what happened. So this is just archaic ancient stuff. This is modern contemporary stuff we're reading here. A lot of good prophecy. Paul was given a commission on the road to Damascus. What a total unlikely vessel of the Lord to bring the gospel to the Gentiles. He was going to the Christian church. He was a pre-Hitler. Hitler. Go back to Acts chapter 9. Paul's going in. He goes right to the Jewish Council and he says, all right, Jewish Council. I've had done a lot of work here around Jerusalem. I want to go all the way up to Damascus and I'm going to expand my territory and I'm going to get you some more Christians. I'm going to dragnet them. I'm going to kill them. I'm going to put them in jail. We're going to stop this Christian church. And all of a sudden, he goes to bed that night. This is the way I look at it. I like to look at it real practically and like it's like I'm standing right there watching it And he gets he gets his like uh he gets his donkey, he loads it up with all of his stuff, he has all these people around him that go with him. He's ready to go to the Christian church and he's ready to just go terrorize them. He said it himself He goes, I was terrorizing them, and he says, that's why I'm the least of the apostles. He goes, and all of a sudden this light shines down. I am the light of the world. Remember that in the book of John? I am the light of the He called call the Lord calls down, Saul! Saul, why persecutest thou me? What does Saul say? I don't want to hear it, Lord. I'm going to keep going. Oh no, that's not what he said. What Christ was saying is if you want to persecute the people of the way and you want to persecute the church, you've just met the church. I am the church. And now you're going to go through me. And you're not going to persecute them. In fact, you're not only going to not persecute them, you're going to be a herald of the gospel of my testimony. I am the way, the truth, and the life. Who art thou, Lord, Paul says? And he calls out. And the Lord says basically. Why, Paul? Why are you kicking against the pricks? In other words, it was a actually, I could go through all this, it'll take some time, but it's basically saying, Paul, you're as dumb as the ox as an ox. Because the ox used to kick against the goats on the carts, and they were so dumb, and the Lord was saying to him, You go after my people, you're as dumb as an ox Saul's reaction, all he could say was, Lord, what would thou have me to do? How beautiful was that. Then there was Ananias Paul lost his eyesight for three days, and the Lord said to Ananias, listen. Remember now, the Lord is audibly, literally, physically speaking to these people This isn't some premonition. He's literally talking. And he tells Adanias says, Lord, why of all the people here, why Paul the Apostle or Saul of Tarsus? He's nothing but an absolute wrecking machine. And the Lord says here, here's his response. Acts 9:15. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen Bethel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. And that's what he did. Paul would be a chosen apostle. Romans 15, 15 and 16 we read, Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you in some sort as putting you in mind because of the grace that is given to me of God. Paul, I love this. All of the work that Paul did. I haven't even read the next verse yet, I will. He just considered it not a burden when he went and preached. When he got beaten for Christ, when he got thrown in jail, he said, I consider it a gift, a grace the Lord's given me that he doesn't give to everybody. That's the heart of a pastor Romans 12, 1. I beseech you, I bade you, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present yourself a living sacrifice. That's the heart of a pastor. He thanks the Lord and he says, It's by the grace of God that this happened to me. Verse 16, that I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Ghost. And so in closing, a call to prayer, verse 8. I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy, holy hands without wrath and doubting. And this is a wonderful template. This is a wonderful GPS for us how to pray. This is a call for prayer, Paul's petition to Timothy, which is transferred to us As a herald of our Lord Jesus Christ is to pray. Prayer was the catalyst of the Reformation. Why and how we should pray? Number one, everywhere. You have to be very careful for those outfits out there, I don't even want to call them churches, that will only allow their people to come inside of a sin a dome or a synagogue, and the only time they're allowed to pray is when they walk into that dome, you know, or whatever. That's not that's not a church, that's a call. The Lord says you pray everywhere. Not confined to a designated place of worship, but even in our own private prayer closets, to pray in our houses, pray at our meals Pray when we are on journeys and in solemn assemblies and to know that there is no place to amiss for prayer. Our prayers are not to be confined to worldly mediatorial interceders, but to Christ alone as our mediatorial satisfaction. And that's the problem we have today. There are many that believe that they need mediatorial intercessors to get to the mediatorial satisfaction. You don't! You can cut all that out and go right to Christ. Whenever, wherever, without ceasing. Isn't that wonderful? Christ was a wonderful example of that But what does he mean? Pray everywhere. Well, we saw Isaiah 53. 12, he made intercessor for the transgressors. Where in Christ's ministry did he not pray? Did he just confine himself over to the Jerusalem temple and look behind him and go? Hope no Pharisees are looking. Hope no Jews, nobody, because they all want to kill me. I'm going to tiptoe in there and I'm going to say my little prayer and I'm getting out of here. Mount of Olives Adle the Sea of Galilee, Garden of Gethsemane, all over he prayed Matthew 14, 23, and when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray, and when the evening was come, he was there alone. In the Garden of Gethsemane in Matthew 26, 36, oh, how dramatic, how incredible. Then cometh Jesus with them into a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And we know what happened. They all fell asleep. Remember that? He prayed everywhere. Look throughout Scripture where people prayed. Noah prayed on the ark. David prayed on the battlefield. Solomon prayed on the throne of Israel Stephen prayed while stones were being cast at him and they were killing the deacon. Stephen, if you go all the way back to Acts chapter seven, he stands and he preaches and he gives them the Old Testament. They start hurling stones at him and he looks up And there's the Son of God standing up for him. He prays in front of them. Our Savior prayed on Mount Olivet. Pray, lifting up holy hands, clean hands, it means, purified hands by the blood of Jesus Christ, clean from the pollution of sin. There's endless verses talking about praying, lifting up your hands, and being pure with purified hands. Psalm 26, 6, we read, I will wash mine hands innocity, innocency, so I will, so will I compass thine altar, O Lord. Psalm 63, 4, thus will I bless thee while I live. I will lift up my hands in thy name. Psalm 134:2. Lift up your hands in the sanctuary and bless the Lord. Lamentations 3. 41, let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God in the heavens. So we lift up our hands, it's a sign of purity. It's a sign of honor to the Lord. We get down and we bow. There's so many ways of honoring the Lord. We do it in honor of Him. Prayer without, and here we see the third part of prayer. Prayer without wrath and doubting, without vengeance against our neighbor, with love and thanksgiving to our Lord, as we read in the beginning of this wonderful chapter, as we go to the beginning. In 1 Timothy 2. 1, Paul teaches Timothy how to pray. He says, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come into the knowledge of the truth. And that's it. Those are the verses 5 through 8. And Paul, all along, all the way up to verse 9, is all the basis of this wonderful message centered to God that there is one God is to pray. Pray for those around you. Pray without ceasing. Our best life is not here. Our best life is yet to come. And it's incredible how God never invites people. God never invites people for people to receive him for his Christ. He doesn't just invite them, he commands them. It's a commandment. It's not like the Lord is calling out and saying, please listen to me. I want to knock on the door. Will you please answer it? No, when you know that you have the Holy Spirit in your heart and the light is shining so bright you can't miss it. He has softened your heart and he has come into it and he has commanded you to follow him. He commands He was raised from the dead once and for all. And this historical act is that he will judge all through his son, the Lord God Almighty will. And the biblical testimony of its reality is why we believe in Christ alone and we love Christ alone. The backdrop of the Reformation was centered and focused on the works and persons of Jesus Christ. So where are you at this morning? Is he everything to you? How do I know that I'm a Christian? Do you have natural affection? How do I know that I'm a Christian? Do you like to tell others about him? Do you like to read scripture? Do you love to read his word, a love letter? I look at it this way. If you had a family member that you hadn't seen in a long time, maybe they were over in a war or something happened or whatever, and they wrote you this beautiful letter and it came in Would you sit it on the shelf and let it collect dust? You would sit there and you'd tear it out and you'd read it a thousand times. That's what we have through Scripture as God's holy, perfect, inerrant word. And it has everything in here for life and eternal life. Let's bow in prayer. Our Lord God, I thank thee and praise thee, Lord, for what thou hast taught us through thy word. I pray, Lord, that we will ingest it. Just as Ezekiel ate the scrolls, as thou told him to ingest the scrolls, and he said that it wasn't bitter, but it tasted like honey. And that word was in his heart, and it came out of his pores. He was a prophet and he loved thee I pray, Lord, that we'll have that same desire in our hearts. Lord, every family here today, we all have our trials and our tribulations. We have our health issues. We have family issues, unsaved loved ones, maybe many unspoken prayer requests. And Lord I offer all of these up here today to thee in the name of Jesus Christ that thou would bless this congregation, watch over them, give them peace, and give them direction, and draw them to thy bosom. And all these things we ask in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.