Just a brief one for you. I brought the church packet for our mission letters. I have here for Paul and Cheryl Durand, their family, Gary and Pat Johnson, and Daniel and Elizabeth Montemala from Puerto Oh, where are they? Puerto Rinas, the very s most southern part of Chile. So if you do not get these at home, feel free to pick one up. There's no financial obligation. It'll probably take you about Ten minutes to read through them. You can see if we made any mistakes in grammar or what have you. See how that goes. In the fall of nineteen eighty-eight, we had the privilege of meeting and then later working with uh Reverend Dan Ebert III in the Philippines. Uh Pastor Dan and his family went to the island of Palawan in 1955. He did translation work and then later moved to uh Luzon and uh set up a work of teaching uh with his sons. I believe that he ended up affecting the lives of hundreds, if not thousands, for the love of Jesus Christ. He was a man of great grace. uh very and compassionate, uh very sincere in his uh labors of love for Christ. Um And it was not only a burden for the lost, but a burden to bring believers under the teaching of the word. But then there was a great concern for the next generation. He wrote this book, Will Our Sons Defend the Faith I brought a copy. If you will read it, I'll give it to you. You know, if you're not going to read it, don't say, oh, take it. You know, but I think you would enjoy uh that if you have are so inclined to do so. Uh he gave two God gave two sons to Pastor uh Dan, uh Dan the fourth and then Bill, and then they had a daughter. And I believe he wrote that book, in essence, for those sons. So legitimate questions, will our sons defend the faith? taken out of uh Jude three, beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you the common salvation It was needful for me to write unto you and to exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. With the onslaught of anti-Christian rhetoric, the laws of our country not necessarily promoting godly Christianity Attacks on churches, congregations, and clergy. See the one deacon this past week took his truck and rammed this guy who was coming into the church with guns about to blaze. He took them out I'm wondering if there will be another generation who will stand like Luther and Calvin, who are godly and brave men to stand for the truth. Do we have such? Will our sons defend the faith against the progressives and the liberals, who hold the Bible as anything as it as honestly is, the Word of God in truth? uh taking it and molding it and shaping it and fitting it to be anything that they would want it to be. Some of you might say, well, those are the signs of the end times We have this apostasy, we have this turning away from the faith. Jesus says, I'll be coming. That's what we read. That's what we've studied. So we can not necessarily worry about it First of all, we don't know when Jesus is coming back. He himself stated that. But secondly, it brings us to the point of that we are those who be disobedient to the command to defend the faith given by our Lord to us if we do not do such in good order. It allows us to keep false teachings and wickedness to prevail in our land. Alexander Hamilton once said, those who stand for nothing fall for everything. Those who stand for nothing are susceptible to fall for anything And within the spiritual realm of the Christian church, those who don't stand for something have the ability to fall for everything. And I think in the generations that we've seen previous and even in our generations today, that reality is there. Our text today, Paul's call to stand for the truth, to cling to it, not to waver. He gives purpose and direction personally to the church at Philippi and by the Spirit of God to us today. Will our sons defend the faith becomes will our Philippian church defend the faith? Shall we pray? Father, we're thankful again that um in the day in which we live, which is often filled with tremendous confusion. pulling one way or the other from uh various corners of our hearts attention and our minds. thinking that this is right or this is right or this is right and no honest evaluation of what is the standard for living. No principles of morality, common ethics. The word of God has been silenced, and yet this is nothing new. May Father as we consider this passage that the apostle had written and sent from his heart to this church at Philippi. By the Holy Spirit, it has been preserved even for us today. Blessed we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Philippians chapter 3, we'll begin with verse 17. Lord willing, work through the end of this chapter. We're going to walk through this a verse at a time to be able to just see How he's focused his attention on a particular issue that was real to them. Verse 17, brethren, and again, he mentions that many times in this letter, brothers! You know, brothers and sisters in Christ, brethren, be followers together of me. Last week, what was Paul's main designation in life? To be what? To be more like Jesus. That was his whole intent and growth, his desire, his prayer, to be more Christ-like. So now he's telling them, be followers together with me. In other words, literally be imitators of me. Even as I am in Christ, imitate me. Follow me. And he's not putting himself on a pedestal. It's often easy to be able to do that when there's great popularity, you know. Paul's not saying that. The church Corinth, he heard, he wrote this, imitate me just as I also imitate Christ. There's a lot of things you could say, well Paul I didn't like what you did there or that was but if he says this is what I do because this is what Jesus has done This is the pattern that I do it. Follow me because I'm following Christ, the power of all of the pictures that he's drawing here. But it wasn't just Paul alone. The verse continues, and mark them which walk so As ye have us for an example. Be Christ-like and mark or observe uh c uh catch, uh watch, uh see the ones who are also following like me. Keep your eyes open, keep your heart's attention open. And there were two that we've already mentioned in this letter. Can you remember them? T Tim Timothy Timothy? Remember him? And who's the other one? So there's two that he says, follow after us in the unknown unnamed people that are involved in this church. And he says, these are the ones who are following after Christ. Follow after them. Follow after them. William Barclay writes, Brothers, unite in imitating me and keep your gaze on those who live as you have seen us as an example. Keep your gaze, observe other believers in your life, within the church. Follow them because they are following the same pattern that I've given here. When before coming to Christ, Millie and I lived with my parents and my younger brother for a number of months. And when Pop said it was time to go to church, it was time to go to church, you know. Sunday in the morning, Sunday night, Wednesday, and we were ready and Pop says time to go, load up in the van and we go And we came to not only hear uh the gospel, but we came to Christ eventually in time by knowing the Spirit of God working in our hearts But what I observed is how the things that they said, not only my parents, but the things that were said by the pastor and the things that were said by the members of the church were accomplished in actions. There was not hypocrisy involved. This is what I said I believe. This is the things that that are painted before me in words, and I see and I watch them, and we watched them. They say, wow There is an expression of love here. There's there's an expression of kindness, there is a expression of forgiveness, or there's an expression of desire to see the the the the lost saved uh the treasure of the word of god and things like that. It wasn't just talk. There were things that were accomplished. Be an imitator, be an example Follow those people. Follow those people. I think of what Paul has said here, and I have to ask myself enough times. In my life, am I an example to ask people to follow Are there things in my life that I can say, this is I'm following Christ and you should do it because I've done it, because this is what Jesus done? Or do I say to myself, you know, I can't say that because there are some things that need to be changed I can't say follow me because I'm not doing this. You know. We all have to ask ourselves that. We are, as believers, uh uh Under the the spotlight, you know, the Lord's Day, uh coming here, carrying a Bible, stopping at a restaurant and praying, and saying, I can't participate, I can't do that because I'm a Christian Does that follow through? This is what he's providing for us here. Verse 18, Paul gives the reason why these Philippians are to be imitators and followers. Paul and of Timothy and of Aphrodite. He says, for many. Now note here, he's not saying just a few, but there are quite a few walk. And this is just not footsteps. This is a pattern of light. This is how they're living. They walk, of whom I have told you often. Paul was in Philippi a number of times. He saw what was going on. He knew this classification or kind of people. He says, I've talked to you about this. I've preached to you about it. I've brought it to your heart's attention. He says a number of times, and now I'm here in prison, and he says, I'm writing to you again about this. And now tell you, even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ. Brethren, he says, I'm crying because of what these people are doing and because you're listening. Because what's going on around you, you've followed their example, their imitation. You've followed what they've presented to you. You know, I've never heard of Paul writing about crying in all of his exploits. From the time he came to know Christ. his trip on the road to Damascus all the way to his last imprisonment there in in Second Timothy. You don't s in all the beatings And all the scourgings and all of the near-death experiences and all the hardships. He never talked about crying, weeping. But here his heart's attention is upon the life of the believers at Philippi, and it burns him. He has a compassion for these people because of the way they were living, or because of the way they were following or listening to these others. It's a clear and present danger he saw. Some have suggested that these could have been the Judaizers. You remember those guys? Remember the Jewish beginning of this chapter? They were the what? The dogs? The evil workers? The concision? Judaizers have said, we believe and trust in Jesus Christ as our Savior, but you have to do something extra. There's something involved beyond that. Well, they're not the same, because this group is even worse. He refers to them as enemies of the cross. Enemies of the cross. Enemies of the cross have always been around. Paul writes of the church in Galatians in even stronger terms, he says I marvel that ye, meaning the Galatian Church, are so soon removed from him, meaning Jesus, that called you into grace of Christ unto another gospel, which is not another But there be some that trouble you, that would pervert the gospel of Christ. Those who are enemies of the cross, the cross represents what? The atonement of Jesus. Some years ago, back in another church, a dear elderly couple came and they gave us this clock and and there's this big crucifix on it, you know, with you know that hey, thanks, you know. It wasn't that had nothing to do with that. It was what the cross symbolized The cross symbolized Jesus' blood being shed for the forgiveness of sin. And what that has done, not only a one-time event when Christ had forgiven us and brought us to the throne of grace, but it empowers us throughout life. How can we do anything in life save what Jesus Christ had done for me? Save how his blood has not only forgiven me of my guilt and sin, But it causes me to stand for such righteousness in my living. The things that I think, the things that I say, why do I do it? Because of Jesus' blood and sacrifice for me. These enemies of the cross wanted to be referred to as Christians, but by the things they did, by their actions and the words that they said. They were lying. It was clear. Paul says, I understand what you're saying. I understand the threat, the danger. And he said, This is betrayed to yourself. They've not only deceived themselves, but were wicked influence on everybody in the church who listened to them, and mostly they dishonored God. They dishonored God. Sometimes we think that we have achieved a certain level of of spirituality. I've made a profession of faith. I've asked Christ into my into my life. But everything that's around me, I'm dishonoring the Lord who saved me, who redeemed me. It's not right Paul weeps for these, I believe, also. I don't think he rejoiced in anybody going to hell because their opportunity to be saved. Verse 19 now Paul begins a detailed description of these enemies of the cross. Not only sufficient to say you're an enemy of the cross, but he gets specific Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, whose glory is their shame, whose mind, whose mind earthly things. Four characteristics of these enemies First of all, he says, whose end is destruction. Make no mistake, Paul says, in their present path, they have no possibility of eternal life with God. They will perish just like every sinner perishes. Because of what they have taught, because of how they have lived, judgment is their reward. And unless they are converted, there is no hope He says, this is assured by the things that they've said and done. And again, I believe Paul weeps for them too. The second one, whose God is their billy. When you read that, what do you think of? I think of those big statues of Buddha You know? Since there was a stomach hanging out like that, you know, you know you know But what does that actually mean? Whose God is their belly? Some translations make it instead of belly, it's their appetite. And that helps us understand what the the the the the the the the description of their characteristics. These people not only worship their appetites, but in essence they're worshiping their desires and their lusts. An appetite is something you hunger for. Lust is a fulfillment or a grand desire to have something, some person, some situation. I lust after that. I desire for that. They not only live to adore the Lord Jesus Christ or honor God, they live for their own pleasures of their body and their soul and their mind. Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. It's only here on earth. That's all that life is worthy of. Only here and now. I think the real-world application of this, unfortunately, is quite easy to find. In fact, the United States is a country of abundance. We tend to often be quite indulgent as well. Indeed, we live in a breeding ground for belly worship. Our society offers very few limits as to stopping the things that we do. Our society puts those out as maybe the consumption of stuff. So we are left with our own self-discipline and our own self-control. So much, and I can't say no because I can't discipline myself and society isn't going to assist me Some examples I was thinking of, why is pornography such an epidemic? Well it's so easy to get. It's available everywhere. And your only restriction is your values and the judgment of others. Well, I can cloud my values and say I'm here for the here and now, therefore this is important for me. And as for the judgment of others, well, we can easily hide my footprints online so no one will know No one will know. Why do casinos have more people under the roof worshiping than the actual Sunday churches in the morning? It's because you are encouraged to toss away money with the mere hope of getting rich and not earning it. Just throw it away. Do you have an opportunity to get more? Well, why not the lottery ticket? Why not the mega millions jackpot? You know it's about a hundred million right now. And you see them come down with their paycheck, you know, the first of the month or the fifteenth of the month, and they're lined up and they're just shelling it out like that, and then all of a sudden you see it in the trash can, and there they are, all torn up, and it's nothing. Why? Because of the appetite. Why is there an obesity crisis in our nation? Food is cheap, it's plentiful, it's easy to get. And some of the cheapest foods tend to be more addictive than others by nature, exploiting our cravings for sugar and salt and fats. How that easily goes But each of these are not primarily health or psychological problems. They're spiritual problems. It's from the heart. There are matters of idolatry, worshiping our own desires and lust instead of worshiping the true God. What priority do I have? They reflect the primary religion of the United States, and that is self. The belly is the God that we worship in our country so easily. We trust in that We are not a Christian nation. We are a hungry nation, a lustful country, a land dominated by our own cravings. There's an industry to sell you something. There's an industry to say what you have isn't right, isn't enough. So we need to m to make you want to have more, even though it may not be right for you. Self-control is a fruit of the Spirit. And it is a proof that we belong to God. Paul writes such. But we live surrounded by excess In each hour a test to resolve our overindulgences before us. Go through the day today and ask yourself, is this something of excess that I'm desiring to have and I don't need or not? See how well you do. I will. How often is checking Facebook triumph over your time in the Word? How often does the television speak in greater volumes than the members of the family? How often do we go for a snack, either out of habit Because I'm bored or because I'm sad. Don't think that this is a minor problem. It may be a matter of worshiping my stomach, my desire, my appetite, more than anything else It is a fight of self-control. Whose end is destruction? Whose God is their belly? What's the third one? Whose glory is their shame. Those promoting that, Paul is pointing his finger at them, and he says, You are glorying. You are exalting yourself. You are proud of that which is naturally to be shameful. For the believer, our guilt and shame was nailed to the cross. And for someone I listened to their testimony, how'd you come to Christ? Well, you know, and and they go through this long list of things that they did when they were an unbeliever. Shameful. Well, I could drink anybody under the table. I slept with every girl in my class. I I cheated all the way through college. We don't glorify that kind of living. And all too often in our own hearts and minds it seems to be. It'd be shameful to do so, but it seems to be Apparently the enemies of the cross were doing this very thing in one form or another, and we don't know what it was. Paul wasn't specific, but it was so shameful that it was obvious to everybody involved What are the liberal progressive church today teaching and practicing things that should never be uttered under the name of Christianity? Things that are shameful. They've abandoned the eternal values put by God in His Word, and they embraced social justice. They've embraced inclusivity We open up the rainbow flag and take down the banner of the cross. We find that all too often we promote BLM and CRT and woke and ideologies. That are of this world shameful things. Instead of thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. The things that God's Word clearly presents and have always been presented and always were anchors of life and truth. We can't have that type of stuff. We have to bring it and volve it and bring it more that it reaches the lives of the people today. And those are shameful things. And yet they are proud of them. John Newton, known for. Amazing Grace. Well, he wrote another poem. He wrote a lot, but there was one shameful thing that he was despising. He says in this poem In in evil long I took delight, unawed by shame or fear, till a new object struck my sight, And stopped my wild career I saw one hanging on the tree in agonies of blood, who fixed his languid eyes on me as near the cross I stood. He was proud of his slavery. He was proud of taking men and women and children and binding them and selling them and and and and putting them in object uh slavery in order for him to profit. And he was proud of that. And he says, not until I came to Christ, he says, you know, not until I came to Christ was was I struck with shame and fear. That's what God has done. The fourth one, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, whose glory is their shame, and fourthly, who mind earthly things. I think this is probably the most understandable statement of all of them. Whose mind is set on earthly things. The apostle understands this because he's seen his own past life. Men who mind earthly things are earthbound. Their only purpose in life is for this life. Their hearts are set as a goal to now and here. This is where I'm to secure my happiness. It's a very alluring proposal for the Philippian Church, isn't it? Any church would love to have that Even it's sprinkled amongst their members. Have somebody who's doing well in this earthly situation, well, you know, let's do what they do. Mark chapter 10, and the Lord Jesus had an encounter with a young man who was living very well in life. And he comes to Jesus. And he asks, Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? He understands the words of Christ He has a burden for eternity, wants to make sure that he's doing the very right things, and then passage goes on and gives some discussion between the two. Jesus says, well, what about you? And he says, well, I've gone through the commandments. I've been an obedient person in all of the word says So Jesus responds to him and says, Then Jesus, beholding him, loved him and said unto him, One thing thou lackest. Go thy way, sell whatever thou hast, and give to the poor. And thou shalt have treasures in heaven, and come and take up thy cross and follow me. He was sad at the saying, and went away grieved, for he had great possessions. Jesus looked around about, saith unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? It wasn't a condemnation on wealth. It wasn't a condemnation on his industry, the things that he made life about, and how he was providing for himself and maybe his family. It wasn't a condemnation on that It was a condemnation on priority. It was a condemnation on what he held as earthly things, and he couldn't detach himself from earthly things in order to see the heavenly things that were available to him. It didn't mean that God would rob him. Remember, Job lost all of his earthly things. And yet in the end God brought him back to a place where he recognized who was in charge and he restored him with such. Now, your Bible's open. If you wouldn't look at verses 18 and 19, The beginning of verse eighteen, there's a what? Parentheses See it? Parentheses? At the end of verse 19, there's a parentheses. Okay? It's a parenthetical statement. In other words, he emphasizes the reason for 17 and beyond with this little statement. So Brethren, be followers together of me and mark them which walk as so as ye have for an example, then go down to for our conversation is in heaven. I'm emphasizing the fact that this indeed be followers of me, together with others who are followers of the same Jesus Christ. And then he says, Why? Because our conversation, our citizenship, is in heaven, from whence also we shall look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And when that going to take place? Well, look what he says. Who shall change our vile body that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body? according to the working whereby he is able to even subdue all things unto himself. Wow. He says the reason I want you to focus on Christ is because these other people have nothing to offer. But this is what Christ has to offer. Our citizenship, our passport says that one day our bodies, vile bodies, that these others were trying to appease. These bodies with earthly things, worshiping themselves in their earthly life, these bodies will be changed and it will be fashioned like unto Christ. According to the working whereby Jesus is able to subdue all things unto himself. What an appeal! If our citizenship is in heaven, Jesus says, lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, or thieves break into steel. Where's our citizenship? We become entangled with so much that is around here Uh when we were in the Philippines um teen years ago, uh the only thing or the very few things that they were able to see of America was on television. You know. They always is that those the the police shows, a lot of police shows. Is it like that in America? No, not really, you know. But that was being seen. Today you go to the Philippines and it's so much like the United States you know, the the glamour, the the the the the prosperity. There's there's a a push for that. You know all of a sudden this the that which prevails here that we find of our earthly riches Prevails all around the world. We become envious of all of the world around us. What kind of citizenship am I holding today? Am I a model citizen who focuses on heaven, or am I laying up treasures here on earth? Am I purposely serving the king and look forward to heaven? Am I purposely serving with a hope? Secure hope that my body will be transformed one day and conformed like unto his glorious body You know, sometimes we are so enamored, so bogged down with the things here in this life, what goes on around me and the world around me, that I keep my focus away from Christ. Living that kind of life will not count for eternity. It will not count for eternity. We need to invest our time in those things that are pleasing to the Lord and not ourselves. We need to have a heart for others so they too can enjoy the heavenly privileges. Those who stand for nothing will fall for anything. What are you standing for today? Are you standing for Christ in eternity? If not, You're susceptible to fall for anything. I think it's time we stood with Jesus and have our eyes focused on eternity. Let's pray. Father, these were just words provided through an understanding of this portion of this letter. And yet these words, guided by your spirit, can reach a heart and bring our heart's attention to that which is necessary. that the servant would be forgotten, but that the words of Christ, the teachings of the apostle, the work of the Holy Spirit can refine this life that we live in. If we profess to be followers of you, then may Father we live accordingly. May the words that we say be followed up by actions that are pleasing in your sight that support the truths of the Word of God. That we live not in the matter of being a uh a hypocrite, that we present ourselves as one thing, but we are in truth from hearts inside out or living another life. You see such. Thank you, Father, for the strength upon which Paul writes, but thank you also for the love that surrounded each and every word, for his sincere desire to see this accomplished. And thank you that your word has been preserved even for us today. that we might benefit hereby. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.