On my left. Kind of think of how many are on their vacations. Jenny's up on her boat up in Alaska. I can see her sitting on the back of the ship there with her fish and pole pulling in those salmon, you know. Some with grandkids, some here, on the way for vacations and such, you know. But who is here The Lord's with us, isn't he? Don't ever forget that. The presumption is that a service is successful, or a service is because the people, if all come. There are too many churches that are jam-packed with audiences thousand times bigger than this. But God's presence isn't there. He says, depart from me, I never knew you. You know, so as God's Word is the center of our ministries, Christ is the center of our hearts, and uh He's present with us and we rejoice in that. Shall we pray? Father, we're thankful for the privilege and joy that we have to begin a new month. with you to open this your word and to allow it to be um nourishment to our hungry souls even as the the prophet said it was sweet as sweeter than honey uh it is yearn for more of it. May uh your spirit work in us to bring us such a heart's attention to your word And may your spirit find a field of good soil within us, that as seeds are planted, that it will grow and produce much fruit for your glory. We confess that uh our minds are often scattered and wandered in other directions that uh focus on our lives when It really should be about you, and may Father this be a day that you'll continue to accomplish your purpose in sanctifying us, making us more like Jesus our Savior, in whose name we pray. Amen. Let's open our Bibles again too. What book? Oh good, yes. Philippians chapter three. Philippians three, I'll be reading beginning at verse seven and down through verse fourteen. Again, the apostle writes to the church at Philippi, what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. De doubtless, I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things. And do count them but dumb, that I may win Christ, and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law. but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect, but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which I also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Brethren, I count not myself who has apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. Reaching forth unto the things which are before, I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. May God bless our hearts the reading and the hearing of his word today. This one thing I do. Life is seldom guided by one thing, is it? Just one thing. Just one thing. I waken up oftentimes in the morning, and there's a myriad of thoughts that go through my mind, responsibilities, tasks. schedules, priorities, duties of various degrees, and they're all pulling for my attention. I want to be first, I want to be first, I want to be first, I want to be number one for you to do this for me I'm sure you've experienced similar things sometimes. Those days, as we go along, it seems like the candle is being burned at both ends. You know, the the fuse has been lit on both ends. And when the day is done, we look back and we say, really, nothing of import has been accomplished. Of all of the duties and responsibilities, what's happened Total frustration. Maybe you often do, like I, wish that the day could be started all over again with a clean slate. Get rid of all of those post-it notes of things are need to do. Go to the phone and just wipe out all of those schedules that are on there. And just let me start afresh. Just let me start a clean with no reminders, a clean slate. But it doesn't work that way, does it? And that's the way I was taken by our text today of Paul's confession, of his status in prison. This one thing I do. This one thing I do. This one thing was more than checking on the list that was on his refrigerator. I did the laundry. I got the shopping done. The lawn mode. I fixed that leak. I went ahead and I helped the neighbor out. I did the individual. It was well beyond that. That's not Paul's heart's attention. We could fill in the blank with our own with that. It's interesting that life is filled with lists. actual and theoretical, it can become distractions, dangerous distractions, when we think about one thing, one thing that is necessary. If you have a driver's license, you all well know about distracted driving. Too many deaths on the highway attributed to a distracted driver. I I pull up to the light and I look in my mirror and there she is. She's putting on her makeup. I says, come on, lady And they put out all the the laws, the new laws. Can't be on the cell phone anymore. You know, they pull you over for that. But they're still on the cell phones. They're eating and they're getting dressed and they're doing whatever, moving down the highway Total distractions. Spiritually speaking, distractions can be dangerous also. Jesus gave the parable of the sower, which a number of seeds are mentioned, and the seeds are the gospel of Christ. But in the third one, he says And these are they which are sown amongst the thorns. In other words, these are the seeds of the Word of God that's thr uh that's sown in a field of thorns uh on our way in today we came from Harrisburg and coming by cornfields everywhere and some of the fields with starting out with soybeans and there's some Volunteer corn plants popping up, you know, the farmer didn't get rid of all of them. Oh, this is a field of thorns, and I'm taking the gospel, the glory's word, and I'm throwing amongst them. Jesus says And the cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the lust or the desire of other things entering in. Choke the word in it, meaning the word becomes unfruitful. Jesus says, as the Word of God sits there to profit us. He says, all of a sudden it's so and amongst the cares of the world. How many world cares do we have? Good night, just listen to the nightly news and you walk away distraught. What's gonna happen to the world, you know? He says, the deceitfulness of riches, if I only get a pay raise, if I only make it to this, if I can cash in here, and I'll be all set. You know, the deceitfulness, it deceives us. And then the lust or a sincere earnest desire for other things, they enter in and it chokes the Word of God out It loses its power. It says it becomes unfruitful. The Word of God becomes unfruitful because of distractions. Because of distractions. Distractions can slowly nudge us off the path of godly living. We find our souls satisfied with the the world that we're living in. Boy, it's not a bad life, you know. I'm doing pretty good compared to you guys, you know. I'm doing pretty good compared to them. And all of a sudden the temporal is over the eternal. I experienced the taste of the world sweeter than the taste of the word. I reschedule my prayer time, my time in the Word of God for a better time of the day when I'm not so busy. When when I can have an opportunity to get at it, but all of a sudden I look, oh, time to go to bed. I'll do it tomorrow. I'll double up tomorrow in my reading. I'll double up tomorrow in my prayer life. Things that are more important. Paul's testimony, however, was one from the time of his salvation, and he he he he really repeats it in throughout his letters. is that he had one purpose in mind as he went through his life. He was conscious of this one thing. It didn't mean Paul didn't have duties and responsibilities. So you say, well Paul's an apostle. That's all they had to think about. No. Oftentimes he asks for the in the letters, he says, pray for me. Pray for us. The persecution, the the sowing of the sea, the travel from uh from this city to this city to this city, not knowing what would take place. And he even mentions, he says, pray for me in in 2 Corinthians, where he talks about all of the troubles, and he says, these burdens are here. And at the end he says, and the care of the ministry, the care of the churches It was burdensome upon him. So it wasn't that Paul found no distractions. He'd never even allowed imprisonment to be a distraction. He refused to permit anything to be a substitute for this one thing. He's in jail. And rightly so he could have said, this is not an imprisonment unto death, although he had no guarantee, this particular one. But it could have been any time. So what was this one thing that Paul focused on in his heart? What did he say? This is my one goal, without distractions, that I'm going for this, I'm I'm driving for it, I'm moving forward It was Christ-likeness to be like my Jesus. That's what his sincere desire was. Each and every day. In Luke chapter 10, we read of an incident that Jesus came across in the home of good friends. And you'll you when I read the passage, you'll be familiar with it Now it came to pass as they went, this is Jesus and the disciples, that he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him in her house. And she had a sister Mary, who was at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was cumbered, nice old King James Version, saying, this is burdened. distracted. She was weighted down with something about much serving and came to him, comes to Jesus as Lord. Dost thou not care for my sister? Thee hath me to serve alone? Bid her therefore to come so she can help me Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful, you mean you pay a lot of attention, and troubled about many things. But one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. There was nothing wrong with what Martha wanted and what she was doing The disciples were coming. Jesus was coming. What an honor to have them to come and eat in my house. This is Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, and they're there at the tables. But he says, all of a sudden I find myself burdened and carried about this. And my sister, who is adequate enough to help me, is in there sitting with you, listening to your preaching, listening to you talking Now let me weigh it out. Is this more important? You know, the the the meal. And again, there's nothing wrong with feeding the disciples, caring for Jesus and his temporal needs. But Jesus says, oh, wait, the things that are being offered to your sister, she chose, and is something that can't be taken away from her. To sit at the feet of Jesus. Can you imagine how that was? We often dream about or talk about uh heaven and seeing Jesus. We'll know him as we see him, what he's like But to hear him talk, we'll know it. And it's not going to be like any of the pictures that people ask and stuff like that. But to hear him and listen to him, the words of the Savior, the second person, the eternal God sitting there talking. And how can you turn away from it? Crowds by the thousands would flock just to hear him. And here's Mary sitting there and Martha, I was distracted by that we can become distracted in all kinds of ways that pull us away from that desire for Christlikeness. We'll see more later on, but let me ask. Do you have what Mary knew as a goal in life? Is it a goal to be like Christ, to sit at his feet? Well, if he was here, I'm sure I'd do that, you know. But you come to him? Is does he frequent your time? Or are there other things that interrupt and say these are more important at the moment? You are cumbered about this project, this duty, this task. You are distracted by these things. And Jesus said, No. Just give me how long? Just give me time for that. Maybe Jesus isn't even a blip on your radar. Some people I know they'll live in the premise, well, I've asked Jesus to save me and I'm going to heaven. Isn't that enough? I've reached in and it was kind of in the little with the discussion today on the on the the video that we got, you know. The principle of I I am saved I've said the prayer, I've done this, I've accepted Christ as my Savior. Is there therefore another step that requires it? Is it going to rob me from going to heaven? There's a hymn that we don't have in our hymn. Regrettably it's not there. But it's written in the early 1900s by James Rowe. And it goes like this. Earthly pleasures vainly call me, I would be like Jesus. Nothing worldly shall enthrall me. I would be like Jesus. And the refrain is, be like Jesus, this my song. In my home and in the throng, be like Jesus all day long, I would be like Jesus. Second stanza, he has broken every fetter. I would be like Jesus. That my soul may serve him better, I would be like Jesus. The third, All the way from earth to glory, I would be like Jesus. Telling or the or the story, I would be like Jesus. And the final That in heaven he may greet me, I would be like Jesus, that his words, well done, may greet me. I would be like Jesus. Be like Jesus. This is my song. In the home and in the throng. Be like Jesus all day long. I would be like Jesus. It's not putting on the what would Jesus do bracelet, you know, as a reminder. What would he do? But what would I do? Do I want to be with him? Is he my friend, my constant companion and associate? Will he be there? Will he follow me Look down to verse 14 now. The apostle says, I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. I pressed through the mark. That in life, as you know, is not an unusual principle. We have those things in life. Although we're not going to say it like that. We're not going to say I press toward the mark. We have some other form that is often said within our hearts or with our lips. But it's some goal you want to reach Something you want to be, some accomplishment, some task. I'm pressing towards that. I'm really pushing to get this accomplished. Why, it's my drive, it's my push, my sacrifice. And somebody comes along and says, How did you do it? How'd you get there? Wow, that is absolutely fantastic. And you respond, well, it's my drive, my push. It's I'm giving everything for that. That's my secret. This very phrase, I press toward the mark, sounds athletic, and it is. In the Greek, I press is a word that carries out a picture of a chase. to chase after, to pursue, like in a runner's race, or in the military, chasing the enemy. New Testament is even used in the principles of persecution I'm persecuting and I'm chasing after these people. They're going to get theirs. You know, it's a push. There's some excitement. There's intensity involved in the word I think our nation has had its fair share of entrepreneurs who have achieved by pressing to the mark You read their biographies or autobiographies and they say, Well, I worked, you know, uh uh eighty hours a day Or hundred hours a day, two hundred hours a day. I just drive, I drive, I drive, I do all of these things in order to accomplish We see it with professional athletes, with Olympians, the movers and shakers in business. Most all of them have a goal. I want to be a professional athlete, I want the gold medal, I want my company to be the biggest of all. In order to be an achievement, they even sacrifice a lot But Paul says, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. What was the prize? Was it getting out of jail? He's in prison. My goal pressing to the mark of being released from this pit. Getting out from these Romans and so or or maybe I press toward the mark of the downfall of the Roman Empire. The atrocities that are being committed by the Romans against the Christian church We we've got to stop this. Pressing toward the mark or the end of the persecution of the church. That's my sincere desire. Maybe it's to put a laurel wreath on his head. Paul says, I've been in this jail lad, I've been working out. I got this little machine in here and I'm just working out and when it comes time for the Roman games You know, I'll I'll win the laurel wreath they're going to put on. Or or he says, you know these letters that I'm writing? This Philippians and Colossians and Ephesians and all things I think we're going to put them in a binder together. We wouldn't call it the New Testament. And this is going to become a bestseller. I'm pressing to the mark to be the exclusive writer of the New Testament. I want these things to be done. But Paul earnestly and intently pursued the goal that was the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. What does it mean? What was the goal? What was he driving for? Was it just to get to heaven? Isn't that a fantastic prize? Does anybody here not want that? Isn't that the ultimate prize to say I one day when I awaken out of my sleep, eternal sleep that I will there and I'll be in glory? All of the the the things of this earth gone. No more tears, no more pain, no more suffering. All of the things that were bound within me that I just pained every day about, my mind, my heart. body, and I'll be with all of those who've gone on before. Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Moses and Jesus and the twelve and all the others. I'll see them and I can talk with them. But that's not what he's talking about. Because heaven has already been secured by the merits of Christ. If he's saying, I pressed toward the mark to get to heaven, then he's saying, Jesus, what you did was not enough. He writes later on in the Book of Romans. For I am persuaded, meaning I am absolutely convinced that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature Shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Nothing can remove that from me. So I already have what many people would like to say that's my golden mic. No, the believer has security in such things. So again, what is the high calling of God in Christ Jesus? What is Paul's one thing? What do we just say? It's Christ-likeness. To be like Jesus. It involves gaining Christ. And it was it was a it was a head knowledge in a sense. I want to know him, I want to know the things that he says, I want to know the things that he did, and so forth. But it was more so a heart knowledge. A hard indication that this is right and this is not right, because Jesus dwells within me and he fills my soul with such a joy. That's what Paul wants, to know Jesus more and more. And knowing him more and more, he will become like him more and more. We have that with each other, don't we? The more we get to know people, the more we're able to understand them. And in cases, especially with spouses and that, you get to know them and you get to love them more and more for what they are. Paul knew that to become more like Christ, he had to be less of Paul. Remember John the Baptist? He says, I want Jesus to be one who increases. And for John to decrease. More of Jesus, less of John. In the passage, if your Bible's still open there, look at verse 3, I'm sorry, verse 7 He says, but what things regained to me? Those I counted lost for Christ. The things that Paul was They were profitable in this world. Gained him. Nothing. Next verse, verse eight. Yea, doubtless, convincingly, absolutely. I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered. And this is not a bad suffer. This is a gut rid of the loss of all things and do count them but manure, dung, that I may win Christ That I can know him more and more, I take everything that I was of old Paul, of Saul, of all of the influence, of all the power that I had, and I just count them as a pile of garbage Then the third one is in verse 13, partway in. But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. To press forward, to press on to Paul's goal, he had to leave the past. Both successes and failures How do you think he felt about the day that he stood by and held the garments for the stoning of Stephen? You ever see anybody stoned? You know? The Jews would say, well this is the right thing, this is what are we to do with somebody who blasphemes God, you know And they'd get out in a big crowd around them and each one would take a stone and and you know they're just not like ch you know, they're peeling it at 'em. That's let my let my stone be the stone of judgment on this man. And I'm sure Stephen was just a pile of of of blood and guts just poured out on him. And I think that felt burden in his heart. Paul's knowledge and achievements were powerful as a Pharisee, but he threw them all away. Paul had no a new value, a standard of values, a new life purpose, and living And it was Jesus Christ. And although this new life in Christ rewards him with beatings, with imprisonments, With suffering, near-death experiences, time and time again. He says, I gladly continue with one goal in mind: to be like Jesus. Listening to some guys who get into the uh the Navy SEALs and was the the one week, their final week and they're you know, they're doing this stuff and they're killing each other, you know. Uh some of them don't make it. Some will go over and ring the bell, I'm out. You know, I can't take it, you know. Paul says, through all of the things that have taken place in my life, because I was a follower of Jesus, because I want to be like Jesus, he said, I I just It doesn't matter. It's going to be that which I'll willingly go through. Jesus said, no man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. The farmer's eye wanders and the plow goes astray, the furrow becomes crooked. Following Christ requires a single focus and a single commitment. We used to work on my uncle's farm. And Uncle would give me the job of plowing this field in the day and you'd have to put the one wheel of the tractor in this other furrow And you already did back and forth and back and forth. And pretty soon Keith's eyes were looking around for the other things and that fro goes, you know Sorry, you know, I didn't mean to do that. But that's how it is. And when he's holding on the plow, a hand plow being pulled by an animal, he has to guide us straight along in the lines. And if his eye wanders, if his focus wasn't right all of a sudden the furrow goes off on the side. And so it is not keeping my eyes on the prize. You know what Jesus said Remember Lot's wife. Giving your life to the Lord Jesus Christ means not looking back. Not on all of the accomplishments, not on all of the failures. It is a new creature in Christ. It is a new life in Christ. And it is all for Jesus for now and for eternity. But I am committed to be able to say, this I must do. This I have to go forward with There can be no greater joy and satisfaction in that. Let me close with this thought about this weekend. Our nation's 249th birthday. If you're a student of American history, you'll be familiar with some of these things, but most people are not. They don't necessarily recognize what our founding fathers experienced during their pursuit of independence, the goals that they had for themselves in our country. They pressed forward to the single mark of the goal of establishing a sovereign nation. How that was attained was only by the grace of God. If I may, I'd like to read as A couple of paragraphs here. It's entitled, What Happened to the Signers of the Declaration of Independence? And it was written by Michael W. Smith. Five were captured by British as traitors and tortured before they died. Twelve of them had their homes ransacked and burned. Two lost their sons in the Revolutionary Army. Another had two sons captured. Nine of the 56 fought and died from wounds or hardships of the war. They signed the Declaration of Independence as saying, I'm signing this with a cognizant principle that pledging our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. So who were the men who signed? What kind of people were they? Twenty-four were lawyers and jurists. Eleven were merchants. Nine were farmers with large plantations. Men of means, well educated. So you get the picture of the backgrounds of when we talk about making a commitment, not for self, but for others He signed the Declaration of Independence full knowing that the penalty would be death if they were captured. Carter Braxton of Virginia is a wealthy planter and trader saw his ships swept from the seas by the British Navy. He sold his home and properties to pay for his debts. He died in rags Thomas McKean was so hounded by the British that he was forced to move his family almost constantly. He served in Congress without pay, and his family was kept in hiding. His positions were taken from him. His poverty was his reward. Vandals or soldiers looted the properties of Eldery, Clymer, Hall, Walton, Gwynet, Hayward, Rutledge, and Middleton. At the Battle of Yorktown, British General Cornwallis had taken over the Nelson home for his headquarters. The owner, Mr. Nelson, quietly urged General George Washington to open fire. The home was destroyed. Nelson died in bankruptcy. Francis Lewis had a home and properties destroyed. The enemy jailed his wife, and she died a few months later. John Hart was driven from his wife's bedside as she was dying. Their thirteen children fled for their lives. His fields and his gristmill were laid to waste. For more than a year he lived in the forest and in caves, returning home to find that his wife was dead and his children had vanished. A few weeks later he died from exhaustion and a broken heart. Norris and Livingston suffered similar fates. The article goes on and says, such were the stories and sacrifices of the American Revolution. And they were not wild-eyed, rabble-rousing ruffians. They were quiet, soft spoken men, means and educated. They had security. They had valued liberty more, though Standing tall and straight and unwavering, they pledged, quote, for the support of this declaration with firm reliance and protection of the divine providence We mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. Yeah You know, we look and we're recipients of the freedoms that our country has, much like we do as recipients of the graces of Christ. The war lasted for eight years, and they understood, and their families understood, what it was to press for the goal, press for the mark that was before them. 52 of the 55 signers were deeply committed Christians. What a glorious heritage we have. Pressing for the mark that is our call. May God grant us, me, you, an earnest single purpose to be more like Jesus. The goal to be like him in all that we say and do. uh setting aside the things of this world and our nation and so forth, but it's to be like Christ. May God bless us to this end. May God bless America. Let's pray. Our father we're thankful as we recognize of uh special occurrences on this particular weekend that uh this nation has celebrated in various forms of uh principles of independence. We as those who have put our faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ recognize that our greatest independence comes from a dependence upon you. that through what Jesus had offered and given of himself, we have gained a freedom from sin and misery and guilt and the stain that it produced from our forefathers Adam and Eve. And now we stand free from all such and we have the hope of heaven My promises of view of our eternal Father that are laid before us. But even as the Apostle Paul had urged the Philippians, so he urges us. that we would strive with one thing in mind, one thing in heart, that we would drive to the goal, we would pursue the goal of being more like Jesus to be Christ-like in our every endeavor, in our relationships, and our understanding with our own heart and the businesses that we are engaged in and our and our uh our our stand before uh our fellow citizens even in this country. Father, we're weak and unable in and of ourselves, but we humbly pray that you would accomplish this by your grace through our hearts. Even today it would start. In Christ's name. Amen.