And yet I've received as many as I have. It doesn't change my thinking. There's still going to be more that are going to arrive, you know, all the way to the end of time. Similar rhetoric has been invading my television, social media, highway billboard signs. You know, some of them uh very nasty. Um and to be honest with you, uh th the the the phone calls, you know, or the text messages one, you know, but I got a phone call the other day and because of of um have to be aware of of uh of uh mama's potential uh donors, you know. So I answer everything. Hi, Keith. This is so and so and we were wondering, you know, this is going to be a real tough race for s so and so about this, you know. We were wondering can they count on you for some help? You know, I says, gee, no thanks. Click, you know. I don't mind the campaigning. It's necessary. You know, you have to know, you realize the importance of the campaigning, but I'm tired of the verbiage. of the slanderous language, the character assassinations. It seems that no one can know what's really true or not. You have to be very discerning. It's just um uh Uh it's very difficult. And I don't think I'm wrong when people would say, I wish I could find a candidate who would just be honest. You know. But I am honest, you know, but I wish they would just be presented in such a fashion. But you know, it's just not in government. Near our house, um there's a uh main highway, Germantown Pike And uh when we go out there, there was a Christian school on one side, a very large one, and we had looked at it when we first arrived in the area. And for over a year now their frontage has been really in disarray And they had the school van parked there and um I thought, I wonder what's going on, you know. And then recently we drove by and then we saw the stuff was trimmed down, cut and oh maybe they're back in session So I asked somebody about that. Um Former school administrator faces multiple felony charges related to the theft of more than $579,000 at this particular school. The arrest uh a lady thirty-six years old, uhnoce son Wesley, the attorney, uh da da da. She was employed as a senior administrator at this private non non- private nonprofit uh school in East Norton from July of twenty twenty until December of twenty twenty-one. Through the interviews and analysis from the data from banks, credit cards, and school records, the investigation found that she defrauded this school, its employees, and payroll building companies, five hundred and seventy-nine thousand six hundred and fifty-two dollars, authority said. You know. I just wish somebody would be honest, you know, be truthful. fronting uh just principles like that. Well, you Marylanders don't get by with this. Maryland Pastor, and this was in September uh the third, recently slapped with an 18-month prison sentence for fraudulently obtaining more than $3. 5 million in relief funds. According to the court documents, between April of 2020 and September of 2021, this pastor who served as pastor of the Kingdom Tabernacle of Restoration Ministries participated in a scheme to fraudulently obtain uh PPP loans, the uh COVID loans that were available, and used the proceeds to for his personal enrichment Uh Channel Fox Five in the area reported in April 2021. He was accused of depositing the loan money into his personal account in using it to buy not one, not two, but thirty nine luxury used cars. He's been charged with layer fraud and money laundering. You know, this stuff isn't isn't new. You know? And it's painful to watch in in every layer of of society. We point to, you know, the government in that, but we find it in military, we find it in Private enterprises, you know, sometimes they're able to cover it up a little easier than others, but we yearn for something that's just plain honest, truthful, openness. If you would turn to Psalm 15. The Psalm of David. We we just sang that psalm. And it doesn't necessarily always pick up the content of it in the in that psalm, but nonetheless it's there. Psalm 15 A Psalm of David, Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? He that walketh uprightly and worketh righteousness and speaketh the truth in his heart. He that back abideteth not with his tongue nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up reproach against his neighbor, in whose eyes a vile person is condemned But he honoreth them that fear the Lord. He that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent, he that doeth these things shall never be moved. May God bless his word. Let's pray. Father, we are a people who hunger and thirst for righteousness. We recognize the world in which we live leaves us so empty and so confused, and yet we come back to you and to your word and we find refreshment and relief. Father, as we consider who we are in your sight and who we are in the sight of the world, we pray that our passage here today, the principles that we'll look at will Grant us an understanding for practical application to be shining testimonies of yours in our day. In Christ's name. Amen. Just verses two and three again, you know, he that walks uprightly, that's not walking. You know, that's his manner of life, that's the way he lives. and upright walking and works righteousness and speaks the truth in his heart. Well obviously if it's going to be within his heart that's going to come out his lips He that backbiteth not with his tongue, in other words, he doesn't slander, nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up reproach against his neighbor. How refreshing would that be to have somebody just get up and say, This is what I believe You know, this is my platform in life. This is how I am going to run my business. This is how I'm going to uh have this particular lifestyle that I live. Well, to be honest with you, it ought to be the lifestyle of the believer. It ought to be the lifestyle of everyone who is a child of the living God. It may be a little bit too much to add that to the current political arena, but it shouldn't be too much for us. Because it's laid before us as a challenge from Old Testament to New Testament. In other words, put value on being a redeemed child of God into my daily actions. What I say that I am, what I profess, and we've talked about this recently here, what I profess that I say that I am, I cling to those things, but I put them into my actions. So as people see me, as they hear me, as these things take place, That's what I am. The Gospel of John, there was a an interesting, very revealing exchange between Jesus and some of his uh uh I say enemies, you know, the religious leaders of the time. Listen to what he says. And Jesus walked in the temple to Solomon's porch Then came the Jews around him and said unto him, How long dost thou make us doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. They want him to say, are you the Messiah? You know? Here's his response. I told you, and you believe not, the works that I do in my Father's name they bear witness of me. He didn't ever come out, you never see, you know, him say, I'm the Messiah but he said it in in in words and in actions, in ways that if you're looking at the God who has opened their eyes, they could see this truly is Messiah So in other words, what was on his heart was displayed in his actions in life. That's how indeed Jesus showed who he was, and there was no doubt. Synonyms often used for being upright in heart. Honesty, honor, integrity, virtue, worthiness, truthfulness, trustworthiness. Jesus exemplified all of those. That was part of his very nature. That's who he was, and that's what he acted on, because that was far foreign from his heart. I don't think we should have to go around saying, well, I'm a Christian. Remember those little groups that are going to come and knock on your house sometime and they get the white shirts and the little little name tags? You know who they are, you know. We just shouldn't have to have those name tags. People should be able to see in us by the words that we say, by the actions that we perform, that there's something different about them. They are a child of God. Why? Why are you different? Why do you hold on to such hope? Well, it's because of this. This is who I am. We ought to be Psalm 15 people. We ought to be Psalm 15 people. That Psalm began by saying, Who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Abide live in, in the tent of God, the the place of worship. That's where that's where we are to be all the time. We mentioned last Sunday that when it comes time for worship, this isn't only worship here, it is corporate worship. But every time I approach God, every time I perform an act in life, every time I do everything, I'm worshiping Him. And it ought to be an honest and truthful ways to do that But I think if we're honest with each other and ourselves, we struggle at being some fifteen people. That ought to be a hearty amen from all of us, you know. I struggle at it. We all do. So how do I become a person who is upright in heart? A person who is one of integrity. And what can I do to change that, that I'm not? What adjustments have to be made in order for me to to see that I am now A person closer to Psalm 15, closer to be the person God wants me to be than I had before. Well, the first thing I need to do is to ask God to test my heart. If I want to, I have to ask him because it is in his presence that I am approaching. I have to test my heart, Lord. It's been about a decade. Well, it has been a decade in Uh June, July I think it was for the second hip surgery, you know. Had one in twenty twenty three uh th thirteen and one in fourteen, you know. And I remember all of the test, and all of you have had surgeries, you know before they slice you up, they you have to go through a whole body of tests, you know. Is the body ready for it? And the one was the EKG Is my heart good enough? Is my heart uh worthy of of of a surgery? Uh is it going to stand it? Are there things, indicators in my heart, that would say, no, we can't do this We have to make some adjustments in there. Well, this physical testing of the heart is what we need to ask God to check into me, into us, of my spiritual heart. What's my spiritual condition, my heart's condition, and he's the one to do that? I need to go to him and to ask him for help so potential problems can be addressed. Search me, Lord. Test me. Try me. In other words, put me under the microscope that you know best that I may be able to understand. Because to be honest with you, I am not aware of it. I have lived in this earth suit for more than 50 years. And it has some frailties, some weaknesses, you know, some things that kind of fall apart at times, spiritually, especially. Psalm 139, search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me to the way of everlasting. The psalmist says, Lord, search it. Well, he knows, but he's not saying, I'm hiding something, Lord, see if you can find it. He's saying, search it and reveal it to me that I can be the person that you want me to be. Lead me into everlasting. 1 Chronicles 29. I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart and hast pleasure in uprightness. He does the heart testing many times. And sometimes we don't listen. Sometimes we resist for one reason or another. And he says, Lord! I know you try the heart, and you have pleasure. In other words, your design, your desire for us is to have an upright heart. The principles of honesty and truthfulness and integrity should be part of it. You see, God is pleased with integrity. He examines the person's heart to see if it's full of uprightness or full of baloney. And sometimes you can sit with people sometimes, and the outside it looks like they're full of integrity, full of uprightness, but after you know them for a while, you say, no, they're more like the old Oscarmeyer bolognese What you believe in your heart will determine how you act. Correct? What you believe in your heart will determine how you act, especially under times of testing. That's where it goes. That's the testing is the proof. I want to share something from a book by James Patterson and Peter Kim. It's entitled The Day America Told the Truth. It's a few years old, but I think the principles are valid and I don't think people have changed any. What are you willing to do for ten million dollars? That was the question that he laid before two thousand people. And across the board, 2,000 Americans, two-thirds of those polled would agree with at least one, some of several of the following. What would you do for $10 million? Two-thirds of the people said I would agree to one of these. Some said I would agree to more than one. That you would abandon your entire family. 25% said that. If you would abandon their church, oh, who would ever leave the church? 25% said that That you would be you would become prostitutes for a week or more. Twenty-three percent said that. You would give up your American citizenship. Not talking about political affiliations here, 16%. You would leave your spouse. 16%. You would hold you withhold testimony and lead a murderer go free. Ten percent. You would kill a stranger, 7%. The last one, you would put your children up for adoption, 3%. Under times of testing, under times where decisions need to be made, that's where my heart's attitude is going to be displayed in my actions. Where is my heart set on? Lord, to test my heart. You will only be characterized by integrity if you demonstrate it. And that means having the right things in your heart to demonstrate the right way. There's no room for greed or pride or envy or lust or wrath. And if those remain, Lord, I pray that you would find them in me in order for me to see them, that they are those things, and that they can be removed. Sometimes I've lived with it for so long it becomes second nature. Because of the fact that integrity begins in our hearts, we must ask God to examine our hearts, show us what's questionable. What he sees as questionable, what he understands as such, or the child of God knows our hearts are deceived. Our hearts are by their very nature despicable, you know. So I may not necessarily know This is the way we've all we've grown up. This is the way we've always done it. This is the way my family's done it for generations. I may not know that this is it. But Lord, examine my heart. Examine me, O Lord, and prove me. Try my reins Rains of my heart, Psalm 26. So how does God show us what's questionable and what is of concern in my heart's condition? And what needs to be done to become men and women of Psalm 15. How does he display that to us? You know? How does he show it in truth? Well obviously he becomes the word of God, which is our next point. Study to show what is true. Lord, examine. Well, examine what? My heart. Why? Because I need to, Lord, know from your word what's true. So there can be a valid comparison for such Again, let me remind you that throughout the Bible, God finds words used in there of honesty, purity, truth, uprightness, all translated from the same basic root word as we get Uprightness or integrity. They all come from the same source. They all bear the same, they're synonyms basically in life. If therefore you're going to live lives of being upright in heart, we must know practically what it looks like, what needs to be done. And that comes from spending time in the Bible with God. 2 Timothy 2. 15. You know that one? Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. What's difficult in that in King James the word study doesn't mean to sit and open them up and study, but it's a principle of diligence It's a principle of giving forth a an intensive effort at what? That I could be approved of God in the dividing or in the opening up and the cutting and the revealing of what God's Word is. Obviously, Timothy, you're going to be a pastor. You are a pastor, and you have to be careful, give diligent effort to taking that word and presenting it in the proper places. Churches are full today. Ministries make bugged bucks today of taking some uh off-the-wall passage and making it sound like this has got to be what you need today You know, and there are books and all types of materials written because of that. Timothy, do your very best. Be very diligent in handling the word of truth. Why? Why? Because it is God's only standard for life. The only way that we come to know what's right and wrong, what's good and evil. It applies for us indeed as it had applied to all the saints of the Old Testament, the New Testament, the Puritans, our forefathers, and for everybody today, and until the Lord returns It is the same truth for all generations, for all people, here in the United States and around the world, irrespective of what language there is, what culture there is, God says, I have one standard So I need to give due diligence to know what's truthful. Because what's right about everybody in the world is that we all have the same bent to sin because we're all children of Adam. One of the reasons we have biblically based sermons and Bible studies in our church is to learn the principles that God has outlined for us. We believe that within the heart of the Bible, within the source of the scriptures themselves, it has the answers to life's tough questions. We may not necessarily like what it presents. Sometimes we want something specific, and the Lord says, wait, well I don't want to wait. Sometimes I want to be healed. Now the Lord says, wait. All of those issues are very important. Um this past week I was listening to uh uh someone make a little presentation about uh Fanny Crosby. uh in her ministry. This is later on in life, and she came to Harrisburg um probably late 1890s, something like that, and they showed a picture of the church And they said it was jam-packed. They had extra chairs in the aisles just to hear her get up and she talked for a quite a while. and that people sang her songs and and one of the things that came out of it in in the question was she says, you know, I don't I don't um regret losing my eyesight And because that was the only way for me to see what God wanted me to see. To be the person that I'm supposed to be. And sometimes we bemoan the fact that I have something wrong with me, you know, who here is perfect. You know. Yeah. I wish I could be better. I wish I could did not have this or all this in my life. And God says, I understand that. And the scripture tells us that it answers life's tough questions. And when he doesn't answer us right now. He says, I'm doing it for a perfect reason. Scriptures give us the power to deal with difficult times. And without a question, they fill us with practical answers that can make a difference in life. Practical things in life. You know, Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. Those are the necessary things of life. You'll never come to stability in life if you fail to spend time studying and reading and dividing that book in your heart. You'll be like a boat tossed in the storm of the sea, back and forth. Paul writes to the church in Ephesus, that we henceforth, meaning from this point on, that we henceforth be no more children, means infants. Tossed to and fro, carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men, the cunning craftiness whereby they come to lie and wait and deceive. It's not nice that they're that they're tell they're not telling us the truth, is it? It's just not nice I wish they would tell me the truth What he says here, the the craftiness of men, false doctrine, cunning craftiness, they lie in wait, they want to deceive. That's the enemy But God's word gives us the truth study to know what is true. Thirdly To be people of integrity, to be people of Psalm 15, upright in heart, go ahead and apply God's word to your daily activities, to life. Again, the first two verses of the Psalm. Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? He that walketh uprightly worketh righteousness, speaketh the truth in his heart. My lifestyle all of a sudden imitates that which God would want me to do. And applying God's word to such is necessary. Walking uprightly in integrity means assimilating God's word into every aspect of my life, into business, into education, into health, into finances. Everything is there in order for we that we as his children might be improved in life. Apply it in order that we would grow in Him. The fact is that God's word is pretty inclusive in its instructions for each of us. If we do what it says, Grace is applied, we become learners. We become profitable people in life. We become blessed people. We have hope, we have guidance, we have security, we have protection. But if we don't apply those things in life, we end up being shallow and empty. It's it's absolutely amazing that the more we in this country have, the less stable we have become Our forefathers had very little in this world's goods, very little in everything tangible, and yet they found their enormous stability grounded in the Word of God and applying the things that were in the Word of God to life. And God bless them. If this book is so valuable, the impetus is on us to know it and apply those things that are there. When it comes to being saying that we are Christians, we cannot live contrary to his word. Because if we do, we're going to disappoint some people. We're going to tick some people off. And the bottom line is we're not going to be able to be testimonies to those that we want to lead to the Lord. You're trying to tell me about Jesus Christ and look at the way you've lived You said this and you did that? In your business, you did this to me and you want to tell me about salvation? You know, the life that we live as such. I think of that pastor, that school administrator that I read about. That church, no matter how many times people will go by it, no matter say, well that was his fault. That that church has a has a a a stamp of of shame on it. Mm this woman for this Christian school, uh the the stamp of shame on that. The school's never gonna open again. It's impossible. Uh some have looked at it and said the buildings have just fallen apart too bad now they're not going to be able to do anything but just bulldoze the whole thing. A person of integrity is the same on the inside As he is on the outside, and that requires applying God's word to our lives. Knowing it, knowing what's truthful, and applying his word to our lives Fourth, remain faithful in spite of circumstances. Remain faithful in spite of circumstances. Have you ever gone through those days or weeks when we just like to say, I've had it? You know, one thing after another, you know. the demands, the challenges, the temptations, the trials. One more thing, this is absolute commandity and I'm just absolutely going to lose it. You know? I I just feel it, just pound again and again and again and again. I think one of the best biblical examples of this was Job, a man who went through an awful lot and yet became a man of integrity and faithfulness. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Jove, that there is none like him in the earth? A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil, and still he holdeth fast his integrity Although thou movest me against him to destroy him without a cause. God commended in front of Satan This man Job. He says, look at his life, look at his his qualities. Blameless, upright, fears God, shuns evil. His character is good. And yet he remained in this character quality because of his trust and his faith in the God who had supplied such things, all against the best efforts of Satan. Remember, what did he lose? What was his bad week? You know? Ever had a week like that? He lost his children. He lost his health. He lost his wealth. He lost everything save his wife, you know, and and there he was with all of these s trials and struggles in life. But we could say he never gave up on God I think the school shooting this past week, and you look and you say, how do you recover from that? Not not just the fact of another shooting, but the fact of a shooting you know, the children, the teachers, uh some somebody getting in these situations in life. Well, I listened to a little bit of a church service that was held on the very next day. And the pastor says, you know, I don't understand the issues of life, but he says, I understand that God knows. God's aware of all of these things. And he spoke of the truths that were in me. Jesus said, These things have I spoken unto you that in me ye might have peace. Jesus talked to his disciples about such. In the world ye shall have what? Tribulation. Should we be surprised at the direction of the hearts of men and women and children in our day? Don't be surprised. In the world we're going to have it, but he be of good cheer I have overcome the world. Well it doesn't make sense. We still have this. No, he says, I'm not saying we're changing these situations, but now in life, I want you to have peace because you know I'm sovereign in it all. I'm sovereign in it all. Isaiah 40, 31. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles, and they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. There's no change in the direction of how the world operates, of weaknesses and hardships and struggles. But he says, those who wait upon the Lord, those who find their encouragement in him, they will have a strength to see through another day. Remain faithful to the Lord. He remains faithful to you. Last of all, refuse to be persuaded by others. And I say this and oftentimes we we associate uh life situations. But in any case, uh Job had three wonderful friends hardly friends whatsoever, but they tried to convince Job that the whole situation, the loss of of all of these things were actually his fault. Job, this is your fault that all of these things have befallen you, and you need to to to go and get it right with God. Get right with God was their appeal, but Job knew better. He was still confused nonetheless. And if that wasn't enough, his wife comes to him and tells him Dost thou re still retain thine integrity? And there's the word again. Do you still hang on to your wholeheartedness, your honesty, your truthfulness, your trust? Are you still that which is found in you? Are you still going to act that way? He just says, curse God and die. In other words, give up. But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh, what? Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? And all this Did not Job sin with his lips? Obviously with his lips, but even with his heart, with the source of his lips, you know. The struggles of life, all of a sudden there's persuasions to go back to the old way, the old nature, the old man. the the old pattern of life. It's a pull, it's a yank. You know, it it it happens all the time. Your walk and your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ is going to be threatened and tested And tried your entire Christian life. We never get to the stage where you can say, oh, boy, we got through that one, it's done there, never going to have that issues again. It may be overtly as with the friends of Job or his wife, or it can be as subtle as an invitation from the guys, the gang. Come on out. Hang over with us, would ya? We're just going to get together. It'll be fun. We're going to have some fun We must never let others decide for you, dictate to you. They must never come in between you and what is right with the Lord. To become and to be a person of integrity, we must be right within God's sight and be persons who refuse to be persuaded by others. But they're all doing it But they're all doing it. And sometimes I can, you know, and I understand their situation, but the Lord's day, we don't have to go back too far. to find churches, whether they were good churches or not so good churches, they used to be full. People would go to church on Sunday. The the the attitude of people towards towards the Lord's Day. Towards life, you know, towards honesty, towards this whole principle of whole right-heartedness and integrity that used to be much more prominent that people could see But it's slowly disappeared. But it's going to cost me something if I don't go with or it's going to do something, it's I'm gonna I'm gonna miss out on something. I'm telling myself, if I don't do this, I'm not gonna be, I'm gonna miss out, I'm gonna lose out something. Solomon says, better is the poor that walketh in his integrity than he that is with perverseness in his lips and is a fool. Solomon says, you could be a poor man and be alright with the Lord, and that's all you need to do Another proverb, better is the poor that walketh in uprightness than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich. Doesn't matter. Integrity. Uprightness in heart. You see, it's not what others think about us that counts. But it's what the Lord thinks of you and what the Lord does in caring for you. Remember, we're his children We are his children, and his intent is to make us like unto his son, Jesus Christ. And that is applying what is in our hearts to life, to everyday situations, to things that we ought to be the way we ought to act, the way we ought to be doing things. And I think whether it's today or at the end of my life, sooner or later, you'll agree with me that the only thing that counts is what God is going to say to me in that last day. Well done, good and faithful servant. You know, welcome into the joy of the Lord. Or he'll say I never knew you. Who are you? But I said, Lord, Lord, didn't I do this? And wasn't I here? And didn't I, you know, and he said, No, I I just simply didn't know you. Ultimately, it makes me think of the actions and how they need to line up with my heart and making sure my heart lines up with the Lord. That's all that counts. That's all that counts. Life goes by so fast and we look in our rear-view mirror and we say, man, it looks like just like yesterday Oldest granddaughter enters in the college. I may remember, got pictures of it, just holding her, just coming into the world. What happened? Where are they? You know, how time flies. And pretty soon it catches up. What we've done for him is right. Let's pray. Father We admit that it is our heart's desire to be people who are right in heart with you. Those who are redeemed, those who have been blood-bought men and women, boys and girls of the Lord Jesus Christ, who have asked Christ to redeem them, to save them, and bring them into eternity, are people, Lord, that you're looking upon to work in that heart to shape it to be the testimonies that you would have us to be. And as we would think of that, we pray that you will daily search our hearts. And if there are anything that's wrong or the things that we are we are that is a part of our life Needs to be addressed. Would you would you address that Lord graciously and kindly? As we open your word, as we consider what your word says, may our eyes be Focused upon what those verses say, and how it brings life and truth and righteousness and holiness into our life, practically speaking, and may we apply those things uh in life, in our business, in our interactions with others, in the way we deal with family, the way we deal with with uh our neighbors and in and all of such and and oh Father keep us uh um on the right path. Uh cause his father not to wander, uh pulled one way or another uh by influences, by the by the old nature, the old man by the world that we live in, but may we be listening to you all the time. Thank you, Father, for what you'll do in Christ's name. Amen.