Acts chapter eleven, and I'd ask you to follow along. I'll be reading verses nineteen through twenty-six. Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen Traveled as far as Phoenix, Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word to none but unto the Jews only And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which, when they had come to Antioch, spake unto the Grecians, preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them. And the great number believed, and turned unto the Lord. Then tidings of these things came into the ears of the church, which was in Jerusalem. and they sent forth Barnabas, that he should go as far as Antioch, who, when he came And had seen the grace of God, was glad and exhorted them all that with purpose of heart they should cleave unto the Lord. For he was a good man, full of the Holy Ghost and of faith, and much people was added unto the Lord. Then departed Barnabas to Harshus for to seek Saul, and when he found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to pass that the whole year they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people, and the disciples were called Christians first at Antioch. God bless his word to our hearts. Let's pray. Father, we consecrate this service to your honor and glory. Designed to take every aspect of who we are, our voices, our hearts, meditation. uh the reading and the proclamation of the word to reflect uh how we are a needy people and how we rejoice in the fact that we've been redeemed, as we've been brought into your family And so we commit this portion of this worship time to a reflection of what truths have been placed within your word. shared through generations and centuries past, and will be profitable, we trust, by your Spirit's leading to our own souls today. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I felt led by the Lord to start a new topic today, one that I'm sure could be talked about or discussed or debated, uh thought about, uh argued over until the cows come home. So long as we have it, and I'm not sure how many weeks we'll go with it, but when I trust as we finish, some of you will have some insight. Additional, some who maybe have said, Oh, I knew that, and I knew that, I knew that, well maybe you'll walk away with something new. But I trust for the rest of you that you'll admit in your hearts, you know, I never knew that And I'm glad we studied it. It was good. It was profitable. The subject is What's the bulletin say? The church. The church. The songs have been about the Church, the gathering together. And so it is a possible endless topic, but we'll work at it Now, as a matter of, not as a quiz or as a test, but a starting point, when you hear the word church, what do you think of? What do you reflect on? What comes to your heart or mind? Sure, the word church might engender some adjectives like boring. Waste of time, unbelievers, or I love it, I enjoy it It's good for me. But I'm not looking at how you feel about church or the church. What I want you to understand is what is the church? We use it all the time, especially as we come to church. We talk about it, we see signs all over the place. But what is the church? One week could say, well, it's a religious organization, Christian, specifically and legally named Pilgrim Presbyterian Bible Church They hold certain teachings, they hold certain practices. It's my church. I have a personal affiliation of that commitment to that particular s organization, as we might say. There's some uh little research that could be done by you and you'd experience that What pilgrim believes and what pilgrim practices is not uncommon in other churches, in other areas within this community. or within the state, or across the country, even around the world. And you may have some affiliation with them, some knowledge of them, but for the most part you say, well, that's neat. When you go on vacation, you seek out a church that has similar beliefs and similar practices. When you move to a new town. You look for an organization that has similar practices and similar uh beliefs because you say that's that's part of me for that. It's also a building, a structure, no specific design. We say, well, it's 1-2-5-5-5 Bellar Road in Kingsville That's the church. That's my church. That's my building. I read where the city of Philadelphia had demolished 51 churches over the last seventeen years. And we can glean that those buildings were abandoned and those respective organizations had disappeared, fallen apart, fallen in disarray And so they were cleaned off the slate and the properties were made available. At least in the past, we could say somewhere in the past those buildings had names And there were memberships on those rolls of those buildings. And you say, that was my church. But they drive by and there's nothing anymore. Mark Twain once wrote, Nothing agrees with me. If I drink coffee, I get dyspepsia, which is indigestion. He says, if I drink a little wine, I get gout. If I go to church, it gives me dysentery. Well, obviously he's not thinking of a particular building. Mark Twain wasn't thinking of a denomination. He was thinking about the church in general. Nothing is specific, maybe some experience or whatever it was, but that was his sarcasm, the way he expressed his things. I believe we need to come to a better understanding of the church So I am able to go and we as a group of people are able to go and understand what church is used for. And maybe more importantly, where I stand when that word church is abused. Separation of the church and state. Well, what does that mean? What is he talking about? An organization? A building? A belief system? How does that go? Sexual abuse in the church. Where? What church? All churches? Organization? That particular building? A church is full of hypocrites, you know. What church? What church is that, you know? Go through all of that. Maybe it might be better said, you go to church, or more specifically, you go to that church? What does that engender? That building? Those people? How does it fit in with what I believe and what the scripture tells us is understanding? I think the best way to address this matter to begin with is to see what the Bible says. Because without the Bible defining it, we're left to your opinion and my opinion. We're left to our experience. I had a bad experience, so that's the church. We're left to our own thoughts, and we just collectively put it together, that's the church. You know. That's how that ought to be In truth, the church does not define the Bible, but the Bible defines the church. So, first of all, let's look at the word itself In the New Testament, in English, when you look up King James, you'll see 114 verses that refer to the church. Throughout the New Testament, Matthew through Revelation. Coming from the Greek, it's ecclesia. Have you heard that word before? I'm sure the astute pastors who have Preached from this, I've used that once in a while. Ecclesiah. Ek means out or out of. Hence, the called-out ones, ecclesia. So in the New Testament, 114 verses, when they see the word ecclesia, they've made that to be the called-out ones. For example, the very last verse of our scripture reading today, 1126. So it was that the whole year they assembled with the church And taught a great many people. First of all, there is no verse in the New Testament where ecclesia or church refers to a building. It never refers to it as a structure, uh home, uh place, uh uh synagogue wherever they came to worship. It never refers to a building of itself. Here in Acts, it means that Barnabas and Saul assembled with the church. They gathered together with the called-out ones, the Christians in Antioch That was their time together. This is our our gathering wherever they met, whatever they did. That was for the purpose of public worship And it mentions that he is it mentions that they worshiped at certain times, which probably would have been what day of the week? Sunday, the Sabbath day, the Christian Sabbath. And the reason was that's the day Jesus rose from the dead, and they had always traditionally, historically, worshiped on that particular day. They met certain times of the day, certain times of the week, and they met for about a year, and they're there for public worship. So, church, ecclesia is found in 114 verses in the New Testament, but it's not in the Old Testament. Oh, why? Ecclesi is a Greek word. The Old Testament was written in Hebrew. Hebrew. Old Testament Jews. Hebrew for the Old Testament. But there's some profit here that we can gain. The conquering of the world by the sovereignty of God was done, first of all, in the majority of the area, by Alexander the Great. A Greek. And the whole area around the Mediterranean, northern Mediterranean, was conquered by Alexander the Great. And when the Greeks came in, Alexander says, we must teach everybody the Greek language. We must teach him Greek culture. We must teach him Greek understanding of everything. Well that lasted Alexander dies early, but those who followed Alexander did the same thing. So where the Christian church was was basically found in a Greek thought, Greek speaking language. Then the Romans come after that. So there were some around two or three centuries before Christ who came in, and they decided what was necessary is to translate the Old Testament Hebrew into New Testament. Greek. All of a sudden, now that those who were at the time of Jesus, there are many Jewish leaders and common people who spoke regular Koine Greek, just like the Greeks did. So all of a sudden God takes Alexander the Great, brings him to a place where it changes the language and changes the culture, and all of a sudden those who only spoke Greek spoke it. And even the Jews had to understand that. They brought it all together. That work was called the Septuagint, and it's used some 65 times in the Old Testament. Most of the time it refers to the assembly of the children of Israel. the assembly gathering together of the children of Israel. For example, listen to this, Deuteronomy 9. 10. For the Lord delivered unto me two tablets of stone, written with the finger of God, and on them was written according to all the words, which the Lord spake with you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly He's writing there, Moses is writing, when we gathered together, God gave us the commandments, and he gave it to when we were gathered together. We were the ecclesia, the assembly, those who were called out by God the day they gathered before the Lord. One other one, Joshua 8. 35. Joshua refers to the gathering together of Israel to hear the law. Quote, there was not a word of all that Moses commanded which Joshua read not before all the congregation of Israel, who read not before all the ecclesia of Israel. Okay? They were the called out, this case, Israel, but it becomes the picture that he draws, these are God's people. They were called out and so 65 approximately times in the Old Testament that word Ecclesia is there. So in both Old Testament and New Testament, we can see the word church basically means assembly. Basically means assembly, which helps us in our understanding of the essential aspects of a church. Now, is that a group of people gathered together, assembling together regularly? And you add to that that translation of Ecclesia, the called out ones, and you get a more full picture of who the church or what the church is, called out assembling people of God. I think in our day it's extremely important that the church And we'll refer to that officially as the church and we'll see in weeks ahead what that means. Um, but also the individual members It isn't just a congregation, but the individual members of the church. They need to understand that definition. She needs to see herself as being called out by God, belonging to him his own people who were bought with a price, the precious blood of Christ. The church needs to see I am, as an individual, as a family, as a congregation, as a church across the country, across the world. They need to see themselves as I am called out by God. I am God's own. There are some times that I'll sit down and watch a movie. online or on TV or even some other things that I see and it's just Evan just to sit and relax and I become increasingly uh uncomfortable with the language or the content of the humor specifically. Don't get me wrong, whatever it is that I watch, I enjoy the humor. You know, part of that is the Coleman curse, I think, for my father, the humor aspect of it. But nonetheless, it's somewhat vulgar. And it seems to be a part of the world that we've grown up in. The longer we're living, the more we exchange rubbing elbows and seeing folks around. We see and see it everywhere It's in the job site. It's in the radio. It's in our eyes and our ears from various sources. But I had a growing sense of what I was watching somehow that it was wearing me down It was making me feel dirty. It was making me feel not as I'm supposed to feel as a child of God. So I turned it off, knowing that it was purposely altering my heart and mind. And immediately thought of what was all too often used as a Bible verse, but not necessarily found as such. is the idea we are in the world but not of the world. I thought of that. I'm in it, but I'm not a part of it. And that was helped me to capture the idea of the difficulty that was going on. We read in Gospels of John Jesus' point of this, and let me begin by just sharing some scriptures with that. The idea, even though the words are not mentioned in the world and of the world, the content is there. John 15, 19, Jesus says, if ye were of the world The world would love his own, but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. You see a dichotomy there. The world believer. In his great high-priestly prayer, Jesus says in John 17, I have given them thy word, and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world. Even as I am not of the world, I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil or evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. So those two verses in other areas I think we can see that Jesus understands that his followers were going to live not only in that day, but all we have today, they would live in a world that was full of attention that was opposite of what Christianity is. It was going to be a very part of their life. So he describes in this prayer, in these presentations of these truths, they are in the world, but they're really not of the world. On the other hand, the authors of the New Testament encourage us to continue in our relationships in the world around us. They continue to encourage us to be careful in the way that we lived. That would be a way that pleases God and not pleases our culture, not pleases the world that we're around. A couple verses for this, 1 John 2. 15. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. He asked the question, what is the world? Well, that's this culture. 1 Corinthians 5, 9, and 10. I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators. Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous or extortioners, or with the idolaters, for then For then must ye needs to be out of the world. Romans 12, 2. Be not conformed to this world. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove that which is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. And the last one, James 1. 27, pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this. to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world Clearly, the Old Testament carried this principle, but the New Testament, the apostles, the writers of this clearly say, you're in the world And you need to be understanding that you're not of it, but you're in the world, and this is the direction or the attitude of the heart that you should have. So what does it really mean to be in the world and not of it? As a member of a particular congregation, and I just use this in a sense to say, we make a collection of of believers for that purpose. Or if you're just somebody who's a part of the assembly, how do I decide what to watch? How do I decide what is the environment in which I ought to avoid? How do I decide what are the activities that are out of bounds? Don't go there at all. How do I understand this principle? I think of one way and I found some folks to help me with this. Understand this difference of principle of heart activities is the use of two words, location and information. How do I understand I am in the world and not of the world? Well the first is I am in the world, and I say that is our point of location. We saw earlier in 1 Corinthians, Paul was right when he said you have to leave the world in order to be completely untouched with the corruption of the world. In other words, when I close my eyes in that final sleep and I open my eyes and I'm in glory, I've left it. Bye-bye. It is no longer part of that which will tempt me. that I have to struggle with. In death I am gone. It doesn't hold me anymore. Yet that isn't necessarily an option that we have, is it? We can't choose that. That's all in God's hands. Roman Catholic Catechism says, hermits devote their lives. This is an official document statement. Hermits devote their life to the praise of God and salvation of the world through a stricter separation from the world. The silence of solitude, and his studious prayer and penance. In other words, they go off in a cave uh in the old days. They'll go to the forest and today they'll have little monasteries up on the hill where nobody can get to 'em, you know. And I'm a hermit, I stay there because I'm avoiding the sin of the world. Therefore, this is good for me. It helps my own soul, you know. For a better, a more stricter separation from the world. But they're still in the world It doesn't work. Christians simply cannot withdraw from the challenges that God has placed before us. As a matter of fact, God may have placed you there, in that particular office, in that particular school or classroom. Next to that neighbor, purposely, because you need to be the light and the life to that person. They need to know Jesus Christ. They need to know where you stand in this culture that is so opposed to Jesus Christ. So God purposely puts us there. Why? Because I'm still here. That's what the disciples were talking about. That's what the disciples, as they wrote in the New Testament, the world that we are to make a difference. Jesus wants us to learn such. I'm less concerned with my point of location than I am, though, for the source of my information. My location is wherever I am and there are times when I'll adventurously take a trip down some place and I'll go to this place or whatever. And it's not necessarily a culture of of Christian background, you know. It's a rough place It's a place that, you know, angels fear to tread. And I and I get to the place of being adventurous and doing that. And yet I'm not too worried about that, my my purpose of it, rather than the information. It's not unusual for such. I step away from all and I only recognize that my environment is going to change the way I think and act. So out of this world, I mean, I'm sorry, in the world is that point of location, but of the world is my source of information. My concern is that repeated exposure to the worldview that I'm displayed before me watching a movie, listening to music. going and frequenting these people, listening to this, participating in this. My frequent exposure all of a sudden causes me to start thinking differently. I can adapt to it. And I know it's true simply because there have been times when my language is not necessarily very edifying to the people I'm with. I can say some bad words. You don't say, but I do. And I have to hold myself back and say the reason is because I have frequented that location Much too much, and by its own principle it devours my heart and my thought My location is not the problem, but it is my information that is the source of the issue. So I step away from and I recognize the environment is starting to change the way I think and act, and I back off when I realize my point of location has become my point of information. Why do we not go there? Because somebody else can say, well it doesn't bother me at all. I can go there and I'm not tempted at all. But it bothers me. I can't listen to that. Why? I have no problem in listening to that. I can't read that. I have no problem in doing that. I have to give my reason for what I do because of my heart's location and my heart's information Which causes me to think and act in a way that God would want me to think and act. And you have to answer that for yourself. Let me close with this picture. It's a simple one that Jesus presents. Jesus says, ye are the salt of the earth. Who is he preaching to, that part of the Sermon on the Mountain? Just to the twelve apostles? Is that the only ones? Not the twelve apostles, not to the people who were with earshot of Jesus Sitting up on the hill and he heard, ye are the salt of the earth. He was talking to believers of all times. He was talking to those who are of that particular era. All the way through up to this very day. You are the salt of the earth. Interesting illustration that was probably more understood in that day than today. Salt is different from the food it flavors. Think of that. Salt is different from the food it flavors. If it wasn't so, you wouldn't use it. Other than somebody would have a habit just dumping salt on whatever it is, but that doesn't quite work. Otherwise, there's no sense in using it. In the same way the believer is to be different from the world in which he or she desires to influence. If I'm not different from the world, I cannot have an influence because the world looks at me and he says, you're just like us. Your words, your actions, the places you participate in, the things that you do. And again, we're in the world. You can't escape that. But how that in the world affects me Causes me to all of a sudden not be of an influence of good for the people I'm with, the people I'm next to And sometimes harshly, but correctly, someone will say, and you call yourself a Christian? And you act like that? Salt is different. Salt is also, and probably more importantly, has been used throughout the centuries to preserve Jesus said the church, and again in the broadest sense of the term, what the church is, is to be a preservative in a rotten culture. In the day that the Romans lived, in the day of cult Greek culture, they would salt meat in order to preserve it. Can't do that today, you know. I mean nobody somebody does that My grandfather salted pork, and we used to hang smoke pork in there, but that was it. Otherwise, look at the world around us. What is the the redeeming influence in the world in which we have? What if all of a sudden this so-called rapture takes place and every believer is taken up to glory with the Lord? What do you think the world's going to be like? Without a tinge of Christian influence, the work of the Holy Spirit in the lives of the people around, it's gone. Chaos The rule of of of law and order doesn't exist. The attitude of people, nothing whatsoever. We live in such a world in which we are such a salt and rotten, decaying world in which we live. And if we're not different, we're not going to be any good. If you're a child of God, the living God, bought by the precious blood of the Lamb, you are part of that church, and you are called to act as such. God has given you an opportunity where He has planted you. He's giving you the privilege of where He has planted you. He is sovereign over all things. to make a difference in the world in which you are living, in the business that you are operating, in the shoulders of of people that you are rubbing with. in the and the opportunities everywhere that you have to give a difference for him. What am I doing? I just don't want to stand out. I just want to be, you know, kind of nondescript. I don't want to hurt anybody's feelings. I don't want to say anything that's going to offend anybody You have no influence. You're the salt of the earth, and the salt that does not season the meat, it says it's thrown out, it's cast aside because it's worthless. I don't want that. I want to be an influence for my Lord. May God grant us such in our day. We'll start this picture of the church and say, I am If I know Jesus Christ as my Savior, I'm a part of that church. And how this is going to develop is going to depend upon how your heart allows the the Spirit of God to work through the various texts that we have. But it begins with understanding that we are the called out by God, assembling together to worship Him. Shall we pray? Father, it's a an enormous task to consider what your word says about the church, your church. We sang the beginning of our service, this one foundation is this church, and it's Jesus Christ, our Lord, our Savior, our soon-coming King. We profess that, we sing that, but there are times, Lord, when he seems to be distant. When he's called us to follow him and we're walking twenty steps behind. When he's called us to follow and we're way ahead, not even listening to what he wants us to do. Father, help us to be effective. This is your building. These are your people. This is the call upon which you've called us to May we be effective in our day to edify the believers and to challenge the sinners for the gospel's sake. And may we understand that we are the called of God. In your name we pray. Amen.