In our Bibles, in our study of 2 Kings, we're getting down toward the latter half of it now, or further on, but today we come to Hezekiah And today we want to talk about trust. Trust. Who do you trust? You know, trust is a big thing. It's a big thing. Who do we trust? Do we trust the government to do things well? You know, that's uh the the premise of socialism and communism That we can trust the government to take care of us, we can trust the government to do things well, to take care of everything in society, but that's not a good thing to trust in And who do you trust to take care of your car? Well, you know, that's a good question. Because, you know, mechanics have been known to to break things on cars to make sure you keep on coming back. And get work done. In Cameroon, I remember this guy had a taxicab and he'd take it to the mechanics And they would replace the new parts with old used parts. And then they'd get all broken down. Who do you trust? Who do you trust with your body? With the doctor. What doctor do you trust? What treatments do you trust? You know, there's all kinds of treatments out there, there's stuff on the internet, just no end to them, uh all no end of supplements and things to take and and who do you trust? Good question. And who do you trust with your soul? Well, we've got to trust the Lord with our soul. And what word of God do you trust? Well, our Bible is trustworthy, and we have the Word of God right here. Well, here we've read uh earlier in the responsive reading the first few verses here of chapter 18 And we have Hezekiah comes on the scene. Hezekiah is a very famous king of the kings of Judah. He was a godly king. The Bible tells us that. In no uncertain terms here. It says verse 3, and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. We don't have to wonder about whether he was a good king. He was a good king. The Bible tells us that. God's commentary is right here. And then verse 4, why was he good? Well, it gives us some of the reasons he was good. He removed the high places, broke the images. Cut down the groves. Did he think the worship of other gods should be tolerated or respected? I don't think so. He tore it all down. He removed the high places. You know Jotham, our grandson, is named after Jotham, who's Jotham, and he's a baby But anyway, my son said, well, there was nothing bad talked about Joseph in the Bible, but it said the highest places remain still under Joseph. But what did Hezekiah do? Hezekiah removed the high places, break the images, cut down the groves. And then he broke in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made. You know, we still see that brazen serpent sitting right in front of us as we're going down the highway And that's on the back of the ambulances usually. There's a the brass serpent on the pole. And that comes from the Bible, comes from Moses. Remember they had the people were bitten by the fiery serpents And they had to look upon the serpent on the pole. And they were healed. And it's interesting that Jesus is a that serpent on the pole is this picture of Jesus And we don't usually think of Jesus being pictured as a serpent, but he was in that sense. And we still have that in our society today, some of our leftover Christian teaching. But anyway, they still had that brass serpent here 700 years after Moses had made it. For 700 years they had that brass serpent, and it became an idol to the people of Israel. And they would burn incense to it and worship it. And they would focus upon the creature, on the creation, rather than the creator. And so we have that brass serpent. We'll get back to that brass serpent at the end of our sermon today. And then verse 5, it tells us about Hezekiah. It gives something about Hezekiah that's a very significant thing. It says that he trusted in the Lord more than any king before or after him. Now that's saying something. Better than David, better than all those other kings. He had that one quality of trust. And that's what we want to look at today And we're going to look for three sermons coming up on Hezekiah and Trust. We're going to have trust number one, trust number two, and trust number three. And Hezekiah was a great person for trust. And the story of Hezekiah and his trust Is given three times in the Bible. The whole story of him with the Assyrians And that whole story is given here in 2 Kings, it's given in 2 Chronicles, and it's also given in Isaiah three times. Why do you think God gave us that story three times? Well, because it's important, and we need to pay attention to it. And the big thing about it was trust. Trust. And Hezekiah trusted in the Lord. Well then we go on, verse 6. He kept his commandments, which the Lord commanded Moses. In verse 7, the Lord was with him. And so as we go through these passages with Hezekiah, we see yes and no for trust. Things where they trusted the Lord and things where they didn't trust the Lord. Yes and no. Yes, he did trust the Lord more than all the other kings. And yes, the Lord was with him because he trusted. And he was able to rebel against the king of Assyria. At that time, the Assyrians were the great power in the world, in the whole Middle East The Assyrians were the big power. And by the way, you need to keep straight, Assyrian and Syrian are two different things. Syrian was a little country relatively close to Israel that they fought with and whatever, but Assyria was the big power before the Babylonians And that's what we have here, the Assyrians. Hezekiah, for a while, he was a tributary to the Assyrians, but he rebelled then. And we're going to see more about that. Verse 8. He smote the Philistines. Remember, David fought a lot with the Philistines and the judges with the Philistines. Well, they were still the enemies. And do you see a name that you find familiar today in that verse 8 there? What's the familiar name there? Gaza. Gaza. Gaza. And you know, that's in the news everywhere today with Israel. And it's from back here in the Bible still till today. And here we have Hezekiah. He smote the Philistines. Gaza was one of the cities of the Philistines. Let's keep on going here to verse 9. And it came to pass in the fourth year of King Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hosheah. son of Elah, king of Israel, that Shalmeser, king of Assyria, came up against Samaria and besieged it. And at the end of three years they took it, even in the sixth year of Hezekiah, that is the ninth year of Hosheah, king of Israel. Samaria was taken. And the king of Assyria did carry away Israel into Assyria and put them in Hala and Habor Hazor by the river of Gozan and in the cities of the Medes. Because they obeyed not the voice of the Lord their God, but transgressed his covenant. And all that Moses, the servant of the Lord, had commanded and would not hear them nor do them. Well, we had just covered this last sermon about the fall of Samaria, the fall of the northern kingdom of Israel. And remember again, here in Kings and Chronicles, you've got the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah The northern kingdom of Israel here has just fallen. It gives the recap of the fall of the northern kingdom in these couple verses here. And it tells us again that the siege of Samaria lasted three years. That's a really long siege. For a city to be surrounded, nobody comes in and goes out, they have to have food and water for the whole city for three years, that's a long siege And so they were able to hold out. They were very strong, but not strong enough. And finally they capitulated. And why did they capitulate? Why were they defeated? Well, it says verse 12, because they obeyed not the voice of the Lord. Because Why is the because there? Because they obeyed not the voice of the Lord. The homosexuals say God doesn't send you to the basement when you're bad. God doesn't give you HIV when you're bad. Well, what does the Bible say about when you're bad? It says, because they obeyed not, therefore their city was destroyed, they were carried off into captivity And that's very clear in the Bible. And of course, there's a good example of not trusting the northern kingdom. They did not trust in the Lord. They obeyed not the Lord. They transgressed his covenant. They would not hear nor do the commandments of the Lord. Now let's go over to 2 Chronicles chapter 32 and get a parallel account here for a few verses. 2 Chronicles chapter 32 and verse 1 Second Chronicles 32 and verse 1, parallel account here of Hezekiah gives us a few more details. At this point. It says chapter 32 of 2 Chronicles, verse 1, after these things and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib King of Assyria came and entered into Judah and encamped against the fenced cities and fought to win them for himself And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, you know it's something when it gets into the head of a ruler, of a king, of a president To go fight against another country, it means lots of suffering for everybody and lots of problems. Sennacherib was going to come against Judah. What about Putin today? We got Putin from Russia. He decided he was going to go take Ukraine. And it ended up being a lot of suffering over there. Well, Sennacherib purposed to fight against Jerusalem. And Hezekiah saw that. And verse 3, he took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city, and they did help him. And so Hezekiah here was thinking, you know, if the Assyrians are coming against Jerusalem, we need to make sure that if they have a the city under siege, that the Assyrians don't have a lot of water. out around the city for their siege. And so he tried to stop things up there. He even stopped up the brooks and the waters there And there was a spring just outside the gates of Jerusalem that he decided to stop up and bring the water into the city Instead of having it flow out on the outside, stop it up and have it flow on the inside. And you know, that was quite an engineering accomplishment of his, and he did it With his engineers and things there, they made what is called Hezekiah's Tunnel. And Hezekiah's tunnel was made underneath the wall of Jerusalem to bring in water in from that spring. And that's also called the Siloam Tunnel, Hezekiah's Tunnel. And it's there till today. And you know, can we trust the Bible? Yes, we can. And one reason we know we can trust the Bible is through archaeology and through digging up the records and remains of civilizations from the past that are talked about in the Bible. And so today you can go over there and go right in Hezekiah's tunnel. I know my sister said she went there when she went to the Holy Land. And you know that tunnel had an inscription on it. It's called the Hezekiah, uh the Siloam Tunnel Inscription. And that inscription talked about that that Hezekiah put there on the tunnel. It was carved out of the rock. And it told about exactly how they made that tunnel. And you know, they were good engineers back in those days. They had the tunnel there, and The tunnel started from one side and then a ways away it started from the other side and it went in a curving pattern underground And the engineers had it, so they they started from one side into the other side, they curved around, and they met right underground in the middle And that's quite an accomplishment, especially back in those days. And that's how it the inscription talks about that. And you know, I've seen that, I personally have seen that Siloam tunnel inscription The Turks, when they ruled over Israel for many years, centuries, they cut that inscription out of the wall because they saw that it was important. They took it up to Turkey and put it in their museum. And the Muslim Museum up there, and I visited up there a while back, and there I saw it in the museum. Of course, the thing is that inscription is extremely important for the Bible. And it's also important for ancient Hebrew, because there's not very many examples of ancient Hebrew. And so if it's important for the Bible, what do you think the Turks did with it? Well, they put it in the museum and they put it back in a corner there with no focus on it whatever. And so it's just like a very unimportant thing in the museum, but you can actually go there and see it, and I did. And that confirms the Bible. It confirms from this verse right here where they stopped the waters. And I think there's another place in the Bible where it talks about a little more clearly. Let me go on here, verse 4. So there was gathered much people together, who stopped the fountains and the brook that ran through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come? and find much water. Also he strengthened himself and built up the wall that was broken and raised it up to the towers, and another wall without, and repaired Millow in the city of David and made them made sharp darts and shields in abundance. So here Hezekiah made all kinds of preparations for the Assyrians to come He got all his armament together, made darts and shields in abundance, he made more walls, he made higher walls, and he made his preparations. And but he trusted in the Lord as well. Now we go on to verse six. And he set captains of war over the people and gathered them together to him to the street of the gate of the city And spake comfortably to them, saying, Be strong and courageous, be not afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude that is with him For there be more with us than with him. With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God to help us. And to fight our battles, and the people rested themselves upon the words of Hezekiah, king of Judah After this did Sennacherib, king of Assyria, send his servants to Jerusalem, but he himself laid siege against Lachish and all his power with him. Unto Hezekiah King of Judah, and unto all Judah that were at Jerusalem, saying. Now Here we have Hezekiah tells the people to trust. Trust in the Lord. Don't trust in their armaments. Don't trust in their high walls. Don't trust in their water that comes in. Trust in the Lord. And it's interesting here that he says, there's more with us than with him. That's pointing to the fact, remember, with Elisha, where they saw the angels all around the city There be more with us than with them. And so, yes, Hezekiah was trusting, and he was telling them to trust in the Lord. And then what does it say that Sennacherib was doing at this point? This is true history that can be corroborated. What was he doing? He was laying siege against Lachish. And in Israel and Judah at that time, they had more than one strong city, especially they had Jerusalem, was the strongest. But they also had Lakish, which was the number two city, and it was very strong as well. And we can see the records of that siege of Laish. And uh I have a book here about the uh the warfare in biblical lands And they've dug up, and they're in the British Museum today. People like to carry off these records to other places, to the museums. But anyway, you can see here that we have some carvings. In stone. And these are carvings of the Battle of Lachish. This very battle of Sennacherib with the Battle of Lachish. And Sennacherib was the king of Assyria, the great king, and he focused greatly on the records of the battle of Lachish. And why do you think he did that? Well, number one, Lachish was a very strong city. Here in this book, it gives a depiction of the defenses of the city of Lachish. And see it has a double wall, big high walls, and it was not very easy to take. And so Sennacherib put all this on his stone tablets, on his stone monuments. But he wanted to really focus on his victory at Lachish because, as we see as we go later on in the account, Sennacherib was not able to take Jerusalem. The angel of the Lord went, remember, and smote 185,000 of them, and they were all dead corpses. And you know what's interesting? This past week, that was in the news In the news this past week, they had about that they had found the camps of Sennacherib there at Lachish. And they they found these things from back in Bible times. And so they have this siege of Lakish. And there's Sennacherib gave these big records because he was proud of the victory of Lachish, especially because he didn't succeed at Jerusalem, because God struck his army dead And so we have the Bible is confirmed that we can trust in it through archaeology, through the records, the records of Sennacherim. And also it's confirmed through what's been dug up there around Lake Ish. Now I have a picture here. I have a picture here. This is from the Museum of the Bible. in Washington, just next door here. And they have this in a display there. What do those look like there in the in the bottom of the picture there? They look like stones, exactly. That's exactly what they are. But they're not just any old stones. They're exactly round stones and They're from the siege of Lachish. And what are these round stones? Well, they're about the size of a baseball. Stones. Well, you know what they are? They're the things that are on my tie here. We got David. What did David do? He had slingstones. And he got Goliath. Well, those were a big weapon back in those days, back at Lachish. And they've dug up the slingstones, also the arrowheads here, iron arrowheads. But the stones, two slingstones, they dug up, they're about the size of baseballs, and they had guys that could throw Slingstones. We're told in the Bible they could do a slingstone at a hair's breadth and not miss. Now that'd be quite a weapon, wouldn't it be? If you got hit in the head with one of these baseball-sized uh rocks, you'd be gone. And you know the thing is, is the Bible is confirmed. They've dug up these things. And this is that very siege of Lachish right here. Right here in 2 Chronicles, it says here, here it says, Sennacherib, but he himself laid siege against Lachish and all his power with him. And he had to have all his power there to take Lachish. Let's go back to 2 Kings. 2 Kings chapter 18. Continuing with the history of Hezekiah. 2 Kings chapter 18 and verse 13. Now in the 14th year of King Hezekiah did Sennacherib, king of Assyria, come up against all the fenced cities of Judah and took them. He took Lachish, he took all the other cities of Judah. Except for Jerusalem. And Hezekiah, king of Judah, sent to the king of Assyria to Lakish saying, I have offended. Return from me. That which thou puttest on me, I will pay I will bear. And the king of Assyria appointed unto Hezekiah, king of Judah, three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold, each talent being a hundred pounds And so there he had to give thirty talents of gold thirty times a hundred Three thousand uh pounds of gold and three hundred talents of silver. and 30,000 pounds of silver. And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the Lord and in the treasures of the king's house. He got all his treasures together to give this to Sennacherib. At that time, verse 16 did Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of the Lord and from the pillars which Hezekiah, king of Judah, had overlaid, and gave it unto the king of Assyria. So who was Hezekiah trusting in right here? Even though Hezekiah trusted in the Lord, even though he was a great example of trust, a supreme example of trust, here he didn't trust. And who was he trusting? He was trusting Sennacherim. He was trusting the king of Assyria to go away from him if he gave him all of this money. So Hezekiah stripped the gold off the temple. He got all his treasures together to give all these hundreds of pounds of silver and gold. And he gave all that to him e. And you know what happened? Verse 17 And the king of Assyria sent, this is after he sent all that stuff, the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rabserus. and Rab Shaka from Lachish to King Hezekiah with a great host against Jerusalem. And they went up and came to Jerusalem, and when they were come up they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool which is in the highway of the Fuller's field. And when they had called to the king there came out to them Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, which was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder Well, anyway, Hezekiah sent all those treasures to him, all that silver and gold to Sennacherib. He trusted him that he would keep his word and leave Hezekiah alone. Well what happened? He was a liar. Sennacherib was a liar. He got all that silver and gold, and then he still came against Hezekiah. And still came with all of his hosts. And he sent his messengers to call out to Hezekiah. And we're going to stop right here in this account here, till the next time But here we have, they're calling out to Hezekiah, the army has come here against Jerusalem. And what is Hezekiah going to do? What are the inhabitants of Jerusalem going to do? Well, we'll get to that the next time. So Sennacherib has taken Lachish. And he wants to take Jerusalem. But let's go back to chapter 18 and verse 4. Back to that brass serpent. That Hezekiah broke up, that had become an idol. You know that brass serpent on the pole was something good originally. God told them to make that. That brass serpent on the pole. But over 700 years it had got corrupted And they're worshi- they had gone to worshiping it, burning incense to it, and they focused on the thing. What about Mary? Mary. You know, Mary, God ordained that Mary should have the Savior. God used Mary. But now today people are praying to Mary. And they've corrupted uh you go the idea of Mary into something to worship And they they go to the place where they say, Oh, well, we need to pray to Jesus' mother, because Jesus' mother will have a lot of inf you know uh influence on him. No, but but Mary was good. Mary was used of God, but her concept has been corrupted. What about the saints of the past? There's been some good saints in the past, some good saints that did good things. You know, you know, St. Patrick's Day. St. Patrick supposedly was a pretty good Christian. And yet He has been corrupted. People have corrupted St. Patrick into somebody to pray to, somebody to have super-erogatory merits. You know what that means? That means that these saints and the Catholic Church, they have more virtue and merits than what they need, and so they can give you some of them But that's not true. That's not in the Bible. That's not anywhere. But people are trusting in the saints, they're trusting in Mary, just like they were trusting in that serpent on the pole. And all through history, all through humankind, people have always had lucky charms. You know, they've always had these things that they've trusted in. Of course, the thing to get rid of evil spirits, you're supposed to carry around a bag of garlic, right? That's something that gets rid of it. It's a charm, a lucky charm, just like that serpent on the pole was a lucky charm. But we look to the God of the Bible. We trust in Him. We trust in God as a Spirit. We trust in the Spirit. We don't trust in these physical things. What about in the history of Israel? They got to the place with the Ark of the Covenant. Remember, the Ark of the Covenant was used by God, it was in the tabernacle, but finally They decided, well, if we carry the Ark of the Covenant into battle with us, we can't lose. Because we have the Ark. But what happened? They lost. They trusted in that thing. They made an idol of the thing. They made an idol of the ark. And you know the thing is, is that You know, one thing we can see again with this is that, you know, things have a use at one time, but not for all time. The ark had a use for one time, the brass serpent on the pole had a use for one time. Miracles in the Bible had use for one time or limited number of times. People say, oh, the Pentecostals say, oh, we ought to be able to do all the miracles in the Bible today. That God wants you to do those miracles all the time. No, it's not all the time. The brass serpent wasn't for all time. And Hezekiah destroyed it. Well, we can't be trusting in things. What about Christians in the church today? What things do Christians in the church trust in today? Well, I submit to you the one thing they like to trust in is their church building. You know, church buildings are good. God's given us church buildings, but there comes a place when the building becomes an idol. It becomes a little bit too much. And we don't trust in the building. We don't give it too much emphasis. A building is good. And it's good to have a place to meet, and that's great. Of course, in the Bible, there aren't any buildings mentioned at all except for houses that they met in. I was in a church years back And we were talking about the building there in the church, and one lady said, she said, when we get to heaven, we're going to present this building to the Lord. This was in the Bible Presbyterian Church. We're going to present this building to the Lord when we get to heaven. Are we? I don't think so. I don't think so. And I mean that building may be used for the Lord. God helped us build it. We glorified God in it, but we're not going to be giving the Lord the building. And we can't focus on those things too much. And so the children of Israel, they were focusing on the serpent on the pole. Finally, Hezekiah had to completely destroy it to get them to focus on the Lord and trust in the Lord. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just thank Thee for thy goodness unto us. We thank Thee For the great story of Hezekiah, we thank Thee for the great story of trust that we have here. And O Lord, help us to trust in Thee as we should. In Jesus' name. Amen.