You have all open your Bibles, please, to Philippians chapter 2. Just a few verses in our continuing study of this particular text. Book of Philippians two, and I'll be reading verses fourteen through sixteen Do all things without murmurings and disputings, that ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke. in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ That I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Father, as we approach this, your word We pray that these the freedom that your Spirit has working within our hearts will bring us to a better understanding of ourselves and of you. And a glorious relationship that from before the foundation of the world was established and has provided unto us now a charge to grow in grace and the knowledge of our Savior Jesus Christ and of those things that He would have us to know. Thank you for this letter. Thank you for our time together. Hide your servant, we pray, and bring forth Christ in all of his glory in his name. Amen. Last time we were together a couple weeks ago, we continued on this topic of the sanctification of the believer. The idea of bringing ourselves to closeness of Christ, bringing ourselves into an understanding to be more Christ-like. We address the question of who's responsible? Who's responsible for that process of change, the changing from the world to becoming more like Christ? So we saw in this chapter, chapter 2, verse 12, that we were the ones responsible. Work out your own salvation, Paul says. Work it out. In other words, the development of those changes. But then we saw in verse thirteen that it was God who was responsible For it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. That was what we called what Two thoughts? Both are paradox, thank you. Not paradox, but a paradox. Two thoughts that were equally true, but conflicting in our own way of thinking. So, yes, the Holy Spirit is working in the believer's life to bring him to a place where he is in consistent obedience to the Word of God. Where those changes are enabling us to come to be more and more like Christ, bearing the name of Christ in our everyday life, and he will perform that work. until the day that we are taken away, because it is his good pleasure. It is will of God Himself that we indeed be His children working out our own salvation. But just because God is working in us doesn't mean that we are exempt from doing what is right. So, verse 14: do all things without murmurings and disputings. All things. I've taken a couple of others, some are translations, some are however they're written, but one person wrote it as, in everything you do, stay away from complaining and grumbling. And everything you do. Another one was, do all that you have to do without grumbling or arguing. And a third one, all things be consistently doing without discontented and secret mutterings and grumblings. And without discussions which carry an undertone of suspicion or doubt. Prefer just do all things without grumbling and murmuring, you know. What do you think the issue was in Philippi that Paul was concerned about in their process of sanctification? Was it idolatry? How about uh the matter of pornography? Hmm Gambling? Witchcraft. What does verse fourteen say? Do all things without murmuring And grumblings and disputings, to all things. You know, I think in life we like to form our own translation of that passage and say, some things fit better. Not all things, because that is kind of pinching on my freedom, pinching on my own way of thinking. Do some things without murmuring and disputing. It gives me some leeway There are certain situations when I need to, you know, I would like to do some things without grumbling or arguing. I mean, too many times I have to share what I've got to say There are too many situations that I've come along that I really feel that I have to express what I feel right now, and I want somebody to listen to me. I want somebody to hear. I have to get it off my chest. I mean it's not right what they're doing. It's not right what they've said and I have to say something about it. We have to get together and we have to hear what I've got to say. I mean, I'm not telling anything that's a lie It's the truth. So listen, listen to what I've got to say. And actually, what's the big problem about grumbling and murmuring, anyways? I mean, if I go through the Bible and I see a lot of the examples where God's wrath is upon them, there are a lot of things thousands times worse than grumbling, thousands times worse than murmuring. After all, I'm just expressing my frustration about someone or my dissatisfaction about something. And when the people complained, it displeased the Lord, and the Lord heard it. And his anger was kindled, and the fire of the Lord burned among them and consumed them. That were in the uttermost part of the camp. That was only one of the many times that God heard them. And saw them. Out of the forty years in the wilderness, that was just one time that they expressed their feelings, their complaints, their dissatisfaction about life in the wilderness. Or about the food, or about the water, about why did we ever leave Egypt in the first place? Why it was so much better back there About Aaron, about Moses. You know, just one after the other after the other after the other. Life was better in Egypt. In the New Testament, we see the same thing with the scribes and the Pharisees. They see Jesus and they start murmuring and get in their little groups. There he is. He's the one who eats with tax collectors. Sinners. There he is. He's the one who goes into the houses of tax collectors. Sin women. He does that. And they sit and they talk in their little groups. Acts chapter six. We read, and the number of disciples was multiplied, and there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews. This is the beginning of the church. Acts moves along those chapters and we finally get to the place. Ultimately this comes about where they they organize the building up of deacons as official office within the church. But it started out as a time when who's going to take care of the the widows and who's going to take care of the orphans? And they're saying, oh, the Jews are saying that the Greeks The non-Jews, they're th they don't belong in this. And the Greeks were saying to the Jews, oh, they're getting all of the favor, and all of a sudden there's this mumbling, this murmuring that's going on around them all. It was more than expressing how they felt. The word gives a picture of mumbling those words that really can't be understood. The translation literally is a muffled low sound coming from a few people or a large crowd. I think we've all seen clicks like this. And unfortunately, regrettably, I think we've all participated in little groups like that. We've come to the place where we just got a money. What did he say? Nothing. There was nothing. The case of Philippi, Paul was writing them. about this kind of grumbling, not openly towards God. And you don't l see any passage within this book where they're shaking their fist at God or angry at God like it had been in the children of Israel in Egypt. But it was a general grumbling about each other. There was a dissatisfaction, a disapproval of the body Not just one group or another group, but there was the cliques, groups that were providing such a undertone of things that were going on. And Paul was a little bit upset. He did not want this to become an epidemic, as it had in in the Old Testament with with Israel. As a matter of fact, in 1 Corinthians, Paul says, the things that were done to Israel in the Old Testament were set as an example for us to learn from that we don't do them. God dealt very powerfully with them. Look at that little sheet that was passed out so nicely. I know it's the print it's a little small, but this is the only way you can get the whole song on there. In country, town, or city, some people can be found. Who spend their lives in grumbling at everything around. Oh yes, they always grumble, no matter what we say. For these are chronic grumblers, and they grumble night and day. Oh, they grumble on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, grumble on Thursday too, grumble on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, grumble the whole week through. Let's take a couple of these. If you do want to join in, feel free. They grumble in the city, they grumble on the farm They grumble at their neighbors, they think it is no harm. They grumble at the husbands They grumble at their wives, they grumble at their children, but the grumbler never thrives. Let's take verse 3. They grumble when it's raining, they grumble when it's dry, and if the crops are failing, they grumble and they sigh They grumble at low prices, and grumble when they're high. They grumble all the year round, and they grumble till they die. In the last verse If you don't quit your grumbling, and stop it now and here, You'll never get to heaven, no grumblers enter there Repoint, repent, and be converted and save from all your sin. You know that grumbling Christians Find it hard to crown to win. Oh, they grumble on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, grumble on Thursday too, Grumble on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Grumble the whole way through. You can pin that in your wall and share it with somebody. Hey, have you ever heard this song? I had a man who introduced that to me years ago, just the chorus And we went on a a sum team to Brazil and every once in a while one we'd say about being hot and Mr. Grinstead would go, Well the grumble on Monday, 2C1C, he threw it to me, you know And the spirit is there, a spirit of dissatisfaction in the things that God does. Now, that wasn't just for murmurings and grumblings and mumblings, was it? Look what's next in the verse. It was also about disputings. Do all things without murmurings and disputings. We're familiar with the word dispute, aren't we? We talk about it or hear about it on the news. There's a border dispute between Congo and Rwanda. There's this dispute uh between my neighbors and the other neighbors, you know, over a fence or a crop or a tree or whatever it is. There disputes But dispute becomes something much greater than the grumbling idea. There's a case in Matthew chapter 9 where the disciples were disputing amongst themselves who's going to be the greatest You know. All of a sudden it started out no doubt with a a a smidgeant of murmuring, you know, and and they look at each other and they examine each other and they says, I think I'm better than him or I think I can do better in him. I think when he gets to heaven, I think I ought to be in a place of of responsible authority over them. And pretty soon these things, no doubt their voices became louder and arguing resulted. Paul warns the Philippians that if they don't stop grumbling, if they don't deal with what's under the surface, And I think that's the key to it. It will become an open disagreement and an argument, and ultimately will most assuredly dismantle the love and unity that the body ought to be known for. Obviously, there's going to be troubles, there's going to be conflicts and disputes and so forth. But within the body of Christ, all of a sudden this becomes the key to the lack of unity. And all of a sudden, it falls apart. John MacArthur wrote, It is always sinful for believers to complain about anything the Lord calls them to do. or about any circumstance which he sovereignly allows, whether the task is easy or difficult Whether the situation involves a blessing or trial, negative attitudes are forbidden And he testifies later in this letter, meaning Philippians, Paul's own spiritual growth had led him to enjoy this attitude. I have learned to be content in whatsoever circumstance I am. Chapter 4, verse eleven. If I understand that I'm I'm only viewing it on a horizontal level, if I'm only viewing my grumbling on the crops or you know my neighbors or my wife or my husband or whatever it is. Because if I have a sovereign God who's in all things, I'm actually, as Israel came to know I'm grumbling against him. And it wasn't because of manna, or it wasn't because of the rocks or the stone water or or anything else. I'm grumbling against God. I'm dissatisfied at the state of the things that God has placed me in. And ultimately that's the tragedy, that's the hardship that Paul wanted them to avoid. And Paul says, and I've learned that, and we'll really get into that when we get to chapter 4 of Philippians. For Israel in the wilderness, the reasons for grumbling was obvious. They did have problems. They were thirsty. They were tired It was only an 11-day journey from when they started out until they got to the Promised Land. But it ended up being 40 years because of their grumbling, their dissatisfaction with God. But here in Philippi, the reasons are not stated. Maybe it was the color of the carpet in their sanctuary. Some wanted red, some wanted blue. Someone did this or someone did that. Maybe there was nobody to teach junior church, or all the work was being done by just a few people, and it's just not right. And what we gotta do, we've got to talk about it. We've got to deal with it. We don't know. But it was an issue that Paul felt had to be addressed sooner or later. Paul said this is key to this church survival. Working out my own salvation begins within my what? My heart. It's just not addressing the things that are seen or heard or whatever. The source is within the heart. grumblings and murmurings and arguing and disputings are seated within the heart. They are expressed, they're shown, they're displayed, they're tossed out in one form or another, in other fashions, but it's the heart. Again from chapter 4 of Philippians verse 8. Finally, brethren, meaning summaries, whatsoever things are true. Whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever thinks, whatsoever thinks pure, whatsoever thinks lovely, whatsoever things are of a good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, what Think on these things. Is it just the gray matter? No. It's sourced in the heart. Whatsoever things are, these admirable virtues, we are responsible for our thoughts, again, which are sourced in our heart. There is no virtue, there is no praise, there is no beauty whatsoever in grumbling and murmuring and complaining and arguing. They contribute nothing to my sanctification. They bring me no closer to being like Jesus Christ than a stone. It's impossible. They contribute nothing to my life in Christ. Do all things without murmurings and disputings that ye may be or that ye may become. In other words, it isn't going to happen overnight. It's a process that works and works and works and works, and you will become that you may be blameless and harmless, sons of God, without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation. So, what are the results of my emotions and my intellect being intact? The grumblings and murmurings and the arguments and so forth, my emotional aspect and my intellectual aspect He says here that we can be blameless. Blameless. The picture is being your finger pointed at you. You know, somebody says, ah, you know, you're to blame. And in and in in truth, it's the matter of being blamed for making yourself as a Christian and you do this You act like this and you call yourself a Christian, and and this isn't the world in which Philippi was found, a Roman world, a heathen world, a Jewish world. You call yourself a believer and and the finger gets pointed at them. The results are true. I'm not talking about perfectionism, but by the grace of God we can have a life that pleases God more than it pleases man. Sometimes when people point out something to us about our faults or our weaknesses that we find blaming, we throw it back at them and say, well, nobody's sinless. That's not the idea. The process that God brings us to. There was a man in the land of Oz whose name was Job, and that man was perfect. Otherwise, what? Blameless. Blameless. And upright, one that fears God and eschews evil. You look at the book of Job and you read there, and nobody could actually point a finger at Job and say, the reason you're going through this is because. That was the conundrum. Job's going through, why? Why did my family die? Why the disease? Why all this? Why the grumbling life with me all the time? You know, it's because you, and there was nothing It didn't mean he was sinless, but it meant that Job understood his relationship and his walk to the Lord was true. Here's Daniel in the book of the captive in Babylon. Then said these men. We shall not find any occasion against Daniel except we find him against him concerning the law of his God. They hated Daniel. They wanted to find out something that they could get rid of him because of the favor that was given to him by the king. The favor that was given to him in the whole land, we've got to find something. There has to be something. And no doubt there were spies everywhere watching us every step. And the bottom line, he says, we can't find anything. Except if the law with his God conflicts with the law of the nation. And that's what they did. You know, that was how they found it out. Remember in our study of Joseph, the tremendous struggles that Joseph faced. And in the light of the situations of the things that he went through, he stood In truth, not only to his brothers, not only in Potiphar's house, not only in prison Not only in the halls of Pharaoh, but everything in his life, nobody could come along and point a finger, except the bony finger of that wife, and that was all crooked anyways, you know. Potiphar his wife, nothing could be found within Joseph's life. He lived blameless. Did he live sinless? No. But his life was honoring God as honorable as all could be. And I think you could say that in the halls of Pharaoh's uh palaces murmuring and complaining and grumbling and arguing were not heard from the lips of Joseph. Just never happened So here's the Apostle Paul and Silas. We went back to as we opened up this study within the book of Acts. And we find the two of them arrested unjustly, and they were beaten, they were hauled off, thrown in prison. They were put in stocks. They were left for uh just for for whatever, and that was all unjustly. All things being equal, I think they had a right to complain and murmur. Didn't deserve it. As a Roman citizen, Paul didn't deserve it Um uh and all this was done in he could have said, listen, guys, here in the prison, you know, I'm I I I'm unjustly all of these things occurred. I really I could have shared all of this to my fellow prisoners. They would have sympathized with me. They could have been yelling out for all of the injustice that was committed to him And yet when it was done, what? Not a finger was pointed. Not a finger could be complained about. They turned every prisoner and every guard Roman to what he said. Their testimony was as powerful as they prayed and sang praises unto God. Paul projected in his most difficult time a confidence and an assurance in the one who had put him in this situation. I don't know what we have done. I don't know in the tragedies of our lives, of all of the situations that we've come across If there were not thoughts in words and expressions of anger because of an injustice or injustices that were committed unto us. Yet he projected joy and confidence and assurance that God was in control of all things, and he found reason to be thankful for such. You've got to be kidding me. Holding forth the word of life. This is what Paul writes. This is exactly what Paul did. This is exactly what Silas did. Where things were hard, we held forth the word of life. Salvation. And what did it result in? Here's the jailer, and he's coming, he's ready to take his own life because prisoners that were under his charge escaped. Except for? Paul and Silas. And he was ready and Paul said, Hey, wait a minute, don't do yourself harm. Why are you here? Let me tell you. Let me tell you about this Jesus. I let me hold forth the word of life to you. Let me bring to you truth that may help you to understand things that are taking place. And he held such a light and such a dark place. That it was the salvation of not only Jailer, but his household, his family, and those who were no doubt servants within that household. If we don't do it though, if we don't hold forth the word of life, what will happen? Who will? How then shall they call upon him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? Who? Who will do it? I'm not a preacher It's not my job. That's our paid representative to preach the gospel. It's his job to be able to do that which I have listed here in the passages of the scriptures. He's supposed to preach, he's supposed to witness, he's supposed to distribute the tracts, or he's supposed to do those things, but surely it's not me. It's their job to bring light and darkness. And I don't preach. Never went to Bible school or seminary. I'm exempt from witnessing. But in reality, we all witness, don't we? We all witness. Witness is actually a terminology of display. It isn't vocal. It's a display. Th you were witness to something, an a uh a uh a a car accident or whatever, when somebody was crucified on a cross or beaten or thrown to the lines, they was witness. They were a witness to what Christ was and the things that they had done. Trouble is, sometimes we give a wrong kind of witness. If we don't say anything, if we don't do anything, God is insignificant and He's unimportant in my life. That's my witness. God means nothing really to me. I believe this m mom and I were talking about this person that we knew up in New York and And she's going through some very difficult situations. And we've kind of noticed that over the past year, even a couple of years, you know The church has just been kind of secondary for him. It just has been nothing whatsoever for her. And we're saying, you know She thinks that her job and she thinks all this other stuff is going to supply for her when in reality it's a testimony of her lack of faith Or the lack of the reality of Christ. God is insignificant in her life. And the one that she ought to be looking to, she's not. God is insignificant and unimportant in my life. We would never introduce ourselves to a neighbor like that, would we? We would go new folks in the neighborhood, you know, and they uh I I'm a Christian and I did this, but God is really insignificant is insignificant to me Really doesn't mean that much to me. They ask, where are you going on Sunday morning or on Wednesday? That's the actual testimony I'm giving them when in reality the life that I'm living, the testimony I display with my attitudes and actions. When others observe how I handle trials and tribulations, when they hear the language that I use, when they see how I treat others. That's the testimony that is being seen and said. That wasn't the testimony of the first century church They didn't have a building. They didn't have facilities. They no bus ministries, no track distributions. It was by how they lived. When they all left Jerusalem after Pentecost, there was a radius of a thousand miles out that all of them went out back to their natural homes. And the gospel spread. How? By standing and preaching and streaking? No, by how they lived. By how they lived. Neighbors are confused because they find no difference between the way I live and the way they live. What's your big difference? You know? We watch the same TV shows, we come to the same conclusions, we we agree on on certain political things, we do this and that, you know. There's there's really no difference. There's no, oh wow. What makes the difference in your life? There is none. Yet if Jesus Christ has redeemed us from sin, then we ought to shine. We ought to hold on to the life that's worth living, the life that is there. And be mindful of the things that we're doing. Now this past week There was NBC was the station. And they interviewed a girl who was a freshman at the University of Mississippi, or Mississippi State University of Mississippi, one of those two. And uh she had been accused on on the social media of having a relationship with her boyfriend's father. And all of a sudden she found that it went out to uh I don't know like um on X or some other whatever. It went out just everywhere. And then it got on ESPN And one of the commentators on there took it on from next up, didn't use her name, but everybody understood it, you know. And she says, I've been crushed by something that's absolutely not true They talk to the father, talk to boyfriend. None none of this is true. But all of a sudden, how how how a word uh indiscriminately tossed about without any consideration can destroy somebody's life We can say things amongst ourselves and we can get it out in that. But all of a sudden with with this this little device, you know, we can reach around the world in giving a testimony of my relationship to God or the lack thereof in just seconds, in just fractions of a seconds, and it can destroy lives. So murmuring and gossiping and all of these other things, they hold a powerful tool. This little light of mine. Teach the kids that little song. That little you know, I'm gonna let it shine. How's your light shining? How do you do? Obviously we failed miserably at at all of these areas, our our murmuring and our our uh grumblings and our our m various levels of of discontentment. But you know God is desirous to bring us to a place where He can use us in a powerful way. We have to go to him and say, Lord, help me to be mindful of my lips. Help me to be mindful of my heart. Help me to be mindful of the things that go in that's going to go out. What am I feeding on? What am I learning? What am I taking in? Because those are the things that are pretty soon I'm going to start spewing out and displaying. Paul had a very serious concern about this, and he talks about it later on, and we'll get into it next week. He says, you know, if you do the right things, this is to my testimony, to the glory of God. It pleases the Lord when these things have right. Soul searching, Lord, guard my lips, guard my heart. Cause me to live in such a way that's pleasing to you. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the kindness that uh uh Paul uh wrote to this church at Philippi, but also with a sense of urgency. He didn't write to embarrass anybody. He didn't write to call them out for things that they had done uh wrong, but he brought to them the uh the the truth of relationships and how those relationships within the body of Christ need to act in a world that knew you not Um they became a powerful church, a church that grew, a church that was known uh throughout the that region as a testimony for Jesus Christ. And I I believe Father that occurred because uh they personally addressed this matter and that which was tearing them apart became that which was healed, uh forgiveness was given, and uh the situation resolved. Uh may Father we uh bring our hearts to that understanding Allowing your spirit to teach us and to grow thereby in Christ's name. Amen