If you could this morning turn to Exodus chapter 11. The title of the message this morning is called The Preparation. This is God's message to the Israelites, and they're getting ready to leave. And the Lord said unto Moses, Yet will I bring one plague more upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt. Afterwards he will let you go hence. When he shall let you go, he shall surely thrust you out hence altogether. Speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man borrow of his neighbor, and every woman of her neighbor, jewels of silver and jewels of gold. And the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people. And Moses said, Thus saith the Lord, About midnight will I go out into the midst of Egypt. And all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die. From the firstborn of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his throne, even unto the firstborn of the maid servant that is behind the mill and all the firstborn of beasts. And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it any more. But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue, against man or beast, that ye may know how that the Lord doth put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel. And all these thy servants shall come down unto me and bow down themselves unto me, saying, Get thee out, and all the people that follow thee, and after that I will go out. And he went out from Pharaoh in a great anger. And the Lord said unto Moses, Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you, that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt. And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh, and the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart so that he would not let the children of Israel go out of his land. Our Heavenly Father, burn these words into our heart and cause us to learn what they mean. Lord, thou art a merciful God, but Thou art a God that will not be mocked. Thou wilt not be blasphemed, and thou wilt not be ever, as Jehovah Nesai, ever bordered, thou wilt never be disobeyed, and thou wilt always win in the beginning and in the end. I ask, Lord, that as we see these wonderful words and we see this humble servant faithfully following thee, Moses, I pray that we will be lifted up in our hearts to see thy mercy and thy salvation. And all these things we ask in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. You have to understand that with the other plagues These nine plagues are like on bulletproof form or bullet form, like in a note where there's like one, two, three, four, five, and all of a sudden the verses come together. I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that And the Lord tells Moses, I am going to show them these incredible, incredible plagues. And there's a reason for that We're now entering into the chapter that lays out and introduces the details that are set forward for the tenth and the final plague. It'll shake this nation up and it'll open the exit exit gates finally for Israel There's no doubt about it, no matter what the circumstances were, no matter how unlikely it would seem that the Israelites would ever be extracted out of this horrible uh uh enslavement. The Lord said they were coming out in four hundred years. They were ca they were coming out and and now the time has come. He says, I'll bring one more plague against them. And after that, he will let you go hence. So right now it doesn't look like that, does it? He says, the Lord says Pharaoh's heart is hardened. He's not going to let you go. But just watch me. Can you say that in your heart in the trials in your life? I'll just sit back and I'm going to watch what God has me to do And I'm going to wait on him. And I am going to pray. And I am going to wait and see what he does. Just like over and over and over again. Moses waited upon the Lord and he cried out. And the Lord opened up the Red Sea. The Lord brings them out of this horrible enslavement. Can we do that? Can we trust in the Lord with all of our hearts? I'll bring one more plague. Isn't it credible? What we've entangled in these incredible ten verses. Moses found favor in the sight of the Egyptians? Where did he get such blessing? God opened up every step of the way throughout all the plagues with Moses. And it signifies that he would not hide from Moses the things that he would do. He was very transparent about it because Moses was favored. You know something if you pray and the Lord answers your prayers, you're never going to experience that if you don't pray. You're going to see things, but it's not going to be like if you take your time and you just say, Lord, I need help with this You know, even when he doesn't give you what you want, you can still glorify him because you can say, I know it was of him, it was for me, he is refining me, he loves me, and he has answered me. And that's where you know you have favor in the sight of the Lord. There's nothing better than that. I promise you that. We see this humble elderly aged gentleman shepherd who shepherded his father-in-law's sheep, went through the wilderness, left Egypt. Left all the notoriety, he left all of the blessings, he left all of the absolute riches that he could have had, and he forsook all of them. To go out, and he worked, and here he is, and the Lord is using him in a great way. And God opens up this plan to Moses. And he allows Moses to proclaim this all throughout Israel. that he would bring this one more plague. This is the severest of them all. And this one, this last plague takes on. I don't know if you've ever noticed this or not, if you've studied this, I know you've heard about this. Incredible, incredible epic account. But I don't I don't know that you may have heard this or not or considered this. But the Lord opened this up to me and I started thinking, nine plagues, one plague. Think about it like that. You have to categorize it. Nine plagues over here and one plague over here. What's the difference? There's a massive difference between the first nine and this last one Why do you think there is a special chapter dedicated in the book of Exodus for the preparation? When all the other plagues were one after the other. You had the blood and the water, you had the flies, the frogs, the locusts, all these horrible things And now all of a sudden there's a pause button like a video, like the old VCRs. Remember the old Betamax, you know, they all you have all these buttons and then you hit the pause button because you want to get up and go get a you know get a bowl of nachos or something, you want to finish your movie, you hit the pause button. That's what happens here. All of a sudden everything's one after the other. Now there's 10 verses to separate chapters 10 and chapter 12. Think of the significance of this last plague. The severest of them all, we just read in Psalm chapter 78, verse 51, and smote all the firstborn in Egypt, the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham. Here Moses relates that this narrative that the Lord gives him. He says, the Lord, he puts, Moses here, what I love, is in all of this that he's done thus far. You know, Moses could have had one massive ministry by basically telling the people and having all these people focus their attention on him and saying, Oh, I was there. I was the one that put my hand in my coat and it became leprous and I took it back out and it was healed. God had something to do with it, but I was the pastor. I did it Uh how about all the other men of the plagues? I'm the one that held the staff over the river and it became red. He could have done all of that and really built himself up and had quite a prosperity message saying, oh, if I could have made these plagues come and I can take you out of Israel, well God had something to do with it. Boy, you should follow me. Doesn't that sound familiar about some pastors today that love to take all the credit for themselves? Not Moses. This is what I love the most about this. Look at this. Moses related to this narrative how it was all of the Lord. And that thus saith the Lord over and over and over again, we hear in Moses' ministry. He puts no self-conceived confidence upon himself, but he narrates how it all was of God. It was God that had already informed Moses that all the plagues would be fulfilled. And you see that manifested in Moses' song. I don't believe that Moses' song is confined to Psalm ninety. I believe if you go to ninety-one, very much alike The literary style and the love for God is right there in both chapters. Look at Psalm 90, verse 1. And this is called Moses' Psalm. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God Thou turnest man to destruction, and saith, Return, ye children of men. I love how Moses pronounces with great jubilation. He shows reverence and praise And all of the triumphs, trials, miracles, and directions of God were of him, through him, and to him. But there was no time for him declaring this as a self-venerating existence. It was no time for Moses to speak about himself. Why? As we learn today in the adult Sunday School class, what I believe is Moses in his process of sanctification, because of the way he treated his people and the way he loved them, he even defended them against God. Many times he went to the Lord God Almighty. Remember that uh remember the incident with the golden calves? The Lord was going to destroy them all, and Moses cries out Lord, please repent of this. Don't kill them all. He loved them, and he was showing the fruits of the Spirit because he loved his neighbor. He loved his people. And he loved he loved to he loved to be their pastor. The Song of Moses, this is what it would have never been called. My purpose-driven life, the power of I am, your best life now, or become a better you. So we have a little Rick Warren and Joel Alstein, a little bit of a memorial for them there. If you'd never heard that out of him, how pathetic. We see that we see that this chapter 10 shows that Pharaoh would be furious and once again he would be hardened. Ask a lot of questions, but I want you to leave here and do not ask this question. Why bother? Don't please don't ever ask that question. If you have any faith in God at all, which I'm sure everyone here does, has a wonderful degree, don't ever ask the question, why bother? Why bother go through all of this when already says over and over and over again, repetitively God hardened his heart. Well, if he has hardened his heart, why bother? Because God said to bother. He said to do that, and that's the problem I think a lot of people have today Is Christ shed his blood, he it covers all of sins, why do I have to worry what I do? And he's already fulfilled. If he chooses, then why do I even have to go spread the gospel into all the world? Matthew twenty eight, I think it's twenty six twenty chapter twenty verse twenty-eight. Because he says to. Don't ask that question. You don't know what God knows. You don't know what he thinks. You don't know what his plan and his will is. All I know is what we need to do is listen to him. And it's because Moses listened to him, we need to listen to him Pharaoh, whose heart was hardened for letting to to for not letting God's people go, when the Lord says, Let my people go so that they can worship me He would now not only let the Israelites leave, but would be he Pharaoh eventually would be zealous or anxious to get rid of them. He would want them enslaved under his thumb again, but the next minute he would want them out of there, out of this country. But you know what's incredible when you see what the Lord says? We see here, we just looked at verse 1, the opening of this. and how afterwards he will let you go hence, when he shall let you go. Verse 2, he says, speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man borrow his neighbor Then on verse 3, he says that Moses and the people had favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Where did that come from? We see all these plagues. And right now, before I even before I go forward, look at what the nine plagues are over here and what this plague is over here. The first nine plagues, you might think to yourself Boy, that's a horrible god. All of a sudden the people woke up and their river was filled with blood. All of a sudden they're alice, they're flies, there's frogs, there's horrible weather, there's all kinds of moraine. I love the word moraine on the cattle. All of that. He's of all he's such a nasty God Did you ever remember reading any of the passage in reading of a funeral in the first nine? Nobody died. Look how merciful that he is to the people that hated his people. He never even killed any of them. Now if they'd have died along the way, somebody might have had a heart attack or somebody might have had food by I don't know. But they didn't die by the plagues The first nine people were spared, which tells me the first nine plagues were warning signs. And they were nine opportunities for the people of Egypt to reach out and to do exactly what Moses had said in Deuteronomy 18, 15. Matthew read that Wednesday night, we were talking about that. He said there will be a prophet among you, and among him you will hearken unto him. Who is he talking about? You think he was talking about one of the prophets? Or son? He was talking about the event of Jesus Christ. That's what he was talking about. And here we see here the faithfulness of Moses. And so the people have found favor. But you see, nine plagues were warning signs. They were leading up to the big one. And had they listened to the first plague and said, oh boy, what a disgusting sight Reminds me of the story of going down, I remember when we were kids, we would be taken down, and I remember there was certain times of the year I'll never forget it. We would go down seven, eight, nine years old, and there were certain times of the year, it would be the worst times to go to Back River. And it would be filled with dead fish and all this trash and stuff would come in before they'd clear it out. And you would go down and you would see bloody fish on the s on the on the uh on the shore and you would see dead catfish. I remember dead perching it. We'd have to bury them and clean them. Oh stuck so bad. And that is nothing compared to what happened. It's not much better today But it's I'm telling you, I can't imagine what it would have been like to look into this great big susquin say, say you were at the Susquehanna River and the dam was going, it was all blood Can you imagine what that would smell like and how disgusting that was? You would think that the first plague would straighten them all up and Pharaoh would like, I'm done. He's right. God is right. He's good. I will worship him. Let's all get this. Moses, you are now second in command like Joseph, and you do it. No. He had so brickheaded and so stubborn was he, nine plagues, and they were all warning signs. And every single one of those plagues I think that what the Lord was teaching them and Moses was, listen, don't go to the tenth one. Whatever you do. You don't want to make it to that one But if you are going to fight God, you fight you fought the law, the law won. It always does. And the Lord God Almighty is going to win this one. And so here's the preparation. And it's so incredibly important that this chapter is taken out to show and give an illusion or like a prophecy on what the Israelites, the way that they are to prepare this. The Lord doesn't tell them. The Lord doesn't stand there and say, well, perhaps I'll do this. You better be careful. I don't know what's going to happen. No. He says, you take these steps, and what I give the cue, you're out of there. You want to know what that is for the Christian? Where do you think this fits into your life? Fits into your life you're emancipated from the enslavement of this world when you die and you're out of here like Pastor Coleman preached at Granny's funeral several weeks ago. And he says only Christianity looks forward to death when everybody else is scared to death of it. That is our emancipation. And we're we're with Christ Here God commands Moses to speak now in the ears of the people. Tell them that this covenant of Abraham is now coming to fruition. You will leave, you will depart, you will depart safely, and you will not leave empty-handed. Look at this. This is incredible Go back to Genesis fifteen, fourteen first, and also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterwards shall they come out with great substance. If you go m if you go if you move forward to chapter 12 and verse 35 and 36, look what it says there. Then that's that's uh Exodus 12, 35 and 36. And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses, and they borrowed of the Egyptians of silver and jewels of gold and raiment, and the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. So they they lent unto them such things as they required, and they spoiled the Egyptians. What does that mean? They borrowed it. Does it mean that they gave a down payment and they had a rental agreement and they took their jewels and they had to pay a they had to pay like a uh insurance fee for the rental and that they would take the stuff out and then they would give it back later on and all that But verse three says, And the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great. But he says, back in verse two, he says Speak now in the ears of the people and let every man borrow of his neighbor. Well, we have to read verse 3 to see verse 2 because it took the Lord to change their hearts to give them favor And there were people among them, Egyptians, that took care of the Israelites. The Lord put them, has that ever failed in the midst of such horrifying circumstances you think of like Corey Tenbu And hell and cow and our missionaries, so many situations where the Lord puts people in their lives to help them and to be and to watch over them. It's so incredible. And there were Egyptian neighbors that loved them And it says when they borrowed borrowed of them the jewels, you see the English translation of the word borrow implies that these possessions would only be taken and eventually returned. But that's not what it means. How would God allow this? Well the great theologian Arthur Pink pronounced the ethical objection placed on this translation by the enemies of God feed off of this So what does Borr really translate in this verse? We're not supposed to take it in that translation if they had to get it back. That's what he meant. Well, here's a couple words that I'll throw at you here And I'm not even guaranteeing that I'm going to get through all ten verses today. This might be a two-part series, which would be fine. But we see here the Hebrew word Shaol appears 160 eight times in the Old Testament in the Hebrew, and this is the Hebrew word for borrow. It's 162 times it is translating And when in 162 times it means to ask, debate, but it means to require. That's what it means. The Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, or the word AIS, EATES, which means ask. Or the Latin version is postolabit, or it means to ask or request. But in the German translation later it reads Fordoorn, or it means to demand. That's where we're going with this. The Lord demanded of this, and they were able to take the jewels and all of the all of this bounty with them. And that's how much the Lord thought of them. It's quite obvious is the fact that the Egyptians gave the Israelites these gifts. Why? In verse 3, you see a divine intervention in the hearts of the Egyptian servants and all the people. It was a respect for Moses and a compassion. for the Israelite people. And in verse 3 it shows that the Lord gave people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and that Moses was great in the sight of the servants and the people. We see that the Lord gave the Israelites favor in the sight of the Egyptians. It's a fulfillment of the promise made by God from the burning bush in chapter 3, verse 21, going back in Exodus. And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it shall come to pass that when ye go, ye shall not go empty. You know, if you exhibit the fruits of the Spirit and you have a Christ-like attitude, you will find favor in other people. It may not be apparent immediately, but eventually, it's amazing how when people know that you're close to Christ, they will come to you and they will ask for help. Please pray for me. Can you please pray with me? I think a good habit is when somebody's on the phone with you and they're hurting and they say, Will you pray for me? It's it also almost becomes like a generic four-letter word. Alright, I'll pray. I'll pray, you pray, we'll all pray, everybody prays. No, stop them on the phone and pray with them in the name of Christ right there. Get it done. And I will open you up with opportunities, perhaps, to help them. Pray. And I can imagine that all throughout Egypt, Moses, when Pharaoh was such an absolute domineering Pre-Hitler, Hitler, and he was so wicked and he would have all of these executions. How can you have compassion for people that would have public executions for innocent people? He did that. That was part of their culture And how can you have that? Then all of a sudden Moses comes along, he never hurt one person. Except the Egyptian that was beaten to death a Hebrew, which I had no problem with. I think that's perfectly justified what he did. Some pastors will say, oh no, it wasn't he was supposed he was he was wrong. No. Nowhere in scripture does that call out a murder. That's self-defense, what he did. But you can imagine that Moses, when he saw those people Well can consider how he walked up to the front and he would stand face to face to Pharaoh with all the grandeur, the great big gold statues, and all the garb and the hats and all the stuff, and there was little old Shepherd Moses. Goes on up, he's in his 80s with his staff and then air, and they go up there. Let my people go. Can you imagine what Pharaoh was thinking? I'll break you. I will break you in half. But I can imagine on the way out, Moses would talk to them and say, so-and-so, I heard the Egyptians, I heard that your mother's sick. I've been praying for you. And I bet so maybe there was a little baby that maybe or or a little child that maybe had a had a crook or something like that and they couldn't walk. And he would go up and pray for them. And he would tell them that he loved them and he prayed for them. That's the kind of spirit, I'm just saying perhaps, you know, I think dare to dream. And and that's the kind of personality that Moses had. And all of a sudden that kind of resonated through some of the other people when he would teach them. And then all of a sudden they saw this compassion that they didn't see in Pharaoh and all those wicked Ramsey, Pharaoh, wicked, wicked people And he had, they found favor. And the Lord, that wasn't something overnight, all right, they have favor in your sight. I'm just going to put the switch on. No, I think it was a progression. I believe that he earned that and they loved him. And I believe that's what this is all about. And they were like, if you guys are going to go out in the middle of nowhere, we're going to give you our jewels. We can't do nothing with them anyway. We're enslaved also. Basically the people were as well unless you were higher up on some legal, very high legal level. And they gave it to them. And they didn't borrow it. They took it. They didn't steal it. They certainly didn't steal it And the Lord gave people, the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. It's a perfect manifestation of God's sovereignty. This was a natural point of view by all rights because the Lord said it. That the Egyptian people had every right to hate the Israelites, but many of them loved them. The Lord says that here. Initially the Egyptian people hated Hebrews, especially Hebrew shepherds. Look at Genesis 46, verse 34. That ye shall say, thy servants, tr Trade hath been about cattle from our use even until now, but both we and also our fathers, that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians Now this is the second person that has found favor in the sight of the Egyptians that hated these Hebrew shepherds. Who was the first one? Remember Joseph? Become second in command over all of what? Egypt. And that was a Pharaoh that knew Joseph. Now we have a Pharaoh that knew not Joseph And now here we see Moses. We see Moses finds favor in the sight of the Egyptian people, but not Pharaoh. Think of Joseph, how he received favor in the sight of Potiphar, Potiphar, Potifar. Genesis chapter 39, verse 3, we read, and his master saw that the Lord was with him. And the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him, and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had put into his hand. Can you imagine if another Bible was written from this era and your name was in it, and you could find out somehow that your name was in it and it said and the Lord found favor with so-and-so or this or that? Wouldn't that be wonderful? Wouldn't that be wonderful to know that your name is in that Bible and that it was found favor with God? That's Moses. I know that's not possible. Of course we can't abrogate or change one word of the Bible, but I'm just saying Wouldn't it be wonderful like Job said, Oh, if the words that I had were put in a book and people have been reading them now for over three thousand years, how little did he know? See, Potiphar was a high-ranking governor. He appointed Joseph to be overseer of the house. What about Joseph and the prison keeper? Genesis thirty nine, verse twenty one But the Lord was with Joseph, and showed him mercy, and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And Joseph then became overseer of the prison when he was wrongly accused. How about Daniel, chapter 1, verse 9? Now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the Prince of the Eunuchs. That was a high position. They the the the the king had had he had elevated this he had elevated this this particular sect of people. to lift them up and to be in command. And Daniel had favor with all the presidents until there were some bad ones and turned on him. And the Lord still had favor. Because when they turned on him, guess what didn't turn on him? The lions. The lions never turned on him. Well, King Nebuchadnezzar had appointed the master of the eunuchs, Asphanaz, to find men of Israel. children in whom was no blemish, but well favoured, and skilful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge, and understanding science, and such had ability in them to stand in the king's palace and whom they might teach the learning in the tongue of the Chaldeans, and that was Daniel. Think of Shadrach, Meshach, and Nebednego. They were the chosen of Israel by the king. You know, we see as Christians We are to pray that the Lord would have others find favor in us by exemplifying and having an incredible example of Christ. And even though Daniel was favored, he would not defile himself with king's meat or wine. We might find favor with from the world at times, but we are not to get proud and thus be melding with them. We see years ago that a there was a lawsuit that sought to extend gay couples the same legal protections as married couples, saying in this in the decision that the judge could grant benefits partly because of the state's voters approved constitutional definition of marriage as between a man and a woman And they were also calling it a man and a man and a woman and a woman and was asking the church to find favor in their sight and to allow it. This was not just legislation for the General Assembly. It was to ask churches to also to become very, very compassionate towards that. Many did. We're not to be able to do, we're not to do that. So we see here, where was Moses? Where had Moses been? He was still in the court during the three days of the plagues of darkness, and Pharaoh would not have been able to see Moses right up front and Aaron because of the darkness. But all of a sudden we see now the Lord says unto Moses, he turns the lights on, engaged in the conversation, and gives further proof. And it says that he went out from Pharaoh in a great anger. See, this is the first time since before the plague of darkness. We read that Moses went out from Pharaoh. This is also the last time Pharaoh would ever see the palace. Why was he angry? You don't see that a whole lot with Moses. He certainly maintained his self-control very well for a while I would imagine he came out of there, he was so sick and tired of what Pharaoh was putting those people through And now Moses is angry because he explains and he sees and he knows what's going to happen and all of a sudden The all but they're all of nine plagues that were all warning signs. They were all messages to tell the people to wake up. Pharaoh comes back, he takes the unilateral position and says, no, I'm not going to do it My heart is hardened. Basically, he didn't know that because the Lord had hardened his heart, but he says, I will go down swinging. And Moses says, You haven't seen anything yet. You haven't even begun to see what a plague could be He would now leave for the final time until he pronounced the deliverance of his final destruction here. We see here in verse 5, all the firstborn in the land of Egypt will die. From the firstborn of Pharaoh, that's the firstborn of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his throne, even to the firstborn of the maid servant that is behind the mill, and all the firstborn of the beast, and now we're seeing death The tenth plague is basically a future representation of what is going to come down, and it holds two major doctrinal references. Number one The wrath and the destruction of God for disobedience. And number two, there the blood will be very evident for the Passover sacrifice. Now we're going to start seeing basically this is a plague of worship. This is a plague demanding That the people understand what the blood representation means. Now we know that there were sacrifices. We know that poor Isaac himself found that out the hard way when he was almost the sacrificial lamb and he was almost quartered and bled out on the altar of obedience. And we know that the Lord spared him with the ram and he was brought in He was and that and the little ram was brought in and was the substitute for poor Isaac. But we don't see the form of worship here. Until now. Now the Lord's going to bring this together and have Moses lay this out. And that's what chapter 11 here is all about. He starts telling what's going to happen. We see greater detail will be given this plague concerning this tenth plague. God is going after the firstborn of Egypt. You know how the first nine plagues were all very evident? Plagues that were given and they manifested the idolatry Of the Egyptians and even the Israelites were forced into also being part of that worship. Remember how we talked about each one of the plagues and how the river was filled with blood And the river was worshipped. Frogs were worshipped. The weather was worshipped. The lice, the flies. They worshiped everything but the true and living God. Now look what happens here. What had happened? What had infuriated God to no end? They took the firstborn males of the Israelites and threw them into the crocodile infested Nile River And now God is going after all the firstborn of Egypt. Less judgments have been imposed on the stiff-necked Egyptians until this plague. Had Egypt adhered to the words of the Lord earlier, they would have only lost cattle and maybe some comforts. But this is really going to be horrible. There's going to be a weeping and a wailing all throughout the land. And we see how God's mercy is evident. as he gave Egypt chance after chance after chance. And that also is an incredible lesson on the mercy that the Lord gives us because the Lord says he teaches us, seek the Lord while he may be found. And listen to me. And you know what happens? People are told over and over and over and over and over again, and they systematically reject Christ. Over and over again. And here the Lord gives mercy and gives them chance after chance after chance. And Pharaoh remained hardened. Now the firstborn would be taken. And we can see how this is going to be a very horrible event. The firstborn held a particularly important position. They would inherit a double portion of the father's State going all the way back. In Genesis forty nine three, it lays out the importance of the firstborn given by Jacob. Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength The excellency of dignity and the excellency of power. So what would happen to Pharaoh's firstborn son if something would happen to him? He's the heir to the throne. He's the future of Egypt. And the Lord says no. And this plague would not discriminate. It would hit all classes of people, from even Pharaoh's son to the firstborn of the maidservant who was behind the mill. A very lowly job where corn was ground by Egyptian slaves or prisoner prisoners. Even the firstborn beast would be killed. There shall be a great cry through all the land of Egypt in verse six, such as there was never none like it, nor shall be like it in any more. But there's that apostolic Wherefore? But in verse seven, once again, against any of thy children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue against man or beast That ye may know how that the Lord does put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel. Today we have a little bit of a different representation of dogs. They're more pedigree. They're trainable. They've come a little bit of a long way since the dogs back in the Old Testament. Dogs back in the Old Testament were flat-out ravenous scavengers. They were basically rats running around with big long legs. They were dangerous. They would bite. They would kill. And you had no idea what type of dog it was. It could be a wolf. It could be a fox. It could be all kinds of different parts of that uh parts parts of that um Of whatever dogs are. And all of a sudden it says, the Lord says, I'll shut the mouths. You know what that tells me? There was a real problem with dogs. They were very dangerous. And all of a sudden you won't even hear him bark. It's going to be so quiet, you won't even hear a bark of a dog. And then he says, not one, basically he's saying, it doesn't say here exactly in the verse of what he's saying, not one hair on the Israelite's head is going to be touched. That's what and and he promises that. Verse 7 But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue against man or beast, that ye may know how that the Lord doth put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel. There will be a great cry throughout the land of Egypt, so horrible that there has never been anything like it before, even from the first nine plagues. Or it never will be in the future. What does that remind you of? It didn't happen too long before that. We know what the rainbow actually was over the throne of God. I will never destroy the earth by water again. But here's another prophecy. This is going to be so horrible. It never has in Egypt and never will be, and in all the centuries we have never seen anything like this and heard of it in Egypt ever since then This is how bad it was that night. It was a very horrible time. A reminder of the solemn words that were written by Paul the Apostle in Romans chapter 11, verse 22. He said Behold, therefore, the goodness and severity of God on them which fell, severity but toward thee. Goodness, if thou continue in his goodness otherwise, thou also shall be cut off. Here's an incredible comment by John Calvin. I'd like to read that this morning, so we'll get ready to finish up here in a minute. And these are the very words of the great reformer professor and theologian, Pastor John Calvin. about verses six and seven. He says, By bringing the children and beasts to punishment, he certainly represented clearly to the wicked despisers of his power what they had deserved. The firstborn of Pharaoh would have been heir of the kingdom and placed in the first rank of victims. Afterwards the whole body of humbler people is mentioned for the maidservants who turned their revolving mills occupied a very low and despised condition, as appears not only from the ancient poets, but from the testimony of Scripture itself. 1 Samuel 816 Pastor Calvin writes, and he will he quotes, and he will take your men's servants and your maidservants and your goodliest young men and your asses and put them to his work And he goes on to say, if anyone chooses to observe the analogy between this plague and the unjust tyranny by which the Egyptians had afflicted Israel, God's firstborn son, I make no objection. God again puts a difference between the Egyptians and his own people when he declares that in the midst of the great cry the latter shall be quiet and tranquil. For this is the meaning of the figure. A dog shall not move his tongue, because dogs are wont to bark at the very least noise in the night Moreover, although such a separation between the faithful and unbelievers does not always appear, but rather do similar punishments generally involve them both together Yet in the final issue God divides them very widely one from another, wherefore we can never lose this felicity that we know that all afflictions conspire unto the salvation of us whom he has once embraced with with his loving kindness. And we see here that Calvin is talking exactly about the wonderful blessing and the wonderful care that he gives to his people that in the midst of such a hard, hard situation, he protects the Israelites again. Remember during the plagues, not one of their cattle was touched Remember in the darkness, they had light. They could see, they were protected. They could see all the hard things going on around them with the locusts. They were protected. that didn't fly on the Israelites, it didn't swarm all of them or their cattle. All of these things the Lord protected his people. And so we see this, he has absolute reign over all of creation. And he has every bit of it perfectly in view. We have three more verses to go, and I think I'll save that because if I get started, you may win we might be here until about two o'clock. This is a lead-in to the tenth plague, and when we get into chapter 12, we're going to see an awful lot going on with the covenants that the Lord had made with Abraham and He had made with His prophets. And actually what happens when Christ comes in, and what happens is he sheds his blood. The Passover required the blood on the lentil of the doors. For without the shedding of blood there is no remissions of sins. And this is what our Savior does for us. Let's finish with this, and then when Lord Lord will and we'll be able to pick up where we left off next time. Our Lord and our God, we thank Thee and praise Thee, Lord, for the faithfulness, Lord, of thy commandments. We thank thee that thou hast shown us these incredible prophecies and that every single one of them came true perfectly. We know that thou art ex Extremely perfectly talked about all throughout the New Testament in thy deliverance over the people and brought the Israelites out of Egypt. And we thank thee so much, Lord, for thy care for them. I pray that it will encourage us to know that in the midst of such horrible trials with Moses and Aaron and the Israelite people That Lord, thou took care of them, took care of thy people, when they trusted in thee, and I'll put it in their hearts and showed them what they would do. And I pray that thou wilt put it in our hearts to trust in the Lord with all our hearts and lean not unto our own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. And this we ask in the name of Jesus Christ, that not our will, but thy will be done, we pray. Amen.