Oh, but I'm very Okay, so uh one other thing is I'm not really speaking on Memorial Day this morning, but I want to say a little bit about it. Of course, Memorial Day, remember those that gave their all, those that gave sacrifices to give us our freedom, those from the military. And they had a news story this past week about the wreckage of a U. S. Navy submarine that sank the most Japanese warships during World War II had been found over near the Philippines It was the USS Harder. I guess Harder was a name of somebody. Anyway, it was sunk along with its crew of 79 men who went down to the bottom of the sea. 79 Americans died on that. And they f finally found the uh destroyer. Well you know that destroyer I mean that submarine. It was involved in a big battle, in fact, probably the I think it's called the biggest bat naval battle in history the Battle of the Philippine Sea, uh there when MacArthur went back into the Philippines. And anyway, uh uh this submarine went down, but not before it sank three enemy destroyers. But it was interesting the comment that this head of the Navy's History and Heritage Command had on this, and it just fits in with Memorial Day. It says harder was lost in the course of victory. The United States won that battle, very much so. But you know, the United States won that battle by the providence of God Because if you study that battle, the Japanese had a huge fleet coming in, and we didn't have the people at the right place at the right time there So the big fleet was coming in, and all there was to oppose the Japanese uh big fleet with battleships and everything, uh were a few destroyers and a couple of jeep carriers And so these smaller ships fought off the fleet for a short time. But then at the crucial moment When the Japanese had gotten through the obstacles, were ready to go in and really wreak havoc, the commander of the Japanese fleet all of a sudden got an idea in his head of fear. and he thought American planes would come in, and he pulled out his fleet and left. And the Lord gave the victory there by the providence of God. just by working in the mind of that Japanese commander. But anyway, this submarine that was lost in the course of victory. And then this guy says, we must not forget that victory has a price, as does freedom. And that was a price that was paid. Those 79 people on that submarine died. The motto of their submarine, named the Harder, was hit them harder. And the captain of the submarine got the Medal of Honor, and the others got rewards posthumously. But anyway, praise the Lord for all the sacrifices down through the history of our country, and we're we have Memorial Day to remember that. Of course I preach on um uh the history and the politics and uh things uh quite often. Today we're not gonna do that exactly. But we're gonna look at the history of Israel. Let's go back to 2 Kings. 2 Kings chapter 17. And here we have the epitaph of the northern kingdom of Israel. You remember. Keep remembering that this is at the time of the divided kingdom. There's Israel in the north and Judah in the south. And the kingdom in the north, Israel, has just fallen. And we're going to see this epitaph upon the northern kingdom of Israel. First verse pick up with uh second Kings chapter seventeen and verse six. It says, In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria took Samaria and carried Israel away into Assyria and placed them in Halah and Habor by the river of Gozan and in the cities of the Medes. So here Israel has been carried off into captivity. Why were they carried off into captivity? They were God's chosen people of Israel. But God judged them because of their sin. And here we have their epitaph, and we have a whole list of charges against Israel. And there is at least 16 different charges here that we'll look through here against Israel. And we have verse 7. For so it was, so it was with the captivity, so it was at that point that the children of Israel had sinned against the Lord their God Which had brought them up out of the land of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and had feared other gods. Well, today we have Memorial Day. And they were supposed to remember as well. Memorial Day has to do with remembering. We remember the sacrifices of people in history, in the past, what they have done. And they were supposed to remember here in Israel what God had done for them. He had brought them up out of the land of Egypt with a strong arm, with the ten plagues. And they were supposed to remember that, but they had feared other gods. That's number one. Number one charge. Feared other gods. Verse number eight, and walked in the statutes of the heathen whom the Lord cast out before the children of Israel in the And they were supposed to remember as well that the Lord had cast out the people in Israel, the Canaanites, from before them God had given them a great victory with Joshua as well, with Moses and with Joshua. They were supposed to remember that. Remember that history. That history was from 700 years before. But they were supposed to remember it. But they forgot it and they walked in the statutes of the heathen. They did the same things that the Canaanites did. The very same things. Charge number two. Verse 9. And the children of Israel did secretly those things which were not right. In secret they did things. That's the third thing they did. The third charge. And then verse 9 as well. And they built them high places in all their cities. The fourth thing that they did, they built high places. They were supposed to worship in Jerusalem. Only in Jerusalem. But they made all these other places of worship on the high places, on the hills. And that was a sin in the sight of the Lord. And they kept on doing that over and over and over again. The history of the Northern Kingdom, the life of the Northern Kingdom was 200 years. It had been 200 years since the division of the kingdom And here they were finally come to the end of the rope. God's long suffering had come to an end. So the fourth charge against them, they had high places. Then you go to verse 10. And they set them up images and groves in every high hill and under every green tree. Here's fifth and sixth charges. They set up images. They set up idols. And they set up groves of trees for their worships. Of these false gods. And so six charges right here against Israel. Then skip down to verse 13. Yet the Lord testified against Israel and against Judah by all the prophets and by all the seers, saying, Turn ye from your evil ways and keep my commandments and my statutes. Well, God sent the prophets, and they ignored the prophets. Do you remember what I say a pro what I have said a prophet is? A prophet is somebody who tells people what they don't want to hear. That's what he does And it's not a very pleasant job really. When you tell somebody what they don't want to hear, what kind of reaction you're going to get Not a very good reaction. The prophets got that. But God sent the prophets to them, and they rejected the prophets. That was The seventh thing against them. The eighth thing, the prophets said, keep the commandments of God, but they didn't keep the commandments of God. They ignored the commandments of God, this epitaph of Israel. And then number nine, verse 14, notwithstanding they would not hear, but hardened their necks like the neck of their fathers. Here is the ninth charge against them. They hardened their necks. What that means is when God wanted to turn their head They hardened their neck so that head just would not turn. They didn't want to turn the way God wanted them to turn And then you go on down here to verse 15. And they rejected his statutes and his covenant which he made with their fathers. Number 10 charge against them. They rejected the statutes and the covenant. What have we done in America today? We have Gay Pride Month. What that says we're proud of abominations. We're proud of these sins. Gay pride. We're not only in these sins, but we're proud of it. And it's very sad. And that's what they had back in Israel back in these days as well. And then God testified against them. We come to the 11th charge against them. They followed vanity. There in verse 15. Well, they followed vanity. Do people follow vanity today? Lots of it. And they follow psychology. They follow science, falsely so-called. You know, they talk about following the science. Most of it's false. They talk about. And it's been coming out lately about what the true story was with Fosse and with uh Wuhan and all those things. So the thing is, we have, they followed vanity, and we're still doing it today. He charges the epitaph of Israel. Then go down to verse 16. And they left all the commandments of the Lord their God and made them molten images, even two calves. Well, they set up these images of Dan up in the north, Bethel in the south, and they had that for their gods there in the northern kingdom. They went to these golden calves. And they kept those golden calves going and that worship going for 200 years. God put up with it for 200 years. How old is America today? Well America is actually I was thinking about it. America is coming up on two hundred and fifty Because in 2026 will be two th 250 years since uh 1776. But we haven't been around that long. Israel was around 200 years And they finally came to the end. And America, if it keeps having Gay Pride Month, what's going to happen to America? Well, we know what's going to happen to it. Then we go on here. Verse 16. And they made a grove and worshipped all the host of heaven. What's the host of heaven? That host of heaven is the 13th charge. What's the host of heaven? Well, you look up in the heaven, what's up in the heaven? The constellations. Do you ever hear of astrology? There are people that worship with that. They got to know what the forecast is for their sign for today. What's good for Leo today? What's bad for Leo today? Whatever Well, back in these days they worshiped the host of heaven also, and served Baal. And then we go on. Verse 17, and here is especially applicable to the U. S. today, and they made cause their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire. Well, we're causing our sons and daughters to pass through the fire of abortion today. And uh it's like fire. You know, they have their salt abortions that burn up the babies, it's terrible. And they did it on the altars of false gods. We do it today on the altar of convenience. convenience. They cause their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire. That's the fifteenth charge. And then finally the sixteenth charge, verse 17, they use divination and enchantment. Well, what did my neighbor across the street with their metaphysical store, their grounded soul? They promised spells with their candles. What's that? That's enchantments, divination. Praise the Lord, they're gone now. But anyway, we have all those charges, the epitaph of Israel, and what do we have, verse 18? Therefore. Therefore, because all those things that Israel did, therefore the Lord was very angry. His patience was at an end. And he removed them out of his sight. There was none left but the tribe of Judah only. You know, that wasn't a very pleasant thing, being carried off into captivity. And the Assyrians were not very nice people And they had the habit when they carried people off into captivity that they'd drag them with fish hooks and put fish hooks in their skin and drag them along. They were not nice at all. And that's what happened to the northern kingdom for all these sins that they had sinned. And my dad used to say that God plays hardball. He doesn't play softball. And that's true. That's what he did with Israel here. Therefore, he judged them. And then verse 19, going on, let's read a little bit more. Also, Judah kept not the commandments of the Lord their God, but walked in the statutes of Israel. Which they made. And the Lord rejected all the seed of Israel and afflicted them and delivered them into the hand of spoilers until he had cast them out of his sight. And he sent rent Israel from the house of David, and they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king, and Jeroboam drew Israel. from following the Lord and made them a sin, a great sin, for the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam, which he did. They departed not from them. Until, verse 23, until the Lord removed Israel out of his sight, as he had said by all his servants the prophets, So was Israel carried away out of their own land to Assyria unto this day. Well, Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the originator of those golden calves, he had set them up two hundred years before. And they had worshiped them for 200 years. They never departed from them. And you know, those sins were accepted. They were what everybody did, what everybody had always done. And therefore it must have been good because everybody was doing it and everybody had always done it. Well, it still wasn't good, even though everybody was doing it. Just because everybody does things doesn't make it right. Just because all the churches do things one way doesn't make it right. Just because all the crowds go to those churches doesn't make it right. Well, here they send the great sin, even though they had all been doing it. Until verse 23, the Lord removed him out of his sight. And then it says, unto this day. The guy who was writing this He said they were still gone. And then we go on to verse 24. Verse 24. Now we're going to find out about what happened in the land after Israel was carried off. Verse 24, and the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon and from Gothan and from Ava and Hamath. Gotha, and from Eva, and from Hamath, and Sepharbaim, and placed them in the cities of Samaria, instead of the children of Israel. And they possessed Samaria and dwelt in the cities thereof. And so it was at the beginning of their dwelling there that they feared not the Lord. Therefore the Lord sent lions among them, which slew some of them. Wherefore they spoke to the king of Assyria, saying, The nations which thou hast removed and placed in the cities of Samaria, know not the manner of the God of the land, therefore he hath sent lions among them And behold they slay them because they know not the man or of the god of the land. Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, Carry thither one of the priests whom he brought from thence, and let them go and dwell there, and let it Let him teach them the manner of the God of the Lamb. Then one of the priests, whom they had carried away from Sibaria, came and dwelt in Bethel, and taught them how they should fear the Lord Well, there's kind of an interesting story here. Of course, this was the practice of the Assyrians at that time. In order to keep order in their empire and to keep down the subject peoples. They would carry them off into captivity to a different place, make them be out of sorts, not comfortable, and not ready to rebook rebel against the Assyrians. So they carried Israel over to these other countries there in the Middle East, and then they brought the people from there over to Israel. And so now you have all these people that have been brought over to Israel. And the trouble is, is when they came over to Israel, God sent lions among them. You know, lions can be pretty bad sometimes. Uh I think I've told you before, I went to Chicago one time, saw the stuffed lions there of the of the movie The Ghost in the Darkness. But anyway, those they had the two stuffed lions there. And those lions had killed 140 people in Kenya. Well, just between those two lions. Well, what could these lions do here? That God sent among Israel. Well, they had killed a lot of people. And he didn't just send two of them, he sent a lot of them. And so he sent them there, and so they figured there was a problem. And somehow God gave them that impression, and they thought maybe the problem was that the God of the land was upset, and that's true. And so they wanted to get one of the old priests that were carried into captivity back again. And so the priest came back and taught them about the Lord. Well that was good as far as it went. He taught them about the Lord. And but it really wasn't That they got turned to the Lord, but they just found out about the Lord. And I think that was all in the providence of God. God wanted them to find out about Him and to be accountable. Does it do any good, as I've said before here, does it do any good to give a person a tract that rejects it? Does it do any good? Sure, it does. It makes the person accountable. And on judgment day, they're going to be told that somebody tried to give you the word and you rejected it. And they will be guilty before God. And so, of course, some people will accept it, but most will reject it. But we have to give them a witness. And God gave the people here, these heathen people that had come into Israel, God gave them a witness. And he sent lions to make sure they got a witness. And paid attention to it, even though they didn't really serve the Lord. Let's go on here, verse 29. How be it every nation made gods of their own and put them in the houses of the high places which The Samaritans had made every nation and their cities wherein they dwelt. Skip down to verse 31. And the Abites made Nibhaz and Tartak and the Safarbates burnt their children in fire to Adremelech and Anamelech, the gods of Sepharvaim. Well, here we have them again, burning their children in the fire. These heathen people that came into Israel, they kept on with all their sin. But verse verse 32 So, so here we have the so at the end, after they got the knowledge of God, after they built heathen temples So they feared the Lord and made unto themselves of the lowest of them priests of the high places, which sacrificed for them in the houses of the high places. They feared the Lord and served their own gods, after the manners of the nations which they carried away from thence. Unto this day they do after their former manners They fear not the Lord, neither do they after their statutes, or after their ordinances, or after the law and commandment which the Lord commandeth the children of Jacob, whom he named Israel. So with these heathen people that were brought into Israel, they got a knowledge of the Lord after the lions, but still what they did, they continued with all their heathen worship. And so what they did is they added the Lord to their list of gods. And they decided, well, uh we'll have we'll worship every God we can think of. That way we'll get them all covered. But it doesn't work that way. God is a jealous God. And he doesn't want us worshiping other gods, and he's very upset with that and angry with it Of course that's the way it was in the Roman Empire. In the Roman Empire they had all their gods. And you know when people were executed in the Roman Empire They were executed not because they worshiped God, but because they refused to worship the other gods. Because the Romans had no problem with people worshiping whatever God they had. But the problem was if they said that their God was the only one and they wouldn't worship the other ones and they wouldn't worship the emperor. And that was the problem. Well, these people were the Samaritans. The Samaritans start right here. The Samaritans. We hear about them in the New Testament. Remember the woman of Samaria at the well? Well, she's from these people right here. There's a few of Israel that were left in the land. The heathen were brought into the land of Israel. They were mixed up, mixed up all their worship together And they were the Samaritans. And the Jews hated the Samaritans because they knew enough to know that you can't mix up all the different religions and mix up the Lord in that And you know here it says they feared the Lord at verse 32, but then again verse 34 it says they fear not the Lord. In the end, when they Claim to be fearing the Lord and fearing these other gods, they really didn't fear the Lord. Well, then we go on here to verse 35. With whom the Lord made a covenant and charged them, saying, Ye shall not fear other gods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to them. But the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt with a great power and stretch out. Here's Memorial Day again They're supposed to remember, once again, that's at the beginning of the chapter, it's at the end of the chapter. They're supposed to remember what happened 700 years ago You know, God wants us to remember what He's done for us in the past. You know, today the attitude is just the here and now. That's all that's important, the here and now. And the history, oh, that was then. This is now. Well, it's not like that with Christianity. We have to remember what happened in the past. We have to remember what God did. And here we have that remembrance here again. They forgot the Lord. But the Lord, verse 36, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt with great power and stretched out arm, him shall ye fear. And him shall ye worship, and to him shall ye do sacrifice. And the statutes and the ordinances and the law and the commandment which he wrote for you, ye shall observe to do forevermore And ye shall not fear other gods. Those commandments were given 700 years before, but they were still supposed to remember them and do them. These ten commandments here, and all the other commandments. I remember I was in one church meeting one time, and they were talking about the uh constitution of their church. I think it was the Baptist church. And one guy said, that Constitution was written 50 years ago. And he was like, that was terrible. I mean, how can we still be using something from 50 years ago? Well, we've got to be up to date. No, we're remembering things in the past. We're not up to date like that, forgetting what we have in the past. And then we go on to verse 38. And the covenant that I have made with you ye shall not forget, neither shall ye fear other gods. But the Lord your God ye shall fear, and he shall deliver you out of the hand of your enemies. Howbeit, they did not hearken. This is the Samaritans. But they did after their former manner. So these nations, here's the end, the conclusion of the matter with the Samaritans, the last verse of the chapter, verse 41. So these nations feared the Lord, acted like they feared the Lord, and served their graven images, both their children and their children's children. As did their fathers, so do they unto this day. So that's an epitaph there on the Samaritans after Israel had its epitaph. But what about today? Today, do we have people like the Samaritans today? Oh, we've got lots of them. The churches are full of Samaritans today. And what's a Samaritan? It's somebody that's a member of the church in Laodicea. You know the church in Laodicea and the Revelation. What's the problem with the church in Laodicea? The problem is it's lukewarm. It's neither cold nor hot. Well, you know, they're not completely cold. They claim to be serving the Lord, but they're actually cold because they don't really serve the Lord. They're serving other things. They give lip service. To the commandments of the Lord. And so we have churches full of people today, big crowds, just like the Samaritans. They claim to be serving the Lord, but what are they really serving? Well, they're serving money. Well, I was mentioned in Sunday school this morning, John D. Rockefeller was a Baptist. You know, he claimed to be a Baptist, but he was serving money. He was serving all those other things. And, you know, the Samaritans did that. They serve money, and that's what people do today, the modern Samaritans. They serve money, they serve pleasure, they want to get knowledge above all things, like university professors or whatever They want fame and power like the pro politicians, but they claim to be Christians. You know, Biden, he claims to be a Catholic. And yet he is in favor of abortion. And he wants to m uh mix everything up just like so many other people. And you know the thing is, is we want to take our lessons from the Bible. And one lesson here with the fall of Israel is God's long suffering only goes on so long. That's a lesson in the book of Revelation as well. And it's always only so long. It might go on for 200 years, but only for so long. And we need to remember that in the United States today. We need to remember to put the Lord first with our whole heart and mind and soul and body, and not be lukewarm but serving the Lord above all other things. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just pray that God bless these thoughts to our hearts. Help us not to be modern Samaritans. In Jesus' name, amen.