We will turn on the ballgame. Let's open our Bibles please to First Corinthians chapter one. First Corinthians one and follow along if you would please as I read the first nine verses. Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God and Sosthenes, our brother. Unto the Church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints. With all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ, that in everything ye are enriched by Him. In all utterance and in all knowledge, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you so that ye come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall also confirm you unto the end that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord Let's pray. Father, as we approach again um our topic from your word And it's not cloaked in secrecy or um dis d designed to be disguised. It's there uh to be read and to be fed uh to allow your spirit to bring our hearts' attention to these truths in order that we might know you and know you aright in order that we might know ourselves and know ourselves aright, and understand the great grace that is ours given through your Son, our Savior Jesus Christ. Now bless as we consider what these passages have to say for us and for the work of the body of believers through Jesus Christ whom we pray. Amen. Last week I began by asking the question: what do you think of when you hear the word church? Church. And we realize that that elicits a lot of thoughts and feelings, because that comes out of my own or our own personal experience or the things that we've learned, and therefore we give our personal thoughts in that. Hence we say my church or the church I was married in or the church down the street or the church in our community. We think of it in those terms. For our great number of visitors here this morning, and a simple review for everybody else, we concluded that we would define the things by what the Bible says. Help us to understand, Lord, what your word defines in this principle of considering the Church We saw where the church was not a building, even though we fur referred to it kindly and practically speaking as a church. We do such in no ordinary circumstances. According to the scriptures, it refers to people And we saw the Greek word eklesia, which was the called out. They were God's people, called out according to what his word presents to us. Among other things, they assembled together. We noted that these people were called out of the world, even though they were in the world, meaning they were to live and act in a manner that was pleasing to God. The ecosy is not to live in a manner that was pleasing to their culture, the culture that God had placed them in. So maybe the question would be better asked, who is the church? Rather than what is the church? We again go back to what the scripture says. We need to divorce ourselves from man's opinions and personal experiences and rely on how does God present to us through his word his church. How does God describe who the church is? If you would look in your text today again, 1 Corinthians 1. And what we read this morning was an introduction to this letter, a presentation of an opening before he got into the matters at hand. Paul writes this to this church as an introduction, and he says, alongside a fellow believer Sosthenes, verse 1. Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, that's understandable. Sosthenes, who is a believer, one who was converted, worked through the ministry of Paul, and he was with him, so he writes that. Now, that's his introduction. Like If I write to somebody, Keith, writing to, now the two is unto the church of God, which is at Corinth. to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all that are in every place called upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. Paul writes this letter because of his personal relationship to this church. He doesn't just haphazardly send out letters, but because the relationship he had with them, his first visit to Corinth was maybe around 50, 51, 52, somewhere in that range. And he spent 18 months in the Corinthian area ministering to these people. He was teaching, preaching, witnessing, discipling, counseling, encouraging, bringing them together as a fellowship through the preaching of the word. He was basically probably the first one to present the gospel message to this Corinthian region. Somebody would often say, well, he was the first shepherd of this church. But note how he writes the letter to, unto the church of God, which is at Corinth. Why wasn't it unto St. Paul's Bible Church of Corinth? Or unto the church at Corinth, the first Christian church? Why doesn't he write that? He was the founding pastor. He was the one who gathered them together, and he writes this letter probably three or four years after he had left the area. Well, the truth is that Paul was stating a simple phrase that all of us should understand: that the church, all church, but this Corinthian church, was created It was founded, it was sustained, it progressed by God and God alone. It was His work. True, these were called out by God, assembled by God, gathered together by God. God continued in it, and not Paul. And Paul was instrumental. Paul was the key factor that God used to bring these things about, but Paul understood in his own heart that it's not me working through my skills, but it was God working through me. Hence Paul says that. You know, it doesn't take much for a popular pastor or popular ministry to take credit for that which by all rights belongs to God. All too often these things pop up. There are times when ministry is overflown by fleshly pride. a local church, a radio program, a TV program, an online ministry, maybe a good series of Christian books. Dealing with Christian situations. Maybe a popular popular internet program ministry, parachurch organizations It can happen on the mission field. I've seen where missionaries have planted churches or hospitals or educational facilities. And they'll come along and say, bye. This is pretty good. This was my work. And I understand what they're saying, but nonetheless, that happens. We have megachurch success, prosperity preachers. I've heard them boast about the growth that come under their ministry, the financial success that they have been rolling into. All the continuing assumption that this work is my work. Look what I've built. Remember what happened to Nebuchadnezzar? All of a sudden things are going along and he stands out there and he looks and he says, Oh Babylon, what a beautiful city that I've made. Look at all the things that I've organized and orchestrated. Look at all of this and down he goes. Down he goes. Brother, we've got to be mindful of these things. You see, man's pride robbed God of his glory. Even here, we should rejoice when there's a profession of faith made. When somebody comes and asks Christ into their hearts to be saved, redeemed, when a busted marriage is made whole, when an addict is rescued from a horrible addiction. When situations come along and we find a family or two saying, I want to join the church, when a young person says, You know, I want to spend the rest of my life serving the Lord Jesus Christ. No matter how this happens, no matter how many people were involved in this, we have to understand that man's labor was involved, but it is all to God's glory. It is God's church. He started it. He continues it. All of the things that are orchestrated by Him should receive the glory, even though there is a tendency for us to take some pride. Back in Corinth I think if anybody had a fleshly right to be proud of the accomplishments that were there, it would have been Paul He would have been the one because of his theological training, his physical sufferings over the years, the sacrifices that Paul had made for ministry The hours upon hours, day after day, labors in Corinth. Eighteen months, I said, given over to this people, given over to bring Christ to the Corinthian church If anybody had a right to boast as a founder, as an apostle, as a man who had done so much for these people, it was Paul. But he writes, unto the church of God At Corinth, took no credit for that whatsoever. Before we go any further Can we not say that this assembly, this gathering of a church, is the church of God of Kingsville? Do we not understand that Uh what what year did church begin? Nineteen eighty four. Eighty four. And from that point, even seeds that were planted before eighty-four into the hearts of those who were part and and instrumental in doing that, God's putting it in. God had provided Over the years there have been many contributors. There have been much prayer. There are a number of preaching of the word, teaching of sound doctrine. But it was God in his grace that started this assembly. And by God's in his grace that he sustains it week after week, month after month, year after year. May every decision, every outreach and ministry be done with the accomplishments of the heart, understanding that this is a church, that is his church. And that we handle it with the love and care that it deserves. So, maybe the next step is to ask: why did Paul say that? Why did Paul say the church was his church, God's church? Why did Paul indicate that If you got your finger there in 1 Corinthians, mark it and turn back quickly to Acts 2028. I was just going to read this, but I think it's a verse that you should see along with me. Acts 2028. Paul is speaking to the Ephesian elders, and he's talking to the spiritual leaders of the church. He's about to leave and he says, Take heed, mother, careful attention Pay extremely careful attention, therefore, unto yourselves, church leaders, elders, pastor, you might say, at heart, and to all the flock Take heed, the leadership, and all of the church, the flock over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. The Spirit of God chose Put them together. And he says he made you an overseer. The Greek is the word is episcopas. Not this particular word, but the root word is episcopas, row and we get bishops. It's in other words, it's an overseer. God's the Holy Spirit made them in responsible positions as overseeing the lives of the flock. To do what? To feed the The church of God, to feed them, as God knows best. Why? Because which He hath purchased with His own blood Why does Paul say it's God's church and not my church? I've done so much. I've done it all. I've given of myself sacrificially. But here he writes to the church at Ephesus, it's God's church because he's purchased it with his own blood, the purchase price of the church. In truth, the church is God's because he bought her with his own blood. God cannot redeem us with money. God cannot buy the sins away. God cannot bring about of all of creations any amounts of wealth enough to satisfy the anger of God. To purchase us back from such sinful condition that we deserve hell. Can't accomplish that. Peter writes We were not redeemed, we were not bought back with corruptible things as silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, as the Lamb without blemish and without spot. God brought us from the wretched condition that we were to a place of a family, an assembly, a gathering, because that was his intent, to say, now you're mine. No, you are mine. This past week when your neighbor asked you, hey you want to go fishing Sunday? Or crabbing, want to go crabbing Sunday, you know? Or you want to go shopping Sunday? Mother's Day. We'll take you out and go shopping. And he replies, he says, no, I can't go because I'm going to church I can't go because I'm going to church. But the church isn't a building. It's a people. And if you're not part of God's church, it's because You don't know what it is. Because church going to a building doesn't mean anything Think of the millions, the myriads of people around the world that go to church building every Sunday and have no clue about their relationship to the eternal God. They don't know that they as individuals, the body, the gathering, the assembly, the ecclesia, were purchased by the blood of Jesus Christ. They are just called out in their own minds. You belong to God and have become a part of his church, his body only by being purchased and redeemed through the blood of Jesus Christ. Think of the great hymn, my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. The hope that I have. What hope do I have in life? What hope do I have for tomorrow? It's not upon our country. It's not upon my savings, my skills, it's not upon my health, it's not upon anything. My only hope is the blood of Christ. He goes on and he says, my only hope is being purchased through the blood of Jesus Christ. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. Now, go back if you would to 1 Corinthians and verse 2. He says, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are Sanctified, sanctified in Christ Jesus. Paul not only calls them God's church, but he qualifies it by saying that they are sanctified in Christ Jesus. Sanctify, what does that mean? That's a rough one. A lot of definitions kind of float around and and see what takes place. Initially, we would say to sanctify means to make holy, to set apart, to make acceptable to God. In a simple sense, we could say this place has been sanctified, holy, set apart for God. We don't take the chairs out, at least I don't think we do, during the week. Take the chairs out and have dances here or run bingo or whatever like that. It's for the whole purpose of honoring God. So it's wholly set aside for God's purpose, sanctified for Him. And I think that's the most powerful description of what God has done in the church in Corinth. Some of you know what the rest of this letter talks about, actually 1 and 2 Corinthians. It is a horrible, horrible description of people. They had all types of sins that were open and waved before the crowds that were around them Problems of division and factions, sexual immorality was opened, lawsuits between believers in the public courts, chaotic worship, and so on and so forth. It was terrible And yet what did Paul say of them? They were sanctified. Now, how could you be sanctified and be like that? How could you be set apart for God's purpose and act like that and follow the things that they were doing? Paul indeed describes it as such a matter, because there are a number of layers of this sanctification. It begins because sanctification is an instantaneous, once-for-all, status change at the conversion where God declares the believer holy and righteous. When I come to the place in my life when I ask Christ to save me, to redeem me, instantaneously I've been given the approval of God's court. He is now a believer because Jesus Christ has paid his penalty for his sins. Sometimes we'll call that justification God declares just. God declares right. It's the initial step of the process of sanctification. All of a sudden it's like that. But God's not through with us, is he? The day that we accepted Christ as our Savior, all of a sudden He says, Yes, you are acceptable, approved unto God, and if you were to die at any moment, you'd enter into glory because of the work of Christ. But now look at us. Yeah, not quite the people that we would like to be. So that is a positional sanctification. It's based upon Christ's work. But he's not finished with us yet. There's a song, a kid song actually, by Joel Hempfield, written in 1980. It's entitled He's Still Working on Me. And I'm not going to sing it, but let me read the first two stanzas. There really ought to be a sign upon my heart. Don't judge him yet. There's an unfinished part But I'll be better, just according to his plan, fashioned by the Master's loving hands. He's still working on me to make me what I need to be It took him just a week to make the moon and stars, the sun and the earth, and Jupiter and Mars, how lovingly and patient he must be, because he's still working on me. You know, God's accepting us. But you say, how could he accept me? Because of the way I think and the way I act. It shouldn't be. But God says, once you have become part of my family You have given me the right or the privilege, the honor to work in you to make you to be the person that you should be. Our Westminster Schröter Catechism says on sanctification. Sanctification is the work of God's free grace. Who's doing the work of sanctification? God is. And it's free. Christ has already paid the price. It's not something, oh, I gotta do or I gotta stop. It's his work, his grace. Whereby we are renewed in the whole man after the image of God and are enabled. The Spirit of God enables us more and more to die unto sin and to live unto righteousness. Paul says that positionally, the church at Corinth, as wicked as they were, were sanctified. They were justified in God's sight. He says they were renewed in the whole man. But they were a work in progress. We are able to die unto sin each day. That's stuff that was of the past. I couldn't conquer it. It was just it was a thorn in my side. It was something that was that's just the way I was raised. That's just how I talked. That's just a thought process. I always did it that way. Now all of a sudden you say I can't do that anymore The Spirit of God enables me to say no, enables me to make those particular changes, and then enables me to live unto righteousness. enables me to say, yes Lord, I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna help. I'm gonna comfort. I'm gonna pray. I'm gonna Do whatever you would have me to do. It's not me anymore. It's all about you. He's still working on me. Do you see yourself as a work in progress? Seriously. Or are you happy with where you are? It's kind of an interesting picture. Do you see your neighbor, another believer, as a work in progress? What's wrong with them? You know, how come they don't see it the way I see it? How come they don't do what I do? Because they're a work in progress. I've used this illustration before. We had a dear brother back in Apollo. We'd all go down he's one of the elders of the church and we'd go to his house for make some hamburgers or whatever In the back of his yard he had he was a farm, apple farm, and uh he had a couple of trees that were really on his yard. And you see you can go back and pick all the apples you want. They're all full of worms, but you didn't take too many out. But I'd go back there and I'd look on that tree. And there were some little tiny guys that the blossoms had just come through and just started, and then they just died just like there And there were some other ones that were a little bit bigger, you know, like quarter size, and then there were some others like that, and then there were some others on on the ground and they were already trampled down and the deer got them or whatever You can't look at the tree and say, this one's gonna why is this one not not progressing? Why is this one this one's not gonna be good? They all have to go through the process of growth They all have to develop at the time that God has set that tree to develop. And it's for us too. None of us. If if you were if you were God says you're ready, you wouldn't be here today. Right? If God says it it's your time, that means I'm done working on you, you know. I've I've I've I've finished that particular work because that's the third s level of sanctification The initial one when I receive Christ, the second one when He's working to change me, the third one when I'm gone in glory. I've been glorified, the glorification of the believer. And we can't say that you are not ready. Or you can we can't say that you are way behind. Because God's redeemed us. all differently. So we have to be able to see ourselves as a work in progress and to see our neighbors a work in progress. The psalmist says If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? Think about that. He's asking God. He's a God, if you're one who's going to mark iniquity, sin, if you're going to keep a record of sin, who can stand? Does he? Does God keep a record? There's not a thing that escapes him. There's nothing that goes by his eye and say, whoa, I missed that one. Never thought they would do that. He says this, but then he comes back in the next verse and he says, But there is forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared. He says, everything is known by you, but he doesn't judge us by that. Everything is understood. He sees us as we are. We can't, we may look out on the outside Notice I color coordinated my thing with my wife's clothes today. Everything looks good on the outside, but the inside, nobody's gonna know, but God knows. And he says, Lord, if you're the one who's marking out these things, man, who's going to stand? Well, not me. But he says, there's forgiveness. There's forgiveness. How can we be purified, enabled daily to die into sin and live unto righteousness? It's Jesus Christ. Again from Ephesians five. Christ so loved the church and gave himself for it that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word that he might present it to himself a glorious church. That's the body. Not a building A glorious body of believers, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. We are full of unholiness and full of blemishes. But Christ has redeemed us out of that, and the Spirit of God is working by grace to freely change us. to be without blemish and without spot. When we put our faith and trust in Christ, his blood purifies us from all sin. It paid the penalty that we deserved. We are first washed from our sins, then God progressively works on us to change us, and then again one day, completed act, glorification. Third section, the third qualifier in that verse 2. Unto the church of God, which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be Saints, called to be saints. I think sometimes we kind of heard that before. Oh, you're such a saint. Think of the truth of the matter is God created the church by calling unqualified sinners and making them saints. Saint again, holy, separated unto God. Paul writes that God does not look for the powerful or the rich or the wise or the noble, but he has nothing in us by the worldly standards that we could take salvation. He finishes up chapter one there of in 1 Corinthians by saying those truths. It is by his good pleasure that he has chosen people, uh not as the world chooses, but because he is a merciful God. As we live the longer in our lives, we recognize He is a compassionate God for the weak. He is a God who has compassion upon the poor and the widows and the orphans and the refugees. He forgives the most wicked among us. He saved the rebel like Paul. And you read again Paul's testimony, what a wicked, despiteful, powerful man he was, and yet God redeemed him. God turns sinners, even the worst of them, into saints. They are made holy by the blood of Christ. God is truly merciful and compassionate. That's why He can call us saints. Verse finishes out, call to be saints with all that are in every place, call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. The church is God's family. It's his that he brought in and redeemed it, and he considers it as a family. And it exists as a unit. If you note there, the passage, it says the church of God, is that singular or plural? Singular. It's one church. But the remainder of the references in that verse is all plural. He says there but one church But he says, those sanctified, plural, called to be saints, plural, our Lord, not my Lord or that person's Lord, only all of the plural There is but one God made up of many members in his body, the church, the family of God. Paul writes to this local church in Corinth, but he recognizes that the church is much bigger than Corinth. He writes to them specifically about their future, what they are involved in, but it's much bigger than that. He includes in this last verse or last section, in every place they call upon the name of the Lord. And yet two thousand years later, he is still not called upon in every place, is he? How many places are there in this globe of ours that have never heard the name of Jesus Christ, have never seen the Word of God, have never heard the truth about Jesus Christ? We have no idea. Only as the church can bring the message of the power of God to finish this task can we make it in every place as a reality. What if we believe that your church is bigger than our local congregation? What if we believe that the Church of Jesus Christ, the Church of God, is bigger than just us this congregation or bigger than Faith Presbytery or the Bible Presbyterian Church or uh Reform churches uh churches across the country or churches around the world. What if we believed uh that in truth that that church is far bigger than just us the vision that is cast upon us by calling upon that simple truth. When men hear of the word of the church, they only think of their own congregation, or perhaps their own denomination. But we need to know as it isn't just a matter of truth of what God's Word says, but we need to see it as bigger. The church is universal, brethren. It spans the time and space. The Church of God includes every believer in Christ, over whom Jesus Christ is Lord May that be evident in our life. May it be evident in the decisions that we make, in the fellowships that we have, the understanding that we've come to know. It's far greater than than you've ever understood. I've been blessed by um uh listening to my son's program and the interviews he's had from uh different ones this past week there's a interview of a pastor who's living in the States but his church is uh the church in Gaza And I don't know how many thousand people they used to have there down to about five hundred, but it's a church, a believing church. That's church that's there. They've been bombed. Uh the he's interviewed pastors from Nigeria, uh pastors in Kenya uh different ones in various corners of the world. We have no concept of thinking how far what we are as a church extends to them. Lady gonna come from uh Nigeria, is she Uh the Ghana. Yeah. Nigeria? Ghana, Ghana. The Church of God in Ghana. The Church of God is South Africa. The Church of God where it was. They're all part of the body of Christ. Um we'll continue on in dealing with the church. But I think what today we've added to this picture is not only are we the called out ones But we are here as a body of believers to encourage and to do uh his particular work in our day. Shall we pray? Thank you, Father, for our understanding that uh you've laid on Paul's heart and hand as he penned not only these uh verses in in the letter to the Corinthians, but as he penned in so many other ways and and understood in his heart, in his writings and in his teachings, that It's all your work. Um how the believers have been called uh to you has only been a work of you. You've used means. And you still use means, but it is your spirit that has empowered the opening of the heart, the changing of the lives. in order that you might redeem those to whom uh Christ will be known and uh who Christ will be real to them. Father, help us to be patient with ourselves and with our others in the matter of growth. Help us to see that the sanctification process is ongoing each and every day. And that we should not be weary in well-doing, um, that we should strive to uh allow your spirit to teach us to put to death the old nature, the old man, and to daily put on Christ uh in the the newness of of uh the spirit that he works in us. Uh thank you, Father, for our particular congregation here and the body that is here. We pray for our absent partners, help them to realize that they too, wherever they are, are part of the body. We pray for them and their needs and the means upon which, uh Lord, you work in their lives. Thank you again for allowing us to see these things through different eyes. In Christ's name. Amen.