Matthew chapter twelve, and our text begins at verse thirty-one. As brutal as the cold and such or may be, spring is around the corner. You know. Always that eternal hope. Let's pray. Father, thank you that as we continue in this hour of worship, that there are various ways upon which we are able to express um our need to look to you, our worship of you. Um as we sing our desire for more of your love, as we give of our tithes and offerings, expressing our thanks for what you've provided, but also our desire to give back a portion that you might be honored as we read the scriptures, as the scriptures are open to our hearts that your spirit would teach us that which is needful in our day. Knowing that it is not the person behind the pulpit, but it is the work of the Holy Spirit using the living word of God to bring us truth. Help us to be sponges, to receive from your word that which is honorable uh in your sight and that which will profit our days. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew chapter 12 is an extremely powerful passage, and we read here of the opportunities at the Pharisees, amongst other times. had been taking to find a chink in Jesus' armor, uh to find an area where they could uh get him, as it were, shooting arrows at him. Uh the Pharisees were religious men. They were drawn from among the people. Therefore the people had that kind of affinity with them. But they used the laws and the rules and regulations of Phariseesm to control the people. And this was an opportunity now for Jesus to find an opening in their armor. that he might speak the truth. And it was from their mouths, their words. I don't know if you noticed in our responsive reading from Proverbs. Most of the text in the uh verses in there spoke of words, how important they are. We've talked in times past when we studied the book of James, the matters of our words And so again today I want to talk about what comes out of our mouths because what it does is it says a lot about who we are What comes out of her mouth speaks of our relationship to God, whether it is good or a lack thereof. Our text begins with the words of Jesus, and he talks about in verses 31 and 32 the matter of the unforgivable sin. And again, who's he talking to? He's talking to the Pharisees. Others are obviously listening, but he's talking about them. And it was the working which uh they were saying the Holy Spirit was doing uh that was the work of the devil So 3132, wherefore I say unto you, Pharisees there, the men there, all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men. But the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men. And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of Man It shall be forgiven him, but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come. So what were the Pharisees saying? Were the words that they were exchanging before Jesus? In essence, they were blaspheming the Holy Spirit. The Pharisees wouldn't have this horrible thing said about them had their hearts have been right. Had their hearts been in the right place, these words wouldn't have come out. But because their hearts were neither recognized or refused to recognize the work of the Holy Spirit, Jesus brings them to this reality of they were blaspheming him. Jesus says in a passage today that words reflect our hearts, as it was with the Pharisees. He pointed it out very clearly. The things we say reflects that which is in our hearts. And I want us to address that today. Matthew 12 verses 33, he says, either make the fruit good or And his fruit good, or else make the tree corrupt and the fruit corrupt. For the tree is known of his fruit. Oh, generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. The good man out of the good treasure of the heart, the mouth speaketh I'm sorry, for the good man out of the treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things, and the evil man out of the treasure of treasure of bringeth forth evil things But I say unto you, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. For thy words, by thy words shall thou be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. Our words are extremely important. Jesus recognizes this. How we talk, what we say, what comes out of our mouths needs to be examined because it is a serious matter. So there's three areas on this passage that Jesus gives that I want us to look at. The first matter is out of verse 33 that our words identify our hearts And obviously for the Pharisees that was very true for them. 33 Either make the tree good and his fruit good, or else make the tree corrupt And is fruit corrupt? For the tree is known by his fruit. That's pretty simple, isn't it? Anybody could understand it. There's apples hanging from a tree. And you see, well that has to be uh Apple sea, phew, man. I thought that was a really simple here's the cherries hanging from a tree, so therefore that must be Cherry Chi, wow, we're getting it. There's money hanging from a tree. That's what? Money tree. Or otherwise called parents for kids. You know, that's how often that goes tree is recognized by its fruit, how would your speech identify you? If the fruit displayed in our lives is our words, What is the fruit that is displayed by your words? Are you an encourager? Would your words identify you as somebody who is in love with Jesus and Jesus people? Would that be an identifier? Would your words be known as somebody who knows the Word of God? On the other hand, would your speech identify you as a gossip, a sharer of items, or a liar? Or a complainer, or someone who causes division. Because whether we like it or not, and whether we realize it or not, People hear what we say and they identify us by the words that we say. Social media, television, it's everywhere. And words are brought up whether there's a full statement or not. He said, well, did you hear what he said? Or did you hear what she said? And we identify them by those words that must be it, and they may be true or not. But we have to recognize those things that come out, people will identify us by those words. Remember when Jesus was arrested and he was taken to trial? Big upheaval there in Jerusalem. And so who decided to go out in the garden and wait around? Now Peter sat without the palace And a damsel came and said unto him, Thou also was with Jesus in Galilee. But he denied him before them all. saying, I know not what thou sayest. And when he was gone out the porch, another maid saw him and said unto them that were with them. This fellow was also with Jesus of Nazareth. And again he denied him with an oath. I do not know the man. And after a while they came unto him and stood by, said unto Peter, Surely thou art also one of them, for thy speech betrayeth thee. Then began he to curse and swear, saying, I know not the man. Identified by the words that we speak. And we know Peter, and we know the story from when it began when he was taken by Jesus become one of the disciples and we know how he was always the first one to do stuff but here's Peter shooting out his mouth And so if you want to be identified as a follower of Christ, we need to talk like one. If you want to be known as somebody somebody who simply reads the book of Proverbs and The gospels, you better understand how that speech is operating. The heart be identified as somebody who follows Jesus. So your speech identifies you. Secondly, your speech identifies your heart, or reveals your heart, or exposes your heart. The source of your words are found within the heart. Verses 34 and 35. O generation of vipers. Again, Pharisees around But truth, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh A good man out of the treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things, and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. If the heart is filled with good, how will the mouth reflect that? With good things. With good things. If it's filled with evil, it will reflect the same. I think that's pretty simple. If you claim to be a follower of Christ Was Jesus a liar? Then how could I use lies in my life and say I'm a follower of Christ because Christ was not a liar? If I profess Jesus to be my Savior and I gossip, then I need to examine again my days because Jesus was not a backbiter Jesus did not do such. If you claim to be a follower of Christ, but you talk about others behind their back, you need to examine because Jesus wouldn't have done the same thing We have to examine our speech and say if I'm a follower of Christ, it reveals my heart, and where my heart is, ought to be able to speak those things that are of truth. If you claim to be a follower of Christ, but your language is filled with four-letter words, there needs to be some checking. Foul language is for sure wrong. Pastor Coleman, what do you consider foul language? Well, should we have a list of words that are right or wrong to say, to be flippant or to be purposefully thrown out? I think most of all of us here in this room would understand what words are not right and proper to be said as of the mouth of a Christian. And if you're still not certain about a certain word or phrase, there's an old statement that said, when in doubt, throw it out. Don't even go there. If this word seems not appropriate in a certain section or be written or said, then don't say it. On the other hand, maybe your language isn't dirty, but maybe your language is lazy. What's the fourth commandment? Anyone know? Right behind me there, isn't it? Take not the name of the Lord in vain. What is vain? Empty, kind of worthless, just throwing around. Take not the name of the Lord in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guilty to take up his name in vain. Oh my God! Oh my gosh. Oh gee. And the list goes on and on, and we substitute a will. I'll never take the name of the Lord in vain. uh use it flippantly and throw it up but I'll I'll say oh my and then I'll substitute a word because I'm lazy. What does it express? Instagram is just filled with four-letter words, you know, and it's also filled with substitute lazy words. And it's become just part and parcel of life. It just becomes something that everybody seems to do. We're all guilty of the four-letter words at times, and the careless and flippant words that are done without thinking for sure, maybe in anger. Yet when it's done, we need to ask for God's forgiveness. When I say it, I need to say I'm sorry. I remember a time when I was in the Navy, still I wasn't a believer, and I had been apart from a dear friend of mine, and finally his ship came over and we were joined together in the Philippines And he met me in the hangar I was working on, and I said, Bruce, you blankety, blankety, blankety, blankety, blank, blank, blank blank, blank, blank, and he Atos What came out of your mouth? You know, we weren't like that before, but it just became natural, you know. It was just part of life. I remember that in him and he was an he was an unregenerate like I was, and and yet I look back now and I was ashamed of it It never should have happened. It never should have come out. But it became a part of my very nature. It became a part of the things that I was doing because it reflected my life. Some will say, oh well, that's just the way I am. Deal with it. I've always been that way. My heart hasn't always been that way. Until Jesus comes into my heart and changes me. There was a our local Fox station up in Philly had a discussion. on cursing at home and what was allowed amongst their children. And they had the coup the the the the regular host and hostess and then they had somebody else that was there And it was d well, you know, it's just something that it's just part of what they did in school or just you just let it go and you know If I ever you know, my parents were Christians, but it wasn't at the time in in elementary school and such that I recall them ever saying much, but we'd never Never use anything taking the name of the Lord in vain or using any four-letter words in my house. I wouldn't be here. I wouldn't be here if that was such the case. But they say now it's just become part of life Because if you see the heart that's reflected in there for I was a counselor for uh about ten years at our Presbytery camp in Ohio, and we had Junior camp from um grades four, five, and six. Uh no, no, it was six, seven, and eight, and then senior camp from nine, ten, eleven, and twelve. And I in over those ten years we're with both of them. And you're with the boys in the cabins and you're with the kids and and as you teach and as you preach and you're part of the recreation and and you're counseling with them for one week. And you pretty much, by the end of the week, understand what home life was like. You know. You understand the nature a lot of what they were doing within a week by the words that they were saying. The reflection of the heart. And many of them made professions of faith that week. It was it was dear. And I I've seen some of them now they're adults and they're married and they have children and grandchildren themselves But only Christ could have made those changes. So the influence that was upon them within the home was most important. It reflected their hearts. Second Kings chapter two, the prophet Elijah was taking a walk to Bethel, and this happens. And as he was going by the way, there came forth little children out of the city and mocked him and said to him, Go up, thou bald head, go up, thou bald head. And he turned back and he looked on them and he cursed them. The word curse there is not the prophet giving him the four-letter words, you know, but he's telling him God's going to judge you. In the name of the Lord, he cursed them in the name of the Lord, and there came forth two she-bears out of the wood, and tear forty and two children of them. The Hebrew word here can be used for little children, but it's the same phrase even adults. You know, we don't get a a picture of who these the ages of the children that were there But it's a powerful example, whatever the age, of the use of words showing forth and reflecting. And it was not only a mockery of God But it was of of the prophet, but it was a mockery of God, uh the the s the the the one who was in charge of the prophet, the one who the prophet served in his life. Their judgment was not from the prophet, but it was from God. The prophet had no power, no ability to call these she-bears out of the woods to bring them uh into a place of judgment. But this is the hand of God for such. Friends, if you're a child of God redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, then there's absolutely no excuse. for using words that dishonor God in any sense of the word, in any framework, and any understanding. Words that dishonor God and hurt others, none And if you know that it's wrong, then it's up to you to do something about it. It's in your court. Your speech identifies you. Your speech reveals your heart But thirdly, by your speech you're going to be judged, verses 36 and 37. But I say unto you, and I almost think Jesus takes his finger and he's pointing to them. That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. Like to be honest with you, there's no way to make Jesus' words sound sweet in the ears. What he tells them is an absolute blast and absolute opening up of the reality of the seriousness of the situation. The words we use throughout the day are better indicators of a person's character than playing speech. I can come up here and I can prepare a message, a sermon, and and finish up and we have exchange our pleasantries on our way out or down at the tables or throughout the weekend, well that was a great sermon, Pastor, and and uh but what's better of my character are the words that I use outside here. Not something that I planned and take the Bible and this is what God's Word says, but my words as I use them in life. as I'd use them uh with my wife, the people I work with on the road, the people we were at the store with, the the the very words that make up the very picture of the character of the person that I am If your speech is filled with gossip and backbiting and lying words filled with hatred, trickery, or whatever, then it says that your heart is not right with God. I think we need to be careful here, because the context of the passage here is that Jesus was talking to people whose heart was what? Cold as ice. These were men who were not knowing the Lord as their Savior, obviously by their actions, but by the words that they said that he'd be condemning them In reality, Jesus was talking to non-believers, and their words would be used by God to show that this is evidence you are not going to enter into the kingdom. Not because of the words that they used, because it reflected their hearts. It showed their very nature. What I think Jesus was saying here is that your words not only reveal your heart and character, but it also reveals your salvation. Your words show forth the things of who you are. My words back in the Philippines umteen years ago reflected my salvation. There is nothing there. I was an unregenerate and I displayed myself in such a fashion, you know, of of honoring that. If there's nothing in our speech to show forth that I have a love for the Lord Jesus Christ, then maybe I don't. And in that case, God will use the words as evidence to show judgment upon me. It's an understanding that God has laid forth in his word. And I say this because I don't want people to give the impression that we should live in fear of God. That God is just looking for an excuse to rob me of my salvation, not that I can lose my salvation, but it ought to be that which is a mirror upon my heart, because it's simply not the case. Yeah, there are times when I make a mistake. In a weak moment I say something and I use the term bad. bad is is a very collective, but I use words that never should have come out. I can blow up and I can lash out. And I think we've all used them and we ought to regret them when they do happen. It never should have happened, but it does happen. But as you become more intentionally mindful watching your speech You'll see the maturity come out and that you don't want to, and that you can't. I can't say that. I can't go there. I I uh the closer I draw to him, the closer I draw to that that that picture of the Savior Himself. I want to be like Jesus. I want to talk like Jesus. I want to interchange and act because my heart has changed, therefore my speech also becomes changed. Of course there are slip ups and they're going to happen, but they will happen less and less. Because the cleaning out of the garbage is going to be replaced by good stuff. The the the the filtering out of the old nature, the old man are our process of the Westminster Catechisms, you know. The work of the Spirit of God in sanctification is taking that old nature of the old man and bringing me to a place of the new man, the new person in Christ. I can't do it myself. But I have to have a willingness to have such. I think we need to be able to turn the corner Some steps in storing up good things in our heart. The obvious application of the passage in Matthew is that we need to fill our hearts with good stuff. The necessity of the Spirit of God to bring those things which are right, preparing the heart for good. How do we do that? Let me read just two passages for you. The first is Colossians 2. 7. Paul writes, Rooted and built up in him. You get a picture of being just not flopping around, but rooted. The roots of my soul are found within him, within Christ. How? It's going to be within his word. We talked about the word and the necessity of reading the word and understanding the word last week. Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith As ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving, have your roots firmly planted in Christ. The good stuff to come in. Where are those roots? What's going on? The trees are under some real strain here. And when spring comes around, those who didn't have their roots down in good soil, fertilized soil and so forth, they're not going to make it. They'll die off We have to be rooted and build up in him, increasing in my knowledge with him. Then Ephesians 4, 31 and 32 Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. It's a hard issue. The more that I am allowing Christ into my life, I can then therefore say I get rid of the garbage, the the the evil speaking and the anger and the clamor and the wrath and all those things, get rid of the malice and get rid of but I have to put something in its place The substitute is the forgiveness, the tender-heartedness, even as God has done for me. All these things that I just read about in these two verses are dealt with the heart Getting rid of the bad and putting on the good, compassion, forgiveness. This prepares our hearts to receive the Word of God so that the Holy Spirit can work in us. It's just not reading it But as my hearts change, all of a sudden there are changes that bring forth the ability for the Holy Spirit to move correctly in my life. In the parable of the sower, Jesus said that the seed is spread is the word of God. Remember the four different areas that he does sow. He sows the Word of God, and we're able to receive it, and it produces a crop. But the crop is most profitable when it's received in a heart that's noble, that's right with him. You can't have a good and noble heart if it's filled with r anger and wrath and bitterness and slander and malice. Those things do not nourish the soil Those things are not found where the roots are deep down within the soil and itself. So it's little wonder that those filled with poison tend to speak the ways that dishonor God and hurt others Even though they may claim to be followers of Christ. Too many churches, and I use the term in the broadest sense, have people that use words that are absolutely painful I can't watch that. I can't, you know, the the I won't go into I won't do that. But nonetheless, you understand what he's saying. They're far from God because the roots have totally avoided that. So as I prepare my heart for good in getting rid of the bad, I also must hide the word in my heart. Psalm 119, 9-11 Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his ways? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. With my whole heart have I sought thee. Oh, let me not wander from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in mine heart that what? I might not sin against thee. Oh, how do I get rid of this? By allowing God's word with my whole heart to receive it. And therefore, as I receive it, that I have a barrier to keep sin from entering into me. I drew up and we won't go into depth with these, but there's six ways to do this. First of all, of hearing. Hearing the Word of God. listening to it. There are a lot of apps that all they do is years ago my my stepmom gave me a cassette tapes of Alexander Scurby, you know, of the reading of the New Testament, English version, you know, and and poor cassette tapes just don't last anymore, you know. But we go around and just listening to the word of God read. Listen to it. It just well I've read that before. He's going to talk about that today. No. Allow the word to be heard and listen and understand the context of it. The second one is to read it As you listen to it, read it and understand, here's a passage that's poetry. Here's a passage that's history. Here's a passage that talks about Jesus on earth, or here's a passage that talks about things that are ahead. Read it and understand it and listening to it and allowing it to be that which is ingested for good. And then thirdly, studying it. We talked about that last week, and reading the Word of God is not profitable unless I study it. I can sit and I can read through all of the things that I said last week on on uh on on physics or on on you know algebra or whatever, but I don't know a clue about it. I can read it. I can listen to it. But unless I study it. make it a part of my daily digestion, it means nothing to me. The fourth one is memorize it. Do I have to? Dear Mrs. Maureen Gordon went home to be with the Lord. She was a would have been 103 And she memorized most of the Book of Revelation, the Book of Proverbs, and a number of other passages, and grilled into our family from when our oldest boy was probably four years old the principles of memorization and I've used her name before. Uh and I've used this illustration before, but as first year seminary students we went to the Gordon's house. Mrs. Gordon says, let's have a game. All right. She says, uh um I'll give you a passage and you tell me where it's from, just out of the book of Proverbs. And we're she bombed us. Now she says, you give me two words or three words out of a verse in Proverbs and I'll tell you the address for that And we couldn't stump her. It was born within her soul. It was born within her very the core of her nature Her love for Jesus Christ in the application of God's word was there because not only had she read it and heard it, which she couldn't read anymore. But she listened to it and she studied it and she memorized it. And she could regurgitate this not for the sake of regurgitation, but because it was applicable in daily life This is God's word. And he says, I've I've memorized that. And the last one, apply it. Um well meditate on it but then apply it. It doesn't do any good for you to have all types of head knowledge and say, I know this, I've memorized it, I've got all this, and I don't apply it. It means nothing If the garbage is being thrown out, if you're cleaning out all of the worthless things that we've accumulated in our hearts and minds for so many years, I've got to have something that's put into my heart to replace it That is going to be applicable for my relationships, for my business, for everything in life. Apply it. If you don't, it's of no good Third step in storing up things in our heart for good is to train your mouth. Ephesians 4. 29, to let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. but that which is good to the use of edifying, meaning building up, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. What does this have to do with storing up good things in your heart? When you become more intentional about passing what passes through your lips, you'll find out that is really the truth of what's going on in your hearts. And when this happens you can see that you've asked the Holy Spirit to work in you. Just not something that I can do. I'm memor memorizing and and studying it and meditating on it and applying it. I just can't throw things out. It's like those uh those guys are gonna come around to our doors this summer with the little name tags, you know. And they're gonna come there and knock on your door and they say, you know, you did you know They've memorized, they're trying to apply it, but it means nothing to them. Their hearts have not been changed by the Spirit of God. One of the best ways to train your mouth is to remember the words of James 119. Let every man be swift to hear and anybody remember that? Slow to speak. In other words, listen carefully. But what you hear of the things that are going on, don't be you well, you don't know, you don't have bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, you know Swift to hear, swift to speak? No, be slow to speak. One of the best things that you can do for yourself is this going to be Christ-like. I hear something and I'm going to add my two cents. You know, there's a text. There's a Facebook post. I'm going to add my two cents because this bothered me. Be slow to speak. And is it Christ-like? The other adage which is uh uh I think for me applicable, do I need to say anything at all? Is the world going to be a better place if I open my mouth at this particular juncture? Or if I just shut my mouth and pray about it? It's been often said that it's better be the thought in your head than to open your mouth and reveal all doubt that you're stupid as anybody's could ever think. Let me close by saying I don't think it's real surprising that everyone here today impacts others by the things that we say. We exchange, especially within this framework of the church, how we share with each other, how we concerned about each other, how we pray for each other. It impacts each other's lives. what you say and how we do it. And I think that really is important when we understand what our speech reflecting in the Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe we're sitting here today and we've had some real struggles with it. If you're right with God Maybe then that's fine. But if you're not, if there are things that are burden you about things you've said and the way words have gone forth, ask for him to forgive. He's gracious. He wants us to be more perfected servants for his use. If our words affect this great ministry of ours that we've been called to as individuals, as couples, as families, as a body. Uh be right with him so he can use you for that. Let's pray. Father, even as David has said, the words of our mouth and the meditations of our heart, oh, may those things be pleasing and acceptable in your sight. And we say that and we recognize that far too often the words of our mouths have not been acceptable in your sight. And the things that we've thought about, the meditations of our hearts, they've not been very acceptable. And yet we recognize also that your word lays before us That we can come to you and confess unto you where we have failed, and you readily restore us because of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because of what he has done on our behalf. May Father we measure our words. May we be known by the words that we speak. Because they are found and bound within our hearts, our love for you. May you increase that love. May you increase our awareness of our usage. And the ability for our words to be used for your honor and glory. And where we failed, maybe be quick to ask for your forgiveness. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.