Shall we pray? Father, we offer up uh this portion of our morning worship to uh focus upon your word and the the delight it should have in our hearts. We ask, Father, that it might fill our soul with that which is needful and allow us to be strengthened thereby. And that you would uh by your spirit grace us uh with an understanding of it and an application of it, and that you would keep any of the inroads of the wicked one away, that we might be able to uh enjoy it and be blessed thereby. And we pray it in Christ's name. Amen. We begin out New study of the book of the Bible, a relatively small one, Philippians, only four chapters. Paul's letter to Philippi, not Philippi, West Virginia But Philippi in Turkey, or at least what is, or I mean modern day Greece, as we'll see as time goes on, this is Paul's most personal and practical letter. It's a letter that provides us with an understanding of the real meaning or understanding of application of joy. As a matter of fact, Paul uses joy or rejoice or in some form or another a number of times, maybe 17, 18 times in the letter. So there's a theme that's involved in this that permeates this letter. And what's remarkable about it is that Paul is writing this letter from Rome. Two years, not on vacation, not seeing the sights, but in prison. And so the remarkableness of this uh letter is provided with the the joy that is that has been there within that thing. Guys don't worry about your maps. We'll chew on the maps in a minute. Be patient. We're going to mention this theme of joy as we go throughout the book, but I don't want us to consider this to be confused with what we think of as happiness. There's something completely different in its application in life. Um joy is not a byproduct of circumstances. It's not a byproduct of the outside, where we often associate When I have, when I've received, then I'm joyous. And when I'm missing, when I've lost out, then woe is me. So joy, provided not from a circumstantial evidence, at least in Paul's life. So we're going to be examining this joy as it pops up in a number of areas in his book here. And I guess the idea is how can I have the same joy in my heart? How can I have the joy that Paul expresses under his circumstances in my heart and life? As we go through the book, I'd encourage you just to read the chapter that we are on before we come. So we're still in chapter one. Even though we haven't even started with Chapter 1. We're still in Chapter 1, and so next week before the service, at least during the week, read Chapter 1. Oh, we read it up. Read it again And again, permeate the principle of joy on that as we go through it. Next, I want us to see some background about Philippi. uh a little bit of its history, a little bit of the makeup of this city, because understanding the people there or understanding Philippi helps us a little bit more to understand the content of what's going on in the letter and understanding the life of the people that are there. Now some of you have maps in your Bible and now this is when you can look at that map, okay? Some of you have those, and in order to have uniformity, I've gone ahead and provided us with all of the same map. There's the Mediterranean Sea. On the far right is The area of the present-day conflict, isn't it? Israel, um, Lebanon, although they're not necessarily mentioned on those names And all of it starts out with there within Jerusalem and so forth. You note the colors of the maps, um Paul's first missionary journey in purple Second missionary journey in orange, the third one in green, and this fourth one in red. And note that above on the right there's the Black Sea Just below it is Galicia. We'll mention that. The whole area above that or below that is m Asia Minor. We don't think of Asia as this area, we always think of Asia as the Far East. Well, this is old Asia, Asia Minor. Um we'll mention some of these other cities as I read through it, but just to get an idea that you're being able to handle this as we go through it. And actually if you look on the other side of your map, it's blank. If things go south in the next 30 to 40 minutes, there's always plenty of room to draw And that keeps you from falling asleep. It makes you look better that you're not nodding and green with me, but that you have something that you can draw on as we do this So, centuries before the Apostle Paul reached this area, the region could have been referred to as a Gold Rush Town, kind of like California back in the 1800s. And there were those who were permanent living in this area of of uh where where it is currently located as Philippi. And uh in order to protect these people, which is in Greece, Philip of Mastodon, uh he is the father of Alexander the Great, moves in and Philip says, We're gonna protect you gold miners. Well, you're going to protect the gold miners, which are also going to get some of the gold, which profited his campaign, and he conquered a lot of or most all of that uh peninsula of Greece that is there And naturally he calls this area or calls this town in honor for himself what Let's all say Philippi. You know? You would say, if I conquered the area, we'll call it Keith I, you know, or something like that, or Charlie I or something, you know. But it's Philippi's. He names it, names it, and he says, I'm gonna protect you and I'm gonna provide protection for you in all of these times. About 360 years before Christ, if Philip does this. 200 years later, it was taken over by the Romans. The Romans were there, but the gold was already taken away. Yet this becomes an area that is profitable for the Empire because number one, it's a buffer zone with the rest of the world So Caesar comes along and he provides this as a settlement for retired soldiers, retirement community for the military. And therefore, Philippi has pro provided not only protection, but some of the benefits that of the people that live there, living in the Roman Empire, the blessings and the benefits of having that part of it Then the last part I want to mention here is the makeup of the citizenry, the people who live there. First of all, there are the Roman uh military folks, the Roman colonists. Uh they are probably the ones who had the most clout in town, uh the greatest of influence. Then you have those who are Macedonians, the the old Greeks This is our old hometown. We've lived here for centuries. This is where our fathers grew our crops. This is where everything took place. And then the last of all, we would call it the Orientals Those were generally speaking anybody from this Asia Minor area that came down to Philippi in order to live and in order to make their settlement So let's open our Bibles, if you would, to Paul's second missionary journey. Acts chapter sixteen. This journey has taken place about ten years before he writes the letter. Now, I don't know how well you can handle this, but we're going to read the text, and you will see in tan the second missionary journey. That Paul takes. Tan, orange, however you want to look at it. Okay, I'm going to start at verse 6. Acts sixteen six. Now, when they had gone throughout Phrygia, okay, can you see Phrygia on the map? There's to the right or to the left of the word Asia Minor, okay, current Turkey. Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia That's still in Turkey, a little bit farther north, and were forbidden by the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia after they were come to Mysia Myssi is not on your map, but it's a little bit to the left of the word Asia, the small Asia. They assailed, or they attempted, to go into Bithynia, but the spirit suffered them not. The Holy Spirit didn't allow it. And they, passing by Mysia, came down to Troaz. All right. Troaz, just to the left of Turkey, to the far uh the western side of Turkey, right where you see your orange and green uh missionary journeys go. He's made it to Troaz. Now, Paul's intention was not to cross the water. Paul's intention, you see, all of the the cities listed there in Turkey, a lot of them very familiar, Smyrna, Ephesus, Laodicea They just all of those were he knew that there was a need there, but the Holy Spirit says, no. I don't want you to go there. And how they stopped him, how he readjusted his journey, we don't know But the Holy Spirit closed that. Verse 9. And the vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia. and prayed him, begged him, saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision immediately, we this is Luke Luke joins in. We endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel unto them. Therefore, loosening from Croaz, we're going to take a ship, we came with a straight course to Samothracia. And the next day to Neapolis. Okay, so he's going from Choaz, he's heading across the Aegean Sea there. From Turkey to Greece, verse 12, and from thence to Philippi, which is about 10 miles in, which is the chief city Of that part of Macedonia and a colony, and we were in the city abiding certain days. So who's writing the book? Acts? Who writes Acts? Luke does. So Luke says these are the things we did. And it's assumed that maybe Luke caught up with them a little bit later on, right, where he starts with that we passage But he says, we got to this, and already we've noted here that Philippi is a chief city. It's not a little podung town. And he says it's part of the colony, a colony of Rome So this is a massive movement. This is a great change what we've got here. What a journey This whole trip, this whole second missionary journey, lasted Paul about three years. Three thousand miles. With the exception of traveling by boat across the the uh the Aegean here, it's on foot. Arch support, strength of legs, resolve, you know. The man had physical conditions, you know And so this is a monumental task for him. And as I think about it, I think like Paul, like any of us, When he left um hometown uh the church of of uh Antioch, I'm sure he prayed with them. He says, we're about to set out on this missionary journey And he said, Would you pray with us where we ought to go? And I'm sure they had plans. I'm sure he intended to come down to all of those familiar cities of Smyrna and Pergamum and Ephesus and Laodicea and so forth. He intended to go there because he he came back there again and again. Those are famous places. He says, This is where I th I believe to go I think like any of us he would have asked the church to pray. And as they got down together with the men who were going to go with him, I'm sure Timothy and Silas and Luke were in on it. Sounds good, Paul These people need the gospel. But it wasn't what God wanted, was it? It wasn't what God wanted. The Holy Spirit, he says, wouldn't allow it, and the Holy Spirit redirected. Isaiah 55, 8 and 9, we read, For my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are my ways your ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts higher than your thoughts. You know, I think there are many times in our life when there's a tendency for us to make plans based upon what I think is best. on my experience. And we do that. That's natural, I believe. We base the plans of the future on what I think to do is best and where I ought to go and what I ought ought I often have. You may even pray to that end. And unless there is some clear definitive closing of the door, all we say, well that must be God's will to do this, and to go here, to buy this, to have this. Just like these men had done such. And yet there are times when the results of our plans are far from what we expected, or planned, or considered. Because in the end it wasn't God's will. In the end, he says, no, that's not what I want for you. And because of that, we can become frustrated or disappointed or angry or depressed. But I prayed for this. I thought this is the best way. I logically planned it out. This is needful. And then all of a sudden it doesn't happen. It doesn't happen. That truly could have been the case with Paul and his team. All the planning and preparations for Asia Minor. to reach the people with the gospel in this area. And again, it was a burden on his heart because he does go back there. He spends three years in Ephesus. He does go back there. He writes all of these letters to these people. They're dear to him But at this juncture in his life, at this time in his life, God says no Verse ten. After he had seen the vision, immediately, Luke writes, immediately We endeavored to go. We pushed forward positively to reach Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel unto them. Sometimes when I have to make plans and make changes, I do do it grudgingly. I do it with the burden on my heart because I think this should have been best, and they're not even considering I I have to blame somebody else for this Luke, it was your fault, or Timothy, or Silas. All along we simply needed to believe that his ways are best. To trust and obey, knowing that he understands my end from my beginning, much better than I. I don't have such a perspective that he will put me on the right path that will glorify himself. A couple weeks ago we were invited up to New York to uh uh Anniversary thing. Yes. And with some dear friends with church up there. And we go on the PA Turnpike and you get out to the Jersey Turnpike. And if you've ever done that, there's six lanes. Three lanes and the inner lanes are for cars only, and then there's a median, and then there's three lanes on the outside for cars and trucks. We used to go up there uh Mm two two Sundays a month for quite a few years and and I always used the truck lane simply because uh that was easier. Uh truck lanes seemed to move much better and although the car lanes it was always jammed up So I had my GPS on the on the thing and it shows a big red line as we get up near Jersey City. And I thought, huh, that must be in the inner lanes. And as I go and turn on the Jersey turdpike, it says, keep left, keep in the car only lanes. Well, as we get up there, all of a sudden things slow down, and I mean to a crawl, I mean to a stop And I see old car lanes just going on and going on and going on. And sure enough up here is a car, a small truck was burned, burned to a crisp, and that was the whole thing In my own mind, I had my plans and my my preparations and my experience on how to drive and which lane to go and But my GPS was saying, no, this is the best for you because the GPS is looking farther than I can look. And spiritually, there are so many times in my life when I make a plane logically based on this plane, this horizontal plane, that I think I understand what's best, because I've experienced it. I've known this. People have told me. When all along, as Isaiah says, his ways are higher, higher, he sees a perspective of my life that I can't see. And he knows what lane and life I ought to be in, how that ought to be. So Paul and his ministry team reach Philippi. where they find the city of not a major highway, uh a city of of uh of not Business people but agriculture. And if you know anything about Jewish history, Jews are not necessarily settle in areas where it's agriculture, they like to settle where there's business and commerce, buy and sell, you know. So back to your text. Look again, beginning at verse 13 And on the Sabbath we went out of the city, Philippi, by the riverside. where prayer was wont to be made. And we sat down and spake unto the women which resorted thither. And a couple of women. And a certain woman named Lydia, a cellar of purple from the city of Thyatira, which worshipped God, heard us. Whose heart the Lord opened, and she attended unto the things which were spoken of of Paul. And when she was baptized in her household, she besought us, saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and abide there. And she constrained us Lydia, a Jewess, a seller of purple, there's a certain I can't quite remember the end product was, that produced a purple that was only available through hard work and much labor. And therefore it was available to only the rich. And so here's Lydia with a uh uh s a slew of business involved Jewish uh uh business involved selling to the rich, and she did very well, and her household note did very well, and so it was profitable for her at this time She becomes the first of this church membership. Verse 16. And it came to pass as we went to prayer. In other words, to a place of worship, wherever this was, indoor, outdoor, or whatever. A certain damsel possessed of the spirit of divination met us and brought her masters much gain, a lot of money, by soothsaying. The same followed Paul and us, and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the Most High God, which showed to us the way of salvation. And this did she many days But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the Spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out at the same hour. So, this unnamed, formerly demon possessed Greek slave girl was making lots of money for her owners in the town And she would go around and give fortune telling or whatever it was that was her profit. And she did so in order to have this done. Now all of a sudden her divination her divination spirit is gone and she's a worth nothing to them. She's all of a sudden free. All of a sudden she finds herself free from these spirits. It's not mentioned that she follows Paul, but I can't help but believe that she becomes the next written church member. After all, she provided unto us a great testimony. These men are servants of the Most High God, shows the way of salvation. All of a sudden, she becomes an important key. We'll skip the other verses, but what takes place? Well, the men who owned her all of a sudden say, these guys are troublemakers. You know, uh let's get these men beat up and arrested and thrown in jail because they're destroying, in essence, the business of our illicit business of things that are going on. Paul and Silas are thrown into jail And an earthquake occurs. The jailer all of a sudden is ready to kill himself, verse 30. And brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved in thy house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that were in the house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes and bet was baptized he and all his all of his straightway me immediately. And when he had brought them into his house, he set them before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all of his house. So now a Roman household. Now a Roman soldier in his household come to become the next layer of church membership. Not planned, was it? Not organized by him. Let's stop here and ask the question, what would have happened had Paul decided to not listen to the Macedonian man? Sits around Timothy, you know, he wakes up after this vision, sitting around their breakfast in the morning. He says, Guys I had this dream, but really I know the people down in Ephesus and Laodicea and these other places down here. I know they need the gospel. We've been preparing for it. We even prayed about it. This is the direction we had to go. What would have happened? What would happen to Lydia? And the ones who came along, I'm sure it wasn't just Lydia who became a member, but I'm sure the gospel was available to all of those who came down there and worshipped at that time. You know. Well what if happened to them Who knows? But I think it was in the Lord's hands. What would have happened to the demon-possessed woman? How long would she have physically lasted? You know, before her body was rent apart. How long would she have been a useful servant of these men? Thrown in jail? What about the earthquake? Obviously the earthquake was in God's providence, but what if the earthquake continues and occurs at that same time in the same location? And all of a sudden all of the prisoners have escaped. There's no Paul and Silas to stop them. What would have happened to that jailer? Is his responsibility to see that those who are under his command are are secure. And if they're gone, he's gone. He would have killed himself. He would have taken his sword and killed himself. But what about his family? What about the household who all of a sudden no longer has dad or owner of a m a man of means here to come back to him be provided for. All gone. All gone. Psalm 1830 says, as for God, his way is perfect. As for God, his way is perfect. I appreciated your offertory, you know. uh today. God makes no mistakes. And we review the things of this past week, even things that are going on right now. We were listening to the radio on the way in and they said they were taking drones And they were hooking them up to shopping cart bottoms, they cut the wheels off, and loading them up with supplies and flying them in with drones and supplies to these people in these outer regions, you know Donkeys taking stuff and her mules, you know. We we we have why, Lord You know, we we have the list of things that our we we pray for and we we we're pained over when they occur within us or our families. And we say, why? But it could be a thousand times worse We could be in the same situation, but live in Western North Carolina. God makes no mistakes. His way is perfect Now and forever. And we may scratch our heads and not understand the why. And maybe Paul would have said, what if we did? No, boy, I this is the best place to go. The timing was right. The location was right. Everything was right. And again, Paul's desire as you ch as you look on this on this missionary journey map He comes back there again, there on his third missionary journey, and he stays with these people. So nothing was lost because it's all in God's hands. It's all in his timing. So I think the key becomes how do I understand it and how do I accept it? How do I provide within my heart an understanding of his hand in my life? God's ways are higher than our ways because his ways are always part of a bigger plan, a plan that I cannot see. We often ask those things, what if? What if I knew when this thing is gonna happen? You know What if I could I would change things? You know, no, God understood the things and the intersection of plea people, places, and times, being perfect in all of his ways. We see only a small piece of the puzzle, but God sees the finished work. When our desire is to live in step with His plan, We can have confidence, even when things are happening that are evil, that he hasn't lost control. That he hasn't lost control. Daily, we're bombarded with our own country's political situation. The Middle East, a powder keg that could erupt into World War III And then in the far east, the situations, the people with their fingers on triggers to eliminate, you know, Taiwan, uh South Korea. Yeah. It's just, Lord, what do we do? Well he's not sitting up there and saying, Well, let wait a minute, wait a minute. Let me guess let me work on this. I'll get back with you. I'll get back with you We are important to him. This past Wednesday was the 18th anniversary of the shooting at Nickel Mainz Amish School. Gudman took hostages, shot ten girls between the ages of six and thirteen, killing five of them at that time. One of them just died here recently this year. So killing a total of six. And then commits suicide. On the day of the shooting, a grandfather of one of the murdered Amish girls was heard warning some younger relatives not to hate the killer. On the day of saying, we must not think evil of this man Another Amish father noted, he had a mother and a wife and a soul, and now he is standing before a just God. Jack Meyer, a member of the Brethren community living nearby, explained, I don't think there is anybody here that wants to do anything but forgive. And not only to reach out to those who have suffered a loss in that way, but to reach out to the family of the man who committed these acts. Try to understand it. Try to make sense of it. And it doesn't. I watched a clip, part of an interview done to the wife of the shooter. And she's written three books now. She's a born-again believer. And her life is totally resting upon what had taken place. She says, uh I I sat home and he says, my husband calls me this day and he says, I knew something was wrong. He says, I'm not coming home And so he says, I called the police and 911 and and she says I talked with them and they just kind of held on. And he says, you just stay by this phone. We'll get back with you. And she says, I knew something had already happened. Wasn't long later that the police came and she says, is it? He says, yes, he's dead. You know, where do you go? Your children, your life. But she says, I look at it now, and he says how God so cautiously and beautifully prepared us and provided for us and has up to this point. Those are things we don't want to happen. But God's ways are perfect. And we have to be resolved to understand such a principle. If we try to understand God's ways from earth looking up, we're not going to find many answers. For you see, his ways are totally different from our ways. They are better. They are superior. His ways are on a much grander scale than we could ever imagine. He parted the Red Sea because it fit his plan for Israel. He made the sun stand still so Joshua's army could defeat the Amorites. He sent an angel to let Peter out of jail. He allowed James to be executed. God even allowed some of his faithful servants to be terribly brutalized. Yet he delivered those whom he chose. So when we try to make sense of these events with our natural minds, it won't work. Instead, God invites us up to a higher plane in life, not to be graveling down below, but to a higher plane. Those of you who have flown and you've gone through a storm and the plane just rocking all the time, oh, get there to this, and all of a sudden he breaks above the storm, above the clouds. And it's peaceful. You look out the plane's windows and all of a sudden it's just beautiful out there. But down below, it's all turmoil. And that's the world in which we live in. And Paul could do that. And I think it ought to be for each of us. But how does that begin with Paul? How does he get to the stage in life when all of a sudden he says, Lord, your way is perfect, let me follow? And you think of Paul's life, all the stuff that had happened. all the the imprisonments and the beatings and everything that went on, you know, how could he continue? The mobs are after him, escapes out of the city in a basket or lowers down the hill, you know, am I in the wrong business? He continued to persevere. Now, if you would look to Philippians chapter 1, and just let me read the first two verses. Philippians one Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ. To all the saints of Christ Jesus which are at Philippi with the bishops and deacons, grace be unto you, and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul and Timotheus, or Timothy. Remember Paul's in prison, and it's not that Timothy was there in prison as a prisoner But he would be able to visit. Paul was in in essence a house arrest. Uh he was chained to a soldier, uh n didn't have great freedoms, but people were available to come in and out to care and bring things for him. So Timothy's there and Timothy s agrees with everything. The servants of Jesus Christ to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi Saints is a word called hagyas. It means holy. Set apart. This sanctuary here is holy, meaning it's set apart for worship We don't clear the chairs out and all of a sudden make it into a big dance party, although maybe it do maybe that goes on. I don't know. Is it? I guess no, no, no, no. Um it doesn't happen like that set apart for God's service. And then he refers to Christians here, all those who are saints, holy, set apart for God's service, who are professing Christians in Christ Jesus. set apart for his service. With all of the bishops and deacons. Bishop is a Greek word, episcopas, where we get episcopalian And it's the same office as elder. It's just looking at it from a different responsibility within the church. So he refers to that. And then to the deacons. So it's bishops and deacons or elders and deacons. And he says to all of them, Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. But let me just close with the thought of a little bit that we kind of skipped over, Paul's reference to him being a servant of Jesus Christ. A servant. Sometimes we refer to that as Christians, you might. I'm your servant, you know. I I We think and when we hear servant, we think of of Jeeves, you know, he comes and and he opens your car door and brings you into the house, you know. Or does dishes or takes care of the children. In New Testament Greek and even before that, it was a bond slave. And you were totally possessed by your master 24-7. You were no longer yourself. And in most of these cases, it was a voluntary relationship. I voluntarily have been brought into this relationship with him. The bond slave totally possessed by his master. I suggest that the success of Paul's ministry is seated, among other things, in his hard understanding that he was a servant of Jesus Christ. 24-7. Not just on Sunday mornings or Wednesday prayer meeting time. He was a servant full-time. And he could answer to him and he could go where he ever wanted to go and do the things that he wanted to do because you own me. The relationship was bound through his salvation bought by the precious blood of the Savior, and was so happy to do the will of this same Jesus Christ. We sometimes taste a pinch of that. But the whole process of on the day that we came to Christ and says, Lord, enter into my heart, I receive you as my Savior, forgive me of my sins We're in a process of growing to understand what it is to be a servant of Jesus Christ. A full-time servant, not part-time. I think it's very ironic that the bondservant of the Most High God is one of the most privileged and noble professions that the world has ever known. My God, the one who created the whole world and carries everything in the span of his hand and orchestrates all of the events of history, even to the very moment that we are here today. I am a servant of his, and it is the most noble, honorable profession that anybody could ever have. It trumps free of the word, if is is far superior than than any of the highest office anybody could have ever esteemed to in this world, and always will be. And it's a little wonder that noble men of God, in that they have always been called servants of God. As you read through your Bibles at times, you go through your Old Testament, Moses and Abraham and Isaac, and they all referred to themselves as a servant of God. They understood what it meant. They understood the relationship. When you take that into effect, you say, how could this man write this letter from jail in such wretched conditions? Only because he was obedient to the one that had put him there, he had to have a servant's heart to bring joy to that. And this letter comes to the place where I'm expressing such joy to you, Philippians, for your life and your ministry and all of the relationships that you have. because you too are part of that that you can enjoy. And I think it's for us too. I think whatever it is, individually and as as couples and as families the the relationship that that we have to him. If I come along and say, no, I am his, you know, uh I I'm I'm owned by him. Not my choice, not my will, but yours, Lord, you know. And and slowly we grow in such a relationship. I think it'll we'll understand more fully the principle that he comes here with joy. Let's pray. Father, we walked through briefly the history, as you know, of this church and of Paul's journeys, a faithful man to be a servant of yours. And as it has been preserved for us to be able to read this history and read the interaction between Paul and in the church of Philippi, or between Paul and others along the way. We're we're at times ashamed for uh the lack of following that we do. We most often lag behind in your call Or we sometimes run ahead, far above, far f farther than you ever expected. We're all along we need to be there with you and listen to your your your your call, your direction for us. Father, give us a heart of joy. Help us to find peace and a satisfaction and joy not found in our circumstance, not found in what we have or what we don't have. But our joy to be found in Jesus Christ, for it's in his name we pray. Amen