Back to John chapter fifteen, verses sixteen and seventeen. It's an extension of the last message we were We were in, and basically we were looking at the commandments of the Lord and how important they are. They're not grievous, they're not burdensome, they're a great blessing for us And this is a requirement that the Lord gave us, and I and we need to look at that this morning and see where the Lord leads us. So in John chapter 15, just two verses this morning Verses 16 and 17, but we have plenty to read, so don't worry. We got plenty of scripture to go over. So in verse 16, our Lord says Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain, that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he will give it you These things I command you that ye love one another. Well it's two verses and basically I want to just say this leading up this we were talking before actually a couple of Uh a couple of uh worship services that I preached ago. We were talking about the true vine and how Christ He grasped us into that vine and we're there and basically He holds us dear to himself and he tells us he'll never let us go. But we see if you go back to verse 10 in John fifteen, if you keep my commandments In verse 10, John 15, once again, if you keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love. Even as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. We see that a commandment, a commandment to keep his commandments, it's not grievous. We just read the second greatest commandment. And we read the read the first greatest commandment is Matthew chapter 22, verse 37. Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. This is the first commandment This is the first and great commandment. Why is it great? Because our Lord God Almighty, he says it is. I think that's a very good reason. All things are of him, Romans eleven thirty six, for of him and through him into him are all things to him be the glory forever, amen. His providence and preeminence is perfect He is a just God, and he so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. He reigns over the just and the unjust, if you look in Matthew chapter 5, verse 45. 1 John 5. 3 says he speaks about, for this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous. We see in Psalm 126, verse 5, they that sow in tears shall reap in joy, keeping his commandments. You know what's incredible? Basically, a lot of people don't understand about his commandments. I remember Lisa and I, we were in a restaurant many years ago, and we were talking about common law, and it was a young lady who was actually taking law. She was taking uh constitutional law in college. And she didn't even understand in the Bill of Rights. Basically the preamble of the Constitution is the Bill of Rights and it's predicated on the Decalogue of the Ten Commandments And today I think that's something we need to look at and how important these commandments are. And so basically that's what we're going to do. We see it. But who, who, who, how would how how can we not understand the Ten Commandments? Well, I think that's something we need to look at But we see as we go back still a little bit of review, we see here these commandments are how Christ revealed his plan to those disciples. He taught them to believe on him. Salvation is paramount We've heard from Christ repeatedly all throughout the synoptic gospels about his commandments, and if you love me, you'll keep them. He says they're not a burden, 1 John. They're not a problem, they're not grievous. He says, my yoke is heavy. My yoke. I'm sorry, my yoke is not heavy. He says, but the problem is that the harvest is plenty and the laborers are few. That's very sad. Well, sadly, look at what happened to the Ten Commandments. The Pennsylvania School District capitulated to the demands of a militant atheist. who filed a federal lawsuit demanding the district remove the Ten Commandments from the school. This is in Pennsylvania. There was a monument erected on the public high school with the commandments in New Kensington Arnold School District. And they agreed to remove the massive monument within thirty days, and they did it. The lawsuits back in 2012 and this set forth a fire across the nation and I've seen it in Colorado, many other states, where they had big, beautiful granite commandments. Taken down. I don't understand that. See the commandments protect us And there are a lot of things in these commandments. I think the first four people have a real hard time with, because we're talking about the greatest commandment is to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, mind, and soul. And that's the first four commandments. At the bottom of six, I mean, look at them. Do you want somebody to kill you? Do you want to be in a marriage where your your spouse commits adultery against you? The Lord calls out against this. Do you want people to lie to you? Do you want people to covet what you have and steal from you? That's a really dangerous, dangerous uh sin. But overall in our country a lot of these commandments you won't even see them basically in public places hardly at all anymore Christ used parables now. He's speaking very plainly. He's talking extremely, very profoundly. And that's what we were talking about before, about how his great commandments are predicated on honoring his commandments and honoring them. Well, look at some of the names of the Ten Commandments. As we go to verse 16 here, we talk about how the title of the message is We Are Chosen by God. But how do we know that we're chosen by God? What is the manifestation of that? Look at some of the names of the Ten Commandments. So you know that there are other names in biblical Hebrew. uh the Ten Commandments are transliterated, the Osuret or the Hadborim, and in Rabbinical Hebrew trans the transliterated of the Osureth or the Hadibroth Both translatable as the ten words, the ten sayings, or the ten matters. The Tyndale and the Coverdale English translations, they use ten verses. The Geneva Bible uses ten A commandments Which was followed by the bishop's Bible in the authorized version, the King James Version, of Ten Commandments. Most major English versions use the commandments. The English name is called the Decalogue, it's derived from the Greek and Decalogos. The latter meaning referring to the Greek translation in an accusative is a decalogos, or ten words, found in the Septuagint, basically at Exodus chapter 34, 28 and Deuteronomy 10. 4. And these stone tablets as opposed to the commandments inscribed in them are called the Luchal Tabrit, meaning the tablets of the covenant. What's so important about this is think about what happened with Moses. He comes down off of the mountain and he has the commandments The people are doing horrible things, and what does he do? He breaks them. So what did the Lord do? Just forget about them. Ah, sorry, you broke that one. We'll make some new ones. No, he gives them the exact same thing and he builds them. He rebuilds them. He gives them to them. Well, today people don't understand how important they are. These commandments are how Christ revealed his plan to the disciples. He taught them to believe on them and he fulfilled them, and salvation is so paramount. by them. We have heard from Christ repeatedly proving through the pen of John that he that he was who he said he was by an endless witness. And John 11 We read, but as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. In Romans 10. 9, we read, That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. So the manifestation of God choosing us is us obeying his commandments. Are we going to do it perfectly? He knows that we're not. Why do you think that he all the whole New Testament is written? Basically about redemption and salvation. Paul himself he wrote 60% of the New Testament showing that we are saved by grace and not by works. Lest any man should boast. What he's talking about is the commandments were not annihilated. They were fulfilled by Christ Himself. And the manifestation of us being chosen by God is to keep his commandments and to honor him. The moral law. Very important. Well, we see that the pen that the commandments sadly have been stripped away. We see that, except for one when Christ used parables, there are many that didn't understand him, and now he's speaking very plainly. He's talking very prominently. He says in John 13, 13, Ye call me master and Lord, and ye say well, for so I am. He made it very clear that he was the great I am. He calls his disciples his friends, he's chosen them Christ is saying wonderfully, if you approve yourselves by following my commandments as saved followers, you are my disciples indeed. So who are Christ's disciples? Well, a disciple is a student. You go to college, doesn't your professor tell you what to do? They give you a syllabus Today you do a lot of like uh I think you do a lot of like exams online, but somehow, some way that there is an absolute uh table of contents or there's an outline to show you how to follow what the professor expects to listen to him, to follow him if you want to get that grade. That's what this is. The commandments is there's no different. It's like a con it's a table of contents. These commandments are not just arbitrary suggestions They are dominion mandates from God and they protect us and are wonderful. You know, ever been around somebody that you love, really love with your heart, and you just naturally love to do things for them You love to be with them, you love to hang around them, you love to hear letters from them, you like to get letters and you like to read them. You might not see them for a while, they might go away and all of a sudden a letter comes in the mailbox. What do you do Do you take you do go to the mailbox? Do you take the letter? Oh, it's just another piece of paper. And you go home, you stick it up on the shelf, and you let it collect dust for ten years. Well, sadly, that's what people do with this love letter. We have the scripture, the commandments of the Lord and the revelation of his redemption and salvation are in his love letter to us. And it should never, ever be sitting on the uh on the shelf all the time. We should be breeding it. We see those that carry out the obedient duties of our master and serve him are given the dignity and blessed recognition as his friend. He is a close friend and one that gives a perfect example. And there's some verses to read. You're not required to turn to them. I mean it could take us a while, but I can read them You're welcome to write them down. I'll try to go as slow as possible. Proverbs 18. 24 says, A man that hath friends must show himself friendly. And there is a friend, Proverbs now, Old Testament, there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. Boy, I wonder who that's talking about. Huh? All the way back in Proverbs, Song of Solomon. Isaiah 41, 8, but thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen. The seed of Abraham, my friend, has great significance here in the Old Testament. You see, James chapter 2, verse 23 says, and the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness. And he was called, oh, this is wonderful, the friend of God. Christ not only calls his obedient ones friends, wouldn't you love to hear that written about you in Scripture? That God calls us his friend. Well, he does if you love him. Keep his commandments. Mark 3. 34, and he looked round about on them which sat about him and said, Behold, my mother and my brethren. For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same as my brother and my sister and mother, is it worth following Christ? Is it worth it? Well he says, well you follow me and you keep my commandments, it's going to put a wedge between it could be a wedge between you and your mother. It could be a wedge between you and your sister. It could be you and your father. It might happen. We do everything we can when we have that well when we have that wedge to not hate 'em, to not turn our backs like we're something better than they are, to love them, let them be our mission field. I think it's the way to handle it. Well, one cannot be a friend of this world when one cannot be a friend of this world and a friend of Christ. He cannot love the things of this world Christ said himself, he made that very plainly, he said, I pray now, pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth, so thy word is truth. We're in the world. Are we supposed to like Build some little Indian res reservation and live in it and not go outside of that and not do anything to be amongst the world? Of course we're in the world. We gotta work. We gotta go to school Yeah, you have the MVA. I can tell you you're in the world when you're there. And all these other places that you're there. And these are places that we look for opportunities to witness if we can. There's a lot of places that we get stuck at. Well, that's that's what happens. Well, we see that this question of who is who or who is my family? And could we see James chapter four verse four, ye adulters and adulteresses, know you not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Now, that brings up an extremely important preamble and a gateway to this message about being chosen by God. And I'm going to just say this. If we live in a world, as we talked about this morning, where we can choose whatever we want to do, and God loves us unconditionally no matter what we do, then we're the ones making the choice, and he has no power to choose us. Because if you read the book of Amos, you go through the minor prophets. I don't know why they call them that. It's a theological term. I don't think they're minor, they're major. I love Amos chapter 7. Then he made it very clear to Jeroboam, you all have gone over you've gone to worship idols, and when it's all said and done, you're going to lose your wife You're going to absolutely be killed by the sword. Your kids are going to be killed by the sword. Because, as we talked about Wednesday night, there was an oath. And the oath is this. If you worship other gods, I will hate you. That's simple. And basically I remember Pastor Mike Britton used to ride around with a bumper sticker back in the 70s. That was a big thing where smile, God loves you, with this little red thing. His said, frown, God might hate you You worship other idols. You can't expect God to love you or me. I don't think that's asking a whole lot for God to say basically in John in Isaiah chapter 42 verse 8. We read 41 verse 8 here. I am the Lord, that is my name, and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to what? Graven images. And so we cannot turn God into something He's not. That's not going to happen. Anyway, let's see. Grace is saying wonderfully if you approve yourselves by following my commandments You're my friends, you're my disciples, uh you you are chosen by me. And I know and the Lord says I know every one of you. We see here as we've been studying in John chapter 17 in the Sunday school class, broken down, he prays Between he and the Father, then he prays for his disciples, and he prays in verses 19 to 26 and John 17 for us, those that love him and are followers of him. To me, this is an encouragement. This is a wonderful blessing to know that God gives us the dividing line and shows up what is right and what is wrong. So it's the ultimate it's the ultimate objective of a parent to teach their kids what's right and what's wrong. Today I don't even think kids even know what's right and wrong. Go to public school, I mean everything that's wrong is now supposed to be right. And everything that's right, trusting in Jesus Christ, hey, you're nothing but a homophobe, you're some kind of terrorist. Christ has repeatedly now offered great reward and guarantees that his disciples will be showered with blessings from him because they ask in his name and they follow his commandments and they love him. Well what happens in the case today of big government, big business, sports arenas, other churches, big massive churches, high officials, polity of the church, so many people want to make a name for themselves. They want to be at the top of the hill I mean you see what you see see amazing and incredible. I mean uh Joe Kennedy, you so I remember I remember hearing sermons about this and I remember like it was yesterday. I remember Joseph Kennedy, he was the father, I think it's John and all of them, he was a rum runner And uh he said basically, I will never die. Did he die? What about Ted Turner a few weeks ago? 87 years old, birthed billions and billions of dollars, hated God all the way to his death, from what I understand. And it caught up with him, didn't it? 87 years old. And all these years and all the things that he's done. What now? Well, the such blessings rested not on the merit of whatsoever we do, but on divine predestination. We talked this morning about the determinant counsel of God as a Christian. That's a wonderful blessing to know that there is a God that has a determinant counsel, and it doesn't matter if you can't see it If you can't see the actual heavens opened up and Christ on the right hand of God, it doesn't matter that you can't physically see it. You can see it in here because he tells you The faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, for by it the elders obtained a good report. Thank God for the elders had obtained a good report all throughout Scripture. Peter was one of them. And basically you know that he's there, he has a determinate council, and he we are chosen by God. So important it's so important. We see such blessings rest not on our merit, but on divine predestination. For God to predestinate is a hated scripture Scriptural application, and it's a detested word among religions today. It's not just a Luther or a Calvin word, it's a scriptural term. Look at Romans chapter 8, verses 29 to 30. You're welcome to turn to that. I'll wait for you because I want to say a couple things about this. Predestination is not a curse word. It's not a horrible religious pagan word. It's a beautiful word because God put it in his word. And look at look at even Paul confirms it. And Paul is a brilliant man, by the way. Don't ever underestimate how brilliant he was. Romans chapter 8. 29 says, For whom he did for know, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Wow. Boy, it shows up again in verse 30, right after that, moreover whom he did predestinate. Them all he also called and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also, as we read this morning, he glorified them. He loves it. He shares in his glory with us. Well, this brings up a very important theological term, and I think I can maybe get this across here without it being too Maybe too academic. Bob's been doing a great job preaching here on Sunday mornings and reading the Westminster Confession of Faith. He thinks he's not preaching, but he's preaching. So he stands and he reads that. That's important. That's our constitution. That is a constitution of our church. What is effectual? What does that mean? Effectual calling See, that's where you start taking this and you start really getting academic, and you take predestination, you take God's providence, providence is a great word, and you talk, and then you go to the confession, we talk about effectual calling of God. The effectual calling means something very practical and simple. But I'll read this. What is effectual? This is a question and answer. This is 67 and 68 in the confession. Westminster Confession of Faith from st uh from the 17th century. Effectual means producing an effect, or the effect desired or intended, or having adequate power or force to produce the effect. It's a calling. Effectual calling is the work of God's almighty power and grace, whereby, out of his free and special love to his elect, and from nothing in them moving him thereunto He doth in his accepted time invite and draw them to Jesus Christ by his word and spirit, savingly enlightening their minds, renewing and powerfully determining their wills. So as they although in themselves dead in sin, are hereby made willing and ablely free to answer his call and to accept and embrace the grace offered and conveyed therein. It's a little deep But he says here, I think it's very profound, enlightening their minds. If you've been saved, and I trust everyone is here, Did you notice an enlightening of your mind and there was a change in your mind that the former things you loved to do that was really dangerous and damaging to you You didn't want it anymore? Oh well, I know it's gonna it takes time. Sometimes we go back, sometimes we gotta test it a little bit more, and oh all of a sudden, instead of being addicted to something, all of a sudden now You're pulling away from it. You know? The Lord loves that. He loves that. There's this precious man. I think I talked about him before. If not, and I repeat myself two times. I'm sorry. There's this precious man that works out at the Bucackeysville dump. That precious man, I just he made him and I quote verses all the time. He goes up after him, now you gotta give him the driver's license and you get ten visits So I gotta get in there and I take I got try to go every Saturday and I go in and he stands there. I forget his name. I call him Jasper and uh we go in there and I and he starts quoting verses. One day I finally talked to him And I said, where did you get all this knowledge? Where did you learn about Christ? He said I was a drunk, a horrible drunk. And I went to the 12-step process, and he says, I noticed that in one of those, I don't know how I don't have it memorized, one of them led into Scripture. And one of those tenants led into Scripture, and he went into Scripture, and he said, I started reading Scripture, and he said, I didn't want to drink anymore. I just didn't have his mind was enlightened, wasn't it? You talk about the great the Great Enlightenment period, which was the most vile and wicked thing that Europe ever presented to the United States of America. that we've ever seen, the Enlightenment period that brought evolution and brought everything filthy and vile to do everything they could to eradicate God. A true Enlightenment comes from what it says here. In the Constitution of our church, the commission confession of faith, when you're saved, your mind is enlightened and it's joyful. Well, as Christ says, he goes, uh He goes, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. That's one of his petitions in John chapter 17. I pray for them. I want their joy to be fulfilled because when I when when my people are free They are free indeed. And let me tell you what free indeed means. It means liberty. Liberty is being free indeed. And Christ is telling us that's what we have through him. That's effectual calling. Question 68 is, are the elect only effectually calm? There's the big one. This is the one that has everybody punching each other over over theology All the elect and they only are effectually called, although others may be, and often are, outwardly called by the ministry of the word. And have some common operations of the Spirit, who, for their willful neglect and contempt of the grace offered to them, being justly left in their unbelief, to never truly come to Jesus Christ. Now I want to make this practical so you don't go around saying, oh, there's that Calvinist stuff again. John Calvin did not call himself a Calvinist. That didn't come until many, many years later. And I don't worship John Calvin. He is like many trees. I love to pick fruit off of the trees. I don't care if it's John Piper, John Calvin, R. C. Sprohl, J. C. Ryle I don't care if it's uh oh well some of John MacArthur, of course. I mean you can't leave him out. And there's and then there's a Luther. I've got my hands on some of his uh commentaries from the book of Psalms. Psalm 51 I've been studying Well I tell you that's powerful. I love it. And then you pick those pick the fruit off of those trees, and what you find out is that You have Calvin had something to say about effectual calling. See the problem is a lot of people didn't have anything good to say about it. Because here's the problem, I'll make this practical. We believe because we are our own basic entity, we should know everything that God knows. Does that make sense? Well, if you have to know everything that God knows, then we don't need God. We don't. All it means effectual calling is God knows who's going to be his. We don't. So we can't go around saying, well, God already knows anywhere. I don't need to hand out tracts. I don't need to have Bible study. I don't need to have church. I don't need to no The word elect is not a dirty word. All it means is you serve a God that knows what he's talking about. He knows who his people are. He knows them down to the left, not just who they are. Why is that so hard to understand what it says in the New Testament? I not only know them, I know every hair on their head. I have every hair on my people's head counted, and I love them. I know their hair on their head. Consider the thoroughing that falls from the tree. I know every sparrow, so how much greater do I love you? You see where I'm going with this? If God doesn't know everything, he's not God He's a wizard of Oz. He's that liar behind the screen. That's all he is. That's not true. He knows everything. I want him to know everything. I want to know that when I'm gone and I'm out working and my wife's home by herself or the kids, especially when they were young, all you guys, I pray for you all the time. I want to know you're protected And I go to the Lord, and I know He knows every hair on your head, and He knows everything about you. And I pray. And I'm and that just Charles Spurgeon said something. I love what he said. I was reading last week. He said, When you go to bed at night Do not take your worries and your burdens into your bed. He says you leave them on your knees and pray before you go to bed and you leave it there, God, at the foot of the cross. And that that that is why I love a God that knows everything and loves his elect. The elect Is that is a God I don't like to use that term. I think it's disrespectful. That is providence of God. We don't know who his elect are. So you can't sit there and look at this guy at work or whatever and say, oh he's not of the elect. I know people that do that. He's not of the elect He's not going anywhere. I'm not even going to waste my time giving him a track. I'm just going to leave it in the bathroom somewhere. No, you don't know. I can tell you one thing you will know. You trust the Lord and you give him the credit he deserves about who is the elect. You leave this earth, he's going to show you the people that came up to heaven because that he worked through you Pastor Olson said that many times. I believe that. And I believe they're going to come up and give you a hug and say, thank you. I had no interest in the Lord, and you brought me that track, or you brought me to church. Or you told me what I was doing was wrong and you did it in love. We don't know who it is. He does. But there are things that he knows that we don't know. Well 2 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 6 says, already 10 off, 2 Corinthians 1, 6, and whether we be afflicted 2 Corinthians 2, yeah, no, I'm sorry, 2 Corinthians 1-6, and then I'm going to read Ephesians 3. 7. We speak about the grace offered and God's incredible choosing powers we read this morning in the in the uh We read this morning in the uh Greg wonderfully read the call to worship. 2 Corinthians 1. 6 says, and whether we be afflicted It is for your consolation and salvation, which is effectual. Whoa, there's the word, effectual, in the enduring of the same sufferings. which we all suffer, or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation. Ephesians 3. 7 Wherefore whereof I was made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power I've heard people say Paul knew he was going to be converted on the road to Damascus because he saying I decided to follow Jesus a hundred times. Or so I'm just making that up But no, people have said that. He had no idea. You want to know how he didn't have an idea? He did something that most people were not able to do. He went to the Jewish Council and he received actual paperwork with the signature of the high priest to go into Damascus, which has been nothing to this day, but nothing but an absolute pagan ground them Christian haters. And he was going there to pull Christians out of Damascus and kill them and incarcerate them. That was it. That's what his mission was. And he says, I'm going. His name was Saul at the time. And he says, he says, Saul Tarsus, I'm going. He had no idea. But then something happened. We see how this is right before, after Christ resurrected, and this is before Stephen got stoned. Right before he got stoned. No? No, wait a minute. Now that was Acts chapter 7. And then Acts chapter 9, that's when Paul goes to Damascus. So it was right kind of right after that when Paul was holding the cloaks. When they were talking about this morning and Stephen got stoned. He goes to get them very simply. Christ says, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And he didn't say it like that. If my voice was back, I'd say it the way he really said it. He yelled You want to go get those people. Now you're going through me. I'm the church. You think you're going to go take my people and you're going to go incarcerate them? You're not only am you're not going to do that, I have effectually called you, and you're going to be one of the greatest missionaries that ever lived. How do you like that? Huh? Was that a kawinky dink? Was that something that maybe would have happened? No, that was a calling of God, and Paul never stops talking about it all throughout the sixty percent of the New Testament that he wrote Thanking the Lord, saying that all of my two masters, he had what would be equivalent of an Mdiv, and he was personally trained by Gamaliel. You talk about a the Camellio had the whole Old Testament memorized. Did you know that? Did you know a lot of these rulers had the whole Old Testament completely memorized? And there was Paul, Saul of Tarsus, working under him with two PhDs to the equivalent of law and theology. And what happens? He says all of it was nothing but what? Dung. That's a schatological term, basically. Manure. I don't care about it anymore. It's a mile high, nothing but a bunch of dung. All of my knowledge compared to what Jesus Christ did for me. Now aren't you glad that there's an effectual calling and that you're chosen by God? I hope so, because that's a wonderful blessing. God chose Israel. Privileges came came by Christ, miracles, converted souls, protection, provisions, gifts. That was all effectually called by God, and Christ Himself pointed out that God Himself was effectually had Him doing all this work. Self-pride would not be tolerated. Such privileges would never rest on their own merit. All too often throughout the ages, religions are born out of pride for the sake of wealth and the worldly wisdom. And I love what Paul says here. First Corinthians, that's uh Pastor Olson, I think is in there. First Corinthians, he says, Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the wisdom of this world? It's nothing without Jesus Christ. Nothing. Well, God chose Israel. It's not something that just happened in the New Testament and all of a sudden Calvin came up with it. Isaiah 45, 4, for Jacob my servant's sake, and Israel, whoa, mine elect, I have even called thee by thy name. I have surnamed thee. Though thou hast not known me, he called him anyway. It was not for any merit of the Israel at all. A lot of the Israelites hated God. A lot of them did. They were real Israelites, and they but they hated him and they worshiped false idols. God will deliver the Anakims, a great and tall people in the hand of the Israelites, not of their own merit. Deuteronomy 9, 5 and 6 says Not for thy righteousness or for the uprightness of thine heart dost thou go to possess their land, but for the wickedness of these nations the Lord thy God doth drive them out. From before thee, and that he may perform the word which the Lord swear unto thy fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Understand therefore that the Lord thy God giveth thee Not this good land to possess it for thy righteousness, for thou art a stiff-necked people. Alright, so it didn't say the word elect, it didn't say the word predestinated there, it didn't say the word Calvinist there either It said he knew all this stuff before it ever even happened. That's why it's so incredible to read these words, and we've been stuck in the consolatory discourse of Christ, and I'll be honest with you. In my finite way, I'd never leave there if it was all. I love it. I love being there. He said so many things. Mine hour had not come. Christ said so many things that had perfect prophecy If he had perfect prophecy, then he elected that prophecy, didn't he? What if he did not have the power to choose to go on the cross? You think you'd ever do that? I would never do it. Are you kidding me? I'd find a million excuses. I'd make enough excuses to just get out of getting up in the morning sometimes early. I mean he would have made all kind of excuses, but he effectually called. Everything that happened When he went into the judgment hall. He knew what Pilate was going to do. He knew exactly what he was going to say. He knew that when the high priest came in and John chapter 18, verses 20 and 21. that they were going to come to him and say, Tell us of thy doctrine. He had done nothing else but tell them of his doctrine the whole time he was preaching. And he said, I go to the synagogues in the temple, wherein the Jews already resort, and in secret have I said nothing. Ask them. Ask them that know me. They know what I said. They know my doctrine. They know it. Question is, do we know it? I think it's a wonderful blessing. Well, God elected the angels. 1 Timothy 5, verse 21. I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels. That thou observe these things without preferring one before another, doing nothing by partiality. God elected believers to salvation, apart from any merit of their own. Ephesians chapter one, verse three Blessed be the God and faith Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places In Christ, according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. And then verse 6 to the praise of the glory of his grace wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. It's wonderful that he chose us. He chose us. I don't have a problem with somebody saying, Well, my friend, accept Jesus. But as long as they as long as somehow, somehow they talk about him them receiving Jesus and how Christ picked them first, but a lot of times you hear, well, he just he chose Jesus. He chose him on his own and basically it's and and and I find out when people say that The after effect of that, it's like that person will go to choose Jesus, and then after that, they'll go to choose something else, and something else, and something else. And I've seen it. I saw talk to a young man several months ago. I love Reform theology. I love Calvinism. Then all of a sudden I get a phone call. Oh, I don't want to talk about it anymore. I'm going, I'm doing something else. And that happens And all. And so when we know that Christ chose us, I can tell you the Holy Spirit will etch that in your heart. You will know that you're chosen by God. You will know it. That's an enlightening of the soul. You can't deny it. You can't Yeah, I see a lot of these movie stars out there, and I love to hear them talk about Jesus. I love it. I see something on there and I love to read it. But I can tell you the one, there's a lot of them out there. There's one that I know. He boy he is incredible. Lucas Black And Lucas Black was in a lot of movies. He was on some television shows, and I love watching some of his pop-ups come up. He sits there with his Bible, and he sits there and he just loves the name of Jesus Christ. And he he loves to he has Bible studies with his kids. He's totally left Hollywood. He doesn't want to go back to it anymore. He loves the Lord and he talks about it all the time. His soul was enlightened And not only does he love to do that, he's so thankful for it. He's thankful for his salvation. He's thankful that he was chosen by God. And that's a gratitude that we can't even begin to understand without Christ. Christ chooses us to salvation. He has a chosen nation. He loves and he protects. He chooses the angels. He chooses his ministers, his elders, and his teachers. 1 Timothy 1 verse 12 says, And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has enabled me For that he counted me faithful. What a beautiful thing to say. He counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry, who was before here's Paul. a blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious, but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. Christ Jesus, my Lord. Christ Jesus, my Lord. That's what he says. Through the grace and the blessings of Christ Jesus my Lord, choosing us and bearing fruit. You know, there's nothing that God does not know. There's something he doesn't know that he can't be God. Nothing that God does not foreordain. If he chooses his disciples, then they must bear fruit. primary objective, our Lord's sovereign election is that all who carry on the ministry with such revelation gifts from Christ must produce spiritual fruit. And we can see that these spiritual fruits are godly attributes that are beautiful, the fruits of the Spirit. Galatians 5. 22. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness. Isn't it amazing how the fruits of the Spirit doesn't say prosperity, money, Gulf Stream jets, thousands of people every week, big shows, big big podcasts, big money, big hair, big teeth, doesn't say any of that. The fruits of the Spirit are love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, and faith. All good things. There must be righteous behavior. In Philippians 1:10 we read that ye may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness. Which are by Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God. These chosen disciples must praise him. Hebrews 13, 15 By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. That is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. What a holy name. Heavenly Father, thank thee for this wonderful lesson that thou hast taught us all together. Oh Lord, we where would we be without thy choosing? We thank thee for thy choosing. We thank thee, Lord, that thou art an omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent God and can see everything. We thank thee, Lord, that thou wouldst allow thy son to be bruised. As we saw this morning in a Sunday school class in Isaiah chapter 53, verse 10. And it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul in offerings for sin, he shall see his seed. He shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. We thank thee for thy prosperity, real prosperity. That's a prosperity gospel that we can't deny. Bless us and keep us from falling today. In the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.