Season. Uh what sh what should I preach about today? So obviously a Christmas theme. But it's going to be a little bit different than than normal. But you know when you when we talk about Christmas in December twenty fifth Does anyone know why December 25th that we are celebrating the birth of Jesus? Why not 26th? Why not April the 4th? Why is it December 25th? And the answer is it goes back to the Pope. I believe it's Pope Leo. I'm not don't quote me on that, but one of the Catholic popes wanted to have a special celebration uh with with the winter solstice. And so they're looking at the count. Ha, why don't we talk about the birth of Christ and bring that to the people? And he declared December 25th to be the birth of Christ. Probably, if we look at all the facts and information, Jesus was probably born sometime in the spring. Uh but um anyway that's why we talk about this in during during December and December twenty-fifth in particular. But that still does not stop us from thinking about analyzing, looking into the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Certainly it was a certainly should be on the calendar of of our thoughts and so forth. So I'd like to do this. Now the other thing is You know, I'd like to bring something different, but yet really what can you do when we're talking about um the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ? So I I'm going to look at it at a little different angle. So I'm not sure how this is going to turn out. Which, by the way, I want to say this as well. It was two months ago, last time I was here. And I think I owe you an apology for some of the things that I or actually the way that I I said some things In preparing for that message, uh I I did a a um cardinal error, and that is Um I had my message prepared and then going over it, I really didn't like it that much. So I said, I'm gonna start all over and make another message. And I did that, and that's the mistake, make two sermons for one one text. So When they you know did my rehearsals and and try to memorize it and all this, so I got shall we say Sermon A ready to preach. But before I came here I I got my notes, put 'em with my Bible, and when I got up here and looked at my notes, I had notes for Sermon B. I thought, oh I gotta think through this sermon the whole way through here. So it may not have come across as clearly as it should have, and so that was my error there. I hope today's a little bit better. Uh but um So those are my introductory remarks. Christmas. Okay, so we're talking about Christmas here. And of course this is about what we were referring to as the Holy Family, that being Joseph, Mary, Jesus. And uh what we're going to I want to give you two facts today of all my message that may be twenty minutes, twenty-five, maybe thirty. uh maybe forty if I get long-winded, maybe fifty if you're still paying attention. But uh two major themes should come out of this message today if I give it clearly, and that is this In time of need for Christ's people, in the time of need, God will supply. That's just a general principle. That you are his, and one of the principles we see in Scripture, God will supply our need. Whether it be physical, emotional, spiritual, he'll come to your need. This is what we see in the Christmas story, as I'm going to share with you in just a moment. The second major principle we have running through this account. is the fact where you we find many times the Lord says, fear not. Don't be fearful. Don't Be upset, fear not here. As a matter of fact, we find in the Bible, 63 times, God tells his people, fear not. I'm wondering today, did anybody come to here today with fear in your heart? And by that I don't mean you you you know you're frightened this way, but maybe you do not have peace that you should have And if someone is here like this, then I have some message some some words which may be helpful to you. So as we get into this Uh we notice that we begin with Mary, the mother of Jesus, with an account in Matthew chapter one. I just want to read a few verses to you, and I'm going to this be my text, shall we say, Matthew chapter one, and I'll be looking at verse 18. Uh down uh to verse um to twenty-one. So let me just read that and then we simply want to comment on it without adding to it, subtracting from it, just lay it out as it is But we find in Matthew chapter 1, verse 18, now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise, when as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph. Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, not willing to make Make her a public example was minded to put her uh to put her a uh away privately. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph. Thou son of David, fear not to take unto you Mary, your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Let us pray. Our Father, we ask now that you may guide us as we attend to go look into those verses today. We know that we cannot extract any truth, but the Holy Spirit be there and truly be our teacher. And that is my prayer today, that I can get out of the way, and that the Spirit of God will come forth and give forth the message that you would have this church to receive, that you would have me to receive and my wife to receive And while I have notes written down yet, if they are pleasing to you, then we may deliver them if they need to be adjusted. We pray that you would do that as we look at these verses together. So we ask now that you will guide us. Thank you for this time. Thank you for this blessing, Lord. That we can come together in a lovely sanctuary like this. We have plenty of lighting, heat Bibles, uh pews, chairs, uh whatever we need. A a a kitchen downstairs with full of food, a nice parking lot. Everything we need to enhance worship. And Lord, you have been gracious to us and to this congregation. We ask now that you will guide us. And at the end of this time, we'll have a greater love for you, a deeper commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. Give us a burden for souls. Give us understanding to your word. And then, Lord, give us love, a deep Penetrating love one for another. We pray this now through Christ our Lord. Amen. Okay, so we're we're going to begin today with Mary, the mother of Jesus, as we found here in verse Matthew chapter 1, verse 18, which we just read. Now, you do understand when we talk about Mary. She's with child, so some of you mi women can identify with this when you were carrying your your children and you know that uncomfortable feeling, that vulnerable feel all that. I think back to my own life. We had four children We have four children, and every one of her pregnancies were not easy to get through for her and for me as well. Mary is with child. Second thing we want to observe, she's with child before they came together in marriage. Joseph and Mary came together. She's with child before that event. And of course we know that child is of the Holy Spirit Now, how that works, I don't know, but that's what the scripture tells us. That's what I believe to be accurate. This child was born of the Holy Spirit, not of Joseph. This, of course, presents a very serious problem for Mary Being pregnant, yet not having a husband. Think now I I think you women can probably identify with this. Think of the stress for a moment of that Mary must be experiencing. She's with great McCild. Without a husband. And in that culture, this would bring humiliation, embarrassment. Her reputation could be tarnished. And I'm thinking as I'm studying through this, the uh honestly the question that goes through my mind was Could not God have devised a better way to bring in the Christ child than this way, under these conditions? Where leaving Mary with uh such humiliation and possible embarrassment. Couldn't there have been a dip a more logical way or easier way to do this And so I began to look in scripture, looking for principles or thoughts. Could not the Christ child have come some other way, as not to be so stressful, especially on Mary. But as I'm looking through this, I came to the conclusion. When you're trying to solve a problem, let the Bible be the answer, not my reasoning power We get in trouble, you know, when we substitute script our reason for scripture. So as I'm looking through scripture, looking at principles, trying to address that problem. Why did Mary have to go through all of this Couldn't the Christ child have come under normal circumstances? Well, with that thought, I'm looking here at Isaiah chapter 46, verse 9. And there it says For I am God and there is none else. I am God and there is none like me. Verse 10. My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure. So, what you find there is a statement concerning the sovereignty of God. God is sovereign, and he doesn't apologize for it. What he declares will occur. And letting us know this in very clear language that God He doesn't try to hide from me. He says, I'm God, I'm doing what I want, what should be done. I'm laying it out. If you like it, good. If you don't, this is the way it's going to be. Further, if you look in Isaiah chapter 55 and verse 8, again God says, My thoughts are not your thoughts. Nor are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. We have a principle here. Christians are called to a life of faith. That's what we're called to do, to live a life of faith and be content with this. And that's hard to deliver in our culture. In our materialistic culture, that can be difficult to do from time to time. And yet, make no mistake about it. We're to be unique. And that our style of life, our thinking, our values are based upon, and we're seeing these things in faith. For three reasons I say this number one, we are we are creatures trapped in time. Look at our life. But we're as you look at the vastness of this universe, okay we're creatures here, but we're in time We can't get out of it. We are creatures in time. Secondly, we are physical. In nature, you know, touch it. But God, who we worship, he is spiritual. Thirdly, we are temporary On this earth we're temporary, God is eternal. Therefore There are events which will come into our life that we will not understand except through the eyes of faith. And that's how we must go through scripture, reading God's word and receiving it through the eyes and the thinking of faith. The Christian life, if we're going to live a successful, or I should say, a faithful Christian life, it demands that we live by faith. Someone has made I picked this up years ago, someone made this statement, and I said, hey, I like this, I'm gonna write it down. And here it is. Just a little phrase God said it. I believe it. That settles it. Isn't that simple? When I first heard this, I think I was a student in Bible college or something. It was many, many years ago, but I thought Now how simplistic and foolish is that? Oh, God said, okay, I just believe it, okay, whatever you say. But you know, of course I was very young in my faith at that time as well. But really when you get down to it, that is great wisdom. God said it. I believe it. That settles it. Let's go on and do something else now. And this is my saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And as we do this, what this will do, of course, is put you at variance with the world. And uh you'll have to learn how to deal with the world. Uh scripture says what? Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in me in you And that's something that we're going to have to do. If I acquire this little motto, God said it, I believe it, that settles it That may ruffle some s some feather, but that's alright. Because you know what? Suffering and sometimes rejection for the people of God is normal. We should not be surprised if you are rejected from the in-group at work or a neighbor seems to be ostracizing you and and all of this because of your walk with the Lord, because you don't live a worldly life And say you maybe put on the outside a little bit. You know what? Join the club. As we look through scripture, this is what happens all the time. For example, Samson Well how did he end up? Pushing the pillars of the temple and his suffering there. Rahad. Remember Rahab, he despised. Jonah, swallowed by a whale. All these happening to the people of God. You would think, again, if I am a people of God, if I'm following the Lord, we're just going to sort of smooth out my life a little bit. But we're seeing many times that people of God go through extreme difficulty. As they say, Jonah swallowed by the whale. Could you imagine being in that whale? That male stomach? What in the world must he have been thinking? What in the world did he do? And so we have to realize that you know that's Joan that's uh Jonah. And then we have Noah. Think about what Noah was going through and during the flood. Now we read about the flood, but put yourself in his position for a while. Dwell on that. Here you have the world covered in water and you're in this ark. What in the world's gonna happen? But again, this is what happens to the people of God. Job, we know his suffering. Suffering severe affliction. And of course as we go through the whole book of Job, you know, what what did he have? Uh boils from the soles of his feet to the crown of his head. And I'm sure you've all had a boil. At least we've all had one once in a while. And I don't know if you've had them like me, but I know and I've had it. They hurt. I mean you can't go like touch it like that without Oh man, don't touch that And yet, can you imagine Job from the top of his head to the bottom of his feet covered with boils? Hebrews chapter 11 lists the people who suffer for the Lord And this is just part of the Christian life. In Hebrews 11 it mentions Enoch. He was translated I wonder what that's like going through that experience, having been translated. Abraham, the Bible tells us he went out not knowing where he went. Think, remember? Abraham, go to a land that I will show you. All right. Where am I going? I don't know, the Lord's gonna show me. And um think of that wife going through that. Sarah having received strength in order to conceive. Moses hid from Pharaoh. And of course, our major figure today, we're talking about Joseph. No doubt he was troubled over Mary's condition. What else do we know about Joseph, though? The word of God also tells us he was a just man. So it must have been a pretty, shall we say, using today's vernacular, a nice guy to know, shall we say? He was a just man. Uh he was not wanting to embarrass His wife married publicly. He was trying to protect her that she would not be embarrassed for her condition. But also the humanity of Joseph comes out as well. Because the scripture tells us at one point he was minded to put Mary away because of her ill-time pregnancy. In other words, he was having some questions about this as well, and what should I do with it? And we know the scripture tells us that while Joseph is under this duress, while he's working, thinking of all this, an unimaginable event occurred. And that is, as you all know, an angel. uh suddenly appears. And so of course it appears in a dream, but still nonetheless it is still very effectual and factual. An angel appears. And so you know when I when I share this with you, I I I cannot help but just think of um an at an event. Which I I may have I may I may have mentioned this to you before. If I have, somebody raise your hand and I'll stop. Uh speaking in several places. I'm not sure if I told you this story or that. When but my wife let me know. She said, Don, why do you tell the same stories all the time for? Well, I don't know if you heard it or not. But just trying to identify with the scene. Um There was a time when um I was with someone and um uh person standing right next to me and it ended a conversation which I which I never saw before. And uh it was a actually in a situation uh of duress. We were um being uh harassed by uh by some people and it and and uh this man appears and he says, Well can I help you? And I say, Well, I've got this issue I'm trying to deal with. He said, Well let me take care of it for you. So he goes and talks to the people and straightens out the situation. And I said, well and and it cost money. It was about money. And it came back and they said um here let me let me reimburse you for what you just paid. He said, Oh no, no, I don't want anything. I don't want anything You say, well, um, you know what tonight I'm gonna have dinner with my wife over here at this restaurant. If you want to come and join us at that time you can. So, all right, well thank you so much for interceding and helping me as you did. I greatly appreciate this. So later that night I went to the restaurant that to find this man who helped us out in a great time of need. And uh he was over in the table there with his wife and we went over and just greeted him, shook his hand and said thank you so much for helping me in that situation here. Let me tell you something. No, I don't want anything. I don't want anything. And so we talked for a while and we had another appointment I had to go to, so I could not spend the evening with him. But Um, so we just went on our way and uh you know I thought, that guy came in the nick of time, I never saw him before, he laid out quite a bit of money to help me out in my situation. And also thought, I wonder if that was an angel. I don't know. He wouldn't take any anything didn't know me, I never saw him before in my life, and he came in and helped me as if we were good friends And um so anyway, that I always think about this when I'm thinking about this angel appearing to Joseph and at a point in time at a time of need. But you know the Bible does tell us this God gives us grace to help in time of need. Hebrews chapter 4. 16. Understand that verse. For the Christian, for the child of God, when we are in a time of need, God supplies your need Get that verse down, Hebrews 4. 16. Here, Isaiah chapter 46, verse 1. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in time of trouble. Any of you in trouble? Maybe not physical trouble, but some you're in some kind of trouble. Look at that promise there. A very present help in time of trouble. Psalm 9. Verses 9 and 10. The Lord is a refuge for the oppressed, a stronghold in time of trouble. Anybody here, I say it again, in trouble. Now what kind of trouble are you talking about? There can be physical trouble, emotional trouble, spiritual trouble, financial problems, health issues. It could be all kinds of things going on. And the Bible tells us to call upon the Lord. Call upon him, cast your cares on him, knowing that he cares for you. But one of the things that you're struggling with, the very things I had just mentioned. So analyze your life and see if there's an issue taking place. No, to call upon God. It is his plan to rescue his people as they're going through times of difficulty. Because the Lord has sent ministering angels to minister unto our need at the time of need. And again, we're looking here in our text about Joseph. Here his wife is ready to deliver pregnant and carrying a child, and yet they did not know each other. And of course Joseph's trying to figure all this out, what am I to do? And then of course the angel comes and gives an explanation And calls Joseph by his name and says, Joseph, thou son of David. And here's the message that we find throughout the Word of God over and over. Fear not. Joseph, fear not, even though you may seem like you're in a mess, fear not. Why? Because Joseph was a covenant person, part of God's covenant people. But not to worry, we're God's covenant people, spiritual covenant with him through the Lord Jesus Christ. But you can imagine Joseph's state of mind, apprehension. Some agitation, embarrassment, anger. What is Joseph thinking? We talked about what Mary must be thinking. What is Joseph thinking during this time? And yet we find God's people, as we go through difficult times, we do struggle. And what is God's message to us when we are struggling? Fear not. Don't be afraid. I've sent my son for you. You're in my possession. And with many things we need to do, but one thing we ought not to do, live in fear. Be apprehensive. God says over and over, fear not. Hagar in Genesis 21 7. In the desert, ready to perish, God says what? Fear not. What do you mean, fear not? I'm going to perish in this desert. Fear not. Isaac in Genesis 26, 24, while in Beersheba, God tells Isaac, I will be with you, fear not. Jacob, Genesis 46, verse 3, while going to Egypt, and for a Jewish person, that's the last place he wants to go to. God says, Do not fear. I will make you a great nation. Not only is he not to fear, the promises: I'm going to make you a nation, a great nation. Israel, Daniel chapter 1, verse 21. Take the land which the Lord God has set before you, and fear not. Gideon from Judges 623, fear not, you're not going to die. And of course, then we have our major theme talking today of Mary. The angel says to Mary, Luke chapter 1, verse 30, fear not. And I mentioned to you sixty-three times in God's Word, He's telling His people, do not fear. Is there anyone here today in fear? You're not at peace. Maybe you feel threatened or some kind of guilt or some kind of difficulty here or there The message is the same for you as a child of God, not to fear. Deal with the issues, deal with them intelligently, but do not allow fear to take over your life. Fear will rob you of your peace. It'll paralyze sound thought and action. And I would remind you of this first in 2 Timothy 1, verse 7. Probably some of you can recite this. In fact, before I tell you what it is, I want to know how many people know that verse? Does it teach can you know that verse? 2 Timothy chapter 1, you'll know it once they begin to say it. God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, love, and a sound mind. And that's a promise of God. It's being his child in faith. God has not given us that spirit of fear. But if but he what he has given us power, love, and think about it. It covers everything. Power Love and a sound mind. That's pretty good. That's a pretty good deal. That's what he gives to his people And so again I would say today, who here is in fear? You're not content, you're worried about the future. Maybe you've come in here today and good, praise God you came. Maybe you didn't feel like coming here today, but you're here. Good And maybe you really don't feel like singing the hymns or worshiping the Lord because let's face it, sometimes we come to church and that's our state of mind for whatever reason. But you know what? The Lord can minister to your life. Even though you may not have peace right now. Maybe you're not comfortable. Maybe you're having a hard time focusing, or your mind wanders and you're just having difficulty. Fear is raising its ugly head in your life, robbing you of your peace and of your joy? What could I be worried about my finances, my relationships, my health issues? You know what? The Word of God gives us good news. You need not to fear, but apply God's word to the issues. But don't fear. Again, what's the overall message we've said? Fear not, fear not, fear not. Again, God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, love, and a sound mind. So what to do if you are here today and you are not really content? Maybe you see some agitation for one for one, maybe you're having an issue with someone at work. Or an issue with your wife or your husband or your child or your parents or and you know in this world we all have issues from time to time. You know what you can do? Number one I would suggest discipline your mind Replace worry and fear with scripture. This is a great thing. If you have you're at you're not at peace with yourself or in your own mind, this would be a great time to take up the habit of memorizing scripture. And you know, someone challenged me that with that. And and so I thought, well, you know, I'm gonna take on this challenge. This is many, many years ago now. And so I started, you know Memorize and the idea was memorize large sections of not just like John 316, which is good. I mean yes, memorize that. For God so loved the world he gave his only begotten son, whoever believes him should not purge but have revelation like you all know this What goes after John 3 16? What what about John seventeen? Or God sent not this world into the world and so forth. But you know what? If you I I would give you a challenge. Between the case of this is what the Sunday before Christmas, so for next year. Starting today Commit yourself to memorizing maybe a small book in the Bible. Take one of your smaller books, James. James, the servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, of the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. Counter all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing this that the trial of your faith works patience, but let patience have her perfect work in you, that may you may be perfect and entirely nothing If any of you lack wisdom, let a misk of God who gives to all men liberally and abriteth not, and it shall be given him, but only let him ask of faith and nothing wavering, for he that waverth is like the wave of the sea driven with the wind and toss, etcetera, and so on. Now you know what? If I can do this Any of you can do this, you know. If we were to take an IQ test, right, Will, somebody come in and give us an IQ test, I guarantee you I'd be the last guy. We have this guy, I think he's number one, and blah blah blah And who's the poor soul at the end? It would be me. And the point I'm trying to say. If I can memorize this, you can do it. And it'd be much more easier for you, it'd probably take less time But you can do it. And it's a wonderful blessing to have a book in the Bible right at your disposal. And so I really can't do it. You can do that. You know who wants you not to be able to do this? The enemy of your soul Plus the world, the flesh, and the devil. They want you discovered. They don't want you memorizing. Yes. But what a treat, what a special thing this is to have God's word deep into your heart. Isaiah, since we're talking about this, and we'll come back to my thought here of struggling with issues. Isaiah 26, verse 3. This would be a good one for you to learn. It's not hard. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. Isn't that beautiful? Perfect peace Who here wants to have perfect peace? We all do. Well here's a and there's many promises of God giving us this, but here's one of them Isaiah twenty-six verse verse uh verse three. Keep you in perfect peace, his mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. What a wonderful verse. Get that in your heart, not just in your head, get it in here, where it's what we're living And that is where the blessings come. We need to approach the throne of grace in confident prayer. Now I think I've given you this man's true life story, so I'm not going to go into depth uh in case I have. If I haven't you can ask me about it later and I'll give you all the details. But I'm sure I've given you the story, the true story of George Mueller Anybody read his diary, George, h his his um biography? A poor woman over here is uh are you raising your hand because you read it or what are you Okay, she's saying yes. Okay. Thank you, Mate. That's my wife by the way, I know her. What an exciting story to read. If you want some excitement. You can probably get it online. Get the biography of George Mueller, M-E-U-L-L-E-R, and that will strengthen your faith. Here is George Muir. This is back in the 1800s in England. And he's he's he gets saved. He wants to do something for the Lord. And he's noted now at this time in London, England, orphans were a major problem. Kids were abandoned and left to live by themselves or sleeping in the alley and freezing and cold So George Mueller gets saved. And now look, what can I do for you? He's taking his faith very seriously. Well, what can I do? I gotta say and he's seeing these orphans. And he said, Well We got we gotta help these orphans. I'm gonna bring one of them home and feed him and clothe them. So he picks up an orphan in the street and, you know, walks him home, brings him into the house. He says, Honey, we're gonna have company today for dinner. What? We you we we don't have enough food for comfort. We're we're we're lucky to get by by ourselves. No, I put this poor orphan here. We're gonna set him up at the table and have him eat Oh George, we hardly have enough money uh enough uh food to do all this. Well come on, I give them some of my potatoes and give them your carrot and we So they feed the orphan. And they survive. And then George is thinking, there's so many orphans out there. Honey, tomorrow I'm going to bring home two orphans. George, you can't do this to me. We don't have enough supply for this. Nonetheless, he's able to talk her into it, so brings two orphans home for dinner, feeds them. Well, you know, making a long story short, this goes on and on till at one point. He was he he started an orphanage and fed and clothed 2,000 orphans. Now the way he did it was how could you do something like this? And it's very simple. And this is what I want to challenge you to do and challenge this church to do. It's an exciting thing to do. I get excited about this, so I'll lose my control here. But here's the thing You know, this church can do great things. You are doing great things. This is a nice congregation here today. This is really more than it's been here for a while. So that I'm saying this is this is exciting. But you know what? You know, God can do great things in our life. And if you pray and can cast your care on him, knowing that he cares for you, great things can be done. Anyway, so George Miller opened up this orphanage said thousands of people and his biography makes the point. When you have a need, pray. That's it. Pray. Period. Cast your cares on him, 1 Peter 5, 7, cast your care on him, knowing that he cares for you, and then sit back and watch God work. Pray about these issues. Bring it before the throne of grace, whatever your issue is. What is your desire? What is your concern? Bring it to God in prayer. Bring us a prayer meeting that we can come together, church issues, get the get the people together and pray There's great power in prayer. And that's the story of George Mueller that his life makes that point. Great things can be done simply through the simple power of prayer. Oh, George, and there's many issues. Examples here I'm going to I can't keep going all these examples. I do think of Abraham's servant. Think of the story of Abraham's servant. Genesis 24, 24, and you know his that whole story, and he says, What? I being in the way the Lord led me. Isn't that a powerful verse? You want to get the leader you want to get the direction of the Lord. Lord, what's your will for my life? Maybe some of you are seeking God's will for your life. Maybe not generally, but maybe a little specific issue over here. Should I say yes or no? Should I go or not? What should I do? And here's the principle. I being in the way the Lord led me. How are you going to get in the way of the Lord? The key is getting in the way of the Lord. How do I do that? Well, in many ways. Bible reading, Bible memorization, worship being with the other people of God, sharing Christ, being engaged in the things of the Lord. You know what you're doing? You're in the way And you getting in the way of the Lord, he's then going to direct you. He will direct you. What a wonderful principle that is. Again, that is. That is Genesis 24, 24. And I say, get in the way of the Lord, and many of your peer fears will disappear. You know, another thought is this. Be where you should be. Here's two little principles here. One, be where you should be Secondly, do what you should do. If you want to have these answers of prayer and have the direction of the Lord. Be where you ought to be. Now where should you be? Let's just talk about that for a moment. Where are you in the course of a week? Are you where you ought to be? Now here's a good thing. This morning right now, you're all you are all here where you should be is in your church. Worshiping the Lord. And then you'll get the blessing from others, from the Word of God, from sharing one with another. Where else should you be? Well Uh a as as Tim was mentioned, you have prayer meeting coming up. Be at it. If you want to get God's blessing. Now if you're sitting home, you know, I wonder why God isn't blessing me. I wonder why it's not blessing our church. Well, yeah, you're at home when you ought to be here. This is where you would begin for those kinds of things. Be where you should be, do what you should be, what you what you should do. And that's a way of discovering God's will for your life. Well what should I do? Well start reading God's word and He will give you direction. Well we know this getting back to Mary then we sort of went off a little bit so I'm bringing it right back to Mary again. We know this We do know, obviously, that Mary will bring forth a child. She will name that child Jesus. Here's what I want to draw from this now. What does it say about that child? What did we read about this child that's going to be born? Two things. One He will save his people, and he will save his people from their sins That's his work. He's going to save his people. He shall save. That's the story about this child. He's going to save. Now notice this. Now Tim used the word. I was gonna I had this great plan here to present this great theological term to you and Tim beat me to it today. And um so it is the word effectual The effectual work of the Lord. I know in the Westminster Confession of Faith was a long discussion, and that's powerful. Understanding effectual The effectual prayer of a righteous man availeth much. And word, God's word is effectual, meaning what he sets out to do It gets done. Many times we set out to do something and good plans and all this, it doesn't get done for one reason or another. But what God sets out to do, it's always done because his work is effectual. And if you have any doubt about that, why are you here today? Because God's word is effectual. He apprehended you and drew you irresistibly unto yourself, and that's why you're here today. Because God's word is effectual. He did not try to save you and fail. He saved you. And you love the Lord. And though and it tells he will save his people from their sins. He shall save them. Again, not try to do it because his work is effectual. And who will he save? Let's ask that question. Who is it from this verse? Who is it that Jesus is going to save? His people. Notice, this is not about Israel. It could include Israel, but it's not about his Jewish fellow man. It's not about the Gentiles. It's about his elect. And that's what you are. That's what I am. By the grace of God, we are his elect. And that is to say, according to the Westminster Confession of Faith, God made an election of sinners to save. Before the foundation of the world, and those are the ones who will be saved, and he'll not lose one of them. And the amazing thing is, in that grand selection. For whatever reason, it included us. And I've asked Lord many a time why in the world people you why how did I get in that? Well, by grace. It's not that you earned it, not that you deserved it We got what we do well if we got what we deserve, we'll be in hell. Lord, I don't want what I deserve. Please give me grace, mercy, or something. Don't give me what I deserve. Don't give me what I've asked for, what I what I should have. No And so he's going to save his people from their sins. Look at Ephesians chapter 1, verse, I'm going to end this here. Unless they go on for another half hour. You got another half hour of time? No, I know you don't I'll end here. But think of this powerful verse. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4 and 5. Listen to the power here. According as he has chosen us in him Before the foundation of the world. When was that election? Way, way back. It wasn't like, oh, I see Donnie Britton just born. I'm I'm gonna elect to save him. No, my election was done before the foundation of the world, so was yours And there's no case of g God electing the sinner to salvation and that sinner does not come to Christ. Because God's work is effectual. He places his everlasting love on you. You will come to Christ. Now, it may be at ten years old, maybe twenty years old, maybe ninety years old but you will come to the Lord based on his power based on his selection. According As he has chosen us before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy without blame before him in love, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself according to to the good pleasure of his will. What a powerful verse that is, and that explains actually why we are here today. So by God's grace, and what is grace? Undeserved mercy. Right? He gives us undeserved mercy. We're all we're all uh result, we are all the people of God's grace. We label the now all these things I've talked about today, we label it all comes under the label of Christmas. The birth of Jesus. And now all these principles I've given you are are found in this whole discussion of what we call the what the world calls Christmas. And so in conclusion, I would simply say this the message of Christmas it is twofold. Jesus comes in time of need, therefore fear not. Let us pray. Our Father, we want to say thank you that we could be here today to worship in this lovely church Not only that, as I prayed about the lovely surroundings of the physical church, but the beauty is the people that are here right here. That you have brought together all different kinds of people, and yet under one banner, under one theme, the Word of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, salvation by grace through faith in the Lord. And I neglected to say, so I'll do it in my prayer right now, and that is as we're praying with our heads bowed and our eyes closed, is has everyone here received Christ? Do you know that if you were to die today you would go to heaven The Bible says, For by grace are you saved through faith and not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Have you received that gift? Of believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, Scripture tells us Christ died on the cross for our sins. He was buried and he resurrected. And offers the gift of eternal life and forgiveness of sins to all who will flee unto Him. For God so loved the world he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever, do you understand that verse, people? Whosoever. How many times have. We heard. I can't get saved. I haven't done too many bad things. God will not be interested in me. I've done this, I've done that. And yet we look at the word of Scripture: Whosoever believeth in him will not perish. But have everlasting life. My friend, you're here today. Have you done that? Have you given your heart to the Lord Jesus? Have you received him by faith into your life? Say, yes, the Lord, I do believe that when you're on that cross you died for me and my miserable sins. I do believe you were buried into the ground like we all will be one day, but that you busted forth out of that Grave to show us who you are, the Son of God. Lord, have your way here in this church. Bless their work. There's great progress being made here. Continue it. For your honor and your glory. And we pray all this through Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen.