Let's approach this word together in prayer. And there were added that day about 3,000 souls. Somehow he appears in this locked room. And the word was with God, and the word was God. Uh we sometimes use it to say it's community. and the death and the resurrection of Jesus, announcing that Jesus is my Lord and my God. You've shirked back a little bit at certain points I've been making along the way. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. Unless I see in his hands the marks of the nails, place my finger into the marks of the nails, place my hand into his side, then I will never believe. And he said to Thomas, Put your finger here, and see my hands, and put out your hand, and place it in my side. It's also a kind of claim that has come from academic theory as well. Oh, okay. And you can see here, it's actually the same exact testimony that they give. He's writing to those who must receive this testimony. He accommodates his exact request. made such a clear point about what the apostles taught concerning the person of Jesus Christ. And believing and confessing that doctrine from the apostles, their teaching. We saw him in that locked room, even. And they would use that ship to make profits. than any other apostle. When he had said this, he showed them his hand and his side. Many, it is withheld. It's in Jesus' name which we pray. A few moral ideas related to the person of Jesus. The evening before he died. And then Jesus disappears. Now Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. Unless I see in Jesus' hands the marks of the nails, place my finger into the mark, place my hand into his side, I will never believe Now, think about the position of the Apostle John here, writing this after the fact. Just think about it. To you who have never seen the risen Christ with your own eyes, he's asking you to trust to receive his apostolic testimony that this truly did happen. Of course, I would believe if he just did something miraculously for me right now. The disciples are gathered together again. And what does that belief, what does confessing that truth then lead us towards? This is a belief specifically in what the apostles bore witness to. About what John has said, about what he witnessed, and how we receive life. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. I understand there could be a part of you that says, why do I really care about being connected to the apostles, believing what they said? They have common interest in that heavenly life, that life which the Father and the Son already have If they are pursuing that same mission as the Father and the Son. I believe in what they have proclaimed to us here in our Bibles, we have fellowship with them. It is so that we would believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and so then have life in his name. That is our sermon text, but for the sake of a little bit of recap here, I'm going to rewind to start in verse 19, okay? Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me? Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written so that you may believe. That Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. This witness to the life, death, and resurrection of our Lord, our God, Jesus Christ. so invested in the dogma of doctrine. Peter finishes up his grand sermon at the dawn of that day on Pentecost. Here we receive from him that same kind of call to believe his testimony and so then join in fellowship with God. Let's look at that first point together, rejecting the apostle's witness. He has this brief conversation again in a room with his disciples. And then in John chapter 20, verse 25, so the other disciples told him, Thomas, we have seen the Lord. But Thomas, upon hearing this testimony, he does the unthinkable to John, the unimaginable. He's going to tell us in a moment the whole reason that he has written this down for us was so that we would believe what he's written. But do not in this life get to see the risen Christ. Most immediately what he's saying is, you other apostles, I don't believe what you are saying to me. Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. It's not that great of a deal for Thomas. Which we reach in this gospel. This is my God. He said, I won't believe what you have said unless. But these are written, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing that you might have life in his name. That we would hear this testimony and receive it. Have you? We say that because we believe what we have read in this word, because we receive and believe the apostolic witness. We believe what they have told us: that Jesus is the Messiah, that Jesus is the very Son of God and thus God Himself, that Jesus lived and died and rose again the third day. It leads us to resurrection life in Jesus' name. Life in his abode with his people. It is only possible because of the work of Christ. If you want to get very strict with the Westminster Confession, the instrument of our justification is faith. They share in that life. Those who do not do not share in that life. Being cut off from the life of God. That which we have seen and heard, we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us. But what is John writing? Speaking clear, the stakes are high here. Think about it, kind of like a corporation today, I guess. We have fellowship together. Believe, have faith in what the apostles proclaimed. That fellowship, that shared interest, that same mission with the apostles. You are with our Father, and you are with Christ Jesus. It should motivate us to share in that message, in that mission and fellowship. It comes through receiving the witness of the apostles by believing what they have testified to us. May your spirit lead us to embrace these truths because by embracing them we have life with you We have fellowship with the early church. I hope as we reach the pinnacle in this gospel that for you, Christian, this gospel encourages you to believe. Your obsession with sound doctrine means that you can't be in fellowship with anyone. His doctrine is what establishes our fellowship and relationship. In Acts chapter 2, we get the birth of the church. Acts chapter 2 verse 42. Guess who's going to do that? What we're going to see here this evening is this. Says, I will never believe it. People would say, I would believe God if he just miraculously revealed himself to me. What John knows and what we know is we don't have the luxury making such unless demands, do we? What's different in the text this time, though? Put out your hand, place it in my side. It sets up, in a sense, then, the climax of this whole gospel. And my God. Getting coffee together. Together here, even as we have fellowship with one another. Even how he suffered, and how he died, and how he rose again to the truth that there are marks in his hands from the nail. Think about it, that means we have fellowship with those same people who have seen our risen Lord, with those people who are with our risen Lord. Of course, this gospel is a wonderful evangelistic tool. On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. I know that last week in the evening, David Green brought us to Acts chapter 1. The blessing of life and fellowship with God comes through receiving the witness of the apostles. Jesus met with his apostles in this new room. Before we saw Jesus came to Mary, and then she testified to Jesus' disciples. And Thomas rejects it. And here he brings this story of someone who right away, upon hearing that testimony straight from the apostles, rejects it. He has walked with Jesus. Here in this book, we have a disciple who walked with Jesus and saw all of his miracles. We come by believing this word. It's a very special grace to Thomas. You know what we have not seen a single character along the way confess yet? Jesus replies to Thomas this way in verse 29: Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me? What is it that Thomas believes now? But on what basis do we say those things? There's a very real sense here in which we are connected to God and to the apostles and to the church because of how we receive these words. John 20, verse 31, he concludes it, that by believing you may have life in his name. John is saying implicitly here, and John says it explicitly in his first epistle, the belief in something contrary is to be Antichrist. He is true God of true God. There's sad ways in which that's expressed in the church through things like excommunication or anathema. By denying you are outside of that fellowship. Fellowship with God, fellowship with the apostles and the church is not something to be juxtaposed with doctrine here, is it? Let me read for us. The life was made manifest, and we have seen it, and testified to it, and so proclaimed to you the eternal life, which was with the Father, and was made manifest to us. We are the ones who got to see all this. Often a way it was used or often a function of that word in the New Testament era. John is saying the apostles hold together that same mission, that same end, that same interest that the Father and Son have. That when you even have doubts, it motivates you to faith. You have this witness. In it, R. Frequently, that phrase has been used as a pejorative. The RC went on to explain that you cannot juxtapose doctrine against fellowship or relationship in Christianity. There's actually, I think, two different veins from which we see that kind of message. As we come together towards the close of this gospel, you know what we get to see here? Place my fingers in them and into his side. This time Thomas gets to hear it. We have been aware the whole way through that the Lagos, Jesus the Christ, is God incarnate. It's Thomas. We know Thomas screw up his whole life worshiping Yahweh, worshiping God, and finally here, Thomas sees and knows in the resurrection face of Jesus this is Yahweh. John wants us to, by his testimony, lead us to say this very same thing. It's upon recounting this conversation with Thomas that John proclaims the very purpose of this book. Jesus Christ. Is Jesus really for me? Trust in this, and you have life in God. That's our connection. With you, our Father, and Jesus Christ, your Son. It's Thomas. So that by doing so, we might be united in fellowship to you, united together as a church constituted by this, your word Doctrine divides? Have you ever heard that claim before? The early church was devoted to there in the very dawn, the apostles' teaching. The apostles had witnessed to them about the truth of Jesus. Hearing the testimony, the teaching, the doctrines of the apostles. We don't come to faith by demanding that God prove Himself to us in our own way. Thomas here is given to us as this negative example, it's a very common example. Thankfully, very quickly in the text, the tides shift here for Thomas. Peace be with you. Verse 28, Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God. We have not seen a single character in this story say, Jesus is God. Blessed are those who do believe. That's most immediately the belief here. John says he has carefully, selectively crafted this gospel account to what end? Hear from John is an invitation into life, into fellowship. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we looked upon and have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life. True apostolic witness to who our Savior is, to what our Savior come to do, to how he lived. A wound in his side from which flowed water and blood. By embracing them, we have fellowship with all of the apostles' teachings. And yet, what comes to Thomas here is this reaffirmation of faith. So that he could testify and witness to who Jesus is, to people who would never see Jesus in this life. We just need relationship, not religion. He hasn't seen the resurrected Jesus, and so he says, I will never believe. The way that he says it here, Thomas, it's actually a double negative in the Greek. What John is going to show is that there's actually a better way for us to come to believe. So that we would come to the point where we would say, Jesus, you are my Lord. Thomas is believing in Jesus and surely here Thomas is expressing faith in Jesus. What does it mean then if we believe something different? May your Spirit lead us to receive this testimony, to believe this testimony, to place our faith in it. Thomas here, he hears the testimony of the apostles, these eyewitnesses to the death and resurrection of Jesus. What did Thomas most immediately deny earlier that this is set up in juxtaposition with? What are we, the church, to confess, to believe? A few different books that John wrote. Thomas here shows even the way that we receive this testimony, it isn't just that you might find life for the very first time. Receiving this word and this testimony gives you renewed life even here and now. Our New Testament reading I know is listed as John chapter 20, verses 24 through 31. Point number three, joining in the Apostle's Witness. John, upon recounting this, interjects here himself. Now what is clear here is that there are particular things which you must believe. Very specifically not have or share in that life. So that you may have what? Thomas was called a follower of Jesus. Church history goes on to describe Thomas not as the doubter. Well, how come you didn't tell us that earlier? John knows there will be untold numbers of people who read this gospel, those who hear this testimony. Think here at the end about that statement in light of Thomas. What is the consequence of that? Getting here to the very end of John, up to this climactic moment, John says this, John chapter 20, verse 19. That's not exactly the way that the term fellowship is used in the New Testament. John is writing his own testimony, his own eyewitness account of the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. But what most immediately is the belief that Jesus is referring to? And not just words of fanciful tales of hope and encouragement, but true eyewitness. Actually, if you have a Bible, if you want to turn to real quickly, 1 John 1, verse 1. Here we get the opportunity to focus the story onto a single disciple. Thomas speaks these words of denial. It's absolutely crystal clear. And that's fine. C. I haven't. Now Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. R. Thomas. What is he saying? Thomas said, I must see in his hands the marks of his nails. was dealing with a particular phrase that thankfully I don't hear too much nowadays, but has been popular at times. We have koinia because this is our mutual shared interest in this project, in this mission. Amen. C. This will be the main point. It's one week of his life, but we have defined his entire existence by it. It's kind of a recapitulation again of what we see in John chapter 20. Who was Thomas? They are members of the body of faith. We have fellowship with the church universal and even with one another and even with you, our God. The story goes that he went all the way to the shores of India so that he could proclaim this truth. Heavenly Father, we do rejoice that you have given us here this testimony. It's like you realize in that moment, somehow, Lord isn't enough to capture this. Sprohl questioned. He shows them his hands in his side. The evening before Jesus died, he had a long conversation in the upper room with his disciples. That doctrine divides, that doctrine is unhelpful because of that. Now, what we didn't realize in that scene is what John reveals here in the very next verse, verse 24. Thomas is the one who gets to announce that truth as a character in the story. You have this apostolic witness which you look to and says, yes, Jesus did live and Jesus did die and he rose again the third day for you. The apostles here tell him to his face, we have seen the Lord. I'm not saying that we need to change that. What is it? And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and their fellowship. Thomas refuses to believe it. And there are words which actually bring us back all the way to the very beginning of this gospel. We touched him. They're inside a room with the door locked again. Do not disbelieve. Has Jesus really risen? Notice here the next week we get a kind of recapitulation of exactly what happened last week, right? The whole sequence is this kind of shot-for-shot replay of exactly what happened before, except now Thomas is here. John tells us here at the end of John 20 the whole reason that he has written this story. And second, we're going to see embracing the Apostles' Witness. Very light of very light. You would have different merchants who would get together and they would purchase a ship The end of verse 3 there. We've been sitting on this for a whole week. Think about who Thomas is. Amen? They were really just into the charygma of fellowship, being together as a loose community of faith. A couple of them are letters. That term fellowship can be a little difficult for us sometimes. Blessed are those who themselves have not seen, but who trust my apostle's witness. That mission which we spoke of last week, right? I will never believe. Life together with him. Nyana's making clear, we witnessed and testified to you about what we witnessed. And because they all owned it together, they would split the profits that came from the ship. And yet, even here, briefly in the text, he struggles so deeply in his faith, doesn't he? We come to faith, believing the apostolic witness. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. It's been used to say you are too caught up in doctrine to really be friends with anybody. He's saying our fellowship, the Apostles' fellowship, is fellowship that is fellowship with the Father and His Son, Jesus the Christ. It's that Thomas is here. Well, we as the audience have been clued in here from the very first verse to a particular truth. If you're not in fellowship with us, and you're not in fellowship with God the Father and His Son. The blessing of life and fellowship with God comes through witnessing, through receiving the witness of the apostles. It's describing being close, being close to one another because you have a mutual shared interest in something. There is an popular old clip of R. He said, I mean, of course it divides. What happens in the very next verse? We say that because we believe what the apostles have told us We heard him. We can put in here, what my apostles confess they have seen. But what is the instrument which brings us into that reality? Let's pray. Thomas was a true disciple of Jesus. In John 20, verse 18, Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord. And when he had said this he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. He breathes on them that new creation breath of the Spirit. That Jesus is something other than Lord, that Jesus is someone other than God? I have been talking about receiving the apostles' witness. You know, you could say that we enjoy fellowship in the foyer. And the church heard and believed in that testimony. Verse 30. We need to focus on being connected to one another and God, not being so precise about our doctrine. The church is being born. Last week in the morning, we left off at the end of that day of resurrection. Make the same confession that Thomas is making here. Upon what basis do we say those words? That would prove it to me. Believe. You could push that a little further, right? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. This is why the early church and councils and in the creeds that they wrote They have fellowship in the church. Are we starting to see what's expressed here, a connection of sorts? This is the very first letter. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, We do tend to jump straight to saying Thomas believes Jesus is resurrected. These are the apostles' teachings, doctrines that by receiving you have life with God, fellowship with God. Um and both sides have tended to argue that, well, you know, the early church wasn't really I must place my finger in the mark. John wrote these things so that you would believe these things, and so that by believing these things we would have life. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. As Jesus will show, it's not what we should expect. So that you may have fellowship with us This is the very next verse. No doubt this book is an excellent resource for leading those who have no faith into faith. In Acts 2, verse 41, it says, So those who received Peter's word were baptized. We already know him as a disciple of Jesus. He's emphatically saying, never will I ever believe unless Thomas, you didn't believe what my apostles testified to. This teaching should drive us to trust the teachings of the apostles. May we trust in this truth as we walk forward together holding to, confessing this witness. I know we call him that. Next week he's going to bring us back there again. And that when you begin to question, is God really good? But what is the mechanism that's being used here to make this main point? A doctrine is that which delineates who is in fellowship with God and who is not. He's writing to those who must believe without seeing that. He was begotten, not made. Those who do not believe what the apostles taught still share in death We get this momentary lapse here in the text where we have come to call him doubting Thomas. Now we saw how that was juxtaposed with Jesus' meeting with his disciples. Kind of feels to us like Jesus appears suddenly in the room again. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. Heavenly Father, we rejoice that here in this gospel we receive not just mysterious words. Is that what we read about when we read about the early church? What do you have to turn to? And the suggested antidote to that by those making that kind of claim is This is what it looks like for Thomas to embrace that witness. There can be no doubt this announcement from Thomas is exactly what John is pressing us toward. And how does it come? And then read these words with me. It should drive us to share in the reality of the gospel. He actually says, I will never believe it unless I get to see it for myself. John is doing here something very clever and pointed. It brings us to the moment which this whole book has been driving us towards, because what is Thomas's response to it all? John makes clear first how visceral and real the apostle's experience was. They saw him and then they testified about him. And then what is the very first thing that we learn about those people? What does that sound like? We see together that we have the opportunity to have the same kind of experience that the early church had there. The Spirit has come down. Miracles we haven't even heard of. And then Jesus came to the other disciples, and those other disciples testified to Thomas. I would believe in God if I just saw him fix all my problems right here and now. We should confess the very same things that Thomas has said here. That is life in God's heavenly community. This is what we trust in, what we believe in, so that we know we have life in God. And Jesus said to them, Peace be with you. Calling others to come and believe this truth, proclaiming the life. Jesus comes to Thomas and gives him exactly what he asked for. The blessing of life and fellowship with God comes out here. So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. It's here that Jesus met with his disciples who are gathered together. He's writing this very clearly to you It's not that uncommon of a demand for, especially the modern man, right? Of course I would believe God if that happened. You've probably heard the term before, koinania, that word for fellowship. And so then we have fellowship with God. These stories are true. When didn't it? There is a broad evangelical movement which can say that at times, that we need to be less doctrinally specific. This is not some call to a generic belief in just anything that you want. When we do that, we are joining in that life Jesus essentially gives Thomas exactly what he asked for then, right? You are my God. It is knowing, believing, trusting what the apostles have told us. In verse 26. I must place my hand into his side. It's that truth. We have fellowship with the apostles Certainly at some level what he is saying is, I don't believe the resurrection could happen. Jesus even gives the very same greeting as last week. It's the same exact testimony, it's the same confession here. John is showing us it leads us towards the same place it has led the apostles. Do not disbelieve, but believe. John tells it to us pretty quickly here. You know how he's known in church history? In verse 25, Thomas said to them, This is John's first epistle. C. And Thomas says, unless I see in his hands the marks of his name. Maybe We often use it to talk about hanging out together. He's telling us, he wrote this whole narrative down so that we would proclaim the same thing. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believed. Think about what we just learned in John chapter 20. 's Froll out on the interwebs. Is it because we have seen the risen Christ ourselves? This is not the only book of the Bible that the Apostle John wrote, right? I'm not rejecting that. Let me just fast forward for a moment into Acts chapter 2. These are the climactic words. He denied the witness, the testimony of the other apostles. For you who deny what the apostles have taught, that is the consequence. See how Thomas does that. John is making a point We come to faith by trusting this testimony. It was used to describe when multiple parties shared ownership in a trading vessel. Is that what it is in the context here? John's whole purpose in writing this account is what? What are the things we hear in those creeds? Here is this New Testament, recommissioned people of God. Particularly, we have the opportunity here to see that from the Apostle John. True man and true God. By receiving That's what John is doing here. I think back to John 1. My Lord. What would they describe that process as? The apostles tell us: if you are with us, then you are with God. That we need to focus much less on doctrine and simply on worshiping God. I am not denying that at all. So that we would believe it. What are we doing as we receive By believing in that, we join in their common mission. Thomas knew these things that Jesus had proclaimed. To understand that, as we walk through this text, we'll see three points here. Isn't that actually in some way the point of it? Point number two, embracing the apostle's witness How is Jesus doing this? He commissions his apostles to go out and do his work. I've been talking about having fellowship with the apostles. You are my Lord. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son. Because the apostles, they're just men, right? Who gets to do that in John's Gospel? Very same apostle writes, 1 John 1, verse 1. I'm not proposing some massive change. I know there's a number of people here who like R. That's most immediately what he's rejecting Jesus shows up, verse 27: Thomas, put your finger here and see my hands. We see right away the early church is very invested in the doctrine. One who knew Jesus personally John is emphasizing: we are the eyewitnesses. He is known as the one who went further away into the outside world. What is the analogy there? We have the clearest of witnesses to that truth. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God. And finally, we'll see joining the Apostles' Witness. Then the evening after he rises, 1. You needed to see That's what's recorded in this gospel for us. If you forgive the sins of any there are forgiven them, if you withhold forgiveness from But he said to them, Those who were simply gathered around We're zooming in on Thomas, particularly. How is he getting by the locks? In the beginning was the word. Jesus is my Lord. They would say that's our coin in the app. It's that phrase, doctrine divides. Those who believe these teachings from the apostles. That is a very good truth, and Thomas is expressing that. Peace be with you. C. They're first this rejecting the apostles' witness. And you are my God. It is to be separated from God. There's a number of them That would be evidence enough. That we would hear this testimony. Why? It's in Jesus' name which we pray. We saw him. Jesus is my God. Why did we tell you these things? Let me say it again. Amen.