Tanstoffel. Tanstoffel. It's not Greek. It's not Hebrew. It's It's actually far stranger a language than that. It's economics, or an acronym sometimes referred to in economics. That stands for this. There ain't no such thing as a free lunch. There ain't no such thing as a free lunch That's a kind of economics lingo getting at the idea of, but what's the catch? Whether you know that phrase or not, you probably know somewhere in your heart that nobody really ever comes offering you something that is truly and perfectly free. We always say in our hearts as somewhere there's a cost. There's always a catch. Nobody in this world really comes trying to give you something for free. There's always something that I need to do, that I must give of myself. The promise of a free lunch is just Too good to be true, right? And that's why when someone comes and offers you something for free, you probably start to get a little uncomfortable, right? You start to question for free? I mean not really, right? You have some expectation of me. There's some burden that you're going to put upon me. You begin to question, is this secretly predicated upon some kind of demand from you? Do I need to do something to earn this that I just haven't been told about yet? That's why we start to get a little uncomfortable with promises that appear to be free. Even if we do accept that thing, we can start to live in fear that, well, I do have to earn this from them somehow, right? I have to do something To have deserved this. That's different from responding in joy and gratitude, saying, I need to deserve this. That's putting yourself into servitude to what they've given to you. Paul has been, in this letter, writing to the Galatians, and in many ways seeking to break down that particular mentality. Paul has not let up. Paul has not made excuses. Paul has section by section worked in different ways to disconnect our hope and our comfort. From our doing of the law. He has been working to dismantle any notion of the idea that we can earn what God freely gives. We are about 60 verses, five sermons deep into this letter to the Galatians. Has it started to make you feel uncomfortable in some ways? Yeah, honestly, I'm a little uncomfortable. Paul, when are you finally going to tell us to do something? Because the way that I work, I like being told, do this, so that I can get it done. Give me something So far in this letter, this deep, there have been two imperatives, two commands the whole way through the text. And those two commands, they're actually identical. So we really only have one command, and it was this. If anyone preaches another gospel, may he be cursed. Paul wants to make abundantly clear how the true gospel comes to us. And Paul is taking his time in that carefully, methodically, with surgical precision, distinguishing for us the gospel from the law. We've been careful every week to recognize, to remember, Paul is not saying here that the law is evil. No, the law is a reflection of God's righteousness. Paul's making very clear at the same time, the law is not the gospel. And today, Paul continues on showing us again how important it is for us to grasp onto. That uncomfortable idea that we receive God's blessing, that we are found as righteous before Him, that we are justified not by our doing. But by faith. The main point, what we see from Paul here this morning is this: the promises of God could only be received by faith. The promises of God could only be received by faith. We're going to explore that here in three points for this. First, a promise made. And then second, a law given. And then third, a grace realized. If you want to be extra reformed this morning, you can uh tack on three covenants to those three points. The Abrahamic covenant, the Mosaic Covenant, and the New Covenant. There you go. That's it. Point number one here this morning: a promise made If you look at verse 6 in the passage here, Paul introduces a person who demonstrates to us what faith is. And in doing so, he launches into this discussion of the covenant that God made with that man, the Abrahamic covenant. That promise which God made to Abraham. Verse 6 said, just as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Paul quickly acknowledges Abraham isn't alone in that covenant. Verse 7, knowing then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. That's Paul connecting you Christians to the Abrahamic covenant. Reminding us that this covenant came by faith to Abraham, and we too are connected to it in faith. And in addressing the Abrahamic covenant, Paul demonstrates to us. The nature of this covenant. He tells us the components of the covenant. If you look through the text, you see he says this is a covenant marked by blessing. In you shall all the nations be blessed. That's the character of what God offers. This covenant is one of blessing. Another component that Paul zeroes in on is that this is a covenant which comes by means of promise. Fast forward to verse 16. What does Paul say? Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. Then jump to verse 17. This is what I mean. The law which came 430 years afterward does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God so as to make the promise void. What Paul does throughout this section is clarify that that's different from the character of the Mosaic Covenant. If you glance through, you'll see over and over, the Abrahamic covenant is linked with, it's given as promise. God is gifting you this. Well, the Mosaic covenant is linked with, it's given as law. God offers this And it comes with stipulations. Do this and live, or fail and die. Now think about the content of God's covenant with Abraham. What did God do in that covenant? He came to this aging, childless man who was originally an idol-worshiping pagan. And God told him, I am going to be God for you. And I'm also going to give you Actually, I'm going to give you an abundance of children, so many children. I'm also going to give you a whole promised land, this nation for your people, and even the whole world will be blessed. Through you. God comes to Abraham and he says, I have this promise for you. I will do these things for you. And a keen eye will notice what is not present in that covenant anywhere. There are no thou shalt All the stipulations, the whole job, the whole task in the covenant belongs to God. He says, I will do this for you. I will give this to you. That's the content of that covenant with Abraham. Then think with me about the way that that covenant was made. There's this ceremony that goes with it. Covenants need to be ratified, and there's a ceremony that symbolizes that to us. It's what we read in Genesis 15. God told Abraham to go out and gather all these animals and to cut them in half, to spread them one half on this side, one half on another side, to form this path between the animals. Sounds weird to us, but that's very normal in the ancient Near East in Abraham's time, because this is how you ratify a covenant, this kind of promise. You use this ceremony. What the two people would do is they would walk, if they're the parties of the covenant, if they're making this agreement together. They would walk together down that path between these animals that are cut in half. And the whole reason for doing that was to signify, if I break this covenant, then I will be cursed. If I break this covenant, I will be killed and torn in two like these animals on either side of us. That's a little more graphic than the way that we do contracts and promises today, right? More impactful than uh clicking on DocuSign or sitting there with the notary, whatever it is. Presses something into our minds. So Abraham prepares all of that. And once they are ready to do the ceremony, what happened in the text? You remember? He falls asleep. It's actually God puts him into this kind of comatose state where Abraham can witness what is happening, but where he has no ability to participate in what's happening. And God does that so that Abraham is still present, so that he is still a party of the covenant, but so that he is not an actor in it. God then appears in the form of a smoking pot and a fiery torch. Again, weird to us, right? Not the way we expect God to show up. But think about who the original audience reading that story or listening to that story would have been. Moses would have written this to the people that were around him, and how do they remember seeing God? He's been leading them through the wilderness in the form of what? A cloud of smoke and a fiery pillar. They know what's happening. God appears this way, and then he alone walks through that path. This is God saying, I alone will do this task. This is God saying to Abraham, if I fail, I alone will take on the curse. That's all of what Paul is importing into this conversation with the Galatians as he describes the Abrahamic covenant. This is a covenant of blessing. This is a covenant of promise. And Paul also recognizes this is also a covenant of faith. Think about it. If Abraham doesn't actually perform anything in the covenant, well, how is he a part of it? Paul's answer repeatedly through the text here is that it is by faith. What's left for Abraham here? Nothing but that he believe this promise. Verse 6 again, just as Abraham believed God, and that was counted to him as righteousness. No, then it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. Verse 9: So then those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. There are no terms in this covenant having anything to do with Abraham's performance. It's all about Abraham knowing and believing and trusting that God will do what he promised to do. Now, big thing to remember, at the same time, this does not mean that God does not call Abraham to do things. God calls Abraham to obey him in significant ways. Abraham, pick up your whole life and live in the wilderness as a nomad. Big call to obedience. Abraham, walk before me and be blameless. This is the thing. It's how God calls us to obey. Love your neighbor. Love your God. Be holy as I am holy. But the same as is true for Abraham, and as is true for us is what? That obedience is not a stipulation of the promise made. The obedience is something done in response to the promise. But the promise is not at all dependent upon Abraham's or our obedience. The only requirement of Abraham in this covenant is faith If you know the story of Abraham, then you know even that faith that's required is by no means a perfect faith, right? What happens with Abraham? Even here in the covenant, God promised him a son. What does Abraham do as he starts to grow weary about? Is God really going to do that? God promised a son to Abraham and to Sarah. And we know the story. Along the way, Abraham eventually decided to take matters into his own hands, went to be with that maidservant instead, and then came Ishmael. Not perfect faith. Even eventually, when Isaac is born of Sarah. Do you remember what preceded that? Do you know why Isaac is named Isaac? His name means joyful or laughter. And surely there is joy and laughter when Isaac is finally born. But we're told at his birth, he is also named Isaac as a reminder of what happened nine months before his birth. That Abraham and Sarah laughed mockingly at the face of God. That it could ever be possible Sarah would bear a child. Again, not perfect faith We see that kind of thing again and again in Abraham's life. It's filled with these kinds of stories and also examples positively of faith. Abraham presents to us one who walks by faith, and yet not perfect faith Flawed faith. And yet Abraham is repeatedly blessed by God at the end of stories. The covenant with Abraham is on the basis of faith. Not perfect faith. And yet faith all the same. But, verse 12, the law is not of faith. Point number two, a law given. Paul has shown us the promise in Abraham, and he also shows us the law in Moses. And he does that so that he can compare them to show that they do have some similarities, but they also have important differences. Both Abraham and Moses are a part of God's one grand covenant of grace. But there's something within the Mosaic covenant, which Paul emphasizes, is different. It doesn't erase Abraham, but it is different. In covenant theology, understanding this interaction of these two covenants can be Very highly technical. I don't want to go all the way down that road. We don't need to. But what we do need to do is emphasize what Paul emphasizes. A law is not of faith. What Paul presses into and reminds us is that the law, the Mosaic covenant, it brings with it this threat of curses for you. That's verse 10 through 11. The law itself is not a curse. It's beautiful. But if you are under the law, it does bring you under the threat of a curse. If you want to hear me say that 40 different ways, you could listen to last week's sermon. What Paul says is necessarily deduced from that truth. Is that with how the law exists and those curses that it brings, if we are under the law, then according to our works, of course, we are cursed. Because we are lawbreakers. Because we are sinners. What that means is that this covenant, Moses's, does have stipulations for us. It does have requirements of us. This covenant is not like Abraham's because in some sense it does depend on your work. Your status in this covenant depends upon your performance. If you do what it says, you will be blessed with life. But if you fail, you'll be cursed with death. And that's why the ceremonies which established each of these covenants look very different. You could look at Deuteronomy 27, when Moses is finalizing, republishing this, he says, we must obey. And if you don't, these are the curses. And all the people promise. They speak aloud. We will obey or we will be cursed. You go to Exodus 24, again, the chopped-up animals. Moses takes those chopped-up animals and he spreads half of the blood on the altar. You know where the other half goes? All over the people. It's very different from what happened with Abraham. The people are participants in this. The curses are for them too. The requirements are for them. Now, here's where it gets really tricky, and Paul knows this. That's why he uses an illustration. Even though Moses comes after Abraham, The Mosaic covenant does not undo or change the Abrahamic covenant. Verse 15. Let's just read through this. To give a human example, brothers, even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say and to offsprings referring to many, but referring to one, and to your offspring, who is Christ? This is what I mean, the law, which came 430 years afterward, does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God so as to make the promise void. There's a couple of different things to unpack there. I know that was a lot. First, something we have to remember about the Mosaic Covenant is that it has specific legal reference points. Particularly, the Mosaic Covenant is tied to the land where Israel goes to dwell and the people as a nation. When did the law come? It came when the people went into the land and were formed as a nation. A second, and part of what Paul identifies here is There is a way in which we should think of Abraham's offspring as a singular person. Now, Paul didn't just make that up out of thin air here in the text. That's the kind of thing that's actually said over and over in the Old Testament. An example, when we think of that grand scene when Moses appears before Pharaoh, God had sent him there. And what does Moses say? Let my people go. That's Exodus 5. Do you remember what Exodus 4 says when God first tells Abraham to sorry, when God first tells Moses to go and do that? Front of Pharaoh. The words there actually are this. God said, Moses, go tell Pharaoh, let my son, my firstborn son, Go. That's not a one-off either. That's actually a pattern of how God calls Israel, the people, his beloved. His son. And that's a pattern in part because, in some sense, the history of Israel is the history of one man. We gotta thread the needle carefully here. The history of Israel is a retelling of and a foreshadowing of the history of one man. The history of Israel is, at least in some sense, a retelling of the history of Adam. Think about it. God took a son, Adam, and put him in a land, a garden. And God said, obey me and you will live, or fail, and you will be expelled and cursed and die. And we who have read Genesis, at least you know the first three chapters of the Bible, know what happened. Adam failed, was expelled, and died. And then God took another son, Israel, and put him into a promised land. And what did God say as they go into that land? Obey me and you will live, O Moses. Or fail and you will be expelled and you will die. And what happened with that son? You see the parallels here, right? This is demonstrating what is true for all men. That we have all sinned, that we have all failed. That all of us deserve death. That's what Paul has said again and again so far. None of us are righteous But the way that this happens under Moses is not an undoing of the promise that God has made to Abraham. It cannot be, or else everyone from Moses onward is condemned to hell. Because as Paul said, nobody is righteous by the law. No, the point Paul is making is Abraham is still standing here behind Moses. And that covenant has not been undone or annulled. It has not been changed. This is not a situation where now law has been added into that covenant. God's promise to Abraham did not get stipulations added to it. That promise is still by faith. That's really good news for Moses and for Israel. Because what happened? Moses disobeyed and died outside the land. Moses heard the law and then never even made it into the land. What happens to Israel? They disobey. They are expelled and die outside the land. Now, does that mean that they died in their sins and never saw the salvific promises of God? No. No. Moses was not saved by the law. Moses was saved, Hebrews 11, 24, by faith. And that's not just true for Moses, but for all the people of Israel who walked by faith. God brought the law and it served a purpose for a time. And we'll jump more into that next week, two weeks from now, spring conference. Sign up. But the law has never served the purpose that we keep trying to make it about. The law doesn't do what God promised to Abraham. It has never been a way to earn God's promises Point number three, a grace realized. The way that Paul shows us the law here does explain something that we need to see. It exposes something to us. It exposes that there are two paths we could try to take. Either we can do what is right, the way that God has told us, perfectly and perpetually. But if we fail it, then there's curse. Or we can believe in a promise that God has made His promise of blessing, and so be blessed by him through his work on our behalf. What Paul knows about the Galatians and often us is how quickly we try to mix those two together. How quickly in our hearts we say, yes, believe in Jesus and do this or else. But that will never work. The point Paul is making again and again is that cannot work. It has never worked. That's never the way that it's worked. Because what the law actually does in your life is expose how much of a failure, how sinful we really are. It exposed Israel's sin again and again. It exposes our sin again and again. Yesterday and today, and if there's a tomorrow, it will do that to you again tomorrow. The law also, though, according to Paul, has done other things. It has, in a sense, delivered to us the one promised offspring. Because at the end of the days of the law, who is it that arrives? It's the fulfillment of the law. It is that one who was promised to Abraham. It is the true Israel. It is the new Adam. Paul says, who is it? It is Jesus Christ. Think positively at least, where there are positives in history of what the law has done. It set apart this land, set apart this people, where and among whom The promised offspring would be born. What Paul's going to get to is when the fullness of time and the law came, what happened? Finally, that one offspring who is promised to Abraham, a new Adam, is finally born. And who is he? Verse 16. He is the Christ. And Jesus comes and he brings something new. Something that is very much of the promise of Abraham, and yet is also for us a new covenant. Jesus brings a new way to follow God, a new standing that we have from which to live. This is a puzzle that Paul is piecing together here. You see, there's a lot of different pieces that we're putting together, but as we begin to see it come together, it probably becomes a little uncomfortable. And yet, Christian, what is being put together here is your comfort. One person said it this way. What Paul gets at here is actually unbelievable. Apart from God's help. Remember in the Abrahamic covenant when God walked by Himself through the animals? Abraham had heard all these promises that God had given to him. You know why God then does the covenant ceremony? Abraham actually asked a question of God leading up to it. You remember that? Abraham asked essentially this, God, how do I know you're really going to do what you told me you're going to do? How do I know you're really gonna give me what you've promised to give me? What's the catch? Isn't this all just too good to be true? And then God proceeded to walk by himself between those animals, torn in two. God said, by that, if I don't keep my promise, May I be cursed. If I fail, may I be torn in two like these. We should probably start to get a little bit confused about that. Because what do we know about how redemptive history unfolds? It's what Paul has also said in the text here that Christ became cursed. Jesus Christ was cursed. But at any point along the way, did God ever fail his promise? No. No. So what's the catch? Why does Jesus die as one cursed on a tree? Why at the end is it that Jesus never failed, that God never failed at all in his promise, and yet he is crucified on a cross? It's because of what it took for God to even enter into a covenant of promise with sinful man. You know, we know in some sense, we feel we should earn these promises that God gave to us. And yet, do we? Of course not. We do quite the opposite. We live in sin and we deserve curses. We deserve death. God says to Abraham, I'm going to bless you. I'm going to give you all these things. Really? You're just gonna give these to me? I don't I just I haven't earned them. I've actually unearned them And God has said, I promise, I'm just going to give these to you. Trust me. How is God going to promise to give blessing and life upon a people? Who deserve curse. How? It's by doing what God already knows He's promising to do for man by walking through that path in front of Abraham. God walking that bloody path was not merely a situation where he was making clear, I'll be torn into if I fail. It's also God promising to Abraham and to you, I will be torn into, because you in your sin already have failed. Think about those mysterious words that Christ says as he suffers the wrath due for our sin on the cross. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? You ever asked reading that, what does that even mean? How can God be forsaken by God? It's because in some sense beyond our understanding, he was indeed torn in two for you. There is only one way that God could give all the things that He has promised, and it is this ironic twist where God must actually die to fulfill the covenant that He has made. Here are we who like fools again and again say, yes, we'll take it on, we'll be cursed if we fail. And we know we fail because we sin. Meanwhile, here is God promising the same thing. But he does not fail. And yet, by the very necessity of the promise itself. He is still cursed. He dies on a cross. Go to that scene with Abraham. He is knocked over and paralyzed. As God does this. And the text says, dreadful darkness came over him as it should. Abraham should be unbelievably uncomfortable with the scene that is playing out before him because the gospel is being preached to him, and the gospel is very uncomfortable. What happens with Abraham there? Abraham watches this promise from God being foretold to him that God will do this. And Abraham in his state adds absolutely nothing. Abraham does nothing. All there is for him to do is believe what God has shown him. And so, New Covenant Christians, it is for you. As you look upon that covenant ceremony, that situation where Jesus Christ's blood was spilt and his body was broken for you. Because you look upon that where he was torn into, as you look to the cross, what do you bring to the table? What do you add? What do you do? Absolutely nothing. All there is for you to do, new covenant people, is to look upon that cross, to look at what Jesus has done for you. And to know it, to believe it, to trust in it, to believe that he really has died for you. The promises of God truly do only come to us by faith. And while that idea doesn't sit well with natural man, There's no such thing as a free lunch, right? It's very uncomfortable. Christian, this truly and precisely is your comfort. Maybe you ask God at times like Abraham, how do I really know your promises for me How do I really know that you are going to grant this kind of life and salvation to me? When you and I are still those who act as wretched sinners day by day, when things are flying off the rails, when our failures become so clear to us, when that vice creeps back into your life and shipwrecks it, how do you know that God's promise is for you It's because that promise from God really does have nothing to do with what you can do. Has nothing to do with your performance. It's because his promise really, truly is all of grace It's because Jesus has done it all for you. And all that's left is to look on that and believe. That's the point that Paul is making. Let's pray.