Well, in his famous sermon, the Sermon on the Mount, you could guess the preacher, Jesus said these words, Matthew 5. You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he makes his Son rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. Is he right? Love your enemies. Love your enemies Seemingly cannot be understated at this point in the history of the church that the church has had and even still today does have enemies, whether we want them or not. We could see that in many different facets. Uh maybe you feel like the culture today is an enemy of sorts How might you see that? There are those who hate what God has to say and what we stand on for a whole host of issues today, right? Those who label you and I as hateful as enemies because we believe God when He says that He has made us male and female. When he says that marriage is to be between a man and a woman, or that his word is authoritative over all people, not just those who have read it and cling to it. God says that he alone is God and only to be worshipped. You bigot. The wages of sin are death. How closed-minded of you! You could look to our immediate culture to see people who identify us as enemies for that reason. You could look outside and see other pressing ways that Christianity has enemies. It's come to light as of late, certainly, uh the pressing attacks and persecutions of the Christian Church in Nigeria, right? that churches are being burned, that Christians are being killed. And certainly there are disputed accounts as to how much that is going on. or all the causes of it. But nobody is denying that those things are happening because it's clear. There are even moderate Muslims who sympathize with Christians who are being killed because of their sympathy with Christians. What's the basis for the hatred? Christianity. We would be heartless people if that reality didn't disturb us, right? If we didn't yearn for justice. If we didn't pray for our brothers and sisters facing that reality around us. And then yet at the same time, what did Jesus say? Love your enemies. Surely there were some people there in the moment in Jerusalem outside Jerusalem who thought Jesus was being a little tone-desk given the moment. Love them? Is that what we need to do? I mean, what is the answer for us? One pastor suggested this recently that I heard. It is loving to defeat your enemies. It's loving to defeat your enemies. In a world where we are moved to righteous anger over the slaughter of our brothers and sisters, that sounds like a pretty convenient answer, doesn't it? Maybe you've seen it or felt it in the American Christian environment as of late. There's been a little bit of a movement towards that kind of mentality. It's time to stop playing around and being passive. It's time to stop being weak. It's time to take power and use power. It's time to use the resources of this world to give us earthly advantage. It's time to rise up and crush the oppressors and the blasphemers. Oh, but love your enemies. If loving them is defeating them, then uh well great. Maybe we should just do that. Problem solved, right? What are we called to do? What do we see here in the story of Jonah The story of the prophet Jonah has led us on the journey of a man who has some of his own ideas about this same kind of topic, right? We've seen a whole host of ways that Jonah has wrestled with who God is and what God does. The character and nature of his God. Jonah has seen, provided for himself, ample opportunity for God's justice to be displayed Uh certainly Jonah has seen the opportunity for God's justice to be displayed against his enemies in Nineveh too, right? We've seen Jonah walk in sin. Strike that we've seen Jonah run in sin as he's running away from God. So he gets on that ship and goes down, down, as far away from God as he can. Let me reject what you have called me to. Now we know that the sin of the Nineveh has come up before God. There is ample opportunity for judgment here. And yet what else has Jonas seen along the way? He's seeing God's mercy, right? The love of God on display in mercy, both Jonah himself and now to the Nineveh. We will see here and now the way that Jonah takes fire with that. The way that he grows frustrated over the way that God decides to display his mercy. There's here in the text for us this idea that Jonah has a particular perspective on what God's mercy should look like. Here is what we are going to learn from the text. God's mercy demonstrates the strength of God's character. God's mercy demonstrates the strength of God's character. But to see that, to know that, we're going to have to walk through a few different perspectives on God. Particularly a few perspectives on God's mercy. Perspectives that are shown here in the text. And those are going to be our three points here. They're this. First, God's mercy is weakness. Secondly, we're going to see that God's mercy sometimes is perceived as mine. God's mercy is mine. And then lastly, we're going to see the perspective that God's mercy is his. Let's step into that first point here. God's mercy is weakness. It's a little refresher. In the very last chapter, we saw that Jonah proclaimed the shortest message to God's the shortest message to people that God had given to him. Some of you may wish, yes, Chris, if the sermons could be just five words, that would be great. Sorry. Sorry. Jonah shows up and he preaches five words in Hebrew. God's going to destroy you in 40 days. These wicked people, the wicked evildoers of Nineveh, God said He's going to purge them for their wickedness. That's the message that they hear. And the people hear that in Nineveh. And how do they respond? They repent. They turned away from their sins. Towards God. They saw their sin for what it was and they left it behind. They say in the midst of it, who knows? Maybe this God is one who shows mercy. Unlike Jonah, they don't even know that God is a merciful God. They just know we should repent, and maybe there's a chance that God is merciful. God saw this, and he says he chose then to show mercy to them. He spared them Chapter 4 then turns our attention back onto the prophet, onto Jonah, where we ask, how does the prophet respond? Verse 1, but it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry. This is Hebrew for Jonah was really, really, really upset about this. Jonah is deeply upset about what has happened. Why? Because God chose to show mercy to Nineveh. We've seen that the author of this book has loved to play with irony and uses all sorts of wordplay. We're going to bring together some of that that's come throughout the whole book of Jonah and especially this chapter here this evening. Jonah's displeasure. We've seen the word for that in this text before. You know what it was? It was that same word that we looked at last week for evil and destruction. Nineveh had been doing evil, which rose up before God. God was going to repay the Nineveh's evil with destruction. That same word. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth. That's what justice is, right? That's what justice demanded. But Nineveh had repented, turned, and so God relented. turned. And now Jonah is here. We see he's experiencing, guess what that word displeasure is? It's that same kind of word for evil. Now Jonah says, I am experiencing that evil, God. That's the kind of displeasure that I have. Because to Jonah, this situation where God has shown mercy, to him, it is the greatest of evils. They should have perished, God. You should have destroyed them. Now you're showing mercy And the term for Jonah's anger here is to say that he grew hot. You still kind of use that kind of terminology, right? He's pretty hot right now, not like uh attractive, hot like he's angry, he's steaming over. We'll see how ironic that becomes in the text too. Jonah then brings us to this prayer. He gives a new prayer to God. We remember back to chapter 2, there we saw Jonah pray for the first time. Jonah was in the belly of the fish. He had been cast into the sea. He was sinking down into the depths. He was going to be consumed by the gates of Sheol when suddenly God sent a fish to swallow him instead. And that was God's mercy. The fish that was sent by God was mercy to Jonah, come to rescue him and save him from the death. The judgment, the destruction that Jonah had earned. Here is God's rescue fish. Jonah should have died. He didn't. And Jonah ended that prayer after he is rescued by God, as he's shown mercy with this. Jonah 2, verse 9. But I with the voice of thanksgiving will sacrifice to you, God. What I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Jonah's second prayer is similar and different to his first one. Chapter 4, verse 2. And Jonah prayed to the Lord and said, Oh Lord, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country? This is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish, for I knew that you were a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and relenting from disaster. God, this is disaster to me. This is evil to me. Because I knew that you were like this. I knew you were merciful. I knew you were slow to anger. That's why I ran away. That's why I went as far away as I could because I knew that you would mess it all up and do something like this. Jonah is taking what he knows about God's character. His mercy, his patience, his love. And what's Jonah doing here? He's holding up before God as a sign of the great weakness of God I knew you were like this. You would go off and do something weak like this. What else would I expect? God, it was time for justice. We were ready for strength. And what did you come with instead? Mercy, grace. Jonah has said enough to say you are just a flawed, weak God. It's interesting in a sense here because the content of that, the things that Jonah is talking about. It's all the same as what he was saying back in his first prayer, right? Except then it was for him I called out and you heard me. I was in need and you showed mercy. You're a God of faithfulness and salvation. And this time around, Jonah is proclaiming all the same truths again. It's just a difference in tone. Before he was celebrating these truths as the goodness of God. Now he's mocking and deriding God for those same exact things. It's the same nature that stooped down to show mercy to Jonah before, and now Jonah is decrying of it's being awful. Evil to him, weakness. Now we can look at this here, set apart from the situation, and see the great irony, right? And we see what's going on The irony continues, even if you just think about the immediacy of the situation. This prophet of God was commissioned to go proclaim God's message. Go and warn those in Nineveh that their sin has come up before me. Warn them. And the prophet does it eventually. And the response to the Prophet's work was what? The king and the peoples of Nineveh, they hear the truth of God, they hear the truth of their sin, and they are moved to repentance. This great city of Nineveh turns away from their evil. and towards God. And so God brings salvation and mercy to these people. This is a great revival in the text in chapter 3. This is potentially the most successful missionary journey by a prophet to date in the Old Testament. 120,000 people saved. We would expect what from the Prophet at this kind of success? And he's jumping for joy. Yes, God has done this. And where is the prophet instead? He is stewing in anger. He's so furious with God that he says, verse 3, Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me. It's better for me to die than to live. Irony again, because what was our last prayer following? What was it about? He was praying, hallelujah, Lord, you rescued me from death. Now what are we saying at the end of this prayer? I wish I did die. Why don't you just kill me? And Jonah had cried out for life before. Jonah now though wishes to die. We're here with what feels like a spoiled child of sorts, right? With the tantrum jumping back and forth. We're going to see more of that. God is going to ask Jonah here a few questions. It's actually kind of the same question over and over. It's this, verse 4. The Lord said, Do you do well to be angry? God is asking, Jonah, is it right? Is it good for you to be angry? Why is Jonah so angry? Here is what we realize about Jonah's perspective on God's mercy. What is the difference here in the situation? Well, God's mercy is good when it's from me. It's not so good when it's for others. Point number two, God's mercy is mine. This is the other element of Jonah's perspective here. God's mercy should belong to me. At verse five, Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city, and made a booth for himself there. He sat under it in the shade till he should see what would become of the city. God asks this question of Jonah. The prophet seemingly doesn't answer it. In the text it's presented, he just storms off. He storms out, God, I don't need to answer your questions. I'm just walking out of the room. He stomps off through the east gates, out to the desert hills, outside of Nineveh. As he steps into this, you could imagine Some of those scenes from movies, whether it's Lawrence of Arabia, that great desert plain with the hills and the cliffs, if you're a little younger than me, uh like me, maybe you think of the scene in Dune with the great dunescapes of the sand. Uh what's true in both of those movies is people describe the desert as a type of hell. That place is going to kill you. You go walk out into there, it's because you want to be miserable and you want to die. It's not a pleasant place. That's precisely the kind of place that Jonah marches off to. It's not a pleasant place. It's dry and arid. It's hot and dead. There's no shade anywhere to be found. We know that particularly in the text because Jonah has to build his own kind of makeshift. It's called a booth here. It's almost like a tent for himself to sit under, to give himself some kind of synthetic shade. Jonah is going off to be angry and miserable. Uh you know how we do this kind of thing when we're angry. We don't like to talk about it all the time, but if you've ever been really angry, sometimes your desire is just to make your surroundings miserable. Uh so that, you know, while I'm miserable, I should sit in my misery. Everyone else might look at you and think, you look like a fool. It doesn't have to be this bad. But to you it makes sense in the moment. It does have to be this bad because it is this bad. This is how I feel inside. I am hot. So what should my surroundings be? Well, for Jonah, it's hot. Jonah is up on this miserable hill, this kind of cliffside, out in the desert. It says he sits there till he should see what should become of the city. It's not exactly clear what Jonah is doing, but it it seems like he's convinced himself that God might change his mind back. I've stomped off God. Obviously you don't understand. Maybe you will come to your senses. Maybe eventually you will change your mind and go back to what you should have done I'm going to sit up here until hopefully at some point fire and brimstone rain down from heaven, like it did at Sodom and Gomorrah. And you know, here's my front row seat to behold it all. Jonah is sitting here, hot with anger in the desert. You pick up on what the author is doing, right? He's out there in the heat. And what does God choose to do even here? He uses this opportunity to make kind of living parable for Jonah. And verse 6: Now the Lord God appointed a plant and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head to save him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant. Think about what God has done throughout the whole of this book. God commissioned the prophet. God commissioned the storm, the fish, now a plant. You see how God has control over all of his creation. His creation is his And God appoints this plant, it's probably some kind of uh ivy or other climbing plant to grow up out of the sand and to wrap around his booth to provide shade for him. grows up uh presumably where uh the old makeshift shade jonah had used to be. It's probably because of the desert sun that the shade Jonah originally had had uh you know probably meet some dead palm fronds or something something and those had faded and uh maybe blown away or withered, something to that effect. Jonah was under the hot sun and here is this living plant that grows up to provide shade You see her, it saves Jonah from his discomfort. If you are pasty white like me, you know that even shade Midst of the desert sun, it's a really good thing. I grew up uh near dry beaches and a desert climate. And uh if you watch Chris Calvey at the beach under the sun, you know what you constantly saw him doing Just sidestepping into the shade. Is it an umbrella? Is it uh behind someone's chair? What is it? Well, uh this even though the temperature is the same under the umbrella or outside of it There's something about shade that provides just a little bit of comfort, relieves the discomfort, the piercing element of the sun. Donald was under that piercing sun, and here is some shade. Shade which takes away the piercing punch of direct sunlight. And Jonah, it says, takes great joy in the presence of this plant. Jonah just a second ago was in the bottom of the bottom. The dumps kill me. Life isn't worth living. I am extremely upset. Now what does it say? Suddenly the prophet, who is exceedingly angry, is overflowing with joy. Flip-flopping, big highs, big lows. I could be happy because this plant brought me some mercy. Verse 7: But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm to attack the plant so that it withered. And now Jonah's plant, his beloved plant, is no more. In verse 8, when the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind. The sun beat down on the head of Jonah so that he was faint. We see again that sign that God is the creator, the Lord, the controller over all of his creation. The great fish and the tiny one. The growing plants and the storm and the desert winds. And here with this wind is no nice afternoon breeze. It's a desert gust. Again, if you grew up like me in this kind of climate, the desert gust does not bring comfort. It's like a windstorm of hell beating upon you again. It swoops up hot winds and oppresses you with them. Here is Jonah from the lows of death to the highs of joy. Where do you think we're going again? Verse 8, and Jonah asked that he might die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. Now we're back in the pits again, right? Just kill me. Would have been better if I had just died. God sets up the question here for Jonah again. Verse 9: God said to Jonah, Do you do well to be angry for the plant? You see the author is setting up here these parallel experiences in the book and even in this immediate chapter. In the chapter here, it's marked by this same question. Jonah sees God's mercy in the fish, and what did he do? He rejoiced. Jonah was hot with rage that God would show mercy to Nineveh. Some hundred and twenty thousand people are saved, and Jonah says, why don't you just kill me, God? God asked, Is it right for you to be angry? Then God does what here? He shows another taste of mercy to Jonah. My mercy is for you, Jonah. He brings up this plant, a plant. Jonah rejoices. And the plant dies. Jonah is right back to what? Why don't you just kill me, God? And God asked the same question again. Is it right for you to be angry? God is teaching something here. He's setting up a lesson for Jonah. Jonah rejoices when? When God's mercy is for him. Jonah curses though when God's mercy goes elsewhere. Here is God asking her, Jonah, do you have the right to be so angry about this? Are you in the position to be angry about my mercy going elsewhere? Who does have the right? Point number three, God's mercy is his. You see what God is doing with Jonah here? He's teaching Jonah this particular lesson. God asks, do you have the right to be upset about this plant? And Jonah's answer, his response is, yes, yes, I do. Verse 9, God asked it, do you do well to be angry for the planting? And Jonah said, Yes, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die. We laugh at Jonah a little bit, stepping away from it and seeing the situation for what it is. This feels a little like the temper tantrums that Isaiah was throwing my son just this afternoon. Buddy, we're going from highs of joy to just like collapsing on the ground and banging on the slide in anger over nothing. Over nothing In a world for ourselves, though, we know we do the same kind of thing. That thing where our outlandish responses really just make sense for us in our own shoes. God here is going to unwind that spool of frustration a little bit. Now God is showing Jonah something here, verse 10. The Lord said, You pity the plant for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in a night, and perished in a night. God is asking Jonah, how did this plant that you're so crushed over, how did it come into being? How did it come into existence? Did you create it, Jonah? Did you plant it in the ground yesterday? Did you nurture it? Did you water it? Jonah, what did you do? Bring about this plant that you love so dearly. You do anything? The obvious answer is no. We already read. God made the plant. He appointed it. All you've had, Jonah, is the pleasure of experiencing its presence for but a day. The plant came and went that quickly And yet, Jonah, you're you're crushed over its passing. You are so broken over it, so filled with pity for it. Jonah, you are so filled with pity and compassion over next to nothing. Why is God bringing this up? Verse 11. And should not I pity Nineveh? That great city in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons who don't know their right hand from their left, and also much cattle. You are filled with compassion for this plant that, let's be honest, you have no real attachment to. So filled with pity for it. Does it not make sense? Maybe, maybe, that I might be filled, God is saying, with compassion for the lives of those in this great city. The 120 souls of the men, women, and children who are there. Because who are they? They're those whom God has made. There's those whom God has crafted in his image. There are those whom God has created for his own good pleasure. You believe, Jonah, that you have the right to die over the grief of this plant. Should I not have the right to have compassion on these, my creation? Think about what God is doing throughout this story. We've seen Jonah face the idea of death actually a number of times in this story. I think back about chapter 1. Jonah was on the ship as the storm arises, and who is the one on that ship who is deeply concerned for the lives of people on the ship? Jonah? Oh no. There's a particular word that's used there. It's the word for to perish, to die, avad. The person concerned that all the people on the ship will avad will perish is the captain of that ship. And that's why he's trying to figure out what's going on. It's then just a moment later determined that, oh, it's all Jonah's fault. That word of odd appears again. And who is it for? It's actually the crew of the ship now trying to row back to shore because they don't want Jonah to have to perish. There's risk of life all over this story. Jonah almost perished, and God rescued him. God valued his life Then we get to chapter 3. Jonah walks a third of the way into the city, drops his quick message, dips back out. 40 days, and you all will perish. Then he leaves. Is Jonah concerned that anyone in this story will perish? Oh, uh there's one thing Jonah's concerned will perish. His plant. There is risk of life all over here. This is the one thing that Jonah is concerned about dying. Johnny, you claim the right to be so filled with compassion that you wish to join this plant, this plant you've known for a day, that you wish to join it in death. Should I not have the right to have compassion on Nineveh, that great city, and 120,000 people I have made there? They have been lost in their sins. They don't know their left hand from their right. Can I not come and show mercy for them? No, no, you seem so torn up over a plant. Okay. You hate the Ninevehes, they're sinners. Okay. What about the numerous cattle that I've made? Are the cattle sinners? Are they your enemies too? Can I rescue them? Can I not have mercy for them? Jonah, I did create these. I did plant these. I made all these things. Can I not care for them like you care for this plant? It's striking what God is showing here to Jonah. Jonah has space for God's mercy when it's for himself. Jonah has no space for God's mercy when it's for anything that doesn't concern him. There's no space in his heart for compass compassion or mercy for Nineveh. The end. That's it. We're left here at the end of this book with Jonah sitting on a desert cliff and we get a kind of cliffhanger here. We aren't told what happens with Jonah. No, we're left with this tension, again, this kind of ambiguity. We're very intentionally left wondering, asking. Does Jonah ever get it? Does Jonah finally repent? Or does he wallow in death here Some people have some ideas about it, some good ideas, but what does the text itself leave us with? It leaves us at the cliff. It leaves us with God's question here. You can almost mirror this scene with that scene from our New Testament reading, right? In Luke 13, Jesus too is sitting on a hillside looking out over a city. And he said, oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets. Did Nineveh kill Jonah? O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one that stones those who are sent to it, how often would I have gathered your children together as a hen? As a hen gathers her brood under her wings. Yet you're not willing. Jesus, the true prophet, sits on a hillside too. It's a mirror image, but it's the opposite. Jesus sits there, the true prophet, and he is heartbroken for the people. He is heartbroken mourning over the city of his creation who just cannot bring themselves to repent. You've killed the prophets. You've stoned them. And yet I have desired to bring you under my wing, to love you in mercy. You refuse. Jesus sits there in that scene, so heartbroken for the city that would not receive him. It's the same city outside of which Jesus will be taken to a hillside again so that he will do what? So that he will be crucified, hung on a cross, so that he will be the prophet who is killed. And why does he do that? To show mercy. To show compassion. Jonah wants to die with the plant. Christian, Jesus sees you who deserve to die. Says, I will die Kill me, not as a masochist, not buried in guilt or frustration over God's mercy, but to show God's mercy. Jonah wants to die in grief on a hillside over a plant as he is filled with hatred for these people God has saved. Jesus does go and die on the hillside because he is filled with love and mercy for people who have sinned against him. We're left here asking, left here wondering with what the author has given us. Does Jonah ever get it? Does he understand? I believe the author is leaving us here intentionally, not giving us an answer. Because what the author is doing is pressing that question to us. He's pressing it to the audience. God asked that question of Jonah, do you have the right to be so angry? Do you? And he says, do I not have the right to show mercy? Well, what do we know of who our God is? Jonah doesn't answer here. Now what is our answer? Does God have the right to show mercy? We get from this story of Jonah this kind of twofold lesson as we conclude the text. Here is this charge to look to the great mercy that God shows. The great mercy that comes through Jesus. Because what did Jesus say about this story? That this is a story about him. A story about the one who does go into the belly of Sheol. The one who does die three days later is risen again. Why? Because he's the prophet who desires to show mercy to his people. Does Jesus have the right to show mercy where he wishes? Yes. Yes, he does. That is the answer of the Bible. Yes, he does. And we know that as we look to the life of Jesus, because that's precisely what he does. And what's going to happen through the story of the life of Jesus? People will look at Jesus and charge him with the same thing that Jonah charges God with here. Jesus, we wanted you to come and do things for us, not others. Jesus, we wanted you to come in strength, to crush our enemies, but it turns out you are just weak and merciful. Not exactly what we were looking for from you, God. But Christian, in the life of Jesus, we see that his mercy is his strength. It's through the mercy he displays in his death that what happens, he defeats death. He is risen again It's in 2 Corinthians 12 that Paul says, Jesus said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in what? In weakness. Will you look to and yearn for his mercy? Will you see his mercy as strength for you, as his grace for you? There is another side to the lesson here, though. The other side is what? That we do not merely call for and desire mercy for ourselves. That we also desire to see mercy bestowed upon others. Jonah was right in a sense that Nineveh was wicked, and so it deserved judgment, Judgment and justice against sin is a good thing. But what are we learning here through the story of Jonah? Through this, we must learn to love God's mercy so much that we want to pray and see mercy even for our enemies. That we desire not just the destruction of those who persecute us, but their salvation. That we long not to crush those who ruin our culture or hate us or hate our God. But we desire to see them repent in believe, so that they too might receive the mercy of God. That's the lesson Jonah was supposed to learn at the end here. Does God have the right to show mercy? Are we to love our enemies? The story of Jonah tells us yes. Jesus has shown us how to do that in his life and death and resurrection. So we may we pray for mercy. Let's conclude this in prayer. Heavenly Father,