Our New Testament reading, our sermon text is Galatians chapter four, verses twelve through twenty. That's on page nine seventy-four of the Pew Bibles. This is what Paul has to say as he continues speaking to his brothers in Galatia. He says, verse twelve Brothers, I entreat you, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. You did me no wrong. You know it was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first, and though my condition was a trial to you You did not scorn or despise me, but you received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus. What then has become of your blessedness? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me. Have I then become your enemy by telling you the truth? They make much of you, but for no good purpose. He wants to shut you out, that you may make much of them. It is always good to be made much of for a good purpose. And not only when I am present with you, my little children, for whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth, until Christ is formed in you. I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we do see words of anguish and concern and sorrow from Paul towards his brothers. Towards those in the church in Galatia, which he helped by your power form. By proclaiming your word, he saw them come to know who Jesus is. Yet now he's concerned that they may not know who Jesus is. We see him concerned that they're showing him this Cold shoulder, but they are not receiving him as their brother in fullness. Lord, may we see what it is to love one another the way that you have called us to Not because we are inherently great loving people, but because it shows how we know the love we have in Jesus Christ. As we embrace and trust the gospel given to us. We pray that your Spirit would make this alive and real to us here this evening. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. You may know there is really a particular kind of pain that only comes from relationships. You can get hurt a lot of different ways in this life, but there's something unique about the pain of relational fracture, no? Have you experienced that? That friend who becomes distant from you over time. Maybe the child who grows cold towards you. The person who you once loved, and now seemingly they don't love you. Maybe the hardest part in the midst of that isn't even necessarily the distance that's developed, but it's trying to figure out at times, how did this happen? How did this become what the relationship is? What changed? What did I do? How did we get here? And another step within that that can make it even more difficult, harder. So when you remember those times of the relationship and it was great and beautiful, you begin to miss them. You remember the closeness that you had with someone, the ease of communication in that midst. the trust that you had with one another, and then suddenly you're talking to that person in this new context, and it feels like you're talking to a totally different person. That's where Paul is living in this passage here in Galatians 4. That's the kind of thing that Paul is experiencing. That's why, here as we get to this part in Galatians 4, what we see is Paul really stops arguing. And he starts pleading. If you've been following along in this study, then you know that for three and a half chapters, Paul has been making very careful, precise theological arguments. A Paul has been making uh uh this kind of argument where he's weaved together uh covenant theology And the workings of redemptive history and these various biblical supports together all to demonstrate with perfect clarity. That justification, our embrace of the gospel, us being made right before God, can only be by faith alone. It is not by works of the law. Paul knows that that lies at the very heart of the gospel, that we are not made right with God by the things that we do, that we cannot be made right that way, but rather we must be made right by what Jesus Christ. Has done for us. The perfect life He has lived, the death he died that we deserved. What Paul knows is that by faith in Jesus, that is how we are made righteous. That is how we become right with God. That is the gospel that Paul has been defending throughout this text. But here, as we get to this point, we see Paul turn from his polemical arguments to plea for the Galatians' sakes, to show the love of the gospel to them. If you read this in the Greek, you'll see the tone really does change. Suddenly, these long drawn-out arguments that Paul was making, the sentences they're short, they're terse. There's this dramatic shift in tone, like only can be experienced when one is pleading for their loved one. All along the way, we see what happens. As we explore this here, we'll see what happens when the gospel itself seems to begin to be abandoned And the kind of effect that has on this relationship, the effect that it has on the Galatians themselves. And ultimately along the way, we'll see, even though there is betrayal present here, The truth of the gospel and its gift does still stand. What we're going to see in the text this evening is this: the love of the gospel leads to gospel love The love of the gospel leads to gospel love. And we're going to explore that in three points this evening. There is first a plea for renewed affection. And then second, a memory of former affection. And then last, a warning about misplaced affection. And join me in that first point here, a plea for renewed affection. Look with me at verse 12, the beginning of this text here. Paul says, Brothers, I entreat you, become as I am. For I also have become as you are. You did me no wrong. Paul calls the Galatians here his brothers. That matters. We're going to see how he actually changes his disposition a little bit at the end of the text here. The people he's talking to are not just readers of a letter. They are not merely students. These are people who Paul loves. They're people who Paul sees as family. That makes sense coming out of the text that we just saw earlier in this chapter, the gospel makes people into a family. What did we see Paul explain? Because of the work that God has done, you are now sons. Fellow sons. You are all sons of the Father. Paul's making the point. The gospel does reconcile you to God, but it doesn't just do that. It also Binds you to one another. It makes you fellow sons of God. He says then, I entreat you, I beg you. This is where it probably sounds weird to us. Become as I am, for I have also become as you are. That is an awkward phrase in English. I reread it twelve times in English and still didn't quite get it. What is Paul saying? Paul is not telling the Galatians that they just need to become like he is. He's not telling them that you all need to get on my level. He's not saying you guys just need to do a better job like I'm doing. Can't you all just be like me? Now, what Paul is doing, what he's expressing, is that he wants the Galatians to have an affectionate disposition towards him in the same way that he is affectionate towards them. He's saying, I love you, and I want to have a relationship with you again where you also love me. He wants this renewed relationship with them. Do you remember back to the very beginning of this letter? We learned a little bit about what the relationship is now like here. What we've learned is that the Galatians have started to think that Paul and the gospel he proclaimed is essentially second rate. And that Paul is a second rate apostle and his gospel is not quite there. It's good but not great. And in that, they've started to stiff arm Paul a little bit, to push him away. But Paul here is rushing towards them. Warm up to me the way that I love you. Why does he need to ask that? It is because something has changed. Their affection towards Paul has grown cold. Paul is pleading, I don't want this relationship to be that way. Notice here, Paul doesn't come in this spot accusing them as he's thinking about the relationship. You read the end of verse 12, he says, For you did me no wrong. Paul is showing, I'm not against you, I am for you. It would be really easy to see a response from Paul that would just be lashing back at these people. It would be easy for the Galatians to expect or think. Yeah, Paul's out to get us, right? Paul's gonna take some cheap shots at us, because that's what we do in the midst of fractured relationships. It is what we often do. We love to get our pound of flesh when we feel that we've been wrong, that how quickly we say, Yeah, well you dig up all the dirty laundry you can find on the situation. That is not what Paul is doing here. Paul is not standing over these people in an accusatory way. He's reaching out to them. He's pursuing them. He has had, and we've read them, stern words of truth for them. I cannot believe that you are abandoning the gospel. He has said that He's stated the truth, but he is also still careful to show he loves these people. Paul doesn't want to chase them off He doesn't want to kick them out the door on their way out. Paul wants to stir back up their affections towards him. That's not only for his own sake, for the sake of them loving him. Why is it the heart here? It's something even more important. Paul is looking at this relationship, and he wants something for the Galatians. Look here at point number two, a memory of former affection. Paul then takes this plea to this place in verse 13. You know, it was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first. Paul is bringing them back to the beginning of his relationship with them, how things started. He reminds them About how the relationship really did begin, that he did not come to them in all the appearance of strength and glory. He came to them in the appearance of weakness. Now we don't necessarily know precisely what was wrong with Paul, or at least necessarily exactly what he is alluding to. There's a lot of debate about it, people saying he came with a particular kind of illness People may conjecture that this is another reference to Paul's thorn in his flesh. Here is what we certainly do know. And that's the story of how Paul did come to Galatia, what led into that. In the book of Acts, Luke talks about Paul being stoned and left for dead in Lystra. Lystra is a city there in the province of Galatia, the city-state of Galatia. And then Paul begins to be received by people. That means that the condition that the people who would form the Galatian Church found Paul in was that he was on the brink of death. One pastor said it this way, Paul came to Galatia to preach Christ crucified, looking like he himself might have just been crucified. And yet, verse 14, though my condition was a trial to you, you did not scorn or despise me. But you received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus. Why was Paul's situation a trial to these people? It wasn't just because it's expensive to foot the bill for a dying man. It it is, and it would have been back then too. But there's something else going on here as well, and it's Paul recognizing the honor-shamed society that they existed in. Stooping down to care for one who is on the brink of death, stooping down to care for one who is found in this kind of shame, in the Galatian context, that's tantamount to saying, I am shameful like you. That's what they would be saying as they stooped down to help Paul in his need. Paul said, you didn't scorn or despise me. More woodenly, that's like saying, you didn't spit in my face when you found me. That's actually the term that's being used there. That's what would have been expected for the Galatians to do when they met Paul at the beginning. Spitting in someone's face is a way to scorn them. We know that. There's kind of a two-fold expression going on here. First, there is a kind of contempt that's expressed for a person when you spit at them. That still holds true today, and that's why we don't do that to people today. There is another element going on there too, though, and it's that spitting in that time was a way to ward off evil spirits. So when you see someone who truly looks like a curse laying there, of course there's curse upon them, some kind of wicked spirit, you would spit to ward off that spirit, to make sure that that spirit didn't come upon you. You don't want to catch whatever it is that they have spiritually speaking, but stooping down to help them And that's to risk getting right in the face of bad voodoo itself and catching that for yourself. Bending down to care for that person in their shame is to be seen as shameful like they look. Paul says, and yet you received me. You were willing to do all of that to receive me. I look like a cursed bad omen, one who would bring shame and curse upon you, but you received me as though I were an angel. As though I were Jesus Christ Himself. It's this clear kind of echo of what Jesus said to his disciples in Matthew 10: Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. These people in the story, they hosted Paul. They cared for him. They loved him and they nursed him to health. Why? What does an angel, a messenger of God, come to proclaim? What did Paul come to proclaim? He came to proclaim the truth of the gospel. That's what he just told us. Why do they receive Paul this way? It is because they heard and received that message that Paul had originally proclaimed. That message that Jesus came and loved sinful, shameful people and gave himself up for them, risked it all for them. Through the work of the Spirit and the reception of this, then, the Galatians became the kind of people who can love the unlovely They are drawn to love as Christ had loved, to stoop down and lift up the cursed and the afflicted, to step into this trial, to love the unlovely. That is a story, in a sense, about works, isn't it? But not works which merit and earn the gospel of grace in right standing before God. Rather, that is a very clear picture of a story of how hearing and trusting the gospel and grace produces beautiful works. It cultivated this mercy and affection in them for Paul. Now, why is this the story that Paul is telling? It is because the relationship has changed. They don't feel that same way about him. Verse 15: What then has become of your blessedness? For I testify to you that if possible, you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me. He's saying where they once blessed Paul, they don't anymore. Something's different. Remember now they're giving him the cold shoulder, they're distancing themselves from Paul. That affliction which was so uh sorry, that affection, which was so present and clear, is no more. It goes beyond that. He says, verse 16, have I then become your enemy by telling you the truth? For most of us, I think an enemy isn't something we're someone we're simply apathetic towards, right? Someone we've become hostile towards. That's who we think of an enemy as. And the enemy isn't necessarily the person who you've just forgot to invite to the party. The enemy is the person that you went out of your way to make sure that they didn't get invited. Why is Paul an enemy to them now? Instead of for telling them the truth. Now, just consider the way, the timing of how things have unfolded here. There's a way we could read this which would think, yeah, Paul just told them the truth. Told them how it is. Paul is laying down the law here and correcting them. And so of course they're going to bite back at him because they don't like him anymore. Didn't Jesus tell us people will hate you when you speak the truth? It's kind of the same thing I experience at times, and I just speak the truth, and people get mad at me for it. Plenty of those kinds of things and experiences can be true, but we have to remember the the correlation here and uh the chronology of what's happening Paul, when he is writing this letter to them, already knows before he starts writing it how they feel about him. This new response from the Galatians is something that exists even before Paul starts correcting them. Because Paul's writing this, they haven't received this yet. The truth he has told them is not something new. This is a new reaction from the Galatians. But what is the truth that he had told them? This is a new reaction from the Galatians to the truth of the gospel of grace that Paul had already told them. That's the truth he's referring to. That should start to bring into frame why Paul has been so strong in his proclamation of grace, no? These are people who once received that truth of what salvation by grace and by faith is. But now their disposition towards that message has changed. And it's borne out in reflection to how they then think about Paul. What's happening? These people are somehow now, in a sense, hostile towards the grace that Paul had taught them about A Paul has been showing all along the way, we really get it here, that their affection for him has been diverted, and that in that their affection has been diverted away from Paul's message. We're placed here with this kind of hostility for Paul and for the message Paul has proclaimed. Now, at the end of the day, the most important thing in the world isn't that the Galatians be smitten with Paul himself, right? But Paul, the person, is intimately connected before the Galatians with the message that Paul proclaimed to them. The Galatians have changed their tune about the gospel. What Paul is then saying is, so of course their affection for Paul is no longer the same. And then of course Paul is heartbroken for their sakes. Well what has led to this? What now has the Galatians' affections instead? What has wooed them away from Paul and his message? Someone has. Point number three, a warning about misplaced affection. Read with me verse 17 here. They make much of you, they make much of you. But for no good purpose. They want to shut you out that you may make much of them. The Galatians didn't just wake up one day and decide, we don't like Paul in the gospel anymore. Something's happened. Paul says, they. And he's talking about the same people who we've heard Paul mention a few different times throughout this letter so far. Back in chapter 1, he referred to them as those who came to trouble you. And then in chapter two, he talks about the same kind of people, false brothers who slipped in to spy out freedom. And then again in chapter three, those who have bewitched you. These are those people who came to Galatia from Jerusalem and planted this idea, this idea where they communicated that Paul's gospel is all right. But it isn't really the whole thing. It's not, Paul's not actually the best of the apostles. He's really a second-rate apostle. His gospel then is a second-rate gospel. They communicated ideas like, Paul told you some of what you need to know, but he missed the important things. This group came to Galatia and undercut that message from Paul to supplant it with their own. And what was their message? That you must do the works of the law in order to really be right before God. In order to be a Christian. Paul explains the way that they go about doing that too, right? They didn't just show up and uh upend the tables He says they came in and they made much of you. That's Paul saying, these people came to you and they tried to butter you up. They came to you speaking sweet little things to you. They made you feel important. And smart and beautiful. That kind of vibe. It's one of those tricks that we see from afar and we get creeped out by, and rightfully so But when we experience that thing, we want a little more of it, don't we? We want to be made to feel important. We want to hear about how valuable we are. That's not to say that those things are inherently bad. But they didn't do it because they believed those things about the Galatians. They came, Paul says, speaking with no good purpose. These troublers are only doing this so that they can get what they want out of you. They're not motivated to lead you to Jesus. They're not motivated to see you trust in the gospel. No, they're here to build up themselves and to use you to that end. So that's what Paul is explaining. It's no wonder, then, as you think about it, that their works and their teachings necessarily distract from and subvert the gospel itself. Paul had come saying to them, look to Christ. What have these men come saying? And look at yourself. Now look at me. You see it? These people didn't invent this strategy. This is just typical manipulator and abuser kind of language. Oh, look at how great you are. Now look at how great I am. Now look at what you could do. Now look at what I do. Look at your see its self. See how good you are at this. And in that all is there preaching this kind of works-based sort of, Paul calls it, inverted gospel. They're reframing what the Galatians affection should be about. Suddenly they're beginning to think about their performance and their obedience and their self-righteousness and their whole motivation It's to be seen that way. The whole motivation of the abusers, the troublers is what? Well, I want to be your guru. I want to be your idol. Essentially, I really want to just be your Jesus. What is it doing all along the way? It is subverting in word and deed the gospel with things that, granted, appear in the context, somewhat biblical and scriptural. Come do the law of Moses with me. But they're actually redirecting the Galatians' affections away from Jesus and onto themselves. Verse 18, Paul says, it's always good to be made much of for a good purpose, not only when I am present with you. Paul knows the retort he's potentially going to hear back. Yeah, Paul, sounds like you're just jealous, aren't you? But that's not the case here. Paul's passion and his grief is not immediately because they're a walking away from himself, Paul. It's because he knows they're walking away from the purity of the gospel. It's because in a sense here, by their actions and their thoughts, it appears that they're walking away from Jesus. Verse 19, my little children, for who I am again in the anguish of childbirth until Christ is formed in you. Back at the beginning of this chapter in Galatians, Paul calls those people his brothers. It's kind of taking on a different familial role here. He's talking about himself in the position of mother. Looking at his children affectionately. He compares his feelings and his passions for them, his pain and his anguish for them That of a mother giving birth. Zeke was born four months ago now. Personally, I am not going to compare my feelings or senses to that exact experience. Maybe that makes sense. But I did watch enough to realize in some sense that those are very deep feelings. What a mother will go through for the baby on the other end This is love for another. This is suffering for another. This is sacrifice for another. What a mother goes through to receive that baby on the other side. Here is Paul saying his mentality is: I yearn for you like that. I care for you such, I love you such that I agonize over needing to be confident that you are born in Christ Jesus. That is where your affection lies. Paul is so passionate for these people because he loves them genuinely this way. Here they've been chiding Paul. Here they've been acting as enemies towards him, distancing themselves from him, thinking he is simplistic and beneath them. You can import all the ways that you worry about how someone thinks about you and the love isn't quite the same. That's this kind of situation here. Meanwhile Paul loves and pursues and wants to be with and near these people. Why? Why does Paul love the Galatians like that? Why does Paul plead and beg with them for restoration? Why? Because that is what gospel love looks like. This is the way that the gospel drives one to respond to people. And hopefully you've figured out why. You've started to think about the story that we've heard about Paul here and what it images to us. It's because this is the way in the gospel that Jesus Christ has loved you. Christ came and proclaimed the truth. Christ came in the form of one who was lowly. Christ was beaten and bruised and suffered throughout his life and was crucified upon a cross. Why? Because his heart for his people is such that he will go through all of that for them. It is because he has looked upon those who have made themselves enemies of him, and he has chosen to say, I love you. I will chase you down. I will come after you. I want to be near you. I want to be with you. I don't want you to suffer under the wrath you have earned by your own sin. I don't want you to die under the law, Jesus says. No, I will take that upon myself. Christian, this is the way that Jesus has and passionately does love you. What we see is that when we know and trust that, it leads towards us living and loving like Jesus has. That is the gospel leading to gospel love. The love that we have been shown generating love There's many different things we could draw out here from what to see in this situation with Paul. We see the way that shepherds, elders, pastors are to love God's church. And not merely by trying to accumulate followers for themselves, but striving to bring the truth in love so that people will see and love Jesus. We should then be cautious about those who are seeking to build their own platform, even if the platform resonates with us. We see here too what it looks like to be motivated to love and sacrifice and good works. That these things do flow from seeing and knowing. What Jesus has done. That's what's been exemplified to us. We should cherish that truth and the way that the Spirit works in people to effectuate that. You know what, we would be remiss, though, if we didn't close remembering this plea from Paul to keep our affections themselves on Jesus. To trust in Jesus, to love Jesus, and not to be drawn into think things like the law is primary That will lead us towards self-righteousness, that will corrupt our purity and piety, but rather to see Jesus as primary. That he is the one who has fulfilled the law, where I have failed it, that he has lived purely in piety. He is the one who suffered in our shame. Why? So that we could be received by him, so that we could have a relationship with him. So that we could be near him in love. That's what Jesus has done for you, Christian. I may you love others that way and trust in the love that He has for you. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do rejoice in the truth of the gospel, that we see in it how dearly we are loved. That Jesus has gone through the greatest of anguish and suffering over us, that he has proclaimed the truth of his gospel to us. So may we receive and trust upon it alone. We see the effects of beginning to second that idea, to think of it as lesser than it is. May we never do that. May we not be the kind of people who turn our affections towards ourselves and what we've made ourselves to be, towards others and What we want to be, may our affections be foremost fixated upon Jesus Himself For we see through the work and love of the gospel that we become gospel-loving people. But may that truth dwell and resonate within us That we might rest and live in the faith you've gifted to us. It's in Jesus' name then that we pray. Amen.