Well as we turn our attention to God's Word this morning, let us turn in our Bibles. If you have them to Isaiah 56, if you don't have your own Bible, that's Isaiah 56 is found on page 616 of our Pew Bibles. This is a passage that is quoted in the New Testament passage that we'll be looking at as our sermon text this morning in Mark chapter 11. And it's a wonderful passage speaking where God, through the prophet Isaiah, speaks to his people And tells them his vision for his people, his temple, that it is not to be something that is only restricted to one nation, one people, one land. But that his grace and his salvation is to go to the ends of the earth, and it is ultimately all nations, foreigners, those who are not originally Israelites, but Gentiles, that they themselves can know God, can be part of His people, can have access to Him through prayer and be welcomed into His temple. It's a wonderful picture of the the invitation of God and his gospel to all peoples. So let's give attention to Isaiah chapter 56. It's not only an invitation and a recognition of his lordship over all nations and his gospel going forth, but also a challenge or a rebuke of Israel's leaders who had uh grown comfortable in uh their ministry and uh seemingly were Restricting the people from accessing the gospel, from really understanding. So Isaiah chapter 56. Here now the word of the Lord, starting with Isaiah 56, verse 1, and reading through the whole chapter. Thus says the Lord, keep justice and do righteousness, for soon my salvation will come, and my righteousness will be Revealed. Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil. Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people. And let not the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree. For thus says the Lord, To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, who choose the things that please me and hold fast my covenant, I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better. Than sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. And the foreigners who joined themselves to the Lord and To minister to him, to love the name of the Lord, and to be his servants. Everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it and holds fast my covenant, these I will bring to my holy mountain. And make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted. on my altar, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. The Lord God, who gathers the outcasts of Israel, declares, I will gather yet others to him, besides those already gathered. All you beasts of the field, Come to devour all you beasts in the forest. His watchmen are blind. They are all without knowledge. They are all silent dogs. They cannot bark dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber. The dogs have a mighty appetite. They never have enough, but they are shepherds who have no understanding. They have all turns to their own way, each to his own gain, one And all. Come, they say, let me get wine. Let us fill ourselves with strong drink, and tomorrow will be like this day, great beyond measure. Well with that, let us turn our hymnals to hymn 377 to continue to worship the Lord as we uh continue to this morning. This is a wonderful hymn in many ways anticipating a lot of the themes and the ideas we're going to be reflecting on in our meditation on Mark chapter 11 and as we think of our past and our future together as the people of God, the place where we pray. Let's stand together and sing hymn 377, Jesus, where'er thy people meet. I mean it's gonna start you. Well Amen. You may be seated. For a New Testament reading, we're going to look at Mark chapter 11. This is on page 847 of the Pew Bibles provided for you underneath the seats. In front of you. Mark chapter 11. Actually, this passage is a shorter passage that's fit into a broader one, but it contains this one verse that I want us to focus on, verse 17 this morning. Jesus here is has just uh made his triumphal entry into Jerusalem, and so he's preparing to go to the cross. And uh after uh spending the night in Bethany, uh he comes to Jerusalem and he enters the temple, and that's what we'll pick up reading. It'll refer to they, which is he and his disciples, they'll refer to him, which is Jesus. So it's picking those up from earlier in the text. Starting with verse 15 and reading through verse 19, Mark chapter 11. And they came to Jerusalem. And he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold and those who bought in the temple. And he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. And he would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple. And he was teaching them and saying to them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations? But you have made it a den of robbers. And the chief priests and the scribes heard it and were seeking a way to destroy him, for they feared him, because all the crowd was astonished at his teaching. And when evening came, they went out of the city. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing as we take some time to reflect on the truths here. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you continue to speak to us as your people, as we gather. You've promised wherever two or three of us are gathered in your name, you are present with us. And so we eagerly rejoice in the presence that you've promised here as we meet as your people. We thank you that we have access to you, that we can speak We thank you for the many blessings that we've enjoyed through the past year, and as we look ahead to the coming year, we uh anticipate the way in which you will lead us where we go, and that you will sustain us by Your mighty hand of providence. And toward that end, we pray that as we reflect on this passage and the role of prayer in our life as your people, may you excite in us a joy in prayer and a renewed commitment to it. and a renewed conviction of its blessing to us in Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Well, we've just entered into twenty twenty-five and uh it's kind of a special year because it's It's a quarter of a century. That's kind of cool. But for us here at Reform Presbyterian Church of Bowie, 2025, I think, is a very special year because this is our 40th anniversary year. Yeah, 40 years ago, in 1985, our church was particularized. It became an official church in the denomination, and we called our first pastor Mike Coleman 1985. Kids, that's not that long ago. Even Chris and Ashani, that's not that long ago. To some of us, I realize that to others, that's way before I was ever thought of or born. But 40 is a significant number in the Bible. It's the number that marks a generation. And so here, as we look ahead to 2025, we really are looking at the The end of the first generation of Reformed Presbyterian Church of Bowie, and looking ahead to another generation of being the body of Christ here in this part of the world, faithfully worshiping God together and doing the work that He's called us to in I think we're really blessed in this congregation. I've been so blessed that we have many members here who have been here the whole generation, all the way back to forty years. And not only have been here and participated faithfully. in so many ways, but many of them have taken leadership roles and served us, and we are blessed by that. But we're also blessed by many of you who've joined us more recently. Maybe 20 years ago, halfway through that first generation, maybe five, maybe months ago. It's our practice here at Reformed Presbyterian Church Review. If you haven't been around that long, it was our practice all the way back to our first pastor, Mike Coleman, that the first sermon he would preach of the year, and I've continued this tradition, the first sermon I preach, we offer a focus or a challenge to us as the body of Christ, looking ahead into the coming year, kind of looking back where God's brought us and the looking ahead to the next year, sort of a focus for us as we as we look ahead to to be the body of Christ for another year to come. But this year, since it's our 40th anniversary, I thought it was appropriate not just to look back to 2024. To look all the way back 40 years, reflect on who we are as a congregation, and look ahead, not just to 2025, but to 2065. What will it take us for the Lord to lead us faithfully for another 40 years? And as I've been reflecting on that, there are two, I would say, life verses of our congregation. And I know some of you have been here longer than I. I've only been here for about half the generation. But there are two life verses, so you can correct me if I'm wrong. Maybe during sermon discussion you can give me other ones. But the two that I know of are Acts 17. 11. That's that verse describing the believers in Berea. And it says that they received the word with all eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so. And part of the reason that was so central to the life of our church is because we started with the Berean Study Center, which was up the hill, Dave Coffin, teaching theology, teaching the Bible to those who were eating it up. Those are some of you who were here at that time. who loved the word, studied it, searched it to see if these things were true. And I would say that that has characterized our body even to this day. It's such a privilege for me. to minister to a body of Christ where the word is received with all eagerness and the scriptures are examined to see if these things are so. The second life verse of RPCB is right here in this passage, and it's verse 17. of Mark chapter eleven. There are a couple other ones in the Synoptic Gospels in Matthew and Luke that say something pretty similar of But this verse, either this one or one of the other Synoptic Gospel verses, this was a verse that the late Reverend Glenn Connect, who just passed away this last year in 2024. He preached on that verse at the dedication of this building. And it was this idea that the house of God is to be a prayer for all nations. So these are the two life verses. If you look back 40 years, look ahead, I hope we continue to hold these as life verses that describe what we are about here as a church. We're going to lean into Acts 17. 11 throughout the coming year. I'm going to be preaching my next series through Deuteronomy. It's going to be all about the Word and the role of the Word in our life as people of God. Chris will continue preaching through John, and the word of God is so evident there as the the what brings faith and what brings God's people through. So we're going to focus on that through the rest of the year. This morning I want us to focus a little more on this life verse of RPCB. This idea, the the Lord's house is to be a house of prayer for all nations. As we look back to the past year and to the past 40 years, as we look ahead to 2025 and beyond, friends, the only way we will remain faithful and fruitful as a congregation for another generation is Is as a house of prayer for all nations. Amen. Amen. We see Jesus' passion for this here. And rather than digging into all the details of this passage, what I want us to do is to really meditate for on this this idea of what prayer is, what it means, what it means to be a house of prayer. And as we do this, I I think what we can see is and what we should consider are the places of prayer, the purposes of prayer, and the power of prayer. The places of prayer, where should prayer be done? Where is it appropriate? The purposes of prayer, why should we be a praying people? And then the power of prayer, where does prayer get its power that we might lean into that as a praying people? So, first of all, the places of prayer. Where should prayer be made? What places are places of prayer? And I would argue that through Scripture we find that there are really sort of two broad ideas of the places of prayer, where prayer should be done. In one sense, there is a place of public prayer. This is a central place where the people of God gather together in public prayer, and then there's the places of private prayer as well. First let's look at And consider this idea of the public place of prayer. That's the focus of this passage. As Jesus enters into the temple, he's on his way to the cross. He uh he enters into Jerusalem, then he enters into the temple. And look at what it says in verse 15. They they came to Jerusalem, he entered the temple, and he began to drive out those who sold and those who bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats. Now, uh this is often uh looked at as, oh, Jesus here is um so uh angry and justly angry, righteously angry, at those who are ripping off God's people and using worship as a way to profit and make money. money. And that might be part of what's going on in Isaiah 56 toward the end. That does seem to be part of what Isaiah has in in view. But what's interesting is Jesus doesn't just Address the money changers and those who are selling pigeons specifically, which is the offering that the poor must bring, so there does seem to be maybe an oppressive element here. But in verse 16 it says he would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple. So what's going on in this verse? What's going on in this passage? The idea here is that the temple was to be the central place of Israel's religious life. It was to be the place where God offered his people to be Present with him, to have special access to his presence. And what Jesus is doing here is he's clearing, as scholars suggest, scholars argue, he's clearing specifically the court. of the Gentiles. Now, the way the temple was laid out, there was the temple, Holy of Holies, and then there were these increasing broader places for God's people. So you had the Holy of Holies, only the high priest could go. Then you had the temple, only the priests could go, the court of the priests, then you had the court of Israelite men, and then the court of women, and then beyond that the court of the Gentiles. And the court of the Gentiles was This whole court area was vast, multiple football fields in size. And historians tell us what had happened right before Jesus Enters here, Caiaphas is the high priest, and he had taken this basically worship market. And that served a good purpose If you were coming to Jerusalem to worship and you were coming from a far distant place uh maybe elsewhere in Israel or maybe even beyond in the diaspora, uh It was not very easy to drag your little lamb along with you. So people would just bring their money and then they would go and buy a lamb in Israel. Josephus, the historian, says something like 250,000 lambs. were sacrificed at the Passover feast during this time. So this is a huge, it was business, but it was a, it served a good purpose for God's people. But what Caiaphas had done is he had brought all that commerce and he had plopped it down in the temple ground. Not sure exactly why. Maybe to make it more convenient for worshippers, maybe to make sure that he's the temple's getting its cut. We don't know exactly why. But it seems like what Jesus is angry about is that this court, which was meant to be a place for the nations to gather, to pray, and to have a sense of the presence of God in his place, was now being filled up with Israelites and bringing their stuff and attending to their needs for worship, driving out the nations. and displacing them. And so Jesus rebukes them because they've taken a place that was meant for meeting and encountering God in prayer, not just by his people, but by all nations. And that's what he says in verse 17. He was Teaching them, saying, It is, is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations? There he quotes Isaiah 56, and then he goes on and r sort of alludes to Jeremiah 7, where he says, But you have made it a den of robbers. He's rebuking his own people, calling them robbers-thieves because they have displaced the place for prayer for the nations. The place for public prayer for the nations. The point was that the temple was to be the center, the focus of all God's people's prayer, including uh believers from the nations, because it was a symbolic representation of God's presence on earth. as access, as granting access to God. This is what we see of the temple throughout the Old Testament. When Solomon dedicates the temple, he describes it as this place that is to be a place of prayer. That's in 2 Chronicles. Chapter 6, verses 19 to 21. Solomon here is praying. He says, But if you turn aside and forsake uh No, that's seven. That's right. Yet have regard to the prayer of your servant, so this is Solomon praying, and to his plea, O Lord my God, listening to the cry and to the prayer that your servant prays before you, that your eyes may be opened day and night toward this house. The place where you have promised to set your name that you may listen to the prayer that your servant offers toward this place And listen to the pleas of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward this place, and listen from heaven, your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive. So there's this idea that the temple was the public place of prayer. We see this happening actually, I don't know if you did the readings for this week, but in 2 Chronicles 20, this is exactly what Jehoshaphat, uh the king at the time, does is he prays toward the temple in Jerusalem, and God hears and God answers. Answers their prayer in a mighty way. So the public place of prayer is the place where God's presence can be encountered. Because prayer is simply talking to God, right? In the Old Testament, this was the temple. But the temple is no longer there. So where is the public place for prayer today? It's interesting in John's account of the same. Event in Jesus' life, this cleansing or this clearing of the temple. In John's account, he gives us a hint where the place is today, doesn't he? Maybe you remember when Chris was preaching through this passage just uh just a few uh weeks ago in verse 18 of chapter 2, the Jews, after he clears the temple, they say, Well, what sign do you show us for doing these things? And Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The Jews said, It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, more than a generation, and you will raise it up in three days. But he was speaking about the temple. temple of his body. And even as you heard in Mark's opening, prayers and reflections, that's the public place of prayer. prayer today. We are the temple of God, the place where God is specially present as we gather two or three or more in his name. 1 Corinthians 6, 19 says, Do you not know that your body, plural, your your body, so our body together, is the temple of the Holy Spirit within you. Ephesians 1. 22 and Colossians 1. 18 get at the same idea. And that's why here at our church, a significant part of our gathering together for worship is prayer. We spend a lot of time on it. Maybe for some people too much time. Sometimes our prayers are five minutes long, seven minutes long. And yet we do that because this is the public place of prayer where we can be specially present with God in Christ's body, the church. And it's what God has called us to. 1 Timothy 2. Paul instructing the early church says, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly. And dignified in every way. We apply this idea that the first public place of prayer is the temple of God, and that's what we are as people. We apply this through our prayers during our worship services also by gathering midweek. Every Wednesday night now for the last four or five, we're going to five years over Zoom to just spend an hour being the house of prayer. For all nations. But the place, a place of prayer is not just the public place where prayers are appropriate and important, that's in the church, but there's also this idea that there are private places of prayer. prayer. And these private places, they're actually very unspecific. They can be anywhere. We can meet with God anywhere in prayer, and partly because God is omnipresent. He's everywhere present. Jesus himself is everywhere present with his people by his spirit wherever we are. And this is why we can follow in Jesus' example, which is to go off alone. And be praying, commune with God through private prayer. Luke chapter five. This is one of the counts where Jesus does this. And I love this one because listen to what it says in verse 15. It says, But now Jesus has just begun his ministry, but now even more the report about him went abroad, and great crowds gathered to hear him. and to be healed of their infirmities. Jesus' ministry is taking off. He is drawing crowds, great crowds. The problem is for us when ministry seems to be going well, it's so tempting to get to work and get busy and leave prayer behind, isn't it? And to forget that it's really that that is going to be used of the Lord to flourish our ministry. But look what Jesus does. So all these people, his ministry is taking off, and what does he do? But he would withdraw to desolate places. And pray. Desolate places. And pray. This is how the New Testament can regularly command for us to pray constantly, continuously, because we can speak to God wherever we are as his people. And knows that he hears. And know that he hears. Romans 12, 12 says, Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer. Colossians 4:2, Ephesians 6:18 says the same thing. 1 Thessalonians 5:16 and 17. Rejoice, always pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. We can't be in the true temple, the church, gathered worship all the time. God doesn't want us to live our lives only here. He gives us one day in seven for us to gather in this way. But we can be a praying people of God at all times. We can be regularly communicating, communing with God through prayer. Wherever we are, no matter how desolate, no matter how lonely, all of our life can be coramdeo before the face of God because of his presence, his omnipresence, and his promised presence. with us by his spirit through faith in Jesus Christ. So I guess the application of this first point, how is your prayer life? How's your public prayer life? You know, when we're gathered for worship and we're praying, we're not just supposed to check out and daydream during the prayers. I know there's one person usually leading. But we're all to be praying together, engaged, uniting our hearts, consciously assenting to what is being prayed, participating, maybe even participating when uh there are openings for that, like in our prayer meeting Wednesday night. How is your public prayer life? How is your private prayer life? Are you regularly confessing to God, praising God, thanking God, bringing your needs to Him? I think there's really a symbiotic relationship, right? They feed each other. Where our public life is cultivated, our private life often follows. And where our private life is cultivated, our public life, prayer life is cultivated. Often follows as well. So these are the places of prayer, public and private, where we can encounter and have access to God. The second point: why do we pray? What is prayer's purpose? The purpose of prayer. This is the second point. Why do we do it? What's its purpose? Well, we can sort of answer that first by saying, well, what is prayer? Prayer is simply speaking to God, as I mentioned a moment ago. And so James Smith, a Puritan writer, in his remembrancer, he writes: a prayer is the medium of communication between God and our souls. We communicate our thoughts, feelings, fears, and desires, and He communicates light, strength, comfort, and grace to us That probably should be enough. That's a good purpose all in itself. But I think we can go a little bit deeper and ponder for a moment. The purposes of prayer by what prayer results in, by what happens when we pray. What it does for us, and what it does for God. For us, it gives perspective. And for God, it generates praise. It gives us perspective and it generates praise to God. Let's think about both of those for just a moment. Prayer's purpose first gives us perspective. Friends, we are a needy, dependent people. You say, wait a minute, no, I I take care of my own things, I work hard, I pay my bills. Yeah, but every breath we take. The divine gift of God's providence. And if ultimately there will be one day where we take the last breath. And no longer do we have that gift of earthly life held out to us by God's providential care. Every drop of rain, every seed that sprouts are all good gifts From God that enable and sustain human life. We are a dependent people, but that's so easy to forget, isn't it? It's so easy to start to think that it's up to us. To work hard, to find the right doctor, to fix our problems, whether those problems are financial or health or emotional or relational. It's not bad to seek out those means of help, but praying admits our ultimate dependence on God. Praying brings that perspective of dependence on God's providence as we bring our needs to the one on whom we're ultimately dependent for all things, God Himself. This is why Jesus taught us to pray. Give us this day our daily bread. You can imagine for us as as modern-day Americans, how often are we worried about our daily bread? Hardly ever. We just can go out to the store and buy it, usually, unless there's a snowstorm. Can't buy bread, eggs, or milk then, or toilet paper, I think. That's No, but usually we have access to that. Why does he want us to pray? He wants us to pray that, even when we aren't worried. Why? To remember. To recognize that ultimately we are ultimately truly dependent on Him for our daily bread Now I think this is why Jesus is so angry here. Because here they are here's this Gentile, the court of the Gentiles, uh, was to be a focus. Of how the nations are dependent on God through prayer. A place where they could have access and they could pray for their daily bread. And yet here Instead of the dependence of God's people, the focus has shifted by the people bringing all this commerce into the court of the Gentiles, the focus has shifted to what we're going to bring to worship. The offerings that we're going to buy, the money we're going to change so that we can buy the offering, because we're coming from a great distance. And that's why he says in verse it says in verse 16, I think, that he wouldn't allow anyone to carry anything around, anything, anyway, anything through the temple. Because it's not just those money changers and the people there, but it's all the worshipers who are making this a stomping ground for their own shows of independence or what they can bring rather than recognizing their emptiness. That ultimately become dependent on the Lord. Ian Murray, a great pastor and theologian, says, true prayer is bound up with a persuasion of our inability. And complete dependence on God. John Piper, the famous pastor up in Minnesota, says: prayer is an open admission that without Christ we can do nothing. And prayer is the turning away from ourselves to God in the confidence that He will provide the help we need. Prayer humbles us as needy and exalts God as wealthy. One of the most devastating and destructive perspectives to faith is over-reliance on ourselves. Prayer cultivates a dependent faith as it gives us perspective of our need for God's help. Prayer also gives us a perspective of God's will. It helps us shape our will, conform our hearts and minds and wills to God. And this is, we see this in Jesus, even in the Garden of Gethsemane. Lord, take this cup from me, if you will. But not my will, but thy will be done. 1 John 5 14 says, this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. Anything according to his will, he hears us. I promise. What a promise, but what a corrective as well, what a perspective that according to his will. Another theologian puts it this way: prayer in the time of trouble brings comfort, help, hope, and blessings. Which, while not removing the trouble, enable the saint the better to bear it, and to submit to the will of God Prayer opens the eyes to see God's hand in trouble. Prayer does not interpret God's providences, but it does justify them and recognize God in them. We need the perspective that prayer provides, especially when, I'd say, especially when we're strong. When we can look back on 40 years of much faithfulness in ministry. We need the perspective that prayer provides, especially in those times of strength where temptations to sin are strongest, where temptations to rely on ourselves are strongest. It can be tempting to look back on 40 years of God's faithfulness to us and be self-confident as we look ahead to 2065. If we just keep doing what we're doing, we'll be fine. No. How dangerous that mindset. Friends, the only way we can walk through 2025, let alone the next 40 years. The only way we can do so remaining faithful to God in his word, the only way we can do so loving one another like Christ has loved us, the only way we can do so bearing witness to Christ faithfully is by the mercy and grace and strength of God in Jesus. Jesus Christ, as we lean into it by prayer. And friends, the good news is he gives generously to those who ask. Matthew 7, 7, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find, knock and it will be open to you. Let us commit to be a knocking, seeking, and asking house of God, house of prayer for all nations this coming year and the next year. But here's the thing, uh I want to conclude this second point with actually thinking briefly about the other purpose of prayer. It not only gives us perspective, which is good, showing us our dependence, conforming us to God's will. But here's the profound point, I think, of one of the purposes of prayer: that it generates praise to God. And this is something that I've reflected on through the years of being here. And it impresses me more and more as I continue to pray and see God answer. We often talk about prayer as the way that God accomplishes His will, the way He works, and that's true. He can work through our prayers. But the reality is, God's not sitting up in heaven waiting. For us to pray, to do what He wills, right? Our God is sovereign. He has foreordained whatsoever comes to pass. Everything and all that happens is according to God's perfect will, His decree. Nothing can happen that's not. Part of his will, part of his decree. And yet, on the one hand, the Bible still says that our prayers somehow, God uses them to play a role in his working. Like in 2 Chronicles 20, Jehoshaphat is the king of Israel, and all of a sudden multiple nations gather against Judah. I don't know. I don't remember all that. the nations, but there are all these nations and they're gathering. And he basically is like, we're too small. We can't defend ourselves. Everyone is arrayed against us. The whole world is arrayed against us. So he calls for the people to fast and pray and they do. Pray toward the temple. And God answers in a powerful way. And these armies actually end up attacking each other and God destroys them through each other. And the Israelites don't even have to fight. God answers their prayer in a mighty way, and yet it's very clear in that passage that God has used the prayer of his people to accomplish this good and perfect will. But it's sometimes tempting, I think, or easy for us to step back and realize that God ultimately has forordained whatsoever comes to pass, that as Job 42, 2 says, no purpose of yours can be thwarted, and so then it can be tempting to sort of feel like prayer is a little purposeless. In some sense, I mean, God doesn't need it to act. God doesn't need it to work. God doesn't need it to bless his people. We think back on 2024 and uh I love Tom's uh list of keeping track of all these prayers that God has answered in very obvious and clear ways. And he always answers prayer. But um these ways in which we can really see there was a problem we prayed and God helped. God brought a result. Uh one that I uh uh s am always struck by is is how many uh pregnancies We pray. And we had five pregnancies we were praying for this last year, and I think all of them were led to safe and healthy deliveries, including our own little Isaiah. There's his two little cameos morning. We prayed for those things, and it's easy to look at that and say, well. Births often are fine, you know. And clearly that was God's will. So could he have not made those safe and healthy pregnancies without our continued prayer and listening to them in the prayer? Well, yes, he could. Why do it then? And I think the answer is, but since we prayed, we can praise him when he answers. And these safe and healthy pregnancies, maybe they would have been without our prayers. But because we prayed, we can praise. God for his gift, for his blessing. Prayer may not change the outcome, but it allows us to receive the outcome as God's kindness to us in response to the prayers of his beloved. people. And that generates praise to God. So there's this wonderful purpose to prayer that it can generate praise for God as he answers. Thomas Brooks, another Puritan theologian, says, prayer crowns God with the honor and glory due his name. And God crowns prayer with assurance and comfort. Usually the most praying souls are the most assured souls. We could also say, usually the most praying souls are the most praising souls, couldn't we? And then Revelation 5. 8 has this picture of the 24 elders before the Lamb, and they're holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense. Which are the prayers, the prayers of the saints. This idea that these are a sweet aroma before the Lord, as they they result in the prayers, the praises of God's people as he answers prayer. So the application, pray. Pray often. Pray for everything, our can catechism says, pray for everything lawful. That's a good qualification. Anything good, anything lawful, anything right. Pray for it all. I love praying for little things. I misplaced my keys. Why not pray? And then praise And then remember to praise God when it happens. Keep looking, right? Just wait for Him to do it. But then when you find them, you say thank you. You can say, thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. Pray often. Pray for everything. And then don't forget to praise God when He answers. So the place of prayer, first public but also private, the purpose of prayer, to give us perspective, both to conform us to his will and to give us our perspective of dependence, and then to generate praise. How then can we be sure that our prayers will serve such grand purposes? How can we be sure that our prayers will be effective as we pray, will be used by God the way He? On the one hand, this is the third point, the power of prayer, the power of prayer. On the one hand, we can't change God's eternal decree by our prayer. But on the other hand, God has decreed to work through prayer. And so we're called to pray because it is the means that God uses. This is just like all sorts of things that God calls us to: child raising, evangelism. These are not automatic things. It's not like, oh, if you just raise your child this way, they'll grow up to be the kind of person you want them to be. Or if we just evangelize and share the gospel this way and preach the word this way, then we will bring people to faith in Jesus Christ. Now the Spirit must change hearts. Ultimately, God is the one who has to work. But he does use means. He uses us as we witness to Jesus Christ, as we Speak God's word to others. He uses us in parenting as we lead our families in worship, as we pray for our children, as we bring them to corporate worship. And prayer is specifically a means that God uses to bring us blessings, to work in the world. And if prayer is then a means that God uses, where is prayer's power? What makes prayer effective as a means? And the answer comes from James chapter 5. Where he says what the effectiveness of prayer is based on. He says in verse 16: confess your sins to one another, pray for one another. So this is James is concluding his letter, and he's giving this exhortation to prayer. Pray for one another that you may be healed or saved. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Elijah was a man with like nature. So he gives this illustration of Elijah. Elijah was a man with like nature as ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on earth. Then he prayed again in the heavens. gave rain and the earth bore its fruit. First note that Elijah prays here in in that account that James is referencing, Elijah prays for what God has already promised. God promised there'd be a famine and Elijah prays for it and it happened. And God promises that He'll lift the famine. And Elijah prays for it, and it happens. But what makes prayer effective? Part of it is praying for what God has already promised. We know what God wants, then we pray for that, and He is guaranteed to do it because He has promised it. But beyond that, James specifically associates prayer's power with righteousness. The prayer of a righteous person. Has great power as it is working. Why? Well, I think part of the answer to why the prayer of a righteous person has great power is because the power of a request is related to the status of the requester. What do you mean by that by that? If I want to request something, let's put it in a monarchical venue. Like King Charles. Say I want to make a request of King Charles in England. My status will probably not get my request even to him, let alone make him inclined to answer. Who is this guy fixed? He only has one name. What's That's weird. Um But if Prince William has a request, he can walk right in, say, hey dad. So the status of the requester brings power to the request, right? Because the request is really based on access. Who has access to the ear? And the reality is righteousness, holiness, is the status, the character needed to draw near. To God, to have access to his ear. As we heard in our opening uh call to worship from Psalm 24, who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And that's the Temple Mount. Who is it who can be welcomed into God's presence? Who shall ascend? Who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. This is part of the reason that the primary central public place of prayer is the temple, because the temple preached this truth. That where that God can only be approached in righteousness. And the problem is that his people, we, are by nature unrighteous. Unholy, sinful, born in sin, and adding to that sinful nature day by day. Romans 3 says, No one is righteous, no not one. And so to draw near, to have access To present our prayers before the Lord, for them to have power and be effective, There needs to be righteousness. There needs to be access granted. And all the temple rules and practices, the whole books of the Bible detailing how Israel was to approach the Lord. And and And have a measure of righteousness granted, or a constant reminder or teaching that the prayer of a righteous person has great power Because righteousness allows access to the source of all power, the Almighty, God most high. But if righteousness is the power of prayer, and we are by nature unrighteous, That's a problem. Where's the power for our prayer? How in the world can our prayers ever be effective? And the answer is this. The power for our prayer, the effectiveness of our prayer cannot be based first in us and our righteousness. But they can be greatly powerful if they are based instead in Christ Jesus and his righteousness for us. I think this is why he taught us to pray in his name. John 14. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Um this last Thanksgiving, we were back down in uh St. Augustine, Florida, visiting my brother and sister-in-law, and I saw the idea of the power of having the name. To invoke, right? When uh they live in a gated community, and uh if you pull up there, you have you get stopped, there's a gate, and uh they say, uh, why are you here? Who are you? What are you doing? And you have to give a name. You give a name of somebody there who has put your name under theirs on some log, and so you say, I'm this person, and I'm naming this name, and that name gives you. access. What a picture of the the way in which Christ's righteousness, the righteousness of his name and his holiness Can be named by us through faith and grant us access to God so that our prayers are effective. How does Jesus bring access For us to the ear of the Father. How is it that naming his name gives our prayers power? And part of the answer is because he's God's beloved. Second person of the Trinity, God the Son. Yes, that's true. He hears the name of Jesus and he says, Ah, my beloved only begotten Son. But it's also because Jesus is also man who has fulfilled all righteousness. The one truly righteous man, and our prayers in his name are answered because he first prays for us. And for our salvation. That's what Romans 8, 34 says. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus, the one who died, more than that who was raised, who's at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us? Hebrews 7. 25. Consequently, he, Jesus, is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for How do we know Jesus is how how does Jesus pray for us? It's interesting. I think it's important to realize this Jesus does not pray that God would overlook our sin. To let unrighteous sinners into his presence. Like, God, can you just bend the rules a little bit for them? No. As our high priest, Jesus prays that he would look at him. And see in him our sins judged and condemned as he took them to the cross. And see in him our righteousness credited to us as we approach God through faith in him, through calling on his name. Before the Father. Because of his perfect once-for-all sacrifice of his own body and blood on the cross, Jesus as our great high priest Has won us access and he has vested our prayers with power because we can now pray in the righteousness of Christ. The perfect Righteousness of Christ. How can you get more power than that? That's righteousness greater than Elijah's. That's righteousness greater than any Old Testament saint. That's righteousness greater than the most righteous saint you can imagine. Christ's righteousness, perfect in every way. And so we can expect our prayers offered up in Jesus' name according to his will, empowered by his spirit, to have great power as they are working. As we bring them to God in the name of Jesus Christ. That's why Hebrews 4:16 says, Let us with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in a time of need. What a gift prayer is for us. As the means that God uses to show us the access we have to Him through faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. And if you're one here who's not yet a follower of Christ, friend, you have, you can have access to the ultimate source of all power and help, and that is Almighty God. If you simply repent and recognize your own righteousness is not sufficient to give your prayers power, but Christ's righteousness is. Repent of your sin, trust in Jesus Christ Let his righteousness cover you. What a gift of prayer, what a gift prayer is to us to work what we need, not just for this life, but for our salvation. What a gift of fur what a gift prayer is to do his wondrous works of providence and redemption through them for us And so as we look ahead to 2025, as we look ahead to the next 40 years of Reformed Presbyterian Church of Bowie, if God wills. Let us commit to continue being a house of prayer for all nations. May we take up this great gift of powerful prayer as we lift our requests, clothed with the righteousness of Jesus Christ, our great high priest. And may our perspectives and our wills be aligned with God's desires as we do, as we watch eagerly and expectantly, ready to praise Him as He continues to answer. in his perfect time, according to his perfect will, to the praise of his glory and grace. Amen. Let's close in a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you for these truths. We thank you for the gift that prayer is to us as this means that you use not just to work in our lives. But to shape us and conform us to who you've called us to be, to reassure us of your grace to us in Jesus Christ, being clothed with his righteousness, and to Enable us to generate praise to you as we bring our requests and we see how you work in response. How we thank you, Lord, that you are with us, that you go before us. And you have called us into your presence as we bring, as we come in the name of Jesus Christ. May we do so day by day, throughout the coming year, throughout the coming generation. In Jesus' name and for your glory. Amen.