It's a hard-knocked life for us. Maybe that little line uh jogs some melodic memories for you you. To be quite honest, I've never seen the musical, I've never seen the movie, I've never seen the remake. But I know the melody to that. I know that song. It stands out to us, and that song ends with this very tragic line. Little Orphan Annie singing, No one cares for you a smidge. When you're in an orphanage, imagine uh if you've never been to an orphanage, I've been to a couple uh seeing children, seeing those who belong to No one, who don't have the rest of someone who cares for them because they ought to, the care of a mother and father As we dive into Ruth 2, I want to remember briefly where we have been. We've met Naomi. Naomi was away in Moab, but now she has returned home. Naomi says that once she was full, but now she is empty. Naomi, her name means pleasant. She was once called pleasant. But now she is bitter. Life is difficult for Naomi. We saw how her perspective on her position in life is incredibly Dark. Anaomi has suffered incredible loss. She believes that the reason she has suffered that loss is because God is judging her. She believes that she has been weighed, measured, and found wanting in God's eyes and now is suffering under his judgment. We also met Ruth. Who has Ruth been? She has shown us that she is a loyal friend. She has professed her incredible commitment to both Naomi, her mother-in-law, and to Naomi's God. And she has returned to the The promised land. She has come to Bethlehem with Naomi. In their return, in their journey to Bethlehem, they realize they have no earthly reason for hope. These two are widows. Naomi is older. Ruth is a foreigner. Naomi has told us we have no one to protect us, no one to care for us, no one to provide for us. But the promised land, which was in Phannon at the beginning of the book, has now been met with harvest. God has brought harvest to And so this begs the question: if God can show grace to the land of Israel, if God can feed his people. If God can meet and restore blessing to this nation, can God do that for these two women? Can God provide for? Can He care for Naomi and Can God show His faithful, loving kindness to them? As we begin to think about ourselves, can God God? Does God show his faithful loving kindness to us when we feel like there is no one who is for us? When we feel abandoned in hoped. When you feel that you do not belong, that there is no one to whom you belong, that you have no ally Can God show his faithfulness then? And if he does, how does he do that? Or through whom does he do that? We're going to see today in Ruth 2 this truth. God shows his faithful grace to his blessed children through his righteous son. A little bit of a run-on sentence. I'm sorry, I'll say it again. God shows his faithful grace to his blessed children through his righteous son. We're going to explore that reality today by looking at these three conversations. In the text, these three movements in the text. What you'll notice is that they all focus around addressing Ruth as daughter. Ruth is first the daughter who is in need. The daughter who is in need. Second, she is the daughter who is seen. The daughter who is seen. And finally, she is the daughter who is adopted. The daughter who is adopted. How does God show his faithfulness to Naomi and to Ruth today? Let's look at that first point here. The daughter who is in me. As we look at the beginning of this chapter, right out the gate, we are introduced to a new character, to Boaz. The author is getting ahead of himself a little bit here. He's excited to present to us this character. There's some heavy foreshadowing. Who is Boaz? He hasn't shown up in the plot yet, but he's here in the narrative. And notice how Boaz is described. Let me give you three Rs. Boaz is righteous. Boaz is rich. And Boaz is a relative. Today, if you were looking for romance, that last part kind of ruins it. But back in those days, as we've talked about, they are looking for a relative. They're looking for a kinsman redeemer. Lest we be concerned, Boaz is no blood relative of Ruth. Ruth is a Moabite, Boaz is an Israelite. He is of the clan of Elimelech. Boaz is rich. Boaz is a landowner. He owns this field. He has employees, as we'll see. Finally, this Boaz is righteous. Where do we get that righteous part from? The author describes Boaz as a worthy man A worthy man. Often that construction is used to speak of someone who is victorious or great as a warrior. But we don't see or Or learn anything about Boaz's ongoings as someone in battle. We don't see him as someone who has shown valor on the battlefield. No, instead the text will speak of his kingdom. character as someone who does as God instructs, as someone who is righteous. Boaz is a worthy man. He is the kind of man Whose character is so important that it's presented to us right here up front. He is worthy. And so after briefly introducing Boaz, the author jumps back into the plot here. The author presents to us this conversation between Ruth and Naomi. Ruth rises, she goes to Naomi, because while there may be harvest in the land, The grain doesn't just show up at your table. You just gotta do something to go get it. And Ruth asks Naomi, more so she tells Verse 2, let me go to the field and green among the ears of grain, after him in whose sight I shall find faith. What is gleaning? Why does Ruth need to do that? Well, the background to this sits in the gleaning laws of the mosaic economy. See in Leviticus 19, in Leviticus 22, in Deuteronomy 24, God gives special instructions for harvest time to the land. Owners. He gives special instructions during the harvest. And God told the Israelites, when the harvest comes, do not harvest all the way to the very edge of your field. Do not keep passing back and forth over, picking up every last scrap. Rather leave a corner, leave an edge, leave what you drop Or miss. Why? Leave it for the poor. Leave it for the needy. For the foreigner, for the widows. Why does God ask them to do that? This is how God provides in that time for those who are in need. In each place that greening is provided Prescribed. God says at the very end of it, these words, you are to do this because I am the Lord your God. What God is saying is that it is a part of His very nature to provide to care for the weak and the destitute. God goes on in Deuteronomy to say this. He reminds them as he gives out these gleaning laws: You, Israel, were once oppressed, slaves, foreigners in Egypt. And I, the Lord God, delivered you. What's God saying? You needed mercy, you needed grace. And I am the kind of God who provided Provided that for you. So you should do that too. You too should show my character The Israelites don't always do a great job at this. It's important that this is a part of God's character. There's a reason when the prophets show up towards the end of Israel's history, something they continually indict the Israelite people for is neglecting and despising the poor. They condemn Israel over it. Amos in Amos 4, he says, you despise The needy. You trampled the poor all while building your winter houses and your summer houses. Was one not enough? And herein lies the problem. Something that maybe describes us pretty well. The nature for us when we are doing well is to forget. It's to forget that we too were w Once needy, that we were once strangers, foreigners, that we once too did not belong. We forget that And so what do we do? When the harvest comes, we gather up every stock of grain. We hoard it up for ourselves. It's kind of the nature of some land. My dad basically worked for landowners my whole life. He worked for developers, people who bought land and then developed it. And there was this repeated theme Uh in his contract there's usually a set amount. If you meet quota, uh you will get a let's say two percent bonus. Now what happens when my dad meets quota, but the company overall has a bad year? Well the landowner is going to come in and he's going to say, oh, we can't quite do 2%. You know, well, the company's not doing well. We need some sacrifices here Okay, okay, we understand. Now what about when the company has an amazing year? The revenue is through the roof. Well, suddenly two percent is a big number. Ah, Jim, come on. You don't uh two percent's a little excessive here. You'll be fine with one and a half. That's that's fine, right? It's a little bit of the nature of uh when you have when you have So, what do we expect of the land openers here in Israel in the time of the judges, when everyone is doing what is right in their own eyes? How do we expect the landowners reaping the harvest to act? What does Ruth say in verse 2? Let me go to the field and glean among the ears of grace. Ruth knows that she needs to find someone who will show favor That is to say, someone who will show grace, someone who will act like God does. What do we call that kind of person? She needs to find someone who is righteous. Well, and as luck would have it, we've heard of such a man. So Naomi responds to Ruth Do you remember what their last conversation was like? Ruth pours out her heart to Naomi, commits herself to her, and what does Naomi say? Absolutely nothing. stops talking to her. Here at least we get two words in Hebrew, four syllables. It's about the smallest thing you could possibly say to someone. She says, go, daughter. No words of encouragement, no advice, you know, Ruth is pretty new in the land, no no warnings at all. Go, daughter. At least something here though. Ruth is Naomi's daughter. A daughter who needs to find food. Who needs to take action here. A daughter who needs to find favor, who needs to find grace. Grace in someone's eyes. Can it be that God will show this daughter favor? As the Hebrew says here, well, as chance will chance it She finds the right field. Point number two, the daughter who is seen. The daughter who is seen. Ruth goes out to Glean and she just so happens to find herself in the field of Boaz. As we learned this morning, it just so happened to be because God is providential, okay? I remember this morning. She happens to find herself in the field of Boaz. We mentioned last time a person's first words in Hebrew narrative, the first words that are out of their mouth, they're important. Define who this person is. And what are Boaz's first words? He rises in the morning to meet his laborers and he says to them, The Lord be with you And they answered, The Lord bless you. We meet here in Boaz a kind, faithful, righteous employer You may see the term servant there. This isn't talking about chattel slavery out in the field. No, these are employees. These are those who he has contracted to work through the harvest. And how do we see them respond to their boss showing up? It's not grumbling. It's not they don't despise this employer. No, they call back to him, the Lord bless you. last time that was your response to your employer. I every day. Sorry, I remember who my employer is. Every day And Boaz as he goes out to the field he sees this young war woman working and he turns to the foreman and he asks Verse 5, whose young woman is this? Now let's check ourselves here real quick. Uh uh that sounds pretty misogynistic. Women are not property. And that's not the way that Boaz is saying it here. No, what Boaz is asking Is, where is she from? Who is this woman that's here? Who is she connected to? That makes sense because the foreman replies, verse 6 She is the young Moabite woman who came back with Naomi. She is that Moabite. Something the author has been doing throughout is reminding us. That Ruth does not belong here. Ruth is not an Israelite, she is a Moabite. The author is emphasizing that. She is a foreigner. She is an other. And nobody even acknowledged her when she arrived, if you remember. All the focus was on Naomi. She is that foreigner who showed up with Naomi, and what else does the the foreman say? She asked to come work to glean here, and she has been A workhorse ever since. She's barely taken one break. And so Boaz turns to Ruth, the Moabite, and what does he say? What are his words? My daughter. He calls her daughter. He knows she feels that she does not belong, but Boaz is so quick to change that. My daughter. And he assures her that she is seen and that she belongs here. He says, do not go and glean anywhere else. This is your field to glean in. Stay close to the young woman who I have called to be here. He is calling Ruth to act as though she belongs. Drink from my well, from my water. Don't worry, nobody will harass you. That's a real concern out here. A foreigner, a stranger in a field, who would notice? A Boaz is bringing much needed protection. Boaz offers to Ruth all the blessings and protections that she could hope for here in this moment, and that's why she responds how she does. She throws herself at his his feet and she asks verse 10. Why have I found favor in your eyes? That you should take notice of me? Since I am a foreigner. I don't belong. Boaz, how is it that you are so gracious to me? Boaz answers because I know who you are. I know what you have done. What the What does he know? He knows that Ruth has forsaken all hope of earthly comfort and instead bound herself to Naomi. And to Naomi's God. What did Ruth do last chapter? As she professed her faith, the very words of the covenant. She proclaimed, Naomi, I belong to, I belong with you and your God and your people. And she left behind in that process all the promises of the blessings she could have if she just Just do what Naomi asked. If she'd just go home, try to find another husband there. Find the comfort of your family. What has she done? She said, no. I don't need that. I need to come here. I need to go with you. I need to go where Yahweh is God. Now our our impulse is probably to go, okay, yeah, it's a it's about time that things turn in her favor, right? Uh she she just earned this. Uh we love the underdog story. If you just keep working, eventually Things will go your way. And finally, that's happening, right? If that's what you are seeing, then you've missed it a little bit. Boaz is not invoking the grand gift of karma. Now what is he doing? He looks upon her faithfulness. He sees how she has abandoned hope in all but the mercy and grace of God. The kindness here comes not from her own doing. It comes from the very character, the very promises of a God who is faithful again and again. The God of Israel who sees the orphan in need and calls her into his home. The God who makes her a daughter. Boaz goes on at mealtime to call her into his own home. He sits her at his table. He offers her his own bread and wine. She even gets leftovers. I'm not good about leftovers because I'm a prima donna. Maybe you're like that too. Leftovers are a big deal when you have no food at home and no money to buy food. Uh Ruth here, Ruth the Moabite, she is seen out in the field and she is treated as a daughter. Boaz will go on to make sure she's provided for in the future. He has her glean in the place where uh they're bundling things so there's more to pick up. More's dropped and he even reminds his men. He tells them, drop a little extra. Make sure This daughter is seeing. And God is showing his faithfulness to his child. And who's he doing that through? Through whom is he doing that? Let's keep going. Let's finish this chapter. Point number three, the daughter who is adopted. The daughter who is adopted. Now Ruth heads back home to Naomi. She's carrying this massive heap of grain. And Epha, that could be up to fifty pounds. I don't want to carry fifty pounds of grain. If I didn't have food, maybe. And Naomi sees this mountain of grain on her shoulders, and how does she respond? She says, what what deal did you stumble across? Imagine the child coming home from trick-or-treating and they've got the pillowcase full of full-size candy bars. What neighborhood did you go to? I never actually got to trick-or-treat, so I'm jealous too. Naomi fires off these questions and she doesn't even wait for an answer. Who, where, how? And Naomi just lands that. She says, bless be the man who took notice of you. So who is this man? Here is this piece that the author is leading us to. A Boaz may know who Ruth is and what Ruth has done. Oh, what does Ruth know? She knows his name. She knows his character. But what she does not know is that he is a relative. So when it comes out, how does Naomi respond? It's Boaz dear Daughter. Boaz is a near relative. Boaz is a redeemed Maybe you remember from last time that Naomi's perspective, her thought was, there is nobody who can act as a redeemer. For us. There is no one back home who will redeem us. There's no more sons. There is no more hope. But here is Boaz. And he is a righteous redeemer. Finally, Bitter Nahilmi takes a turn. She takes a turn here and read verse 20. Naomi says to her daughter-in-law, May he, may Boaz be best blessed by the Lord, by the Lord whose kindness has not forsaken the living or the dead. The Lord bless Boaz, for the Lord is one who has shown his kindness. He is not forsaken. Us. He has not forsaken his daughters. Now, how has God shown his faithfulness? In whom does God exhibit his mercy and his loving kindness? Well, this chapter began by introducing us to a man, a righteous man, a man named Boaz. A boaz is righteous, he is rich, he's a relative, another art, he is a redeemer. Here, God shows his own character through the man Boaz. What does God say? God has called us. He says, be holy as I am holy. I show mercy because I am a God who shows mercy. Protect, care for the needy, because I am the kind of God who adopts the widows and the orphans. Do you see where we are going? Do you see who Boaz is pointing us towards? But are you able to see yourself in this story? How true is it that we begin as strangers? That we are those by nature who are outside of the covenant. That fight as we may to try and fit in somewhere, we don't always belong. That we are poor and we are needy in this world, and fight as we may to control what's around us, to make ends meet for ourselves, to find our own satisfactions and desires. Are we able to do it? We are poor and needy. I can't control this world. I can't form it into my own image. That we require a redeemer. Are sinners. As we dig into our lives, we begin to see that we are not merely victims, but we are also victimizers And yet God will not forget us because there is a redeemer. A one who is righteous beyond all others, one who offers protection, who invites the foreigner, the Moabite into his home. You might be redeemed. Who is the redeemer that you and I are pointed towards here? It is Jesus the Christ. He is the one who is faithful. He is the one through whom we are adopted as sons and daughters. He is the one who offered up not just his own money but his whole self upon a cross. Paul reminds us in Romans 8. He says, the Spirit bears witness that we are what? Children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. And what does that mean? The Spirit bears witness that when God looks upon you, he sees you as his own blessing. Blessed child, his own blessed child. He looks on you and he calls you daughter, and he calls you son. So, what does it mean for us? For those who have abandoned faith and hope in all else but the Lord? As you walk feeling Like one who does not belong. Rest knowing that you have been enveloped into the family, into the community of God. This is somewhere that you belong. This is a home. As you work and worry through the difficulties in this life, rejoice that you have a Father who provides, who protects. His children, who cares for them, who cares for you, as you feel beaten down, hopeless, Trapped, enslaved. Trust in the righteous son, who is a redeemer, who has given everything to purchase you out of that, to make you his His own. Because you are a blessed child through the work of that righteous son. That is God's faithfulness made manifest to us. Amen? Let's pray.