Um uh so we're gonna be in John chapter 14 and I recognize that I've not been preaching John to you for the last many months, so we'll do a little bit of uh introduction before we read the passage, okay. Uh Now in this portion of John, uh between verses uh thirteen and seventeen, this is part of what's called uh John's farewell discourse. And so uh it's Jesus sort of preparing his disciples for what's about to come, preparing them for him being arrested, for them being hunted, and for kind of everything to go sideways in their lives. And so we're going to talk this evening about how Jesus prepares his disciples uh with a perfect provision. Um so uh this evening we will uh look at a few things that Jesus talks about in this very short passage from verses 25 through 31. Um ultimately he's going to tell us that the Spirit is his perfect provision for us. us. And because we have this perfect provision, we must not fear anything. And so we'll look at how Jesus has provided his presence, his peace, his promise. promise and his pattern as all part of this perfect provision. Let's pray, and then we'll read from John 14, starting at verse 25. Father God, I thank you for your word, and I thank you for your son. I pray that by your spirit we would learn from both this evening, that you would be with us by these words, and that you would speak to us rather than the preacher. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Starting in verse 25 of chapter 14. These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you, but the helper, the Holy Spirit. Whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. You heard me say to you, I am going away, and I will come to you. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than me. An eye. And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe. For the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me, but I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here. Look at me in uh verse twenty-six You know, this isn't the first time that Jesus has said that he's sending a helper. He's actually said this in verses 16 to 17. Where he says, the Father will give you another helper to be with you forever, the Spirit of Truth. And he will dwell with you and will be in you. Now, this is the key here. The Spirit dwells with us and in us. Jesus is saying that even though his physical presence will no longer be available To the disciples in quite short order in a matter of hours at this point. His spirit will still dwell with them and in them. His spirit and his presence will remain. So this is our first point. The first great benefit is this gift of the Holy Spirit who mediates Jesus' presence. Now remember, these disciples they're they're just about to go through some heavy stuff. We have it in the Gospels that Peter uh is uh uh attacked for his association with Jesus, but you can be sure that all the rest of them uh were likewise um uh tormented for that very same thing and and would be as the days went on. But even when their faith is tested to the breaking point by angry mobs, uh Jesus' words here are given to encourage them, to strengthen them Strengthen them with the knowledge of his power at work in them by the Spirit. In fact, if you look at verses 21 through 23, Jesus answers his disciples' question when one of them asks. How will you manifest yourself to us and not to the world? How are you going to do one but not the other? And, you know, admittedly, Jesus has a bit of a cryptic answer, but let's let's dig in and kind of see what he's saying here. He says, My father and I will come to the one who loves us, and we will make our home with him. I love that language. So Jesus, he's simply speaking about the Spirit here. It's very Trinitarian. The Father and Jesus will make their home within the disciples by the Spirit. So you have all three there. The Spirit dwells with you and in you. This word dwelling, abiding, remaining is uh frequent in John. So for those of you who love Jesus, You too have the presence of the Father and the Son with you always by the Spirit. But what does the Spirit do for you? What's the payoff? How does merely his presence help you out? Well, there's lots of ways, but we'll at least talk about two because that's what the passage talks about. Remembrance. and instruction. Look at verse 26. The Spirit's able to bring to your remembrance all that Jesus has said, and he's able to teach you all things. Those are some pretty good benefits. They may not seem like it at first, but let's read on. The Spirit, what what's he going to teach you? How's he going to teach you that? Well, he's not going to teach you to drive sticks. That's uh something, you know, maybe maybe your your friend can teach you how to do that. The spirit's not going to do that. The spirit uh he's gonna teach you instead everything pertaining to truth about life in Christ. Christ. You know, if you read ahead, um in John sixteen thirteen, Jesus says the Spirit will guide you into all truth. Personally, I find that as quite a great benefit in a world where there's a lot of lies trying to pass themselves off as truth. The Spirit will guide you into all truth. This is pretty powerful. As Ephesians four tells us, the presence of this spirit is what creates apostles, prophets, evangelists, shepherds, and teachers to equip the spirit Saints for the work of ministry, the building up of the body of Christ. So have you ever learned anything from one of those? Has that ever happened for you? Have you ever benefited even once by a prophet, a shepherd, a teacher, an evangelist. Well, this is the Spirit's doing. His presence in those workers produces powerful results among God's people because the Spirit has all truth. So as I stand and I speak y here to you today, uh I'm not speaking my Truth. I wouldn't deign to speak your truth either. I'm speaking the Spirit's truth from his word. But the presence of the Spirit entails even more than just teaching. Verse 26 tells us that the Spirit's presence also affects our mind by reminding us of all of those things that Jesus has said. Now, this is incredibly helpful. For Peter says that Jesus alone has the words of life, right? So they're pretty important words to remember. And that's pretty handy. I've got to say, when you're going through ordination exams to have a good memory of Jesus' words. But I've also got to tell you, it's tremendously helpful when you're going through other difficult things in your life. A messy divorce, uh perhaps a sickness in you or someone you love, the death of a family member. These These are all really, really good times to remember the words of Jesus. And the Spirit, as Jesus says, is our helper in times like these. So Jesus has said that he will manifest himself to us, but not to the world, and this is how he's doing it. This is not something the world has access to. But it is something that we have access to every moment of every day. Isaiah 59, 21 had said, as for Me, this is my covenant with them, says the Lord. My spirit that is upon you, and my words that I put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth or out of the mouth of your offer. Offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring, says the Lord, from this time forth and forevermore. Jeremiah 31, 33 had said, I will put my spear This is all what God is doing. This is just sort of the beginning of these rich blessings that He is giving to us. But this first one we'll call his presence by the Spirit. This reminds me of a conversation I had with uh another minister friend of mine named Scott years ago. And it sort of stuck with me. At that time he was telling me about some pretty difficult things in his life that he was struggling through, some stressed relationships, his job wasn't going as he had hoped. He was struggling in his fight against sin. And this particular morning, as he was trying to get to work, he was gonna be late because a train had and crossed his path and he had to wait for it. We get that a lot in the Midwest. I'm not sure if you get that as much over here. It can be maddening. Uh for him, this was the straw that broke the camel's back. And um he was giving in to spite, to bitter complaining about his situation in life. You ever felt that way? You ever felt over are matched by your circumstances. And then just one thing happens and it just sort of sends you over the edge. Yeah, but what what makes this story so memorable for me For me, is it Scott told me he just says all of a sudden, he thought, wait a minute, I have the Holy Spirit. And just as suddenly All of his troubles were recontextualized. His perspective was was changed from one of of griping to one of rejoicing, one of thankfulness for the gifts that he carried with him. Knowing full well that he's not alone in these struggles, and that the simple presence of the Spirit was enough to give him hope, victory against sin, and peace in his relationships. remembrance of the truth that his burdens do not weigh nearly so much as the weight of glory sealed to him forever by that Spirit. Now, this is exactly what's happening with Jesus' farewell address to his disciples. It's because he loves them so very much, and because he knows that he's leaving them to face Death on the cross, he prepares them by this gift of the Spirit so that they can face what seems to them to be insurmountable oppression. Maybe your struggles are like my friends my friend Scott's. Uh maybe they're more difficult still. However, your struggles are unlikely to be as intense as they were for the disciples in that way moment under threat of death. They expected to be hunted down and tried and killed because of just their mere association with Jesus. And yet Yet, even in that kind of oppression, Jesus' prescription for even that caliber of oppression was struggling was the presence of this Holy Spirit. His his own presence mediated to them by this Holy Spirit. And rather than a mild prescription, which sort of doesn't work like when you take an ibuprofen, it just doesn't quite get it. This prescription is powerful. The presence of the Spirit is immense, eternal, and very practical. Even now, this very moment As you contend with maybe sickness or broken relationships or bitterness or suspicion of others, unforgiveness or other sin, even death all around you. The Spirit is speaking to you. The Spirit's presence is ministering to you. So you may believe that you're all alone in your struggle. believe yourself to be in an unfair state. But this is untrue. It's the Spirit, remember, who leads us into all truth. And he's got a thing or two to say about Your claim that you're all alone in your struggles. You are not. He is there. He is speaking to you. He is reminding you of Jesus' words. He is teaching you. all truth. So we must not let fear or pain cause us to despair because that's not the Spirit's work in us. We recognize that the Spirit's work Work works a little bit differently than that and will remind us of our hope in Christ. He's given us a helper to teach us to remind us to cast our burdens upon Christ. So maybe for you this comes as a welcome flood of relief this evening. Maybe you're really going through it and that's what you need to hear. Praise God for that. But you know, maybe instead you're tempted to disbelieve. or discount the truth of the effectiveness of Christ's provision for you. For you, beloved, I plead with you toward repentance. What's necessary for you maybe to find joy and relief in repenting to the Lord, turning from despair and embracing the joy that He set before you Maybe you need to say, wait a minute, I have the Holy Spirit. But if you're not a believer in Christ, I welcome you and I would simply set the sp Spirit before you as a great advantage, as something that Jesus has gifted those who believe in Him. And I would invite you to come and believe as well, so that you may no longer be alone and unaided. Now, uh so far as we've been exploring John 14 and Jesus' gift of the Spirit, his perfect provision. We're looking at three points. Our first point was the presence of the Spirit, the presence of Jesus, at least mediated through the Spirit, who is with us always, teaching us and reminding us of Jesus. Now, the second benefit that we'll take a look at this evening is that Jesus gives to us his peace, which we'll look at now before moving on to his promise. Together this means that Jesus has left us with a perfect provision. So look with me at verse 27. Jesus says, Peace I leave with With you, my peace I give to you. Now this is not Jesus giving well wishes. He's not saying Simply saying, go in peace, or peace to you, in sort of the way that our culture might say thoughts and prayers. That is not what Jesus is doing here. What Jesus is doing is entirely more substantial. You know, uh Jeremiah 6. 14 uh had condemned interesting interestingly um empty platitudes like this. this. There were some false prophets and priests who were saying, as the word says, they were healing the wound of his people lightly, saying, peace. Peace, peace when there is no peace. That's not what Jesus is doing. He knows better. He was there in Jeremiah 6:14 So um what we learn here is that Jesus gives peace not as the way the world gives. That's what it says. The world uh may try to offer you a bit of a hollow piece in many different forms. A piece without feet and hands, which doesn't really accomplish anything. But that's not Christ peace. You know, people I find are very quick to uh retract peace at a moment's notice. But Jesus' gift of the Spirit is more like an irrevocable truss. Jesus, uh, there's no takebacks with Jesus. He does not offer Jesus' gift is instead a perfect peace in perpetuity because he does not give peace as the world gives. You know, um I was reading Matthew Henry as I was preparing for the sermon, and he had a wonderful line about this. He says That this gift of this of the Spirit, this peace that we get by Jesus, is a peace which the smiles of the world cannot hope to give, and the frowns of the world cannot hope to give. To take away. Wow. This peace is impenetrable because it's not a platitude, is it? It's an accomplishment Accomplishment by Christ. He won it for you. Let's look at that. There's three things that Christ's peace has perfectly accomplished for you. Let's look at these. Christ has won for you peace with God, peace with man, and peace within yourself. Peace with God. Now, we all acknowledge that Christ uh has won our peace with God. That's textbook justification. We're all good reformed folks. here, right? But if we affirm that, we must with the same gusto the uh affirm this objectively one piece that Christ has accomplished Between us and within us. We'll speak more about that in a moment. But for now we must recognize that this piece of Jesus is effective. It's powerful. And we know that because at the end of verse 27, he says, Let not your hearts be troubled, nor let them be afraid. In other words, he's saying, My peace to you. Now this is another instance of Jesus repeating himself. In 14. 1, he had sort of started off this whole chapter. saying the exact same thing. But where before it was just sort of an initial command, now he's sort of given us the reasons. He's fleshed this out for us. He's given us something to trust in. He's dispelling our fears. And he's giving his very own peace to us, to be with us forever. My peace. This is the peace of Christ, the peace which carried him also through his struggles, through crucifixion, all for us. This peace is impenetrable, sees us through conflicts, oppressions, betrayals, lies, doubts, fickle friends, torture, death on a Roman cross. This piece weathered that storm. This piece is time-tested and hard-won, infinitely durable, and it is Is your present possession by the Spirit. Friends, even angels congratulate us for being in receipt of this perfect peace of Christ. And Luke 2:14 says This reminds me of a story. Um perhaps you've heard of uh Hero Onaga. Maybe not. More likely you've heard of his story. He was a Japanese soldier during World War II, and he was stationed on a remote island in the Philippines. And you know Even though the war ended in 1945, Hiro and his unit didn't believe it, and so they continued to wage a personal war in the Philippines for 30 years. Uh in 1974, they finally brought him his commanding officer, the one who told him to hold that idol in the first place. This is the only person that Hero considered eligible. to give him commands. And so this officer told him, of course, to stand down that the war was won. It was over. He was fighting a battle that was not No longer necessary, effective, or appropriate. And so after he was sufficiently convinced, Hero returned home and lived a life of peace instead of war. And you can you can Read about his experiences in his autobiography if you like. You know, but but at some level we all acknowledge that it's a little bit silly uh to carry on as if there's no peace for thirty years after this great war has ended. Um but friends, I I think it's equally silly to carry on as if your life has no peace when it's been one 2,000 years ago. by Christ. This is his peace. The peace we have by the Spirit. Forever, Jesus says. I'm not one to disagree with Jesus. Now our lives of um resting on uh uh or pardon me of resisting Christ's peace will look different than heroes' resistance To those folks in the Philippines in World War II. But this principle is the same, and we must believe our commanding officer, Jesus, when he tells us that this peace is one. So here's the key. At times it won't feel like we have inherited all things. It won't feel Like we have his perfect peace. Like all accounts in life are settled and all troubles dash to the winds. But what's more important than how our lives feel Is what God has said is true about how our lives objectively are. For you have died and your life is hid with Christ on high. When we are most tempted to despair, when we're most likely to succumb to fear, and throughout all life's many dangers, toils And snares, Christ proclaims to us, who believe, just as the disciples did, that the accounts are settled. Our eternal inheritance is lost. Locked in. The Spirit is here. He is indwelling you even now. And Christ's very own peace is your portion forever. This is the same power which allowed Christ to endure the cross, and it lives in you as his eternal gift by the Spirit. Amen? So thus far as we've studied John 14, 25 to 31, we've seen that God's perfect provision is the Holy Spirit, who supplies us with his presence, by which we are touched. Taught and reminded of all truth, and we've been supplied with his peace, which surpasses our understanding and guards our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Now our third point will examine The promise which Christ leaves us. Look with me at verse 28 through 29. You know, Jesus is doing again some more repeating here. You'll get a lot of that in the Fairworth. this course, but uh I find that that's because it's important, uh because he wants us to remember it. He says, you heard me say I'm going away, and And I will come to you. That's a big and. That's worth underlining right there. They're worried that Jesus is leaving, but he's got a big and there. I will come to you. He's not simply leaving but returning. But not only that, but while he's gone, he's preparing a place for us, as he says in 14, verses 2 through 3. You know, in chapter 16, Jesus is going to say, it's actually better for you that I go away, because then you get the spirit. So he's simply painting a picture. For them of what life will be like that way. And although at first glance this portrait looks pretty grim to the disciples, Jesus shows them the finer strokes. He brings out the color. So that they can see this great benefit which awaits them. This is why he says, if you knew what I was up to, you would be rejoicing now. But Jesus paints even more place you may believe. That's fair, right? If you're worried about the future, and then this guy tells seemingly by magic what the future holds, And then that thing happens just like he said it was, you'd say, the future unfolds just like he says. That's some objective data you have there. An observable proof Now, these disciples, they'd already seen a whole bunch of miracles from Jesus at this point. It's not crazy to them that Jesus knows the future. They actually believe believe him when he says he's leaving. It's the coming back part that they're struggling with. This makes me think of a a video I saw once, perhaps you've seen some something similar. It starts with an artist and a massive canvas. Now, while the artist walks to the canvas, this massive crowd is quiet. Because they're not sure what he's up to. But they become even more silent as they see him begin to paint, because the strokes make no sense whatsoever. Whatsoever. The color seems completely off and no one can make out what he's up to. You might be able to hear a little bit of a chatter in the crowd as they consult with one another. I think I think it's it's I think it's this. He must be painting. No, it's if you look this way, it maybe it's it's that. But at the last, the artist finally picks up the canvas. And flips it upside down. And you see finally that he was painting it upside down the whole time. That's why he couldn't tell what it was until he flipped it over. And of course the crowd is cheering that, wow. Not only is it a beautiful work of art, but it was painted upside down the whole time, and I didn't know. This is just like what's going on with Jesus and the disciples. The difference is that Jesus is telling them beforehand what is going on, what he's painting, and yet they still have trouble rejoicing at it. As we have trouble rejoicing at The struggles we know are set out for us in our lives as Christians. Now, if you're listening and you're not a Christian yet, I want to tell you that you have an opportunity here. This room is filled with those who have seen Christ's words of truth, who have been transformed by them. They rest assured in this promise of Him, of a Him who has borne their burdens. Have experienced this peace. And if your heart is troubled, if you've struggled with fear, if the way the world is painted doesn't seem right to you. Then I invite you to believe in God and believe also in Jesus Christ. He is the answer to the confusion and pain that we experience in this world. world and his promise of new life, both now and for all eternity, is just as sure. It is a trustworthy promise. So Jesus knew what was going to happen to him, obviously. He told many folks about it throughout the gospel. We see that often. But he knows what's going to happen to us, too. And he's offered us great blessings and a salvation from all the darkness of this world. Now, I'm not inviting you to sunshine and rainbows here, because Jesus Has said, in this world you will have trouble. But he's also said, Take heart, for I have overcome the world. And it is only in him that we may finally Have peace. Now, as we're drawing near to a conclusion here, let's sort of review where we've been. Jesus is perfect provision to us by his spirit includes many gifts. His presence, his peace, and the hope of his sure promise. Now I'd like to say one more thing about verses 30 to 30. 31 that we haven't covered yet. Uh but this is just a quick bonus uh because I'm pretty sure I'm not allowed to have a fourth point. Yeah, but I think they put you in preacher jail for that, right, Fix? Yeah. So uh Jesus says he can't talk much more with them, right? Because the ruler of this world is coming. And he's right, because we've already heard in the last chapter. Well, I guess we haven't, but if you've read the last chapter You may have heard that Satan had corrupted Judas's heart to betray him already. So Judas isn't part of this farewell discourse. He's gone already. But look here, Jesus says two things. He says, the ruler of this world has no claim on me. And two, he says, Says, no matter what, he's going to do the Father's will. And by willingly going to this impossibly difficult task of arrest and torture and crucifixion, the world will know that he loves the Father. So here's what I want us to take from those two verses, and really from the whole of Jesus' life and ministry in John's Gospel. Jesus has established a pattern. And he's Been showing this pattern to his disciples and equipping them with his perfect provision of this Holy Spirit so that they will follow this pattern. This is the Jesus who also says, you must carry your own cross. The Jesus who says, the one who believes in me shall do my works also, and greater works than these will they do. The same spirit that fell on Jesus at the beginning of his ministry, at his baptism, is now a perfect provision for you in your own ministry. As you follow Jesus' pattern. And here's the cool part. Just as Satan has no claim on Jesus, that's what he says here. He has no claim on you either. You are in him. And you have that same perfect provision, the same spirit. Now you may be tempted to think that perhaps you're more like Job, whom Satan attacked, although he was righteous before God. But in fact, Satan has no claim on you. Not a bit. And you have not been perhaps So righteous as Job was. But Christ has seated you in the high places with him anyway. And he's given you a perfect provision in which even Job did not receive. He's equipped you with his presence, his peace, his promise, and his pattern. Forever. And this is no small armament, but in fact a wealth of divine ordinance. And it will see you through as you follow in his footsteps. Steps, being faithful to your own calling, your own setting, and preaching the hope of Christ to all, living a life faithful to his commands. And all with this impenetrable peace, supernaturally one for you by Jesus Christ. And so I say to you, as Jesus tells his disciples right here, rise, let us go from here. Let us go meet the challenges that we face in this world in hope rather than in despair, for Jesus has met them first, and he has conquered, and we go convinced of him His sure promise, arrayed in his perfect provision, his Holy Spirit, who gives us his peace and presence as we follow his pattern. Amen. Let's pray. Father God, you are worthy of our prayer. Praise. And we thank you so much that you have included us in your family, that you have given us a wealth of benefits that maybe some Sometimes we forget about or take for granted. Father, I pray that you would place these on our minds by your Spirit, that He would do His work of bringing to our minds. remembrance all that you have said here and that we would take those things with us as we face our moments this coming week that we rely on this person Perfect provision. It is a sure and steady foundation. Always looking to Christ, who is the author and the perfecter of our faith. We pray these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.