Well, we come this week to our conclusion in the book of Ruth. For me, it has been a really sweet time. I Don't think I have ever met a Christian who says, yeah, Ruth, I don't really like that book. We all really like it. I I am curious though Have you asked yourself, have you questioned or wondered, why does this story belong in the Bible? Did God just decide after making you trudge through 21 chapters of Judges and the despair there? Let's give them a breather. Let's give them a break here. Let's toss in a short romance that ends all happy. Let's break up the pace a little bit. This is a beautiful little romance of redemption. Ah, but surely there are other romance stories in the history of Israel, right? What is special? What is unique about this story? There must be something more to the why. Why God chose to put this story into his holy word. I recognize the Bible may feel long is If you're trying to read through it in a year or in a certain amount of time, it's a lot of words. But for God to boil down everything that He wants to say to us into something you're holding in your hands right now. I doubt there are any throwaway chapters. I doubt there are any throwaway books. I doubt there is any filler. Surely there is a good and fulfilling. glorious reason that this story belongs here. Surely there is a reason that this love story, this romance, this book belongs. On top of that, surely there is a good reason that there is this genealogy here at the very end. Does it feel a little odd to conclude a story that way? Usually for us, we might recognize, okay, there's some historical value in this to the people reading it, but in a literary sense, genealogies don't usually quite do it for us. They're not what we're hanging on to, what we're excited about. I saw some of you falling asleep during the New Testament reading. I understand What is the beauty in ending this way? Why does this belong here? Why does it belong? A belonging is something that we care about, right? You want to belong to something, uh to someone. There's about nothing worse than feeling totally out of place. The sensation that stirs up when you step into a situation, a group, a new space, and you are the foreigner. You feel out of place. You see everyone else fit together and you wonder, do I? I don't know that I do. Maybe you don't speak the same cultural language as the other people. Maybe you don't share the same interests. The place doesn't make you feel full. No, often it will leave you feeling empty. And implicitly from that, you can begin to feel this is not my home. These aren't my people. This is not where I belong. Ruth the Moabite resonates with that feeling. A foreigner in a new land. Naomi resonates with that sensation. The widow who used to belong, who used to be full, but becomes empty So often our impulse in that situation is to try and prove that we belong. To prove it. Let me show you that I am worthy. If I just do the right things, if I just give of myself enough, then I will be belonged. Then maybe you will accept me. But what we see along the way in this story is this. God is the one who is at work. The Redeemer is who is at work. And here at the end of this story, We will see how this plays out. What we will see is this. The answer to belonging is not in your own work and effort. Rather, it is in this. The answer to belonging is here. The Son is given so that you may belong. The son is given so that you may belong. We're going to see that idea by looking at two sons in this passage. Two sons. They're going to be our two points. They're these. First, the son, God gives to Naomi. And second, the Son who God gives to us. The son given to Naomi and the Son given to us. Let's look at this first son. Let's dive into the passage here. If you've read much of the Old Testament, I've read much of the narratives in the Old Testament. You might be familiar with how narrators tend to zoom in on a specific story. They zoom in, they get real close, they give us the dialogue, and then they zoom out, and they fast-forward a chunk. They move through the story, and they zoom in on another place. Just last week we zoomed in where? The story of Boaz being given the opportunity to redeem Ruth. And the narrator zooms out and he fast forwards all the way to the wedding. He's so excited. He gets us to the wedding. And he keys in. I hear we finally see the fairy tale ending we've hoped for. Boaz, this story's knight and shining army, standing as the groom, and Ruth, our loyal, faithful princess, beside him as a bride. The payoff we've been looking for, right? And the story jumps forward again. It jumps forward to the birth of a son. And here at this birth we see just for the second time, God being presented as the immediate actor. God stepping in and taking the action. Now God has been acting the whole time. God has been present throughout this story, working through his providence. He's been behind the scenes orchestrating this whole story together, but it's only twice that we see God as the active participant. as the person immediately doing the action. Do you remember the first time? It was back in chapter 1, verse 6. It says, then she, Naomi, arose with her daughters-in-law to return from the country of Moab. For she had heard when in the fields of Moab that the Lord had visited his people and given them food. There was famine in the land of Israel In Bethlehem, the house of bread, they were empty. They were without bread. And God, from his loving kindness, from his grace, he arrives and he brings bread. There God provided for his people. He filled the house with bread. And here God is spoken of as visiting again. He visits again and he provides again, this time not bringing food, but bringing a son. God fills this house with a son. In this process, by bringing a son, God provides what? He provides an heir. One who can fulfill, who can finalize this redemption work. One who can inherit the family's land, one who can carry on the family's name. Verse 13, it says this, God gave her conception, God opened her womb. And now that might be a little surprising to us because we haven't heard directly that Ruth has had a hard time conceiving. And normally this kind of language is used in Scripture in a scene in a situation where someone is barren and having a hard time conceiving. This problem of Russo has been implicitly expressed to us because what happened back in Moab? She was married to Malon for ten years, never produced a sun, never produced an heir. Here though, God steps in in an axe, and through Boaz, he produces a son. This part of the story should bring to our recollection, should bring to mind some other parts of Scripture. We begin to hear other stories of the Old Testament here, don't we? Stories of women who were barren. Stories of fear that there would be no air. Stories were worried that the seed won't be carried on. If we begin to import those stories into the text here, if we begin to add that context here, something begins to come to mind. God promised back in the beginning, back in Genesis 3, that there would be a seed, a son, who would defeat the serpent, who would defeat Satan. And what happened right after Genesis 3? Almost immediately in Genesis 4, that seed is jeopardized because one son rises up and plays the villain and strikes down the other son. Slays him. But what does God do? He opens up Eve's womb again, and we see another son. God provides Seth. We've seen this story with Abraham and Sarah. Sarah grows old and she is never conceived, but God had promised a son. They're so convinced that God isn't going to work this way. He can't work through Sarah until another woman is brought in, a younger woman, and Ishmael is brought forth. But God says, that's not how I'm working here. That's not how this works. So what does God do? He arrives again, he visits again miraculously, opens up Sarah's womb. And she bears a son, Isaac. We see these stories over and over. Rebecca, Rachel, Hannah, over and over. Stories where the promised seed the one who would destroy the serpent, the one who would redeem God's people. He's put in jeopardy. Can it really happen? Can this continue on? The wounds are closed. But in each of these stories, who shows up in Acts? God acts. God intervenes. And this should be a big clue to us that this pregnancy here is no ordinary pregnancy. God opens the womb. This is no ordinary seed. This is no ordinary son. God is at work here continuing the promised seed. We've talked again and again about the picture of the Redeemer in Ruth, right? We see Boaz acting as the Redeemer. Here is this son. A son who God provides, a son through whom God is working, a son, and a story through which God is working. What we see is he is working not just for this family. But for all families, for all peoples, as we'll see, even for you This is no ordinary, meaningless tale from history. No, this story has world-altering effects. And the women who are present here, they recognize it. You see that they recognize that something significant is happening. Remember how the story went in chapter one when the women saw Naomi come home? What happened? In verse 19, they say, is this Naomi? And Naomi replies, do not call me Naomi Do not call me the pleasant one, no. Call me Mara. Call me bitter, for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went away full, and the Lord has brought me back empty. The Lord has testified against me. The Almighty has brought calamity upon me. That was the disposition when the women see Naomi and she arrives at home. But what do they say now? What's their response now? They look at Naomi and they say in verse 14, Blessed be the Lord who has not left you this day without a redeemer. May his name be renowned in Israel. He shall be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher of your old age. Here is this son, and they see the way that God is working. The way that God has been working, not against Naomi, but for her. Blessed be the Lord. The Lord, he is one who has always been faithful to you, Naomi. This book, it talks again and again about God's Hesed love. His faithful love, his faithful kindness, he is faithfully providing. He is continually working for his people. And Naomi, he hasn't forgotten you. He has restored you. You are not empty. Look at what is in your arms. You are full. This blessing for Naomi, it's not just centered around this child. The women cannot forget Ruth this time. When Naomi came home, she said, I'm empty, I have nothing. Who was standing right beside her the whole time? It was Ruth. Ruth who had abandoned all earthly hopes. Ruth who had clung to Naomi. Ruth, who had professed, Naomi, your people are my people. And your God, my God. Wherever you go, there I will be. The women won't let Ruth go unrecognized this time. Naomi, for your daughter-in-law who loves you. who is more to you than seven sons, has given birth to him. This son is a great blessing. He carries on the name, he carries on the inheritance, but do not forget about the blessing that this daughter is. She is more to you than seven sons. Seven is the sign of fullness in Hebrew. You thought you were empty, Naomi? The fullness was here right beside you the whole time. And Ruth was making sure that you were full each time she went out into the field, how she described coming back, bringing food for Naomi, providing for her. And here Ruth bears this son. She bears this air. What a beautiful picture we get in verse 16. Naomi takes this child, laid him on her lap, and became his nurse. Our story began with a family decimated, a house emptied, and here we end in the joy of a wedding, a house made full by this child. God has been working all the way through this story. We know Naomi couldn't see it though. There is no way that this is what she would desire. The despair, the pain, the bitterness. the death of her husband and her sons. Imagine her frame of mind. We've seen it throughout this story. In that she lost her status, she lost her security, she lost her very sense of belonging, and we hear it in her voice. God does not care for me. I'm not loved as his child. I don't belong to him. And here, finally, God gives a child. a son, an inheritor. And through this son, a sign to Naomi that she is not condemned by God, but she belongs to him. Surely this is not how Naomi would have planned her life back in the beginning. But God works providentially in beautiful ways. Maybe this is a lesson to us about how we should trust God. How we should trust, even when we cannot see it, that He is working. How can you trust him, his wisdom, his plans, his ways, even when they are not your ways? How quick does the temptation rise for us? Like with Naomi in chapter one, when our life is falling apart and we begin to assume. I'm on my own. A God is out to get me. There's a He could not be for me And here, by bringing this son to Naomi, God proves that he has not forgotten her. No, he cherishes her as a child. She belongs to him. She belongs to him. She has belonging. Let's look at this second son. Point number two, the son who God gives to you. The story continues on, pointing us not just to this son, but to another one as well. In verse 17, it says the women named the child. The woman of the neighborhood gave him a name saying, A son has been born to Naomi. They named him Obed. But probably this is not them just inventing a name. This is probably a way to say that they're announcing the name. Could you imagine if the nurses come out of the delivery room? We're gonna name him But uh that would be disappointing. You you probably had some maybe if you didn't have any ideas that would be helpful. They're probably announcing the name that the family has given him They named him Obed. And the author moves really quickly here. He was the father of Jesse, who was the father of David. Do you remember where we are here in time? Where this book takes place in time? It's in the days of the judges. And what was the problem in that time? It's made really clear in that book. Everyone did what was right in their own eyes. These were dark days in the history of Israel These are evil days, and Judges tells us why. Because there was no king Israel was without a king. Israel was without a leader, one who could be their king, one who would rule in righteousness, one who would act justly, and they desperately needed that. And we see that from the wickedness that transpires throughout that book. So the author is jumping ahead here because he needs to get to a point. This child is not just the one who resolves Naomi's needs. No, he's the one who leads to the king, who will resolve all of Israel's needs. He leads us to David. A king after God's own heart, a king who will act for the nation, the king who will bring salvation to this nation. This child does not merely answer the needs of Naomi, he answers the needs of all of Israel, and it will follow from that that he answers the needs of all the world Even you. Even you. This genealogy, it takes us through ten generations. And we've seen this kind of genealogy before in the Old Testament. We get this kind of genealogy back in Genesis 5 and then again in Genesis 11. Ten generations. And these genealogies take us through time and land on significant names. Genesis 5, it takes us to Noah. I almost said Naomi, not her, Noah. In Genesis 11, it takes us to Abraham. And here we are taken to King David. These genealogies take us to the people with whom God makes covenants. These genealogies take us. to those through whom God works to bring salvation. And so it is with King David because God covenants with David. God promises him that his son Will be an heir, will be the seed, will be the one who will sit on the throne forever, will bless all the world See, though the book of Ruth ends here, this genealogy continues on. It continues the story on. This genealogy is exactly what's borrowed in Matthew chapter 1. The author of Matthew, Matthew. specifically grabs this genealogy. He imports this into his own text. Let's turn there real quick. If you have your Bibles and you want to look, look at Matthew 1. Keep your finger in Ruth 4 so we can do the flip-flop back and forth. Matthew 1 doesn't have any old genealogy. It's quoting from Ruth. Matthew describes this in verse 1. He says, this is the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ. the son of David, the son of Abraham. And then verse 3 he gets to Judah, the father of Perez, and Zerah by Tamar, Perez the father of Hezron, Hezron Excuse me, the father of Ram, Ram of Aminadab, and Aminadab the father of Nashon, the father of Salmon, the father of Boaz Thiruth, and Boaz the father of Obed. Sorry, my bad. Wow. Salmon, the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of David, the king. Matthew borrows this right out of Ruth. And it's to show how this line runs all the way where? All the way to King Jesus. Now when we look at Matthew's genealogy, he adds in a couple of details. A couple of things we don't normally see. Do you know what they are? They're moms. He adds in moms Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, the wife of Uriah, Bathsheba. Tamar, who was she? She was the woman who dressed as a prostitute to seduce her father-in-law. And Rahab, who was she? She was the woman who actually was a prostitute. And Ruth. The Moabite, she has become very dear to us, but if you're concerned with ethnic purity like the people of the day may be, she's not necessarily the name you want to see in the line of the king. Even Bathsheba, the woman who is tied to the greatest fall in King David's reign, the one whose name reminds us of how this great king It's actually an abuser and a murderer. Matthew goes well out of his way to connect these names to Jesus. Matthew intentionally reminds us of these stories, of these people. The author wants you to see today that these names belong in the line of Jesus. That they belong in his lineage. These are the kinds of stories that belong that are tethered to Jesus' history. These stories, they are not meant to impress us. No, quite the opposite. Matthew is reminding us of the whole reason that Jesus had to come. These kinds of stories filled with sin and filled with shame, these are the kinds of stories that belong to us, don't they? Those who didn't worship God, pagans, idol worshipers, those who valued other things in our own ways, far above God's own ways. Three of the women listed here are famous for their sexual misadventures. By our standards, they are not exactly the kind of person that we want to put up front and center. Tether our lineage and history too. But these are the ones who Matthew writes down and puts in front of us. These are the ones who Matthew associates with the very history of Jesus. They're the ones who belong with Jesus. They're the ones who belong to Jesus. These are the ones who Jesus, the Redeemer, King, has come to save. That's why the angel continues on and says to Mary, you shall call this son's name Jesus. For he shall save his people, and he shall save them from their sins. Friends, who is it that belongs to Jesus It's sinners. It's sinners who belong to him. Jesus Christ did not come to save the moral, the upright, the good. He came for sinners. He came for people like Judah and Tamar. He came for sinners like you and sinners like me. And so because of that, Christian, never, ever should you think for a moment that you do not belong. That you do not belong here. Never should you fear that you cannot belong with Jesus. Never should you worry. Just as God gives Ruth and Naomi a son, God has given you his own son. He has given you his own son. He has sent him in such a way to prove that you are the kind of person. Who belongs to him, who belongs with him, even though we have wrecked our lives again and again, even though we have fallen into sin again and again, even though Satan is telling us again and again, you are not worthy, you do not belong, how could you be one who he would save? God offered up his own son to be the Savior, to come and wipe away the debt and memory of your sin. To wipe away those stories to live the perfect life that we need in. The very things which lead you to feel like you don't belong, that you don't belong with God. Among his people, in his home. These are the things which Jesus the King has come to deal with. Those are the things which he died for. And he has done that so that you would belong. So that you could belong. And so that you would not be looked on as a sinner, but as one who is righteous. So that your story is not one of failure, but redemption. God isn't blushing when he sees the stories associated with these names here. No, he is proud to incorporate them in the history of his son because he loves them. Because he has redeemed them. They are his children. They belong to him. They are his beloved That is what the names in this genealogy teach us. That is what they show to us today, and this is what the story of Ruth has been leading us to all along. Jesus is the Son who is born, offered, and given to you So that by his life and his death and his resurrection, you may belong here in this family. You may belong here. This is a gospel story of redemption. And what is left to you? To trust him. To trust him. To cling not to your own understanding, but to the work of the Redeemer. Belonging in this family has nothing to do with how great you are or proving yourself. It has everything to do with the Son who was given for you. He is why you belong. He is to you, to whom you belong. This is how God is at work in your story and in your life. What does this look like? Just a brief question to think about. Where is it that you invest your faith? What are the things that you hold on to thinking, like Naomi, without this? I don't belong. Without my reputation, without my children's affection, without my grades, without my success, without those things, I am empty. I am nothing. And the call here is not to ignore those things. Some of those things are great and wonderful things. The call is not to neglect them. You should properly value them. Rather, the call is to recognize what is it that I put my ultimate faith into? Where does that belong? The call is to define your faith, your being, your belonging by the Son. To put that faith in the Son. He is the one to whom we hold fast and to whom we cling and in whom we see the promises of life everlasting and belonging. Amen. Let us pray.