We continue on with our sermon series in John. Our text tonight is John 13, verses 18. through thirty. Remember this last week we looked uh at the beginning of chapter 13 and saw a very common Christian image, Jesus washing the feet of his disciples. And that is certainly confounding in the way that Jesus frames it, and yet very sweet and pleasant to us, right? The idea of Jesus Christ as our servant. And then we continue on into uh the story of Judas, which uh is, let's be honest, just much less pleasant, right? So be it. Uh we will continue on here. John chapter thirteen begins in verse eighteen this way. I'm not speaking of all of you, Jesus says. I know whom I have chosen, but the scripture will be fulfilled. He who ate my bread has lifted his heel Against me. I'm telling you this now before it takes place, so that when it does take place, you may believe that I am He. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I Send receives me. Whoever receives the one who sent me. After saying these things, Jesus was troubled in his spirit and testified. Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me. The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke. One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining at the table at Jesus' Jesus' side. So Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus of whom he was speaking. So that disciple leaning back against Jesus said to him, Lord, who is it? And Jesus answered It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it. So when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. And after he had taken the morsel, Satan Entered into him. Jesus said to him, What you are going to do, do quickly. Now no one at the table knew why he said this to him. Some thought that because Judas had the money Bag Jesus was telling him, Buy what we need for the feast, that he should give something to the poor. So after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out. It was night. Let's continue in prayer. Heavenly Father, we see before us a most tragic and evil storm. Story of betrayal. Betrayal against your holy and perfect son. We'll see even betrayal which you had foreordained. Father, this is a mysterious And confounding reality, looking at it afar from our vantage. One that is deeply concerning and frustrating about uh when we think about the ways that we Encounter and face evil, Father. As we look upon your word, who Jesus is, and who he is for us, and what he has done for us. For us, pray that your spirit might reveal to us that Jesus is true. What he says here, that by seeing this We might be led to believe in him. Have hope and faith and trust in him. It's in Jesus' name then which we pray. Amen. Et tu brute, the famous, uh not necessarily the very last words, but the famous dying words of Julius Caesar on the Ides of March, right? What yesterday was, March fifteenth. Julius Caesar says those words, et tu brute, and You, Brutus, he looks into the eyes of his who he thought was his friend, his companion, but who now is running a knife into his back It's a little fitting and a little tragic that uh in light of that we look now upon what is certainly an even greater betrayal. An even grander evil, the betrayal of Jesus by Judas Iscariot. John left us, we said last week, with that scene of Of Jesus washing the disciples' feet, he told us something odd there back in that passage. He said, Not all of you whose feet I wash. And then this morning in verse 18 we read, Jesus said, I'm not speaking of all of you. I know whom I have chosen. But the scripture will be fulfilled. He who ate It's actually a reminder of something that John has hinted a couple of times along the way now in his gospel, that there is one seated at the table with Jesus. Jesus, who is a traitor. There is someone there at the table whose feet are barely dry from Jesus washing them. And that one, that disciple, will betray Jesus So here Jesus actually quotes our Old Testament reading, Psalm 41, as he reflects upon this. And we said that Psalm is one of tragic lament. It's one which ends with these words, Psalm forty-one, verse twelve. Lord, you have upheld me because of my integrity. Set me in your presence forever. And so blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and amen. Literally, let it be and let it be. Is it not in the face of great evil or great betrayal that those kinds of words can feel incredibly difficult to express? Praise God. Hallelujah. Amen. Let it be. Those ideas, they just don't go together for us. Do they? It's the same kind of discontinuity that we see with Jesus here as he talks to his disciples. Hey, I am going to be betrayed. And so verse 19 So I am telling you this now before it takes place, so that when it does take place, you may believe that I am He. What's Jesus saying? Somehow his betrayal is going to lead to us believing That doesn't necessarily fit together either, does it? It's not particularly what we expect, and yet this is the same kind of device that John has been putting together a number of times. For us now, these confounding realities. Jesus here is preparing his disciples for what is to come, what he knows is to come. Saying here. Not saying I'm going to spill out every single detail for you, but it does tell you, I am letting you know that though there Is betrayal, I will find victory. There is betrayal, I will be vindicated, Psalm 41. The reality is that we live in a world that is filled with evil and betrayal, and we are affected by it, are we not? That's something that you encounter. We are hurt by it, we are wounded by it. by it. On occasion we are seemingly going to be killed by it. The impulse we have to ask in that moment is, why? Why, God? Uh why does God allow these kinds of things to happen? Why does God permit all of this that I am experiencing? Why have I not been rescued from it? This because wouldn't a God who is good, wouldn't a God who is all-powerful, wouldn't a God who knows all this, who says He loves me, wouldn't that God save me from this? He could. That therein is the problem of evil, right? It's what we call in philosophical terms theodicy, the quest to understand. To answer, why would a good God allow evil to happen in the first place? Just a disclaimer on that quest. Many have have walked that path trying to answer it. And everyone I know of became a heretic from you know Pelagius to Moltman. They all they didn't find the answer. It's a confounding one. It is. What we get here in John is not necessarily what we might find the most satisfying answer to exactly that question. But what we do get is a st Story in which we see how Jesus too has faced that kind of evil. That Jesus has faced great evil. That Jesus, God in the flesh, he was betrayed. He is faced with the same kinds of dark realities that you walk into, and from which you then say, Wow Why would this happen to me? It's in this story in which we see that Jesus responds with the recognition that God does Have a purpose. The experience in the moment is dark. But when we step back to see the scope of it all with Jesus here, we can see that God God is at work and that God's work is truly good, even if we don't feel that way in the darkness. What we're going to see from John tonight is this: the night of betrayal is dark, but the sun will shine brighter. The night of betrayal is dark But the sun will shine brighter. And we're going to explore that in two points today. First, a betrayer revealed. And then second, a purpose unveiled. A betrayer revealed and a purpose unveiled. Join me in that. first point there. Betrayer revealed. Here we're gonna really step through almost the whole of the passage together. So be prepared for that. Look with me at verse 21 here. Now we see, after saying these things, Jesus was troubled in his spirit and testified: Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me. And John writes there that Jesus was troubled in spirit. That's the kind of thing that we've actually seen John say before. We actually saw it very recently, that same exact Kind of phrase was used back when Jesus heard that Lazarus had died. He was greatly disturbed, troubled in spirit. And if you remember that scene, uh, then what you should remember here is that the way this is written is Uh showing us that Jesus is shaken up by this. This is not the kind of experience or feeling that can just be bottled up and suppressed. No, if you're in the room with Jesus, then you can see on His face here that he is deeply disturbed and he is so moved to say something. Here it's to testify. And then to his ascension. Jesus knows all these things. And yet at the same time, what's juxtaposed here is the reality that Jesus is genuinely Burdened by all this. He is genuinely sad and hurt by the betrayal that is at hand. And in that we see that he is truly made And Jesus knows how it is going to end. It will end in his royal ascension. He can look here at the experience that is Jesus is not stoic about the situation here. There's a place in the midst of pain to recognize its effect. Sometimes we feel the need to bottle up everything that we're feeling. Why? Because if we were to express that pain a little bit, then wouldn't that be expressing distrust in God? That's not the example of the psalmist, is it? It's not even the example of Jesus here. There is a place from this position Speak the truth of what is happening. So Jesus testifies, verse 21, Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me. Now, here what is striking is that John immediately follows that up in verse 22. The disciples hear these words from Jesus and they immediately start looking around at each other. And they have no idea who Jesus is actually talking about. It's not like, you know, it was evident the whole time. Oh, that's That's probably the one, that's probably the guy. Uh we look back now knowing who Judas is and what he does, and we probably kind of assume, you know He's probably the one sitting in the corner with the dark hood and the creepy laugh and everything, but no. And that's not the case And what we see from here is you know, left at this place, nobody is going to get to the garden and see the betrayal and go, not surprised. That's That's not the experience here. They don't suspect Judas any more than any one of themselves. So what we recognize is that from all appearances, Judas Appears to be a faithful follower, a good friend and companion to Jesus. What we read as the story goes on is that uh someone is interested in in the inside scoop and you could probably guess who. We see verse 23 that the disciples are reclining at this table. And it's likely that it is a U-shaped table here that they're all gathered around and it's lower to the ground so much so that they're sitting on cushions and their feet are out to one side and they're maybe leaning on the other. I'm not gonna fully demonstrate That for you. You can imagine it. But when you do that, it means you're staggered a little bit. And the disciples are sitting this way, and of course, it's Peter who's interested To know a little more, he somehow here subtly motions to the disciple who's right next to Jesus. Who is that disciple? It's the one who Jesus loved. And what we know is that's how John talks about himself. I guess it's not uh it's true. It is true. Jesus loved John. John has a funny way of uh simultaneously poking Fun at Peter repeatedly, and uh reminding everyone who Jesus loved. You know, I'm more loved than Peter, I'm faster than Peter, I don't stick my foot in my mouth all the time like Peter. I am John. John leans in really close and seemingly quietly asks, Jesus, Jesus, who is it gonna be? He's gotten the cue from Peter. Peter, Jesus, who is the one who's going to betray you? And what's seeing here that Jesus responds uh quietly in kind because nobody else seems to pick up on the sign when it happens. Says verse thirty six verse twenty-six. It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it. Jesus is telling John, I'll show you who it's going to be. Watch this. Watch who I give this piece of bread after I dip it to. And uh nobody else seems to pick up on the sign because when Judas leaves, uh nobody really bats an eye. They come up with a number of excuses, and none of them are he's going to betray Jesus. Consider this in the action of the sign here. What is Jesus doing? Jesus says: the sign is that I will dip this morsel and I will disciples. Verse 18, but the scripture will be fulfilled. He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me. It's taking from Psalm 419, which read Even my close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, he has lifted his heel against me. So stop for a moment and think here what Jesus is doing in this action. Jesus is self-consciously putting him into the contact, putting himself into the context Of Psalm 41. He's saying there's a scripture that needs to be fulfilled. I'm going to be betrayed after I share bread with someone. So what am I going to do? I'm going to go share bread with someone. If we hear an omen about our death, we don't tend to play into it unless uh you might say if someone does that it's because they have a death wish. Uh it's not exactly our normal interaction with such a thing. Such superstition. This isn't even superstition, it's prophecy. Jesus proceeds to share his bread with one of these disciples. Jesus very consciously and intentionally takes this bread, dips it into the bowl, hands it to Judas. That action in and of itself seems odd to us. Uh we don't often uh what would be the equivalent today you take a chip and you dip it into the salsa and then you hand it to someone. Listen, you would only do that to your closest friends, right? Uh that's not the kind of thing you're gonna do with your stranger necessarily. This is an intentional sign in this Day of closeness, of uh intimacy, of friendship. This is not the kind of thing that you do for just anyone. Jesus here is sharing a sign with Judas of affection. is he dips the bread and then hands it to him. But of course what will happen? Uh we know who Judas is. We know what he does. Uh Judas that very name Becomes the definition of what it is to be a trader. You know you have really accomplished something when suddenly your name becomes universal shorthand for whatever that thing is. Uh isn't he just a good all mother Teresa? I mean that's shorthand for someone who is wonderful and saintly, unless you're speaking like, you know, facetiously. Still a shorthand, right? Uh there went that Freudian slit. That's the same kind of idea there. Maybe amongst your friends. You have done something embarrassing and forever on afterwards, someone doing that same thing is known as a Chris Calvi. There are plenty of those, and hopefully you don't know them yet. That's who Judas is. He is defined. His very name to us means traitor. Jesus consciously, knowingly, operates within the scope of Psalm 41. He puts the pieces into motion here for his betrayal And in that he does what? He reveals through a sign of friendship to John and to us that Judas is the traitor at the table Verse 27. And after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him, Judas. And Jesus said to him, What you are going to do, do quickly. So Satan fills Judas, and Judas goes out to do his darkest of deeds. Why? Why is Jesus Jesus seemingly playing into this if he knows what it all is. It's not like Jesus is being duped. It's not like Jesus is unaware. Why Jesus doing all of this. Point number two, a purpose unveiled. As we look to uncover that answer, scroll back with me to the very open opening of this chapter, verse 1. In 13, 1, we get this note that this footwashing occurred before the feast of the Passover. Passover. The question there is, is that before nearby before or far before? There are some who will say this must have been dated. And there's some who say this is immediately before. I'm in the latter camp, and I'm gonna give you a couple of reasons why. I think we have good reason to believe that the events of the foot washing are immediately Before the Passover, and that this meal that's being shared is the Passover meal. Two proof points here. The first is this: in Matthew's account, Of the Passover meal, which nobody disputes that that account is the Passover meal itself in the upper room. In that same account, Jesus, in telling what is going to happen happen with his betrayal uses the same exact psalm, Psalm 41. In the midst of communicating what is happening here, the language is essentially identical. He speaks of Judas' betrayal with the words of Psalm forty-one. It makes sense that there's symmetry here then between those two events, right? Right? If we're not going to dispute the timing of one, why are we going to dispute the timing of the other? A second proof point here. In John 13, when Judas is dismissed. When he leaves, there's specific assumptions that are made by the other disciples about what Judas is going out to do. Verse 29. Some thought that because Judas had the money bag, Jesus was telling him, buy what we need for the feast, or that he should go give something to the poor. There's two options that the disciples could present there, right? Option A, Judas has gone to buy more provisions for the feast. Uh now some of you Hebraic scholars out there might note Wait, you're not allowed to go spending money bartering, buying on the Passover, right? Uh in its most strict sense, yes, that is true. Uh but What we see is common practice and what rabbis of the time write about is that it's actually very common for people to not exchange money for goods on the Passover, but to exchange trust for goods on the Passover. There's a recognition that you're going to have to maybe get more food, that you're going to have to maybe uh provide provisions for meals the next day or the following day. So it was common for people to go out and say, Hey, let me get this from you and I'll come back tomorrow with the money. I'll come back tomorrow to settle up on what's what's owed. Okay, then why does Judas bring the money back? Well it's because he's bringing the whole bag to show I'm good for what I'm going to come back and pay you for. An expectation there that you can show you're good for what you're spending money on. You are bartering in trust here. Hence, uh, Judas is not just burning Bringing um what he would need alone, he's bringing the whole money back. Uh here in light of that it makes sense that Judas would go out as he is even On the Passover. What seals the deal to me is option B here. Uh that some say Judas has gone out, some of the disciples say, to give to the poor. And that is actually a specific reference to part. Opportunity for those in Jerusalem and those who had ventured from far off to give to the poor, to show mercy to the poor. It's this particular opportunity for that, the specific opportunity for that. So why might the disciples think that's what Judas has been sent to go and do? This is the day that you're supposed to Supposed to go do that here on the Passover. It makes a lot of sense that this is the night of the Passover. That is the meal. Now, why does that matter? Why is that significant? Think for a moment about what we know about that first Passover meal, or where this practice of the Passover each year came from. From. It was at that first Passover, where the Israelite people were in Egypt, that the angel of the Lord swept over the land and came to strike down the firstborn son. Of the enemy of God's people. The angel of the Lord came to bring down judgment on Pharaoh's son, and along with that, the firstborn of all in Egypt except Those who had practiced the Passover feast, except for those who had the sign of the blood of the Lamb over their doorpost. In that original Exodus context Who is Pharaoh there? He's a kind of agent of Satan, oppressing God's people, enslaving them, acting defiantly again and again against what God has commanded. So by the time we get to the Passover, it's clear Pharaoh must be defeated. So God comes for his firstborn son. That is the meal, the situation that is being commemorated here on this evening by Jesus and the disciples. Commemorating this kind of cosmic battle, this kind of cosmic war, where God is showing that he will sweep through and destroy his enemy. even the firstborn son of his enemy. What do we have here in John? It's a kind of recapitulation of that, isn't it? God is here himself in the flesh He's sitting across from his emissary. Satan has filled Judas. He's about to engage in that kind of war again as we look towards the cross. It's this recapitulation of that kind of event. He's about to engage in that kind of war again, and it's not just to deliver his people In Israel. Jesus said he is coming to deliver his people throughout the world. At this meal, they are remembering God's faithfulness in delivering his people. And it's at this meal that is sitting with the disciples, the Messiah himself, the one who does deliver. And yet, as we begin to think about the happening, Of this very night seems that the results of this cosmic battle go all awry. Everything seems to go backwards because what What is going to follow here? I mean, what is even just predicted here? In the text we read that Satan fills Judas and Judas is sent out to go do his deed Verse 30: So after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out, and it was night. It's a dark night, certainly What we know as we proceed through the story is what? Following this Passover meal, it's not the son of the enemy who's going to perish, is it? It's God's own son who is going to die. It's not the firstborn of Pharaoh, it's who we call the firstborn of all of creation that is going to perish following the events. So it's no wonder that John has spent so much time along the way reminding us that Jesus Jesus is the light. We saw back at the very beginning of John, he is the light of the world. We've seen again and again that the light has entered into the world, and the light has come to save his people. The light who enters into the world. We read back in John 1, when the darkness meets it, it just does not do know what to do with it. We get that exact kind of imagery here, right? Judas, the betrayer, the traitor, turns away and walks off into the darkness. In all of this, there is clear pain and Heartache throughout the passage to examine this betrayal. Yet what is clear alongside that, though, is that God is absolutely sovereign all along the way. Like much of what John has told us already throughout this chapter that can feel a little Backwards. Doesn't always feel like those two things should go together, but it is true. Recognize this, there is not one thing in this passage That has happened, which either Christ has not already foretold, or which Christ Himself has not executed and put into motion here. And think about what's happened. Jesus has told us there's a traitor in the midst. He has warned us about who it would be. He is even Used the sign of a thousand-year-old prophecy to put himself into the pathway of that betrayal, to fulfill that prophecy. You could take it a step further here, even. Once Judas received The bread and is possessed by Satan himself, what immediately happens? Verse 27. After he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into an And Jesus said to him, What you are going to do, do quickly. And what happens at Jesus' words here? Even Satan Obeys. He doesn't. He obeys immediately. After receiving the morsel, he immediately went out. Everything here Jesus has set into motion. Everything here Jesus has foretold. This is what's going to happen. At no point here is God not in control. Now at the same time, that does not mean it's not a difficult thing. We look upon Jesus' face here. It is a difficult thing. The betrayal of Jesus by Judas is great evil. The work of the devil here is absolute evil against Jesus. Jesus. Yet at no point is God not in control. This is exactly what God has planned. Exactly what he has planned for Jesus. Somehow, also what he has planned for you. Somehow it's what he has planned for his chosen people. Somehow we gotta hold it all together. Somehow it is true that God is working This together. And somehow it is true that he is working this together for good. And even on this night of great evil, of great betrayal, God is Doing something for good. We see as we look through the story, as we step back, think about the whole narrative that's going to happen. It's happening, Christian, for your good. For our good. And one of the great temptations in life is to think when you encounter evil and wrong that you are being judged or punished for something. No? Uh certainly at some point you have experienced that, Christian, that sensation. This must be happening to me because I fill in whatever thing you feel shame over, whatever failure it is. Occasionally we hear that voice that says, You are being punished by So often, Christian, that is just demonstrably untrue. That is not what is happening to you. Is the voice of the devil to discourage and condemn you. So we should not give ear to that. We should not. But think in this for a moment. Why is it easy to give ear to that? Why is it possible to hear that, begin to think it is right, to begin to think that that line might be true. It's because in so many ways we have failed. It's because in so many ways in life we have have sinned because we have done evil against others it's because we know somehow within us that those Those who do wrong, those who participate in evil, those who are enemies of God do deserve to be punished. And so, in that sense, it's reasonable for you to Think and say, I am being punished when I face evil. We know somewhere in us that is what our own evil deeds Yet as we step back here and look at the evil that is happening to Jesus and the truth of the gospel What do we know here? What does the gospel reveal to us? Think about Jesus in this position. Jesus has never done any wrong. Jesus has never Committed any sin, Jesus actually has no opportunity for that voice because he has never given any reason for himself to be punished And yet here he will be. What is truly and absolutely evil here is that Jesus is going to be judged as an enemy The work of Judas is evil, the work of the devil is evil, and we cannot escape the reality that so often our work is evil. Jesus has never Never done anything of the sort. And yet God ordains all of this to happen so that Jesus will die on a cross Jesus goes to the cross. He walks this path ordained by God for a reason, for a purpose. And what is it? The purpose of all of this is that Jesus will take that punishment. He will take the wrath of God upon himself He will suffer and die for all of that. For all of what you have done, Christian. He will take that punishment. That's even why you no longer deserve it. And that is supposed to be good? You idiot is very good. It is very good news because Jesus has done all of this, even died, so that you might live This is where Psalm 41's conclusion begins to make sense. But you, O Lord, be gracious to me. Just not the graces. Of Jesus Christ, taking your place on the cross? And you, O Lord, raise me up. Is that not what is promised to those Who fall in this life, but have faith in Jesus Christ, that they will be resurrected with him. By this I know that you delight in me. My enemy will not shout Triumph over me. What we know is we look at the text here, and just in our immediate context, it seems like everything has gone wrong. It seems like the enemy Has won and Jesus has been thwarted. But what is the truth that Jesus is communicating here? Even though he will die, the enemy will not die Have victory. Jesus' victory comes through his death, through his suffering, so that you might live There is a kind of despair that exists in the moment when evil comes upon you. I mean, in that moment, just like in the moment of this text, uh The question is, how could that evil that I see, that I experience, that hurts me, how could that possibly be good? In this moment Moment here in the text for Jesus. In this moment of greatest evil, what is true? What do you know is true? It is that Christ is facing this And doing this for you. Though the goodness cannot possibly be seen in this moment, it will be seen when the dawn breaks. Right? It will be seen when the sun rises on the third day, when the Son of God is raised from the grave. One day, although maybe not yet In John 13, one day in this book, one day even in our own lives, we will see that resurrection and know that though it didn't seem good enough moment it is truly good. Christian, the night in its evil is dark. What Jesus reminds us Us here as he references Psalm 41 in his victory, that the sun will rise. So shall you. What is this speaking to you? This is all part of the plan. Now that's not some kind of excuse for evil. That's not an opportunity just to be apathetic or Or nihilistic in your response, but it's all going to work out in the end. That's not the way it's said. Christian, this is a promise to you from your God That he has a plan. His plan is good for you. A promise from your God, who in the Person of Jesus Christ has walked through the darkest of days, just like the kind you have walked through, who has been betrayed as maybe you have, even Shame and pain of death, which to that point you have not yet, though you may. Jesus even faces death on a cross. And none of this is to say, that means what you face just isn't that bad. That's not what he's saying. That's not what he's communicating. This is here to show That the things which you feel like, nobody can know what I've experienced. Nobody can feel what I've felt. You have a God in heaven. who has, who has walked that path, who can sympathize with you, who has walked that path because he loves you. And in that there is hope Because he shows us that he does have control. John tells us here that Jesus speaks an answer. Jesus has known and even foretold and even walked forward all the way to the cross so that, he says here in the text, we might believe What does that mean for you as you face all sorts of evil and betrayal and frustration? Christian, you can trust in Jesus He still has control. He still has a plan. Even though we don't see it all right now, he has promised and shown to us He is working it, even the greatest of evil, for your good. Amen. Let us hope and trust in that. Let's pray. Pray, Heavenly Father, we thank you for what we see here in the suffering of Jesus, also in the grace of Jesus for us. Us. We look at the picture of the cross, of Jesus' betrayal, his betrayal by Judas, and the cross Cries out to us in some sense, this is total evil. And we say, Is God still good? Christ says, yes, he is good. Yes, but is God good for me? Yes, we see, through the person and work of Jesus Christ, God is good for me. So we We pray, even as we walk at times through the valley of the shadow of death, that we might rest in this truth and trust in this truth, so that we might even be able to say with the psalmist Blessed be Be the Lord the God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this truth and pray that we might be comforted by this reality. even in the face of suffering. Thank you for your son. It's in his name that we pray.