Our Old Testament reading, our sermon text today is Hosea chapter 8, the whole chapter. I've been working through the book of Hosea, and uh certainly I think we could agree the past Few chapters have been intense, have been words of warning from God, words of judgment, and Hosea isn't done proclaiming those yet. Uh he certainly is not. Hosea chapter 8 can be found on page 755 of the Q Bibles. And Hosea has this particularly to say. Set the trumpet to your lips. One like a vulture is over the house of the Lord, because they have transgressed my covenant and rebelled against my law. To me they cry, my God, we, Israel, we know you. Israel has spurned the good. The enemy shall pursue him. They made kings, but not through me. They set up princes, but I knew it not. With their silver and gold they made idols for their own destruction. I have spurned your calf, O Samaria. My anger burns against them. How long will they be incapable of innocence? For it is from Israel a craftsman made it. It is not God. The calf of Samaria shall be broken to pieces. For they sow the wind and they shall reap the whirlwind. The standing grain has no heads, it shall yield no flower. If it were to yield, strangers would devour it Israel is swallowed up already there among the nations as useless as a vessel. For they have gone up to Assyria, a wild donkey wandering alone. Ephraim has hired lovers, though they hire allies among the nations, I will soon gather them up, and the kings and princes shall soon writhe because of the tribute. Because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning. They have become to him altars for sinning. Were I to write for him my laws by the ten thousands, they would be regarded as a strange thing. As for my sacrificial offerings, they sacrifice meat and eat it, but the Lord does not accept them. Now he will remember their iniquities And punish their sins. They shall return to Egypt, for Israel has forgotten his maker and built palaces, and Judah has multiplied fortified cities. So I will send fire upon his cities. And it shall devour her strongholds. Let us approach the Lord's word in prayer. Heavenly Father, we see here stern words, harsh words, intense words, that you speak against sin, that you speak against people who commit sin. People who you describe here as those who have forgotten your laws, who couldn't even remember them if they saw them before them. People who you describe as those who have forgotten you. Father, we know that you have called us to remember you, to know you, to love you, to cherish you and your word, and yet So often our sin may look like this too as we exchange you for lesser gods. Father, may we hear from your word. May we learn from you as we approach this word. How we might trust you. How we might be rescued from the reaping that is to come against It is in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen. Have you ever tried to avoid the consequences of your actions? A common phrase that we might say in response to that is a phrase we find here in the very text. You reap what you sow. That's a common one. We know that, right? Saying which often proves true, and a saying which among the many agricultural references here in Hosea eight, uh one which Hosea makes, he writes in verse seven. For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind. What the people have sown, so they shall reap Sometimes though we want to try and cheat that reality, don't we? We want to try and escape the punishment that we know is coming. On occasion, we want to do the crime, but certainly not serve the time. Hosea shows up in chapter 8 and makes it very clear there is no escaping the harvest time. In fact, the ratio here that he describes it isn't even quite one to one, is it? The seeds are sown and they have grown. So the harvest is intense. They sow in the wind and they reap the hurricane. God is not unjust in his punishment. But he is fierce, and it is sure. Hosea has a way of showing us who we are, doesn't he? We described last week. He is a master lawyer as he brings God's covenant lawsuit here. And he's one who pins us down. Who convicts us over the reality of sin? He doesn't leave space for you to wiggle out from under it, does he? He isn't polite like that. You know how we might leave room for someone when we confront them. Just a little bit of space for them to have an excuse, a little space for them to justify their actions. Hosea isn't into that. That is not how Hosea comes. We often feel like it's a little rude to push someone into the corner to confront them so clearly, so strictly. Hosea here seems to leave no room for escape. I mean, at least he'll leave some room for the people who have been pretty good, right? Uh for the religious people, the ones who are at least trying. Sure, we mess up, but I mean Hosea should really spend his time trying to pin down the people who so clearly, abjectly have rejected God, the worst of the worst Well, look how our passage opens. Verse 1. Set the trumpet to your lips. One like a vulture is over the house of the Lord, because they have transgressed my covenant, rebelled against my law. What do the people say in response? To me they cry, my God, we Israel, we know you. God is talking to people who claim, who say, God, we know you. Look at the life and words of Jesus. Who did Jesus come most severely against again and again? It's the Pharisees. It's the religious elite. This is a fairly consistent pattern throughout scripture. God often saves his harshest words for those who say, God, we knew you Jesus actually passingly references this passage in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 7:21. He reminds the people: not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. For on that day many will say to me, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? Cast out demons in your name? Do mighty works in your name? And what shall I say to them? I never knew you. Hosea doesn't leave any room here for the Israelite nation to escape God's proclamation of judgment What should we expect? A day of harvest is coming. A day of judgment is coming. And here in the passage, Hosea makes very clear this point. Sin that has been sown will be reaped. Let me say it again. Sin that has been sown will be reaped. We're going to explore that idea in two points today. And we're going to look first at this. What is the sowing of the Sin seeds. What does that look like in the nation of Israel? How do we see that in our own lives? And second, the harvesting of sin seeds. How will this sin, as it's matured, be harvest? Harvested. Join me in that first point. The sowing of sin seeds. These people profess with their mouths, God, we know you. But what are they sowing? And we could say, what are they actually doing? We see here in the passage three particular ways that the Israelite people demonstrate something different than what they are confessing. Three different lifestyle choices, three different evidences that they don't really know God here. Three different seeds that they're planting. And the first one is this that I want to want to point out. They compartmentalize their spirituality. They compartmentalize their spirituality. Look with me at verse four. They made kings, but not through me. They set up princes, but I knew it not. Okay, is it an inherently bad thing for the Israelite people to have kings, princes, rulers? Of course not. not. God made provisions for that in the law. We've seen good king. Well at this point in Israel we've seen about one good king, one and a half maybe. It's possible for there to be such a good thing. But what do we see here in the text? What is God making clear? What's he evoking? How are you, Israel, going about making such decisions? They do it without consulting God. Without looking to him, without regarding him. They have decided that God does not need to be a part of this part of their lives. I mean, these aren't even trivial decisions, right? This is who's going to sit on the throne, who are our rulers, and they have decided this part of our lives, God doesn't need to be a part of. It's an election year. We don't elect kings. Praise God. Nevertheless, we know things might get a little contentious. I am not here in any way, shape, or form. Form to say we need to elect a Christian ruler over our nation. That could be a blessing. I know many Christians. If they were the ruler, it would not be a blessing. It is what it is. What do we do though? Of course, as we approach such ideas, we should pray to God. We should ask Him for wisdom. We should consider earnestly: will this person act justly, sincerely, mercifully, virtuously as God calls leaders to. And yet so often, what are the kinds of things that we decide to consult? Well, we consider how is this going to affect my pocketbook? How is this going to affect my desires? How is this going to affect my felt needs, this decision before me? We develop so many different facets of our lives, so many different segments of our lives, and we especially like to make plans for them. Life plans, financial plans, job plans. Do we consciously Pray and consult God's word in those things? Or do we decide to compartmentalize them? The Israelite people here seem pretty clearly to be saying a consulting God is good for the temple. Not really necessary for the rest of our lives, though. They're compartmentalizing their spirituality. Let me invest, let me sow these seeds how I want, how I see is best for me. That's the first first seed. What's the second one? They're making idols. How does verse 4 finish? With their silver and gold they made idols for their own destruction. I have spurned your calf, O Samaria. My anger burns against them. How long will they be incapable of innocence? For it is from Israel. A craftsman made it. But it is not God, the calf of Samaria. It shall be broken to pieces. What is with these people and golden calves? Vicks reminded us of the golden calf at Sinai, right? There is something about this desire to create this image. To create something and say, look, this is your God. These idols. And here's what's interesting here. At least initially in the northern kingdom of Israel The calves that they make, they aren't actually supposed to be a brand new god to worship. That's not the original intent here. What they do in making this calf seems to be that they are making a symbol, something they've decided is a sign towards, a symbol of the true God, of Yahweh. Jeroboam, the king of the northern kingdom, Jeroboam I, the first king of the northern kingdom. He sets up these golden calves in Dan and Bethel. And he tells the people: come worship Yahweh here. Okay, that sounds pretty good. Turns out the motive actually is not that pure. It's pretty politically motivated. Jeroboam I wants the people of the northern kingdom to stay in the north. He doesn't want them to go to the south. Worship God where God called them to. He doesn't want them to go to Jerusalem. He's establishing the worship of God on his own terms. And coming up with his own new sign for God. This calf is not supposed to be some new God, but something that they have as a symbol of God The practice is actually pretty common in the ancient Near East. Baal, uh, we've heard of him, the big pagan god. Uh He's often depicted as a bull. He's not actually supposed to look like a bull, but the people see the bull and they say that's supposed to point us towards God. It's this common idea. What is the problem with these symbols? signs though. Here is the problem. Inevitably, the symbols which we make to try and worship God will eventually take the place of God. In some way, shape, or form, they supplant him. There's a reason the second commandment follows the first. It protects it. Rule one, don't worship other gods. Rule two, don't make images of God. God has gifted us as human beings with sight, a sweet thing The problem that we run into as visually oriented creatures, though, again and again, is we so easily exchange signs and symbols for what they represent. We love symbols and images. We continually strive to make them. I said another way: we love idols. We love to make them And we are continually lured into worshiping them. It's this natural path we take, and often it can start out well-intentioned. But where does it lead? You say, okay, I mean Chris, it's not six hundred BC. I don't have little gold and silver idols in my house, right? James Montgomery Boyce commenting on this passage. He said this. We don't have to announce I am worshiping an idol to be doing so. We usually say we are worshiping God as we worship our idols. We look at the gifts of God and say we praise Him for them. We very easily take the gifts of God, though, and soon treat them as God. It is incredibly easy to look upon the gifts that God gives us and to allow them to take God's place. And to look upon these gifts that we're saying, look, I praise God for this, to let them seep into our hearts to a place where suddenly we are no longer thanking God for them. Placing our hope and trust in him. Instead, placing our hope and trust in them. How do you know when that happens? How do you know when a gift has become an idol? It's when you begin to look on that gift and say I cannot live without it. Without that, I will be broken, crushed. You idolize, they can start out as very good, sweet things. You can have the best of intentions with them. An easy example: the parent whose whole life revolves around the child. We've seen that, right? Some of you know I used to do martial arts as a kid. And listen, I know that is nerdy. That's I've I've I don't I've dealt with it. It's a nerdy thing. That's fine. The martial arts studio that I went to had many excellent students. One of them was named Nathaniel Vanta. And he was a world champion in the largest martial arts federation in the world. When I tell you this kid was good, I mean He was good, the best of the best. And as you could imagine, his parents were so proud of him. So proud What did accomplishing something like that take? Well, for Nathaniel's parents, the pursuit of Nathanael's greatness meant the world. It meant where his parents lived. It meant where his parents worked. It meant where his parents traveled every single weekend for tournaments. What do you think it meant to Nathaniel's parents? when eventually he told them later in high school, Mom, Dad, I don't want to do this anymore. They were so proud of him, and then to see this thing they have just idolized, taken away. Of course it disappointed them. them. It broke them. It's what their whole life revolved around. Tragically, even their marriage fell apart, in part resulting from Just something that was so central to them, being taken away. And that's what idols do. Idols always let us Down. They just aren't big enough. They aren't powerful enough to really satisfy what they promise. When the idols fail us, when the calf is crushed, What sin seeds do we start to sow further? What does Israel continue on to do? A third seed here: they invest their hearts in human assets As Israel exchanges their worship of God for worshiping idols, what happens? Israel doesn't necessarily quite see that they've made this exchange necessarily. It's a subtle one. But as they worship the idols, thinking it is God, they begin to see how the idols fall short, how they have needs that aren't being met. They're worshiping something that keeps failing. Of course, their picture of God keeps shrinking. Who He is, what God could do. When your picture of who God is shrinks. What are you lured in to do? That's to try and invest your heart in the biggest and best thing you think you can find. Find. Verse nine. What is what have the people done? They've gone up to Assyria, a wild donkey wandering alone. Ephraim has hired lovers Though they hire allies among the nation, I will soon gather them up. And even verse 14. Israel has forgotten his maker, and they've gone and built palaces. Judah has multiplied fortified cities. So I will send fire upon his cities. Israel goes off to find the biggest empire that they can. In the time that's Ethereum. They go to Assyria. What are they thinking? I mean, if our God can't really help us, Assyria can, right? That is the next biggest thing, and Israel invests in them. Israel wants to be with them. Israel wants to be like them. Israel wants to look like them, talk like them. Israel wants to build for itself all these appearances of grandeur. The fortified cities and the strongholds. That's what's going to make us be okay. That's what's going to make us work. When we feel like God isn't quite dependable. What do we turn to? What do you look to hoping it will provide you what you don't think your God can? Signs of financial strength? I mean Let me just get the 401k up because that's where I'll be in the end. Symbols of your prestige. Look at the badge I wear at work, the titles by my name. Again, things that are not inherently evil, but that when you begin to say, Let me invest all that I am in it. Seeds of sin. Our second point, the harvesting of these sin seeds Seeds. This is what Israel has invested in, what they have sown into, what is the harvest going to look like at the end? Do you remember what the nation of Israel said at the very beginning of the chapter? God, we know. And as we read through the passage, how does God respond to them? He points them to see all the seeds that they have planted He puts in their face what their lives have shown about what they know. And he says in opposition to them, You say you know me? Verse 14. Israel has forgotten his maker. You say you know me, but what does your life's work show? You have forgotten me. All your days in the field, your work, what you have proved to me is that you have forgotten me. Hold that in your mind and rewind one verse before verse 14. Go to verse 13. You are forgetful, but what is God? The Lord has not accepted their sacrifices. He says, now he will remember their iniquity and punish their sins. They shall return to Egypt. You are forgetful, but God is not. He remembers. He remembers how he brought them out of Egypt, what he rescued them from, how he has provided for them, how he has loved them, how he has cared for them, and alongside of it. He remembers all their sin, all the seeds that they have sown. When God says he remembers It doesn't just mean that he calls it to mind, that he thinks about it for a moment. No, this is judgment language When the time comes and God remembers, it is necessary that some kind of action follows. The whole chapter here, it's laced with this sowing and reaping metaphor, this agricultural metaphor. You reap what you sow. You have spent your life sowing these seeds. Because it is a sure thing. You ever heard of the Grim Reaper? It has some German roots, but in many ways biblical roots And the picture of the harvest that comes at the end of life and the judgment that follows. Your time will expire. The harvest is on its way. The time for reaping what was sown. It is impending. And what does that mean for you when through your life you have shown over and over again That you have forgotten God. Is this the last word of remembrance? Is this the last thing that the prophets have to say? about remembrance. Hear this other promise from another prophet from Isaiah. In Isaiah 49, he says this. Can a woman forget her nursing Child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb. Even these may forget, and yet I will not forget you Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands. Can a mother forget her child as he is in her arms? I mean, what's what you're being pulled in to say is, of course not. Of course not. That woman forgetting her child, that is at the very fringe of what is possible for anyone to forget. You know what is more impossible, what is beyond that fringe? God says there is no possible way that I will forget you. Though we, like Israel, go about forgetting God. He does not forget about you. What does that mean God here is speaking in this remembrance, not in terms of judgment, but in terms of love. Why can't he forget you? He says, because your name is engraved on his hands. When you look at the palms of Jesus' hands, what do you see, Christian? We know what Thomas saw, right? The nail marks there. The marks of the nails from which Jesus hung upon a cross Signs of the judgment which Jesus faced when he met the Reaper. What is God promising? He cannot simply forget sin. There must be a judgment. We should be forgotten. Our sins should be judged, and we should be tossed into the furnace, forgotten, done away with. We should meet the reaper of the harvest. But what has God seen fit to do instead? When the time of harvest comes, he sends his own son. One who knew no sin, who never made or worshipped idols, who never forgot his father. And Jesus says, Let me take the seeds that you have sown Let me take that harvest and put it upon my own back and carry it to the cross where I will hang and be judged, torn apart by the reaper for you. So that you shall not be forgotten, so that you shall be remembered. It's your name graven upon his hand. He looks at them and he sees and he knows. Jesus has paid the price. He has paid the judgment so that you can be remembered He does this Christian because he loves you. The time of harvest comes like a whirlwind. What has been sown must be reaped. And Jesus says to you, In spite of everything that you have done, all the sin you have planted, I will face that harvest. And you know what I will give you To you, all the righteousness that I have sown in my life, that belongs to you. Christian, that is what the harvest means for you Where does that leave us as we reflect upon this passage? For us who continually tend towards idolatry, forgetting God, not knowing Him, hear this encouragement. From Paul. In Galatians 4:8, he says this formerly when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not gods. Sound familiar? Sound like some idols? But now that you have come to know God, and then on parenthetically, or rather to be known by God How can you turn back again to the weak and worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be once more? Christian, can you joyfully turn from the things that have held captive your heart? The idols that have shown they are not God They can never fulfill that. By nature they can't. Can you look to the God who you know and say, I want you. I want to know you. I want to study you. I want to trust you. I want to believe in you. I want to live faithfully into what you have called me to do. The promise that God has given you is so sweet. You know him, and even greater, he knows you. Can never forget you. By the Spirit, by the power of the Spirit, the answer is yes, you can step away from those things which have enslaved you. You from the work of the Spirit. You can embrace what He has promised. You can turn from the idols and trust in Him. Christian, trust in the one who has faced the Reaper for you. Remember what He has done for you. Rejoice that He has so sweetly written His name upon your hands. And in the book of life. When harvest comes, your end is not torn apart and cast into the fire, cast into the wine press. No, it is ushered into his kingdom. Is that sweet to you? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice in your word We see so clearly the reality of our sin. How much like Israel we are. Pursuing things that we think will grant us hope, will grant us life, things which fail us again and again You have shown us your law, and yet we say, let me run and trust in something else instead. And yet you see fit. At the time of harvest, to show us your son. For us who have forgotten you, for us who say we know you and hypocritically live differently, yes, Father, you have sent your son. Son for us. And you know us. And you've loved us. And you remember us. And when the day of harvest comes, you will not forget your children. No, you will look upon us as though we have the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And we trust in that truth. Maybe we rejoice in the sweetness we have in trusting. Trusting Jesus. It's in his name which we pray