Well, imagine for a moment that you are blind and that you have to cross A deep canyon on rope bridges that don't have any handholds. Now let's add some complication. The bridge is not straight. But makes sharp right angle turns left and right. Hopeless, right? Hopeless unless. There's someone out there who can see. Maybe someone across the canyon who can give you instructions. Okay, take two steps forward. Now stop. Now turn to the right. Three steps forward, stop, then two steps to the left, and so on and so forth. Imagine that you were in this situation. How carefully would you be listening? And how carefully would you be obeying? Imagine taking four steps instead of two, and you're falling to your doom. That's the reality that you're playing with, that you're playing with. And And the Bible tells us that spiritually speaking, that kind of is our situation. We are blinded by our sin. We are in spiritual darkness. And the only way out, the path of salvation to everlasting life, to blessedness. to a reconciled relationship with God where we're no longer in rebellion to him as our enemy, but where we're his children. Reconciled to him and recipients of his love and his help and his promise of everlasting life, that way is narrow and difficult, and so we need instruction. And we need help. We need someone who's not blind like we are. And the Bible tells us that is God who comes to us and speaks. And narrates us, navigates us through this life into the life to come as he speaks. That's why God's voice when he speaks, God's word is, as the title of the sermon says, a word worth hearing. And that is what Deuteronomy 4 is all about. It's all about God's word, and that his word is a word Now, if you've been along with us for the ride through Deuteronomy so far, you know that Deuteronomy comes to us in the form of an ancient Near Eastern treaty or covenant. And the the the the first portion of that, the the main first portion, is what we call the historical prologue, where it recounts the the prior relationship and the events that lead up to the making of the the covenant that the doctrine. document is all about. And so we've had uh God through Moses tell us the story of who God is, who his people are. He's introduced us to the parties of the the covenant. And then he's told the story and he's narrated how he has led them out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and how he's been leading them through the wilderness. And now they're on the border of the Promised Land. They're at the Jordan River, and he's about to send them in. That's what this historical prologue has been all about. But here we're reaching the end of that historical prologue, and it's It's kind of getting us ready for what the bulk of Deuteronomy is, which are the laws and stipulations of the covenant. The commands of God as the suzerain, the great king speaking to his people. people. And so here, toward the end of the historical prologue, the emphasis is all about why God's word is a word worth hearing. And no wonder. If he is who he says he is, the creator of all things, if he is the redeemer of his people, friends, when he speaks, we ought to listen. There's nothing better we could listen to than the voice of God when he speaks. And so to persuade Israel And through Israel to persuade us of this reality. That God's word is a word worth hearing through this passage. God through Moses shows the wonder of God's word. The work of God's word and the witness of God's word, the wonder of God's word, the work of God's word, and the witness of God's word, those are the three points. We'll consider as we look further at this passage. First, the wonder of God's Word. And we see this in verses 1 to 8, as Moses offers a number of reasons or motivations. For why God's people should listen to his word, because of how wondrous it is, because of what it does by its very nature as the word of God. And the first wonder he points out is that the word Is a wonder because it preserves life. It preserves life. Look at verse 1. And now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and the rules that I am teaching you, which God has commanded Moses, he's said that before, and do them that you may live. And go in and take possession of the land that the Lord your God, the God of your fathers, is giving you, that you may live. Because the word feeds us, gives life. And it does this spiritually, not physically. We still need to go out and eat our food, eat our well-balanced Diet, right, kids. You need to eat your vegetables, but spiritually speaking, you can't live on vegetables alone. Or bread alone, right? That's what he'll say later on in Deuteronomy 8. D Man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of God. There is a sense in which we need the word of God, we need to feed on it, we need to Spiritually imbibe it in order to live. In order to live. And if that's true, then we need to make sure that it's the pure word we're eating. You know, just like with food. We want pure food, pure ingredients. There's all this talk recently of glyphosate, this chemical that is used in growing a lot of food, and it it can Contaminates a lot of food that we think is good for us. It's actually full of this chemical, and it's not so sure that it's so good for us in our food. And that's what Moses says here. We need to keep that word pure. You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor take from it. That you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you. And then Moses illustrates, How even in the Israelites' own experience, they have seen the wonder of the word in preserving life. And he does that by saying, look around, where are we? Chapter 3, verse 29 said, We remained in the valley opposite of Beth Peor. And if you know anything about that place name, you know that you can go back to the book of Numbers and know that that's a place where Israel started what we call whoring after or following the gods of Baal Peor. We don't know exactly what led them there, but this is a constant refrain. And that's what Moses recounts there in verses three and four. Your eyes have seen what the Lord did at Baal Peor, for the Lord your God destroyed Destroyed from among you all the men who followed the Baal of Peor. But you who held fast to the Lord your God, who listened and fed on his word, you could say, are all alive today. The word is wondrous. The wonder of the word is that it preserves life. Later on in Deuteronomy the Moses will say the same thing. He'll say in Deuteronomy 32, 47, 4, the words of this teaching, which is Deuteronomy, are no empty word for you, but are your very life. And by this word you shall live long in the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess. Elsewhere in the Bible, the Word of God is called the Word of Life, John 6. 68, Philippians 2. 16. 1 John 1:1, the word of life. And friends, that is part of the reason we gather week after week and gather around the word to hear it, to feel it. Because the word gives life. That's the first wonder of the word, and that's why we try to read it daily and memorize it, right? The second wonder of God's Word, not just that it preserves life, but it produces. wisdom. It produces wisdom. We see that in verse 5 and following. See, I have taught you statutes and rules As the Lord my God commanded me, that you should do them in the land that you are entering to take possession of it. Keep them and do them for That will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who, when they hear all these statutes, will say, Surely, this great nation is a wise. and understanding people. God's word is literally wisdom from above. And what does wisdom from above do? Or what does What does it produce? What is it like? James 3 says, wisdom from above is pure, peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. If we went out into the world and we asked anyone, what do you think if our conversation and public dialogue became more pure, peaceable, gentle, open to reason? Full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. Do you think that would be a good thing? If there were a way that we could maybe get there, would it be wise for us to pursue that? I think most people Oh yeah. If I saw that, I'd say, wow, that that is wisdom. And that's the point. That's the kind of thing that God's word produces in his people and as it does produces this kind of wisdom. Friends, the reality is it it should be, and it often is, compelling and attractive. Yeah, we've seen this in the history of the church. In the early church, as the gospel's going forth and people are coming to faith in Christ, at first there's a lot of persecution of Christians. They were often suffered greatly for their faith. But over time, as their godliness became known As their faith bore fruit. Christians eventually were so compelling that even the emperor Constantine came to faith, and the religion of the land became and the empire became Christianity, which introduced its own issues and problems. But there was a sense in which those outside the church could look in and say, wow, as these people are shaped by the word and they're wisened by it. That's compelling. There's something there. The Great Awakening is another example, where Christians preached the gospel and practiced piety in the world and and that was in contrast to much of a sort of the growing debauchery and profligacy. Of the world during that period. And it led to Reformation. It led to many coming to faith in Christ and eventually bore the fruit of the end of slavery in the Western world. And even today, I think as our culture, Uh I would argue there we are working out um the we're trying to be more and more consistent in a rejection of God more broadly. Broadly. And as we do, we reap the consequences. And what it looks like actually is folly, because the fool says in his heart, there is no God. And because of that, as we Christians are fed by the word and grow in wisdom from, I think more and more of the The godliness and piety that the word creates and the wisdom of the word creates in us will be more and more attractive to the outside world. I think we are seeing that in some way already today. And so the wonder of the word of God is that it preserves life, it produces wisdom, and the third wonder of the word that we see here in these opening verses is that the word promises God's presence. Look at verse 7. For what nation, what great nation is there that has a God so near? So near to it, as the Lord our God is near to us? Whenever we call upon him. And what great nation is there that has statutes and rules so righteous is all this law that I set before you today? The idea here that Moses is getting it is that God's presence is through his word. He is available through his word. He makes himself available through his word. His righteousness is among us. In a sense, through his word. And as we'll read on later in this this very passage, God's presence with his people, he says, is not through visual means, it's not through images like other religions. He is present in speaking. He is present in his word. And what a great thing that is. If you're separated from a loved one, say maybe you're married and it's your spouse and you have to be apart for an extended period of time. Which would you rather have? A great picture or a phone to talk to them regularly? Of course, it's far better to speak, to communicate. The Word of God promises, since it mediates God's presence to us. But we need to realize that God's presence and nearness is not a given. That this in and of itself is a bit shocking because the Bible makes clear that human beings, since The fall, the fall of our first father Adam, into sin. We are sinful by nature. We are born in sin, and we add our actual sins to the sinful nature that we inherit, and sin brings separation. a distancing between us and God, a distancing from God and his goodness. That no longer can we relate to him as the the Almighty God who creates and provides lovingly for his creation. But Because of our sin, we're at enmity with God. We're enemies of Him. And so it's only as God's grace and atoning work deals with our sin. Cleanses us that we can actually endure God's presence. That is described here in verse 24. For the Lord your God is a consuming fire. Would be abhorrent for everyone if we rightly understood it. So how does God promise his people his presence? He promises it, but his word is the promise of his presence. It's how he comes to be presence with us, and his word instructs us in how we can draw near. And that's what we read in verse 9. Only take care and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget these things that your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. Make them known to your children and your children's children. See, because it's through God's word that he will preserve his presence among his people. So the wonder of the word is that it preserves It preserves life, it produces wisdom, it promises presence. The application of this first point is: do we wonder in awe at this word of God? We don't have just Deuteronomy. We have the Old Testament and the New Testament, all of which displays this very wonder. And we read about this in Timothy, where Paul, the Apostle Paul, is reflecting on on the wonder of the word, and he says all scripture is breathed out by God and is profitable, profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be equipped for every good thing. Work, the wonder of God's word, second of all, the work of God's word. That's the second point. The work of God's word. Aside from the wonder of God's word is a reason why it's a word worth hearing. God's word is a word worth hearing because of its work, how it functions. its role, its specific activity that it is, that it purposes to do. And the first work of God's word is the work of revelation. Revelation. What is revelation? Revelation is making something known that's otherwise hidden. I think the great example of revelation or the reveal is uh in those home improvement shows. My life wife li loves to watch those, right? Where, you know, it's a half hour show and you know they come in and they they speak to the family and you know they say how how do you want your house or this room to look and uh and then the family goes away to a hotel for a little while while they do. the renovation, the remodeling, whatever it is, and you know the whole show is all the disasters that happen along the way. But at the end of the show, they bring that family back, they blindfold their eyes, they bring them in, and they have the reveal. Take off the Something I couldn't have imagined, something I couldn't have seen in very real sense. The Bible does that for us with God He cannot be found and discovered by looking around in the world, because he's not a thing in the world. No. Instead, he's the creator of it. He's outside of the world. In him we live and move and have our being, the Bible says. He can't be discovered. So if we're going to know God, he must reveal. Himself. And how do we how do any of us reveal ourselves to others? By speaking, by telling them what's going on inside, who we are, what we think, what we feel, what we love, what we hate. And God does this not visibly, he doesn't reveal himself visibly, he reveals himself through the word. Look at verse 10. ten. How on the day that you stood before the Lord your God at Horeb, so Horeb is Mount Sinai, it's interesting here. He says on the day you stood, most of the These people weren't alive or were very young at the time. But in a real sense, as they rep as the people who stood at Mount Sinai were representative of the people people of God and they represented not only themselves, but their children that would follow after them. So he can say to their children, you were there. So verse 10. On the day you stood before the Lord your God, at Horeb, or Sinai, The Lord said to me, gather the people to me that I may let them hear my words. So that they may learn to fear me. Why is that revelation? Well because if we learn who God is, we're learning to fear him. He's uh and that fear is not uh you know frightening, although it it can be if left in our sin, but it's a it's a reverence, an awe, a a respect for who the Almighty God, creator of all things, is his righteousness, his holiness, that they may learn to fear me all the days that they live on the earth, and that they may teach their children so. And you came near and you stood at the foot of the mountain while the mountain burned with fire to the heart of heaven. Wrapped in darkness, cloud, and gloom, but all that visual was not God revealing himself visually It was all hidden, and it was all showing God's hiddenness, and then the Lord spoke To you, out of the midst of the fire, you heard the sound of words, but saw no form. There was only a voice God works through his word to reveal himself to his people. That's what he's saying here. And why does God speak instead of appear visually? Well, maybe one reason is because for God to appear in bodily form in a sense would seem like a lie. It would imply that He's not infinite, eternal, and unchangable. It would seem like he's not omnipresent, which he is, everywhere present. If we can somehow localize him in one place or one space, it would seem to imply things that are untrue of God. So he speaks. And he speaks because he is there. I love that title of the book by Francis Schaeffer, the 20th century apologist for Christianity who argues and engages a lot with modern philosophy. He has this book, The God Who Is There. He speaks because he is there. And he desires to reveal himself to his people, to be known by His people. And notice how God's self-revelation through his word works. He speaks. His people hear his spoken word We read about there in those verses, and then look at verse 13. And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, that is the Ten Commandments, and he wrote them onto tablets of stone. He speaks, his people hear, and the word is written down to be preserved and passed on to the coming generations. And it says he he made two tablets. It was uh long thought that this was because well you could kind of take the Ten Commandments and it's kind of commandments the first four are about how we relate to God and love him and the the other six are how we relate to God to people and love them and so those were the it was thought that those were the two tablets. If you see uh pictures trying to imagine this often that's the way they'll present be presented. More recently we've come to realize that covenant documents like this were written in copies, too. The great king would have his, people would have theirs. So that's probably what the two tablets are. It's two copies. But that's the first work of God's word. It's revelation. It reveals God, His character, and His will. The second work is regeneration and the creation of faith. in his people. As we read on, Moses emphasizes that the sense of faith, the the the the the uh organ of faith is the ear. The sense of faith is Hearing, not sight, let alone touch, taste, and smell. And we see that in verses 14 to 20. And the Lord commanded me at that time to teach Therefore, watch yourselves very carefully. Since you saw no form on the day that the Lord spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire, beware lest you act corruptly by making a carved image for yourselves in the midst of The form of any figure, the likeness of male or female, the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the air, the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under the earth, and beware lest you raise your eyes. There it is, eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun and the moon and the stars and all the hosts of heaven, you are drawn away to bow down to them, to serve them, things that the Lord your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole earth, the whole heaven. But the Lord and so What he's saying there is he's saying, how are you to respond to God's word? You respond in faith, and faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ. Christ, not by seeing. And that is why we have the room the way we do it this morning. That there aren't visuals through which we proclaim who God is and reveal who He is, but it's a word, a word that goes forth That communicates that truth, and we're to respond not by seeking to see, looking up, seeing the stars, making for ourselves an image. We're to respond in faith. By hearing, right? And I love how he uh r reminds him. He gives him that little assurance at the in verse 20: But the Lord has taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be a people. of his own inheritance as you are this day. Hear and know. God has loved you. Has redeemed you. Believe. Hear and believe. So Moses called Israel here not to engage with God, not by images and visual means, but instead through his revealed will and his word It's interesting, he says the sun and moon and stars. These are wondrous blessings. You know, that people are to look up and give praise to God when they see the stars. and the sun and the moon when they see the creatures that God has made. We're we're to we're to delight in those. We're to we're to see God's g God's wisdom and his glory reflected in these. But these are these are not blessings of faith. These are common to all people, as he says. In verse 19. The blessing of faith is salvation, to be God's beloved people, as he says there in verse 20. So God's word works to not only reveal God's character and will, but to bring regeneration and faith. What do we do with this? Well I think that first we should see here a challenge To be attentive to and oriented to God's word, to be students of God's word because of what it works for us. Because here is where we meet God first and foremost. I think this is especially a challenge to us in our image-saturated culture today, a culture of screens, screens. Screens and more screens. It's shaping us into being a people who walk by sight rather than by faith. I would argue. Uh all the way back in nineteen eighty five, which is also what? So forty years ago when our church was founded, nineteen eighty five. Oh, so actually is is this This book was published first in 1981 in French. But in 1985, it was translated into English, a book uh by Jacques Eliou, who um is uh what do we call like a media ecologist who studies media He wrote the book, The Humiliation of the Word, and in 1985 it was published in English. And that book has an interesting thesis. His thesis all the way back in 1985, think about it, was that we have become an image-based society, and image-based societies prioritize and cultivate immediacy, manipulation, and emotional appeal. And instead he said, We need to attend and we need to cultivate, being more word-centered, because the word, language, speaking, hearing, fosters truth, meaning, and reflection. And think about it, he said this before the internet, uh, before the twenty-four-hour news cycle, before smartphones, before social media, so if he can say that in nineteen eighty-five. How much more ought we reflect on this and consider as kids? Here's a little challenge for you. Maybe before you pick up a screen. I mean maybe just five verses of the Bible. Read five verses and then take one minute. That's not That long? Won't be that significant, but it would be a way of starting with what is more significant, more important And what we want to be cultivating. Maybe earn 30 minutes of screen time by spending 30 minutes reading, just reading anything, because it's reading that develops this muscle, this habit of being a word-attending person. And that's what we want to be as God's people because of the work of the word, that it is revelation of who God is, and that it brings Brings faith, it regenerates and creates faith. That brings us to the second challenge from this second point, and that is to make sure that we're orienting our faith through hearing rather than through visual means. And beyond just visual means like idols that we could craft or things like that, that we're orienting ourselves to the unseen versus the seen. Right? The scene, the visible world around us, is often captivating and often tempting to make that first and foremost. to make that what the Bible would call our idol, right? What is our God? 2 Corinthians 4. 16 says says this. Though our outer self is wasting way, our inner self is being renewed day by day, for this light momentary affliction is preparing us for an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison as we look. That it says, look, it's vision. As we look, but then it's like, no, no, no, this is not uh the vision like we normally think of it. This is the hearing vision of faith. We look not to the things that are seen. But to the things that are unseen, the promises of God, for the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen, which will one day be seen. The glory of God in the new heavens and the new earth, the things that are unseen. are eternal. Don Calvin is famous for saying, our eye our our our hearts are idle factories. We look to all sorts of visual things, things in this world, visible things, money, success, power, image, stuff. And we so often are captivated by it and make it into an idol. And so we need to hear this warning of Moses is here. Therefore, watch yourselves carefully. Beware, beware, beware, lest you get distracted from The word worth hearing. So the wonder of God's word, uh the work of God's word. But what is the message of God's word? What is he telling us in it? What is it witnessing to us about? And that's the third and final point, the witness. Of God's word. And simply put, God's word witnesses two realities to us. It comes to us in two voices, and those are law and gospel. Law and gospel. And we see that here. Law in verses 21 to 28 and gospel in 29 to 43. The law, and we're talking about law here, it's not the the the law as far as God's instructions and commandments. Commands. That's one way the Bible talks about law. But when we think of the two voices of Scripture, it comes to us in law, which is anything. That comes to us and says, you should be or do this thing. And if you don't, you'll be condemned in sin. The law can be something very positive. Uh to say God is love is not good news. Uh God is love, that's true, the Bible says that. But what that means for us who are sinners is God is love, so you should be love as well, because you're made in the image of God, and guess what? We are aren't, we fail. So God is love, actually, is law, and because of our sin condemns us. That doesn't mean the law is bad. It's we who are bad. And so the first witness of the word that is it that is law, it comes to us and it it exposes the sin that is in us. And it points us to the reality that left to our sin we I think that's what Moses is doing when he uh introduces himself as an illustration. He's saying, This is what the law accomplishes. He witnesses to the law's uh effect in verses 21 to 22. Furthermore, the Lord is angry with me because of you, and he swore that I should not cross the Jordan, that I should not enter the good land of the The Lord your God is giving you foreign inheritance, for I must die in this land. I must not go over the Jordan, but you shall go over and take possession of that good land. Moses disobeyed God before the people of Israel. He says it was because of them because he was so angry with them, he was motivated to do it. And because of that, he reaped the consequence, which was that he would die on the east side of the Jordan. That's how law works. Now, ultimately, Moses, was he not saved? Course he was. Because dying in the land east, he could still be raised to new life in Christ on the last day. So it's not how he was saved, but there is this reality that he was an illustration. He himself was an illustration of how the law works. That it comes to us and says, be this, do this, and when we break it, it condemns us to death and keeps us from The blessing that God holds out to those that He seeks to draw near to Him. And so this seems like an object lesson. Moses is saying, look at me. You drove me to disobey God's law. Look at the consequence. Look at how God's law functions. And Moses warns them to pay careful attention to the law and reminds them of this conditionality that they are in in relationship to God in the Mosaic covenant, not for salvation. God's people were never saved by keeping the law. But for Israel, in this unique moment in time, they're going to enter into the land, and their life and tenure in the land is going to be conditioned on That's what we see in verses twenty-three to twenty-five. Take care lest you forget the covenant of the Lord your God, which he made with you, and make carved. A carved image, the form of anything that the Lord your God has forbidden you? For the Lord your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God, when you father children, and children's children have grown old in the land. And here it is, here's the interesting thing about verse 25. You can translate it a few various ways. Conditional statements are hard in Hebrew because you often have to Guess or decide where the if is. It's not always stated. And here's one place where it's not really stated. So really what verse 25 and following it is doing is it's not really, it can be read as conditionals, but actually it most naturally reads as a prophecy. A prediction. And so let me read it that way. This is the way I would more woodenly translate it. It's like this. When you father children and children's children, and have grown old in the land, then You will act corruptly by making a carved image in the form of anything, and by doing what is evil in the sight of the Lord your God, so as to provoke him to anger. Does that prophecy come true? Yes. Over and over again it's going to come. So then Moses says, I call heaven and earth, this is covenant language, to witness against you today that you will soon utterly perish from the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess. You will not live long in the land. Uh you'll not live long in it, but will be utterly destroyed, and the Lord will scatter you among the peoples, and you will be left in number among the nations where the Lord will drive you, and there you will serve gods of wood, stone, and the work of human hands that neither stand see nor hear nor eat nor smell. I think the idea here they'll serve these gods because they'll be s enslaved to a people who serve these gods. Not necessarily that they themselves will will serve those gods because we know that as Israel went into Babylon, they were chastened. To actually turn to the Lord and repent and not serve these other gods. But what is the point? Moses, surprisingly, is predicting failure before they even begin. Why? Because he knows the character of the human heart. Left to ourselves in sin. If salvation is up to us obeying the law, I can predict what will happen. We'll fail. And you know that in your own life, over and over again. are brought to repentance and conviction of sin. You repent and you confess. Maybe you make it right with sin, are reconciled to another person. You are reconciled to God and you say, next time I'll do better. And sometimes by God's grace we do. Often, because of our sin we don't. And the point here that God is that that that Moses is saying That he's witnessing to through the word is that ever since the fall, the law itself cannot save sinners. Ultimately, no obedience that we can offer can merit God's blessing and eternal life. And so we need another witness, and that is the witness to the the gospel that we see here as well. And what's wonderful is that the prediction doesn't stop in verse 28, but it goes on. And I would argue that that first but there in verse 29 could just be read end. It just kind of is continuing the prediction. Yes, you're going to fail, and then From there you will seek the Lord your God, and you will find him, and you will search after him with all your heart and with all your soul. When or not maybe end you will search search for But for, because you will search after him with all your heart and with all your soul. When you are in tribulation and all these things come upon you in the latter days, you will return to the Lord your God and obey his voice. For The Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not leave you or destroy you or forget the covenant with your fathers that he swore to them. And that's an interesting point because this is a different covenant. Covenant that he's referring to. Not the covenant that is made at Horeb, where Israel says, Okay, we will do this law that we might remain in the land. But this covenant he made with their fathers, that's referring back to the covenant he made with Abraham. Abraham. Where remember there Abraham falls asleep. He's off to the side watching the covenant ceremony, and God In two representations, as though he's the great king and he's the faithful servant, walks through those animals and says, I will guarantee this covenant. Simply By my grace, and you, Abraham, who are off to the side sleeping, you will be the beneficiary of it. That's the covenant of grace. That's the good news of the gospel. That it's not us and our obedience that saves us and makes us right with God and that brings the promises of his grace, but it is his work on our behalf. That's what happens in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think it's so interesting that the final few verses here, verses 41 to 43, Many commentators wonder why those are stuck in there. You know, it may have seemed odd. At the end of the passage, we read about these cities of of refuge. Later on in Deuteronomy 19, we're going to read more about these cities and their significance. But I think why they're here is because they were kind of like a sacrament. An outward visible sign and seal of God's grace, where if somebody is guilty of manslaughter, he can run to these cities and he can tangibly, visibly see God's saving mercy. He could be saved. Verses forty one to forty three. Then Moses set apart three cities in the east, beyond the Jordan, that the manslayer might flee there. Anyone who kills his neighbor unintentionally without being at enmity with him in the time past, he may flee to one of these cities. Cities and save his life. Bees are in the wilderness on the table land for the Reubenites, Ramoth and Gilead for the Gadites, and Golan and Bashan for the Manassites. And yet all of this begs a question. What about us? Israel's here and they're given God's word through Moses, literally the word that they're given is Deuteronomy itself. We we we read about how this is how the wonder of God's word here in Deuteronomy, the work of God's word as they attend to it, the witness to law and gospel here in the Word. But what about us? In a r very real sense, Deuteronomy still serves these purposes for us. We Deuteronomy has been and can be and will be uh read and and and instructive in these ways, uh much like it was for Israel. It's not just God's word to them, it's also his word to us. But if Deuteronomy as one book of the Bible can do this, what about the whole Bible? What about the rest? And and and it's very helpful to take this passage and put it in the broader context. Of the whole word of God and what it reveals. Because as we read on, the whole sweep of the Bible is not ultimately about God's word written in Deuteronomy, let alone written in the whole written book. But all of it is testifying to a greater word, a far more perfect word, a far more glorious word, a word that actually does all that God promises His Word will do here perfectly We should say a word who does all that God promises his word can and will do here perfectly. See, ultimately the Bible tells us that God's word is not a scroll or a book, but God's word ultimately is a perfect word. The person of Jesus Christ. That's how John introduces them in his gospel. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and the Word is Jesus Christ. Christ. He's the Word of God incarnate, God the Son Himself, who took on human flesh and walked among us. And He is who makes sense of the two witnesses in the Word. He's who who makes sense of how law and gospel can be a good thing. Can fit together. See, because in our sin, law can never save us. It only justly can condemn us to death and judgment. So then the question is: how can, if the law justly condemns us, how can God be just and not condemn us? And give us the promise of the gospel, forgiveness, salvation. It's only because the two can be are brought together perfectly in Jesus Christ. The Word of God. He came as the only human ever to actually follow God's law perfectly, and having fulfilled it perfectly, he willingly went to Jerusalem where he was arrested, tortured, and crucified, not because he desired Because you deserve it, because I deserve it. We deserve the wrath he bore when he went to the cross. And when he went to the cross in a very real way, as God's word incarnate, he was silenced. By death. And he was silenced in order for the condemnation of the law to be silenced. But he wasn't silenced for good on the third day. He rose from the dead And he rose and ascended into heaven, and he sits now at the Father's right hand, from which he speaks through his word by the Spirit. He speaks to us even today. He continues to be the Word of God incarnate, revealing God to us and showing us the wonders of the word, showing us the work of the word, witnessing to law and gospel faithfully as he brings the Together, so that all who repent and trust in Him have the promise of His grace. The thundering condemnation of the law is now silenced if we come to God through faith in Jesus Christ. And then through the gospel, we're reconciled to the law itself. And it becomes for us a friend, a guide, how to glorify God, what character he is working in us by his Spirit. That's how we're going to read the rest of Deuteronomy. The law is good. And we feel that goodness as we can come to it through the new life that we're given through faith in Jesus Christ Do you see this? The gospel, Jesus Christ, is the Word of God. He's its wonder. He's the one who preserves life. He produces wisdom. He promises God's presence. In fact, he is the promise of God's presence. Emmanuel, God with us, reconciling us to God through faith. If we think of that rope bridge analogy, Jesus is the word that not just shouts across the canyon to us saying, go right, go left. He's the word who comes out and takes our hand and leads us all the way into the He is the work of God's word, the ultimate revelation of God, its proclamation of his saving work that That the word is all about, that the Spirit uses to regenerate us, to work faith in his people. And Jesus is the Word's witness. He's the ultimate lawgiver and law keeper. He's the ultimate witness of the law. Where do we see the law perfectly lived out? Nowhere else, but in Jesus Christ. And he did that in order to take our condemnation for our He's the ultimate witness to the gospel, promising us that though we may struggle with sin ahead, he will never leave us nor forsake us, he will finish the good work he has begun to be able to do. In us and lead us into the glory of his risen presence forevermore. Thanks be to God for the word, our Lord and Savior. Jesus Christ. Let's go for him in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this word that uh instructs us and uh shows us the value of engaging with it. And so we pray that as your people we might be at Attentive to it, not only hearing uh the words that you have spoken and have recorded for us, but that through them we might hear the voice of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. As his sheep, may we hear the voice of our good sheep. Shepherd in his name we pray. Amen