John writes, On the next day the crowd that remained on the other side of the sea saw that there had been only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had gone away alone. Other boats from Tiberius came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks. So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats and went into Capernaum seeking Jesus. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? And Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs. But because you ate your fill of the loaves, do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? And Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he He has sent. So they said to him, And what sign do you do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. And Jesus then said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven. And gives life to the world. They said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall not thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me, and yet you do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me But raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day So the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I'm the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble amongst yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day, as it is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you: whoever believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever, and the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. Then the Jews disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh? And continuing on in verse 60. When many of his disciples heard it said, they said, This is a hard saying. Who can listen to it? But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe and who it was who would betray him And he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the twelve, You want to go away as well? Simon Peter answered him Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. And Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you the twelve? And yet one of you is a devil. He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we see here words again from the Gospel of John, which may be confusing and perplexing as we approach them, as we see them on the onset. But Jesus is speaking, as he says here, difficult words, and yet true words. Words which may be hard to comprehend at the beginning of it, but which are clear as we see your purposes. How you, Father, have acted in history. How you even acted before history. How you are acting to bring people to life. Here, life that is provided through the work of the Son, a life which leads to resurrection in the Son, life which we experience here by the work of your Spirit. So we pray that we might have clarity of mind as we approach your word here. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. One of the difficult questions as we approach the reality of this life, of this world, as we approach it as Christians, is the question of: why is it that some believe And some don't. Why are there some who have faith in Jesus, who believe, who know that He is good and true? Some who just reject that truth. There's so many different contexts or challenges that we can integrate into that question depending on our various position or perspectives. You might be drawn to think as you have concern for someone. Why do they not believe? I mean, is it just because they don't quite have the understanding? You might worry, you know, it's Are some just not smart enough? Well, what's the reality, the truth? There are brilliant people, yes, who are Christians, but there are also clearly brilliant people who are not. I mean, surely it's not just how smart we are. Is that person just not predisposed to believe in the supernatural? There are many people throughout the history of this world who have believed in the supernatural and who have heard of Jesus. And yet reject him, right? Has this person just not had the right life experience to be engaged with the gospel? That was kind of the philosophy of Charles Finney in some sense. He wrote a whole book on generating the right experience for someone to have so that they can be confronted with Jesus the right way. Many people have had that kind of experience, though, and yet rejected Jesus, gone away from him, not believed in him. On the other side of that, there are people who have had horrible experiences in the church and amongst God's people, and yet even some of them believe it cannot merely be an experience that leads towards receiving faith. Faith and belief. As we've walked through John chapter 6 here, we've walked through various significant themes in this chapter. So you've been following along in the evenings, you know that we've addressed this chapter a couple of times. Now we're going to address it one more time next Sunday morning. Uh but as we've uh tackled each of these different themes, there have been uh various ways that Jesus is communicating truth about himself. And the significant truth that he brings to the people he is speaking to today is the question that we address here. What is it? What is it to believe Jesus? What is it to come to Him? To have faith in Him? And even here, Jesus addresses that question: why is it that some Some just won't. Why is it that some do believe and receive him and why do some not? In many ways, this sermon will address a number of doctrines which you may know we as a Reformed Church hold very near and dear to our hearts We often refer to it as the doctrines of grace. Some will call it Calvinism. That's a little bit of a funny name because Calvin didn't come up with the acronym that most people think of. Calvin taught the doctrines, yes, but He also taught much more than just this. It's not the greatest name, just calling it Calvinism. We often might use an English acronym, TULIP. to describe this. Maybe you've heard that. And what's that? That's an acronym derived from the canons of DORT. Dort and its canons, it's this church council that was held to address some of the errors that were being taught by Jacobus Arminius, another Dutch theologian of the time. What is tulip? What are these doctrines? Let me just give us a little refresher, a reminder of what we're talking about with this. These reform doctrines, tulip is It's a helpful device. Okay, let's just leave it at that. What's the first petal of that? T. The first petal of the tea, tulip tea, is total depravity. The idea that Man cannot wake himself up from the death of sin. The idea that we are so depraved that we need God to take the initial action. That's T, total depravity. U, unconditional election. The idea that God has taken action in the past That he has willed in his plan of the whole world for some to be saved. And that that election, that work of God, it's not because we are so great. No, it's it's nothing we have merited or earned. It's unconditional. It's his work. L limited atonement. T-U-L. You can see how we're spelling out this one. Limited atonement. We addressed that a little bit this morning, didn't we? That Jesus has come for and atoned specifically for the sins of his people. That's who he's come for. Aye, irresistible grace. The idea that those whom the Father has called, all of them will be drawn to Jesus. All of them will come to Jesus. appeal, preservation, or perseverance of the saints, that those who are called and drawn, they will believe to the end. They all will be resurrected to heavenly life. Okay, T U, we got all the petals there. You got it? Uh yeah That's a lot of doctrine here on the forefront. And I'm going to say there's going to be a lot of doctrine throughout this sermon. We're going to see how so much of that is pervasive throughout John 6 as we look at this passage. You're going to feel that And oftentimes our inclination when we are encountered with a lot of doctrine is to say, okay, this is good for my head, but not necessarily applicable to my life. I want to challenge that. I want to challenge that impulse as you might be confronted with that idea. Surely we don't say it out loud. Surely we don't uh actively think of it, but you've probably passively felt that sometimes. Okay, this is classroom time, not necessarily change my life or impact my lifetime. I want to challenge that because these doctrines are very impactful to our life as Christians. These do have great application to us. This is the kind of doctrine which can calm your heart, which can make sense of the world as you begin to worry about the nature of faith. Will I persevere to the end? Is God's plan really good? You begin to question his purposes. You may become discouraged. Am I just not convincing enough to get this person to believe? Or you become concerned that God must just not be working. What these doctrines teach us is that God is working, that He is acting, that He is preserving you. And that he is calling people to himself. What these doctrines are teaching us, what we can find comfort in, is the reality that God is sovereign and he is God. What we're going to see first and foremost in this passage in John 6 is this. Faith, belief, coming to Jesus depends first on God's gifted work. Faith depends first on God's gifted work. We're going to explore that idea in four points today. Sorry. Could I have made it five and had T-U-L-I-P? Maybe. Could I have done the classic three? Sure. But we're going to do four. The confusion of the gift. That's first. The giver of the gift. The content of the gift. And then the reception of the gift, okay? The confusion, the giver, the content, and the reception. Now let's start that first point, the confusion of the gift. There's a lot of confusion in this passage, straight out the gate. As we look to this first interaction in verse 22, what's leading up to that interaction? Well, we've recapped too many times. The miraculous feeding of the 5,000. Jesus feeds the crowd from five loaves and two fish. And then Jesus leaves, and the disciples leave the scene. And there's that whole situation with the storm. And then the next day, that crowd who Jesus has fed are looking for Jesus They're seeking him up. And that's where verse 22 picks up. They're looking for Jesus, this crowd. And we would probably think on the surface of it, people are seeking out Jesus. That's good news, right? That's what we want. How does Jesus respond to them seeking him out? Verse 26, Jesus answers them. Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. It's not quite the warmest of welcomes, right, from Jesus. He's kind of, yeah, okay, you're I know why you're here. It sounds a little reminiscent of some of the other ways that Jesus has encountered people in John as they're looking for him. Usually in the other places, Jesus is saying, you're here for the signs. Here he's saying, you're not even here for the signs. You're just here to get more bread. You're here because you are hungry, hungry people. He's implying here, he's expressing here. You clearly don't understand the sign. You don't understand what I was doing. You were just a hungry people. Jesus is communicating that I know why you're here. You think I'm your magic bread box. That's not why I'm here. Jesus knows what they want, and he aims to redirect them then in verse 27. He tells them this: Do not work, they've done this work, they've come across the sea, do not work for the food that perishes. but for food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. The people then respond to what Jesus has said. Okay, Jesus, you've said we need to do some work. Tell us what to do, verse twenty eight. They said to him, what must we do to be doing the works of God? You can notice here, they're asking, what works must we do? They assume there's some list that God has of things for them to accomplish, to be doing God's works. And you can dig into the grammar a little bit. They make it plural. God must have a list. There must be a series of things. that we need to do, surely God has a long list, just tell it what tell us what it is so we can accomplish it. And then Jesus replies to them with just one thing. Verse 29, Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you believe in Him who He has sent. What's Jesus saying to them? There's just one thing you gotta do. All you gotta do is believe in me. That's a tricky one. The crowd takes a turn here because they realize that's kind of a tricky one. They kind of change the onus, the expectation here. Verse 30, they reply to Jesus. Then what sign do you do, Jesus, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Basically, what are they saying? Jesus, if you want us to believe in you, well then you better do some kind of work. You better do something to prove to us, to show us. Uh not too hard to figure out what they want Jesus to do, right? They've followed him across the sea because they're hungry. They want some bread and They will just pitch it out to him. Verse 31. You know, Jesus, our fathers ate manna in the wilderness, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. At Moses, you know, he fed our fathers again and again, and you've only done it once so far. Maybe if you feed us again and again, well then Jesus, if you did that work, then we'd believe. And Jesus doesn't bite on that. He actually corrects them, right? He says, you know, first remember, Moses is not the one who fed your fathers. My father fed your fathers. That bread came from heaven. It came from God. That's the first correction. And the second one is he's saying, you know, that bread from heaven. That you're looking for, that you want, that's here before you now. The bread is right here. Verse 33. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven. and gives life to the world. The people respond to Jesus. Verse 34, Sir, give us this bread always. Bread from heaven, bread everlasting? We would love that bread. It's kind of reminiscent of the woman at the well, right? When she encounters Jesus and Jesus says, I have water that's flowing on forever Life eternal. My water never runs out. And the Samaritan woman says, Okay, yes, Jesus, please give me that water. I am sick of coming out here to this well Give me that water. And people hear, Jesus, bread everlasting. That's perfect. Give us that bread. Now what's the problem here? Kind of the same one the woman had, right? There's a blatant misunderstanding about what kind of bread Jesus is talking about. They are entirely on the physical plane, as hungry people tend to be. Jesus isn't talking first and foremost to her about white fluffy bread, though. There is a blatant inability on their part to understand what it is that Jesus is offering What this gift here is. They don't get it. They're confused. They don't understand. Why is that? Why are they unable to understand? That's where we have to dive here into the second point. We first have to see who is the giver of the gift. How does one gain the ability to understand, to believe? First, we have to see who is the giver of the gift. What does Jesus say in verse 35? Look there. And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life, and whoever comes to me Shall not hunger. Whoever believes in me shall not thirst. And Jesus is making it plain to them. I am the bread of life. Got that? And then Jesus does this parallel coupling of ideas here. He puts these two ideas together. Whoever comes shall not. hunger. Whoever believes shall not thirst. What Jesus is doing with that construction there, he's joining those two ideas together. Believing and He's making them parallel. He's making them synonymous. And they'll be synonymous and interchangeable ideas through the rest of this text. Believing and coming to Jesus The same kind of idea. And here, uh, as Jesus continues on, he he doesn't really give the people time to respond to that because he knows they're going to reject it. They know they won't No, then he knows they won't like that idea, so he just keeps on going. You all aren't going to like what I have to say, so let me keep going. Verse 36. I said to you, That you have seen me, and yet you do not believe. He's summarizing their point. You all have said, show us Jesus And then we'll believe. Jesus calls the bluff here. You've seen, you got the bread last time. You've seen other miracles, and do you believe yet? No, of course you don't. Jesus doesn't plan on getting sucked into the well just do it one more time, Jesus. I mean, just one more. That's a trap, isn't it? One day my son will learn that trap. One more time, Dad. Not today, son. Why don't these people believe Why is it that these Jewish people have their Messiah before them? I wonder who they had been waiting for, studying about, learning of for generations and generations. He's here before them. But they just don't believe. Why is that? This is what Jesus has been setting up as we get here to verse 37. He says, all that the Father gives me Will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. Who's taking the initial action here? It's the Father. The Father is giving something to Jesus. Let's break down the grammar there. All that the Father gives me, that there is a singular that. There's one thing that the Father is gifting to Jesus, is giving to Jesus. And that one thing that the Father is giving to Jesus here, it's a group. It's a group of people. And that one group, Jesus says, they will all come to me. We've already established here this synonymity between coming and belief. All those who are in this group will come, they will believe. All those who are in this group who come to me, Jesus says, I will never cast them out. I do not reject the ones who the Father has put into that group. I will receive them and I will keep them. Now, why will Jesus keep them all? He tells us in verse 38, For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me Jesus is saying, this idea we're getting at right here, this is the whole reason I came down from heaven. This is the whole reason I am here. I came from heaven to earth to accomplish this thing. This thing which he describes as something that the Father willed. The Father wills something, and so I have come. Think for a moment about this progression. What happens first there? Who's the initiator The Father wills it. Therefore the Son comes. And what is it that the Father wills? And Jesus is ready to answer in verse 39: This is the will of him who sent me That I should lose nothing of all that He has given me, but raise it up on the last day. Let's recap that. The assignment God gave me, the reason he sent me and that I have come, is to come and get and keep and not lose any of those who the Father has given to me. Is that not loaded with the theology which we hold dear? Think about that for a second here. The Father, what do we hear? He picked out, he chose in the past a group, a people for his son, for Jesus. And then what is the son saying? I will gain them. Those are who I have come to get, to gather together. What does Jesus say about the quantity of them? I will get all of them. I will gather them all together. They will all be mine. What does he say even further than that? I will keep them all. I'm not going to cast any of them all out They are mine, I will keep them, so much so that I will resurrect them even. And what is this all set up by? You just have to go a couple of verses back to see, you know, there's a reason that you can't believe me. And that's why then he dives into the Father's actions here. There's an inability on your part, a total inability, one might say. The Father has elected, and I have come for them. That's who I'm making atonement for. I'm going to get all of them. They can't resist me. I will keep them all together. There's our perseverance. I will raise every one of them up. So suddenly we have every petal of the tulip, right? Who is the initiator of the action here? We are not acting. God acts. God wills. And Christ says He's come to get his people. He's come together, all of them, and Christ will never let them go. There's this kind of assumption then here of the Jewish crowd that's going to run against this. They said, Jesus, if you just tell us what to do, we'll do it. And that's often our kind of assumption, right? God just tell me what I have to do. Jesus is correcting that whole impetus here because he says you don't get it. You can't initiate this. I am calling you certainly to believe, but that's predicated on something. It's predicated on the giver of the gift. So Jesus is not really surprised at all. We'll see how these people don't really truly come to him. Sure, they've come across the sea, but are they really here for him? They're here for something else. We come up here against verse 40. This is where some people might have a challenge against what we believe and hold dear. Verse 40: It says, For this is the will of my Father. That everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last What is Jesus saying there? Anyone who wants it, anyone who looks to the Son, who desires him, everyone who does that will have eternal life. This is where we start to rub up against Jacob Arminius a little bit, and where he and some of his followers, Arminians, might challenge us. They might present an objection to us. See, anyone who wants Jesus can come to him. As reformed people, what is our response to that? We'd say Absolutely. Absolutely. Anyone who wants Jesus can have him. There is no one who truly wants to come to Jesus who he will turn away. No doubt of that. Verse 40 is true. We affirm it. But in that we must also remember what is true of us. That we don't intrinsically want to come to Jesus. No, we naturally resist him. resist him. All who want him can come. But there are many, no matter how much evidence they're presented with, do not want him One pastor illustrated the idea this way. Imagine a all-you-can-eat sushi buffet. And they say, we're doing a promotion, a lunch promotion. All you can eat for free. Come in and have a free lunch. It's excellent sushi. All that you can eat for lunch is yours. All you have to do is come. All you have to do is want it Now there's two different kinds of people in this world. People who love sushi, people who are going to go in, and then other people who don't. Other people for whom when we had sushi for Shawnee's birthday on Friday I had to sear the salmon on the pan. There are some people who love sushi who are say, of course I will come in. Let me eat all that I can. This is a great blessing and gift from God. Who could reject this? And then there is that whole other side of the population who everything in them says This is raw fish. Who in their right mind would eat this? There's There's no way this can be delicious. And you all and Edie will go on your way and reject this great amazing gift. Why is it that some will run in the door? Some desire it, and some don't. I mean, how far back can we bring it? At the end of the day, there are some to whom God has gifted a taste for delicious raw fish. And there are some of you who He just has not given that desire to. It's his action. It's his predetermined will. Yes, we have some level of freedom. We have wants and desires. But where we struggle is when we begin to rub up against realizing our freedom is not absolute Nobody's freedom is absolute. You can't do or say just anything. If I want to fly, if I wanted to just fly off of this stage, I'm gonna get about four feet. I can't just will it to be. Because God has willed gravity. We are subject to his will somewhere. It's his gift. He is the giver of the gift. Jesus will continue on into this. Point number three, the content of the gift. Remember how Jesus responded in verse 35 and then just kept going. He didn't leave space for the crowd to reply back to them. What does he do here? Jesus comes to a break. He says, I am the bread. And how do the people respond? They can bring us back to that idea in verse 41. So the Jews grumbled about him, going all the way back to the beginning of this excursion, because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. What's the problem with it? Verse 42, they said, Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Essentially, they're saying, Jesus, we know who you are. We know where you came from, son of Joseph. Who do you think you are? Who do you suddenly think you are, Jesus? We're continuing on in this pattern that we recognize where Jesus does signs and tells them all of who he is, and these people just won't believe Given what Jesus just went through, we shouldn't be surprised by that reaction from the people. How are they responding? They're actually responding to a very logical deduction from what Jesus has just. laid out and said. If you imagine somehow that you came to this section of scripture having no knowledge of scripture in the past, that's impossible. I know And you just read this paragraph through and what Jesus described, you'd come to a pretty quick conclusion about these people. They have said, you read Jesus' faith. You cannot come to me, believe in me, unless the Father gives you to me. It's the people who the Father has given to me that come to me, that believe in me And then these people say, Jesus, we won't believe in you. I mean, what should we deduce from that in the moment here? Well, it would appear, if you just follow the syllogism, that these people have not been given to Jesus by the Son. And Jesus cements that as he reiterates the point here in verse 43. Jesus answered them, Do not grumble amongst yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And that person who he draws, I will raise him on the last day. Think of verse 37 here. He tells us who comes. It's those who the Father has chosen. And what we see here in verse 44, he tells us who doesn't come, those who the Father has not chosen. And the why is the same on other side, either side. It's because of what the Father has willed. We see two chains of action here. On the first side, the Father gives some to the Son. Those who are given are drawn. And those who are drawn, the son keeps. And those who the son keeps, the son raises up. We saw that chain. What's the chain then on this side? The Father hasn't given some to the Son. And those are not drawn. So those the sun does not keep. And those are the ones who the sun does not raise. Let's address just a particular objection here, again from Jacob Arminius. John is saying, all those who the Father draws Come to Jesus. We read that, right? You saw that. A common objection to what I'm saying right now is going to come from John chapter 12. Some people will look at John 12, 32, and Jesus says there, if we just rip it out of the context. He says, When I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself. The objection that Jacobus Arminius will make here is he'll say, Well, Jesus is saying he draws there all men to himself. And so all men are drawn. And uh the deduction they draw from that is and you know, all are drawn, and then we have to, after we're drawn, make a choice. Uh Arminianism is generally concerned with maintaining ultimate human freedom. The idea that humans are ultimately free to make that choice, that I mean, even if you were offered the greatest gift in the world, unlimited free sushi, you would you would still make the choice. Choice is clear to me. It's irresistible, I might say. Does John twelve thirty two Say that all men are drawn, in the way that Jacob of Sarmenius is trying to say all men are drawn, is it saying that each and every human individual is drawn? Is that what's meant here? Well, uh I mean to answer that we can pretty easily if we look at the context. It's always easy to say what you want to say when you just rip something out of the context. What happens just a couple of verses before John 12, 32? The dialogue Jesus has starts in John 12, verse 20, where he says. Where we read from John. Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks who were seeking Jesus. What's striking about that? What's striking is that here at this Jewish festival, there are some who have come who are not Jewish people. There are other kinds of people. They're Gentiles. They're Greeks. And all the disciples are shocked at this, so shocked that they come to find Jesus and tell them, hey, there's some Greeks, there's some different kinds of people, some people we did not expect who are here to see you, Jesus. Jesus goes on into this teaching then about how the time is coming when he will be glorified, he will die, he will be raised, and then we get to verse 32, and he says, And all men I will draw to myself. What's the point in the context there that Jesus is making? The context is that there's all different kinds of people who are coming to Jesus Why are these Greeks here? Because of what we know will be said that those from every tribe and nation and tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. All is a term that is used in so many different ways. And it's really clear in the context how it's used there. That all those who are drawn to him are those from all different kinds of places. You should not be surprised that the Greeks and the Gentiles are coming to me. All different kinds of people are coming to me. And you know that when you look around this room, do you not? The reason within John 6 that we know what John 12 is saying is what John 6 says about those who are drawn. That's complex. Let me break that down. All those who are drawn in John 6, what is true about them? Jesus says they are all resurrected to life. And if we took John 12 to say that every single man is drawn, every single human individual is drawn, what would that mean about every single individual person? would mean that they're all resurrected to life. We're suddenly no longer making a case for Arminianism. We're making the case that Pastor Fix stole from me this morning after a conversation in the car. Thanks. We're making the case for universalism. Uh if if I'm being totally honest and uh I were to look at this passage and uh know somehow the reformed position is wrong and we had to pick between universalism and Arminianism The case, at least, that is made here seems to be more for universalism, and that somehow all people would have to be resurrected and saved. But We just have to read the rest of John 6 to realize that not all. That that's not the case. Jesus will show that. He'll prove that out here in the very end of the chapter. Jesus continues here to cement his point that he's been making by quoting our Old Testament reading. He quotes Isaiah 54, not 55, I'm sorry again. 54. And in John 6, 45, Jesus says this. It is written in the prophets in Isaiah. And they shall all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Now the prophet here is Isaiah. It's this quote from Isaiah 54. I'll reread that verse. Isaiah said, All your children shall be taught by the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children. children. What is Isaiah prophesying about? He's prophesying about a day when God will come and teach the people. Jesus is using all in the way that we have been talking about, not to say every single individual. He's talking about all those who will come. All those who are drawn, they shall all be taught by the Lord. And Jesus here in the context, immediately, he's saying, guys, that day is coming. That day is here, actually, because what am I here doing? I am teaching you. Today is that day. Jesus is using that verse to back up what he has just said, that certain ones will be drawn to him. And all of those who are drawn, they are all taught by the Father. All who believe who come, all different kinds of people, Jew and Gentile, they are all taught by God. They all receive the Spirit of God who is speaking to them, teaching them. What's plainly obvious, and then zooming out at this scene, is that all these people are about to leave. They're about to show the exact opposite fruit of what Jesus has been saying. And what does that mean about them? It means that they are not a part of that all. The all are those who believe. Now notice what else Jesus is saying, verse 46. Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. What's Jesus saying? That's shorthand for you haven't seen the Father, but I have. I have seen the Father. He told us I have been sent by the Father, and what am I here to do? I am here to teach whoever will come and listen. That day where the Father is going to teach you all, he is teaching you all, and he's teaching you all by me. But are you going to come to me? Are you going to believe in me? Are you going to do something different? I mean the people do not like what Jesus has to say, and we know that because of how they're going to respond. Think about how they will respond in the position Jesus is in here right now. I mean, could Jesus just be a little more convincing to them? Could Jesus just preach the perfect sermon, say the right thing that will lead towards all this crowd before him? To be saved. Could Jesus say the perfect things so that these people in front of him will just believe in him? Can he convince them? Let's step into the fourth point here, the reception of the gift. These people do respond by grumpling at all that Jesus has said, right? I mean clearly he hasn't he just hasn't said the right thing to them. Verse 52, the Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? We'll dive deeper into that Sunday morning. But it's clear here, they don't understand and they're not convinced by what what Jesus has said. I mean, has ge Jesus just didn't preach quite good enough a sermon, right? Even the disciples agree. Jesus, this is a difficult one. Verse 60. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is hard saying. Who can listen to it? Could you just make this a little easier, a little softer? We see the results of the frustration of all these people in verse 66. After this, many of his disciples turned Back and no longer walked with him. They leave. They go off. They depart from him. Why? Because Jesus just isn't convincing enough? Why is it that they leave, that they go off, that they depart? It's because they don't believe. It's because they don't believe. And why don't they believe? If coming to Jesus is a sign of believing, then leaving him is clearly the opposite of that, right? Why do they leave? What's the reasoning here? I mean it can't be that Jesus is just not a good enough preacher, right? It can't be that Jesus doesn't just have the right apologetic arguments. It can't be that Jesus is just unable to prove to them who he is. We know he has proved. It again and again throughout this book. Here is this large group of people. Think about their context. This Jewish crowd who knows God's word. They leave. They know all that God has promised. They've known it since they were little children. And they depart from Jesus. Why? Jesus reveals it in verse 61. Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? He's starting out what he's about to say here. What I've just said, you're offended by it? This is the part that you're offended by. He continues, verse 62. Then what if you were to see The Son of Man ascending to where he was before. Now Jesus is leading them down a path, down a trajectory. What I've just said, that's the part offends you. He's saying, what if you see the whole story of what I'm here to do? Down the road where I ascend back into heaven. What if you knew all that is going to happen? I mean Then would you even believe? What road does Jesus take to his ascension? What rests along the way, along that path? Jesus is saying, This is the part that offends you? I mean, wait till you see what I'm going to do. Wait till you see the cross. Wait till you see my suffering. Wait till you see your Messiah strung up on a tree to die. If this is the part that offends you that you stumble at, you are definitely going to stumble and leave and depart when it comes to that, right? That is definitely going to offend you. And yet what do we know? What has Jesus said? That whole story, that is the whole reason that he has come. The whole reason Jesus has come is so that he can bring new life to, to raise up the people that the Father has given him The Father has sent him on this mission. And that mission is what? To die in the place of his people. To live and to suffer and to die in the place of his people. so that he can have those people, so that those people can live off of him, so that those people can be resurrected. That's Jesus' mission and his purpose and what he has come to do. If what Jesus has said already is offensive, surely this is going to be offensive to you all. And yet, Jesus says, you just won't believe. Why? Verse 65, he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father. You all are offended, I know, Jesus says. And that's why I told you so many verses back that I know you won't come and you won't listen. And you won't believe. You won't come. You can't believe unless the Father has given you to me. Verse 63: It's the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is of no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit. and life. Jesus is proclaiming the message, the message which we proclaim to many people, the message which we proclaim from this pulpit, week after week, the message which Uh you speak to your friends and your loved ones as you tell them, as you beg them, trust and believe in Jesus. The flesh, though, is of no help at all. Dependent upon the action of God. Verse 64. There are some of you who do not believe, and then John gives us this parenthetical here. For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. John is cueing us in there to the reality that Jesus already knows who God has called here. Jesus knows who believes and who won't. And so of course Jesus is not surprised and released when what is the reaction of these offended people? The scene that follows in verse 66. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. Here's the scene. Those who had been prepared. for generations and generations and generations, those who had been waiting for the day that the Messiah would come, here he is in front of them And they walk away. They leave Jesus. It's a sad scene, no? But we know why. And yet here in the sadness, we get this particularly sweet interaction, this little reminder from someone who usually messes up what they're going to say, but it's really sweet. Verse 67, Jesus turns to the twelve and he says, Do you all want to go away as well? And who speaks up? Same guy who normally speaks. Speaks up. Simon Peter answered him. Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, and we believed. And we have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Peter nails it here. Peter gets it here. Who else could we possibly go to? If we left Jesus, where would we go? You are the one who has all that we need. You are our bread of life Peter believes, he comes, he has been drawn. Why? Because of what John 6 has taught us, because the Father has called him. The Father has said, Jesus, Peter is yours. Peter belongs to you. Here friends, what do we see in this passage? A number of things. We see for us a call to faith, a call to believe. To come near to the Son, to draw near to Him, to trust Him in Him, and to know in the midst of that, that the only reason you can come, the sole reason you want to come to Him, that you can come to Him. is because God has acted. And that is so much better than thinking, I have done this solely because I want it to. When you think I solely want this and therefore I'm doing this, what is that dependent upon? Your mind. How many times has your mind changed? Here is the work, the act of God. He has called you and drawn you. Here's another application point. What Peter will be commissioned to do is to go out into the world. Here Peter has said, who else could we go to, Lord, but you? And Peter will be sent out once Jesus leaves. Not to go away from Jesus, but to go out into the world with Jesus and to proclaim the story and the gift of Jesus to people around the world. To all sorts and kinds of people, that those from every nation and tribe and tongue might hear of Jesus and who he is and what he did and what he offers to those who would respond. To those who would believe. Peter is commissioned out with that mission. We know Jesus knows here in the meantime who would believe. Jesus has that knowledge. Peter does not. But that's the mission that Peter is sent on. We don't know in the here and now who will believe But we do have that mission that Peter was given, to proclaim the word of truth. And this doctrine And what we've looked through gives us immense strength and peace and comfort in that mission because it's not dependent upon you saying the perfect thing, delivering the perfect sermon. Having the best apologetic out there. Certainly, those who believe must hear. Certainly, we want to be convincing. Certainly, we want to do justice to the great message of the gospel of grace. But at the end of the day, if one does not come to Christ, it is not because you have failed. That is not solely your mission. Uh you might think here uh about our hymn of the month, even Uh what we sang earlier, uh Psal 714, we plow the fields. Well were the words in that first verse? Let me pull that open for a second here It's not that one. We plow the fields and scatter the good seed on the land But it is fed and watered by God's Almighty Hand. Does that remind you of other places in Scripture? Yes, we spread the seed. Yes, we proclaim the good word. God is who will make it grow. He is the one who will do that. And he's promised here that he will do that in all sorts of places. We follow in the practice of calling people to come to Jesus to believe in Jesus. And we know in that we have confidence that those who will believe will come because the Father has willed it. Not because we are perfect in what we do with that mission, but because God's gift to the Son is sure, because Christ's work is sure. One last little point of application here. If all of this were dependent upon us, if all of our salvation was dependent upon our ability, exclusively our wants, what would that speak about About our future, and that our future could change. But Christian, your future will not change. Jesus has promised that all of those who have been given to him, he will change Will bring to the end. He said, What of them? They come, they are gathered, and I will resurrect them all. Tied in with this message is a story of resurrection hope for you. You've seen, you know, you believe that Jesus was resurrected. That is surely your hope, too. Amen. Let's conclude in prayer with that hope. Heavenly Father, we rejoice. That our path, that what we have before us, is not solely dependent Upon our own entirely isolated free will, but first upon your will, Father That you are the one who stands before all creation. You are the creator. That you are the one who has willed all things to be. Here we are those who are sinners and undeserving and unworthy. And yet what was your will, Father? And that your gospel might be spoken to each and every one of the people here. That your gospel is spoken to many people That the story of Jesus is true and that whosoever believes in Jesus will have eternal life. May we proclaim that message when we trust in that message. May we walk forward as your faithful people. Faithful not foremost because we have it innately within us to be faithful. But because you are faithful in calling and drawing and preserving your people, Father. I thank you for that truth. Pray that we would be a people who respond daily in faith We pray in Jesus' name, Amen