Our New Testament reading today comes from the book of John, verses 13, starting in 30 Chapter 13, starting in verse 31 through verse 38. You can find that on page 900 of the Pew Bottle if you're using those. Primarily in the evenings, occasionally in the morning, I've been working through the Gospel of John. John is a prolific writer in the New Testament. He writes to us his gospel, his account of the story of the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. And he also, as we'll see later on, writes some epistles to us, some letters as well. And here in his gospel, in his story of Jesus He's bringing us to this point where there's this transition. Because Jesus is no longer just ministering amongst the people and teaching. He's actually preparing for the end. He's here in the upper room telling his disciples about how yes, he is going to be king, he is going to leave, but along the way, that will require his death. He's preparing his disciples here for his departure. He says here in verse 31, this When he, that's Judas, had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified. And God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him at once. So little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, so now I also say to you, Where I am going, you cannot come. So, a new commandment I give to you, that you love one another just as I have loved you, so you are also to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Simon Peter said to Jesus, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him, where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward. Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. With that, let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father We see here what Jesus calls a new commandment, this call to love one another. We pray as we approach your word this morning that we might see anew and afresh what that call is, what it is to love one another and why Why? Jesus has given this as his final call to his disciples. How this is new. What is being called of us here Father, we pray that as we reflect upon our own lives and see the ways that we have failed to live up to the law, we would see truly who Jesus is. How he has fulfilled this law for us, and what it then means for us to walk in the light of his kingdom. It's in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen. Well this morning we are picking up here in John a very similar theme to what Six has actually been preaching through lately in the mornings, right? Dix has been preaching through the book of Deuteronomy for us, and he's been telling us about the greatest commandment, and that call to love the Lord your God with all your heart and your soul and your might. In that fix has been teaching us about this reality through the book of Deuteronomy. Something you might question or ask there is What kind of church does a whole series out of the book of Deuteronomy, right? I mean, isn't that where Bible reading plans go to die? And isn't that just law after law, command after command? Just old bygone doctrine and rules, it's filled with curses and sacrifices and punishment. If you've been around, if you're a part of this church, your response right away is Of Chris, we are the kind of church that teaches through Deuteronomy and looks at these things. We do that. Entertain this thought experiment with me for a moment here. What do you want this church, RPCB, to be known for? What do you want this church to be known for? When people think about Reformed Presbyterian Church of Bowie, what is it that you hope they immediately think of? Is it our Reformed heritage? that we walk right in step with the Presbyterian and Reformed Fathers, and hence there's virtually no decorations in this room anywhere, right? Is it our doctrine? Well, RPCB, we believe and we teach precisely what the Bible says. What it instructs. We don't venture off into error. We cherish and proclaim the truth. Maybe what you hope people recognize and appreciate is our worship. You can tell pretty quickly we don't try to do some kind of rock show here, right? We do have a congregation which genuinely love and seeks to do congregational singing On Sunday mornings, we don't come to hear a TED talk. We come to hear the Word of God exposited and preached from all throughout the Bible, even Deuteronomy. When people think of us as a church, what is it that Jesus here says foremost we should be known by? What does he say? There's probably a long list of things that you care about in the church. And maybe I've poked a little bit of fun at us here. These all these things that I've said there are things that I love and cherish about this church. They are things which I think are sweet and I love about it. I hope you love them too. But when people think of us as a church, what does Jesus say we should be known by? John 13, verse 35. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. That's a very sweet, uh wonderful, disarming, non-confrontational idea on the surface, right? And yet also if you've been around the church for a while, uh at times that idea can feel a little off-putting sometimes. Because the sentiment that we often take away is well it's just love. All love and no hate, right? What the Beatles said. All you need is love, love, love, and whatever they mean by love. It's when you hear that that kind of sermon is coming that often you go, ah, this is not going to be a great one, right? Love is often talked about in exclusively flowery, romantic You might ingest into your mind uh sissy ways here. Love is the calling card of the televangelist and the other Christian-y entities, which we know often can be dangerous. You might lump into that category all the people who, when you were trying to distinguish this church from other places, you were saying, well, we're not like them in that way. We don't want to be the wishy-washy kind of Jesus is my boyfriend situation here. And yet Jesus does say what we should be known by. Is love. It's the thing which we should be foremost known by and for, our love The world will know who we are because of our love for one another. Another way to say that, to phrase that, our orthopraxy, the things which we do. They reveal our actual orthodoxy, what it is that we know, or who we know. Tied in with that, is this reality? Our orthodoxy, what we know, it teaches us what love. truly is. That's where we start to potentially experience some friction with the world as we talk about love, right? Because we have to understand and recognize what love truly is. If we are to truly be known for love. You know, we do live in a world which wants love to be oftentimes explicitly sentimental. Um The world often wants to tell us that love is love and we can't press anything more than that. And so therefore people should be able to live in whatever way their heart tells them. But what is truly love? Here in John 13, Jesus knows that the wheels are in motion. He is working towards his death. And he's had his triumphal entry. He's established before all the people that he is this new king. And he turns here in our text and he says to his disciples, I'm not always going to be here with you. I am actually going to leave you. And the way that he says that, if you followed along through the book of John, the Gospel of John here, it's pretty familiar because Jesus has said this kind of thing before. In the past, he said this kind of thing to his enemies. In verse 33, he says, Little children, yet a little while I am with you, you will seek me just as I said to the Jews. So now I also say to you, where I am going, you cannot come. That might feel familiar because Jesus, as he acknowledges here, has said to the Pharisees multiple times, I am leaving. And you will not be able to follow me. And now there is a difference between what Jesus says here to his disciples and what he says to the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders. When he was speaking to the Jewish readers, he told them, You will seek me and you won't find me, and so you will die in your sins. Here though, as we'll see in just a couple of verses and even in the first verses of chapter 14, Jesus says he is going. His disciples will not be able to follow him yet. And Jesus will explain, he's actually going with a purpose for these people to prepare a place for them. And one day they will get to go where Jesus is. What is he doing now? He's going away to prepare for them. They cannot come yet. But one day they will be able to. Why? Why is this what Jesus is explaining? And Jesus here is headed to the cross He is days away from it. He is moving towards the grave, and then his resurrection and ascension to the throne. What Jesus is going to be, what he is doing here. It shows us that he is going to at least bodily be gone for a time. So therefore, for while he is gone, he needs to tell his followers. his disciples what to do while he's gone. Jesus is saying, before I leave, before I go away, I need to tell you how you are to live until I come back. I need to give you this new commandment for while I am gone. And that's remarkable And something that we need to come to grips with and understand because what's incredible here is the position that the disciples are about to be in. Where Jesus is true and theirs and preparing for a place for them. Jesus is saying, I'm going to be gone to his disciples. And that is exactly the same place that you and I exist in here and now, right? Jesus has called us to be his followers Yet he's not here bodily with us. We're in the same exact place as the disciples here. Jesus is going away until he gives us a new command. an instruction for how to live while he is gone, before he comes back. And Jesus says, given this new commandment, and it is this. That you shall love one another as I have loved you. What John is showing us in the text today, what he's teaching us, is this: there is a new creation, theology of love. John here is explaining to us a new creation, theology of love. What on the surface is very remarkable and confusing about that is that Jesus calls this new. He calls it a new commandment. Yet at the same time, doesn't it seem very old? Isn't it the kind of thing that we've heard in the scriptures before? If it feels like an old commandment, it's because it is, sort of. To understand this new creation theology, we have to unpack what is new about it. So, what we're going to do as we explore this topic today, three points for this. First, why is this a new commandment? And then second, how is this a new commandment? And finally, what is this new commandment? We make that easy enough. I know it's not alliteration, but Why, how, what? Join me in that first point. Why is this a new commandment? Why is this call to love one another new? It's a really confusing idea to engage with because what we know is that the content of this commandment is actually quite old. Undoubtedly, for the New Testament saints, for New Testament Christians, engaging the idea of the law and commandments is often confusing. When you read through Paul, it feels like he's flipping back and forth all the time. The law is great evil, but the law is also really good in your life. Paul, you've got to pick which one it is, right? We get to hear. Somehow, this command, this law is seemingly new, and yet at the same time, it is very old And John himself actually acknowledges that. Don't lose your place here in John 13, but if you want to move with me ahead in the scriptures a little bit, It's helpful to turn to John's first letter, his first epistle, in 1 John chapter 2, if you're able to turn there real quick. John talks about the same kind of idea in 1 John, his first letter, chapter 2, verses 3 through 8. And John has his gospel, and then he writes about similar content here in this first letter. And I'll read it for us here. 1 John 2, verse 3 begins this way. And by this we know that we have come to know Jesus if we keep his commandments. Whoever says, I know him, but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoever keeps his word in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may know that we are in him. Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he called. Then he says, Beloved, I am writing to you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard. And at the same time, it is a new commandment that I am writing to you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away. And the true light is already shining. This passage is clearly very parallel with what John writes in his gospel in John 13. We're talking about how those who belong to Jesus, those who are his disciples, are called to live, and they are to follow this old commandment. But it's also a new commandment. John, come on, Pitt. What is it? When John talks about this old commandment here, what does he call it in verse 7? He calls it here the word which you heard. The way that's spoken there, the word, it's an intentional kind of reference to the commandments In the Old Testament, when you uh were to woodenly refer to the Ten Commandments, what you'd call them are the Ten Words. And when you read through the Ten Commandments, for us we know there's more than ten words, but this is an idea in Jewish literature. These commandments, they are the ten words. And so John here is very intentionally reminding the people You have heard what I'm about to tell you back in the past. You heard it from Moses. Moses told you once upon a time that you were to do this. But then in verse 8, he explains there is something different. There's something different about this. He at least tells us why. He says, listen, this is different because. Verse 8, at the same time, it is a new commandment I'm writing to you, which is true in him and in you, because the old, sorry, because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining. Why is this old commandment in some sense now new? It's because, John says, the darkness is passing away. It's because the true light is already shining. You've walked with us through the Gospel of John, that motif, that idea, that metaphor of the light being juxtaposed with the darkness. That's very familiar. John has talked to us about that idea many times so far. We'll unpack that in a little bit. But before we do, note these couple of details. Note this, as we think about what John has written here in his epistle, in the letter, he says that he's writing to who? Speaking to his beloved. John is writing here to believers, to the beloved children of God. That's important for the sake of framing who this commandment is for. And the people who receive this command are those who follow Christ. The people who are called to live under the rule of this law here. They are members of Christ's heavenly kingdom. They are his beloved children. That's who this is for. Now note this. In the epistle of John, He doesn't actually there explain to us exactly what the new commandment is. Did you notice that as we read it? He didn't explicitly say this is the new commandment. At least not in the letter of John. We heard what the new command is in the Gospel of John. And John, in other places in his letters, does clarify. An example in John's second letter, he says in 2 John 6, as you heard from the beginning, his command is that you walk in love. Same command, right? John explains in other places what his new command is, but here he doesn't. Do you know why Because there's an assumption from John here that we have John 13 in mind. There's an assumption here that if we're reading this part of John, that we are familiar with the other parts of what John has written. So that's why it's really important for us to read this part of the gospel together with John's letter. There's something intentional that John is doing here. And that becomes really cemented to us then when John in his letter starts saying, the one who walks in darkness does what? He's the one who hates his brother. The one who walks in light, they're the one who loves their brother. It becomes very clear that this new commandment is the same commandment. And so it's really important for us to read these texts together. And that leaves it even more pertinent for us to compare 1 John 2 and John 13, and so to understand why this is new. Why is this new? In the epistle in 1 John, he says it's both new and it's not new. Which is it, John? It's not new because this is the same command that we see all the way back in the Old Testament. It's the same kind of command, almost word for word, verbatim, that we read in Leviticus 19 in our Old Testament reading. We saw there this long list of how you are to treat your neighbors. All things that we affirm are good and true. And that whole compendium of treating your neighbor in a certain way is summarized, it is concluded how. I'll reread it, verse 18. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself, for I am the Lord. It's this call to the Old Testament saints to love their neighbor, to love one another. And we know from Jesus elsewhere that he speaks about this, that this is very nearly important to The central elements of the law. And when Jesus is asked, what are the most important parts of the Old Testament? What are the most important parts of the law? Do you remember what Jesus says? He says, the greatest commandment is What Fix has been teaching us about, to love the Lord your God with all your heart and your mind and your strength. But then Jesus says there's a second commandment that's that's like it, that's very near to it. And what is it? It is to love your neighbor as yourself. To truly love your neighbor. That's what we know is this command here is very near and dear to the centrality of the law, of the old law. It's very old. Okay, so why is it new? Why is it new? John is convinced here that there is something about this command which requires it to be new. And John tells us there is something about this which causes it to be new. And what is it? In his epistle, he said, It is because the darkness is passing away, and the light is already shining. It's very familiar language in the Gospel of John. That idea of the light and the darkness. We've seen repeatedly Jesus calling himself the light again and again in John. In John 1, it was the light who enters into the world. The darkness doesn't know what to do with it. In John 3, it's the light bringing new life to his people and taking his people out of the domain of darkness into his kingdom of light. And John 8 is the light leading people through the world. And John 9, it's the light shining into the world. And the imagery of light against darkness is here again and again. And it's revealing to us something particular. It's revealing to us that when Jesus comes, when the light comes, something new is happening. Something cataclysmic is changing. So there is this kind of new age. When the light comes, there is new life. The light comes, and who is he? What Jesus has been teaching us is that he is the new king who defeats the darkness. As you begin to think about that in the context of John 13 and why Jesus is speaking this, It starts to make a little more sense. We begin to see that there is a new command, a new word, a new law, and it is because Jesus here as the light is establishing his new kingdom. And in it, Jesus is the new King. Jesus is establishing his new kingdom. He is the light who is coming to do that, and he is the new king. What happens when a king overthrows the old regime? What does he do? He establishes a new law. He says, now that I am in charge, this is how you are to live Verse 31 of the Gospel, John 13, verse 31. When he had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified. And God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and will glorify him at once. What is Jesus talking to us about? He's talking about himself being exalted, glorified. What is that imagery? That's the imagery of him as the king, being enthroned, being set above all things. Here I am coming as the king, being seated on my throne. And so what am I doing in that? Of course I am telling you, as the new king, what you are called to do. This is how you shall live. We see here what John is teaching us is that there must be a new commandment because Jesus is the new king ushering in his new kingdom. That's why this must be a new commandment. Okay, then we have to ask point two, how is this a new commandment? How is this new? Because the content seems substantially similar, no? There is a kind of distinction here in this new command. The new commandment here is a new creation ethic. And we'll unpack that. We established here what's happening in the world is a new age is coming. There is something about the world that is changing dramatically because Jesus is coming. The age is changing, and with the age changing. The reality is that there are new things in the world. Jesus has said it again and again. He is the light entering into the world. We've seen that light in the world. You could think back to the beginning of John's Gospel, John 1, verse 9. The true light which gives light to everyone was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and yet the world did not know him. Things are changing because the light is entering into the darkness. That same exact kind of thing, as we see these in parallel, is happening in 1 John 2, verse 8. At the same time, this is a new commandment I'm writing to you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, because the true light is already shining. So whoever says he's in the light and hates his brother, that person is still in the darkness. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, in him there is no cause for stumbling There is clearly something different about the world when the light shows up and when it shines. There are necessarily ways that the light being in the world affects how we walk in it. It reveals things to us. This metaphor is very simple, right? When you turn the light on, it illuminates things. Well when you were in the darkness and now there is light, it shows you the things that you could not see before. So what is it that Jesus is doing as he is shining, as he is reigning over this new age? What he's doing is he's bringing in this new kind of reality. This kind of heavenly reality. And just like we've seen again and again, Jesus is the light, he is shining. What else has he told us again and again about where he comes from and what he's doing in the world? And Jesus in this gospel over and over has said he comes from above. He comes from heaven. And Jesus comes from heaven as the light to invade this dark world. He is the King who comes from heaven to establish a kind of heavenly reign on earth. Jesus is saying it's starting now. I'm doing it here and now. Guess what? One day, this heavenly rain, this new kingdom, it is going to swallow up and envelop The whole of the earth. And if you're familiar with biblical theology, this is what we call the new creation. Jesus is transforming the whole world. He is remaking it all. Heaven is invading earth and one day, right now, it's just a little bit of it that's new. One day it will all be made new. One day it will all be a new creation. We know that's going to be consummated. That's going to come to its full fulfillment when Jesus returns. What is he doing here in establishing his new command then? He's establishing for us heavenly laws. He's establishing a rule and a commandment for heavenly people, in that he is crafting and proclaiming an ethic here, not merely for earthly people. But for heavenly people. Okay, so how then is this command new? It's new because it is a command which belongs to that new kingdom. That heavenly kingdom, the new creation, and thereby it's a command that belongs to all people who have been made into new creations. It's a command which belongs to new creatures. You begin to think through what you remember about other things said in the New Testament. What does Paul call you? He's called you a new creation. He's called you, Christian, a new creature. He's called you a citizen of his new heavenly kingdom. And so he's given you this new kingdom ethic, this new law that you here are called to follow as people who belong to that new creation. People who are a new creation. Okay, so how is it different from the old one? For one, it's because it belongs to this new age. Okay. But otherwise, it still feels similar, doesn't it? When we think about the content of what we're called to. The other side of how this is new, it's not just that it belongs to the new creation. But also in whom we see it. It begins to make a lot of sense as we start to unpack what Jesus has been teaching us all along the way. In this new age, the light has come. And what does he do but shine in a way that reveals clearly to us what is true? There's a way in which here we get to see the commandments, truest and fullest meanings, more clearly now than we could before Jesus came. When we read the gospel, so we've read this gospel, John, again and again, what are there? There's confrontations between Jesus and the people who are supposed to be authorities on the law. Why do we have those confrontations? Why is there so much friction between Jesus, who defines truth and is the law, and people from the Old Testament, people who are authorities on the Old Testament law? The Pharisees done what? They've come to Jesus accusing him again and again of violating the law. What is true about Jesus, though? We know he never violated the law. He always kept it perfectly. And he lived it out exactly as it was supposed to be lived out. And yet there's this friction again and again between the people who are the authorities on the law and Jesus. Why is that? What we've seen again and again, what Jesus has shown again and again, it's because the people who were those authorities on the law, they didn't understand it all the way. They couldn't really see all of what the law was calling them to. They couldn't quite understand it. That is exactly who you and I are if we just look at the Old Testament on its own and don't look at it through Jesus. And Jesus here is the light who is shining. And by looking to him, we finally get to see very clearly all of what the law is teaching us. It's when we look to Jesus that we begin to see what? What it is to truly walk humbly. It's by looking and analyzing the life of Jesus that we begin to see what it is to really act justly. And to love mercy, and to truly love God with all of our heart and our soul and our strength. What it is to genuinely love our neighbors We learn about how to do that in the Old Testament. But it's when Christ comes and as the light starts shining that we get to see so clearly what it is that God has called us to. That's why throughout your New Testament, as you look at the imperatives, the commands, you know what they are continually grounded in. You are called to submit yourself how? As Christ did. How do I know how to do it? It's by looking to Jesus. You are called to love your wife how It says Christ did. How do I know what it is to do that? It's by looking to the light who has shin and shown us what it is to genuinely follow that command. All of the commands flow out of the person and work of Christ, his life and death and resurrection. Without Jesus living it out, we would never know so clearly what it is that He has commanded us to do. It's because he has come that we can now see clearly what it is to live into this command. It's because we've seen all of the law embodied in the life of our heavenly King. That's in part why it is still so valuable for us to study the Old Testament. The idea here is not that the old is just all expelled and done away with, but that in Christ it all becomes new to us. Because in Christ we see how to walk it so clearly. What have we seen as we look to Christ? We've seen, even just recently, the teacher who washes his own feet. We've seen the master who suffers for his people. We see in Christ the King who dies for this sinners. This informs now how we understand all the signs of the Old Testament. Think about what the Old Testament has shown us. Does the temple demonstrate what it is for God to be amongst his people to us? Yes, it does. That's the intention of it. But is God incarnated into a man, walking among us, an even more clear depiction of what it is for God to be among his people? Yes. Did the animal sacrifices in Leviticus and Exodus teach us about the idea of atonement? Of course they do. But do we understand what atonement is so much more clearly once we have seen Jesus Christ slain for us? Of course. How is it different? It's not necessarily here that the new command is different because it's totally changed things. There may be some elements that are different. More so how this is different is that what was dim has now been brought to light to us because the light has come and shone upon it. We'll see an example of that really clearly at the end of the chapter here. Our last point, this, point number three. What is this new commandment then? What is the new command here? Verse 34 of the gospel, John 13, 34, a new commandment I give to you, that you love one another just as I have loved you. You are also to love one another. another. We know that. We know we're called to love one another. But what all does that entail here At times, uh we hear this as a call to abandon anything and everything that could create some kind of division. And so with that, we need to abandon really asserting any kind of real truth claim. What we might call doctrine, right? That we should just sacrifice that to keep everything hunky and dory and happy and sweet. In that when we think that way, we often uh tend to create a kind of dichotomy. We even often do that between churches, right? Uh there might be one person who says, well your church is just really into truth, into doctrine, but we are really into love. The common test of that kind of dichotomy is does your church do church discipline? Right. There's that idea, uh, if you really disciplined your members for not repenting of something that they did that they think is sin, how incredibly unloving is that to discipline? And yet, what do we do when we take the idea of love and the idea of truth and we make them a dichotomy this way? We make them aimed at each other. You know what we do there? We create a kind of false dichotomy. When we try to say that love and truth are opposed to each other, what we are actually doing is taking God and saying he is opposed to himself. Because who is God? What he expresses through Jesus here is that he is perfectly true and perfectly love. God is able to hold those ideas perfectly together. And when we try to divorce these ideas from each other, what are we doing? At least in part often when we try to divorce truth from love, that's because we easily buy into the idea that love is simply a feeling. And we're drawn to do that because love is a little easier when it's simply a sentiment or a feeling. The call to love one another would be a lot easier that way, right? If it was just a feeling that you had to have towards someone. Love is a lot harder when it actually calls us to do something. And yet, how does Jesus call people to love here? Love one another just as I have loved you. Jesus acts in love. All of what Jesus does throughout his gospel is truly love. It is truth and it is love. And all that he has done, Jesus has loved. And Jesus has defined what it is that we are called to do, how we are to walk. And he calls it all. Love. Let's get really specific about that. When we look at the life and ministry of Jesus, we have seen things that often feel to us something that we can easily call great examples of love. Jesus has done what? He has healed the sick. Isn't that loving? Jesus has fed the hungry. That is a great loving act. Jesus has brought wine to the party. One of my favorite things Jesus does is clearly loving. Jesus has even raised the dead, right? You remember what was said back when Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead? Jesus, this is Lazarus who you love. Jesus weeps and then he raises him from the dead. All actions of great love by Jesus. We also see other actions of Jesus which often feel a little different to us. What has he done? He has rebuked the Pharisees. He has defended the truth of God's word from those who would pervert it. And Jesus has called repeatedly sinners to repent from their sins and believe in Him. While those kinds of things may not feel like our preferred sentiments of love, What we know here is that Jesus does in fact call all of these things his acts of love. All of these are ways that we are called to follow him in love. So often, what is the impetus for us to fall off on one side of the fence or the other? To be the kind of truth that really has no love in it at all, or to be the kind of love that has no truth there. And yet What is Jesus' actions all throughout his life? It is that he loves this way. It is that he loves perfectly, which is to say that he loves truly. He doesn't just love in a way that expresses all the niceties. He doesn't just love in a way that goes guns blazing, you know, love hurts, get ready, boom, boom, boom. No, Jesus has loved perfectly in all of these expressions of love. And Christ's love is not one or the other, it is all of this together. You want a summary of what Jesus' love looked like? It's what Paul describes, but it gets repeated at almost every wedding, right? 1 Corinthians 13. The love of Christ is patient and kind. It really is. The love of Christ does not envy or boast. It is not arrogant or rude It does not insist on its own way. It is not irritable or resentful. It does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, and endures all things. As we walk through the life of Christ, is that not exactly what we see from Him? Jesus puts on display repeatedly through his life what we could adequately describe as a heavenly ethic of love. The expression of how to walk in his new commandment. And here at the very end of John 13, we had a really beautiful example of that. Look with me at verse 36. Simon Peter said to Jesus, Lord, where are you going? And Jesus answered him, Where I am going, you cannot follow me now. But you will follow afterward. Peter said to Jesus, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. We know what Jesus gives Peter here is a little prophecy, right? Peter, you say that you love me even unto death. There's that sentiment of love, right? That feeling, those words, yeah, I love you. But the truth, Peter, is that you are going to deny me. And the story will go on that when the time comes, Peter does deny Jesus. He denies him three different times. How will Jesus respond to Peter? You know, in the old commandment, what we often get is a kind of eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth ethic, right? Oftentimes there are laws set up and there are just punishments and retributions for that. In fancy theological terms, we call it the Lex Talionis. This is the law. And if you break it, then you are subject to exactly the consequence it brings. Yes, we are called to love our neighbor in it, but we also see direct retributions for our failures. And so in the old law, what would we expect from someone in Jesus' position? Here, that he would have every right to deny Peter when Peter denies him. But when Jesus comes and gives this new commandment, Even though Peter denies him, what does Jesus do as he follows this new heavenly ethic? And Jesus says, I will not deny you, Peter. Even though Peter will shun him, Jesus will not rebuff him. Even though Peter's loving words fall flat, Jesus still chooses to put action into his love. The kind of action which is immediately here going to go and die on a cross for Peter, so that Peter, who has broken the law, might still be able to be with him. Because he loves Peter. And for you, Christian, who fail to live out both the old and the new commandment again and again, what is true for you here? That Jesus has fulfilled the law in all of its scope on behalf of and for you. And what does that mean? That even though you have failed the law, even though you deserve the consequences of the law, Jesus still loves you. And Jesus has faced that consequence and died for you. Here in the passage, what we see immediately is Jesus put forth this new heavenly ethic. And then say and promise, I will follow that. Because even though you say you love me and you fail at it, guess what? My love for you, Peter, will not fail you. But you Christian who are here, and Jesus says, My love for you will not fail you. Here is the new commandment of love at work. Jesus expresses it immediately by dying for those who deny you, and by loving enemies, by turning the other cheek to those who would harm him. And isn't that what we are called to? To love our enemies, to turn the other cheek. The reality is this: loving in this world is incredibly difficult when we hear that that is what we are called to. To even love our enemies? To love those who would deny us? I mean, what is immediately worrying about that? It's a really hard idea to embrace because seemingly nobody else is going to play by those rules, right? Who else is going to love their enemies? Who else is going to turn the other cheek? I mean the darkness may be fading, but it's still here. And I mean Jesus, listen, if if I were to love my enemies and turn the other cheek again and again, isn't the world just going to run over me? If I loved that way? Aren't they just going to abuse me? If I offer up my time and my money and my comfort for other people? Isn't everyone just going to take advantage of me? And this new commandment is for who? It's for new creation people. So what Jesus is saying immediately here is Christians, sometimes, yes, as you live that out with your neighbors who are not new creation people, the reality is they will take advantage of you. Jesus knows that. Jesus knows we live in this age of discontinuity where yes the light is here. The darkness is passing away, but it isn't all the way gone yet. That's a hard pill to swallow. Love your enemies. Love others when they won't follow the new rules. How do you know that it is okay that others might take advantage of you as you try to follow this new commandment, you new creation people? It's because of what Jesus Christ has done for you. What did we just see with Peter here? Your Savior, your King over the new creation, He is taken advantage of. He is run over by the world He will hang on a cross and die for sins because all these people will not follow his rule. That's what we follow, we follow Jesus saying, love as I have loved. There is a bit of respite here for you, though, Christian. Especially as you are gathered here in the church. Because this is true. Although much of the world around you is still in darkness, that is not true of everyone. Christian, you are not alone. You are not the only one who is following this new commandment. You are not the only one who is a new creation. That's why Jesus reinforces here, you are called to love one another. While out in the world, we may be called to love our enemies. Here in the church, in the community of faith, you are surrounded by people who have been called to this same new creation ethic. You are surrounded by people who are called to love you as Jesus has loved them. That is what is so sweet about being in this little outpost of Christ's heavenly kingdom here on earth. As you look down the row of chairs, these aren't cues, I guess, right? Who are you surrounded by? But people who you are called to love, and people who have been called to love you, people who are heavenly citizens Walking this ethic, this theology of love. Christian, this is how we are to be known. Not according to the ethic of the old world. Which says, you have hurt me, now I get to hurt you. You have denied me, now I get to deny you. But an ethic which says, Love your enemy. Love one another as Jesus has loved you. I want to conclude here with these other words from Paul, simply detailing this epic in Romans 12. Paul says, he calls you Christian, let love be genuine. At the same time, abhor what is evil and hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit as you serve the Lord, and so rejoice in hope, and be patient in tribulation. And be constant in prayer and contribute to the needs of the saints as you show hospitality. Can we love one another this way? Can we love this world that way as new creation people waiting for Jesus to return? I pray we can. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we see what Jesus has called us to here, we pray that we, as heavenly citizens, Might be motivated to follow this heavenly ethic. That we might be motivated to love one another as Jesus has loved us. And will that lead to pain and suffering? We see as we look to Jesus, it did for him Will it lead to rejoicing here amongst your people? Amen. It will, because we love one another as Jesus has loved us. Father, in this, we look forward to that day when all of your creation will be made new and all will walk in the light of this new commandment. When all of our life will be in this kind of love for one another and for you, Father. Until that day, we pray that we would walk faithfully in this call. And that by loving one another and loving this world, we will be known in the world around us as those who love, as those who are your children Father, may we walk this path so that others might be drawn to see what is good in this light, that they might also walk in this light. It's in Jesus' name then which we pray.