Our New Testament reading, our sermon text this morning does come from Galatians chapter 4, beginning in verse 21. You can find that on page 974 of the Pew Bibles. The Apostle Paul so far has been proclaiming his argument, his case for why the gospel comes to us through Jesus Christ by faith alone. Not by any works that we do. And the Apostle Paul here comes to the high point of that argument, his capstone to it. And he says this beginning in verse 21. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman And won by a free woman. But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise. Now this may be interpreted allegorically. These women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. For it is written: Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear. Break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor, For the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband. Now, you brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. But just at that time when he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we do approach your word as those who are in need of your word. Those who need to hear and understand and know and trust in what you have proclaimed to us. Here you have proclaimed before us something that in our context is mysterious and confusing at times, sure. And yet the clarity of your gospel shines through. And may we pray that your Spirit impresses upon us the truth of what it is to trust in Jesus. As our Savior, and so to be found as sons of you, the Most High God. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Well, Mother's Day is on the way. It's two weeks away. And some of you right now may be worrying, oh no, I'm behind. So am I. Amazon though is happy to you know pitch ideas to me about what I could get. It's pitched a few ideas, a mug with the Jurassic Park logo on it that reads Mama Saurus. Watch out. Hurt her baby and she'll eat you. True. It also pitched a few different candles. Apparently, moms like candles. One of them had something on it that read, Who runs the world? Moms. Fair enough. Okay. Another candle that read Mom's Last Nerve. Oh look, it's on fire. My fault. Probably my fault Moms are important to us though. They do have a lot to do with who we are. We all were once kids and There's a sense in which the kind of mom who you had probably says a lot about the kind of person who you are. You could think about what kind of mom you had. Did you have the perfectionist mom, the unpredictable mom, the best friend mom, the helicopter mom? The exhausted mom. Maybe this is a hard one to hear, because it's the missing mom. You know, we don't often state it from the front, but as a church, we actually are pretty intentional about Not mentioning Mother's Day on Mother's Day itself. We love and rejoice in the work that God calls mothers to. We praise God for that and are so thankful for the work of moms. At the same time, though, we are here foremost why. It is to worship God, not motherhood. And also because we want to be sensitive to and recognize that there can be some pain associated with Motherhood. There can be some pain for people in a multitude of directions. Just an example is one of the themes that Paul brings out in this text this morning: that theme of barrenness. Paul this morning, though, does bring up moms. And he does so to make a spiritual point born out of the reality of moms. Paul says in the context here spiritually, there's a sense in which we all really have just one of two moms, and everything about your life depends upon which one of those moms is your mom. He comes to the Galatians here asking, which one do you think is your mom? Is your mom the one who leads to slavery or to freedom? Is your mom the one who leads to the law or to grace? And the text really opens up with this question. this preliminary question that Paul uses, and it's one that he's using to kind of summarize his whole argument through the book of Galatians so far. This story and analogy that Paul uses really is a capstone to the argument that he's been making, this very specific argument. If you were with us last week in the evening, Paul jumped into this passionate plea. I beg you, please, listen to the gospel of grace. And he ended that plea with this reference to himself as a kind of mom to the Galatians. I've loved you. I want to see you born into Jesus Christ. And now he makes this final point before transitioning into what will be in Galatians 5 and 6, Paul's ethic. Paul's real application of his argument. This is the question. Look with me at verse 21 here. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? Paul has been writing to and arguing with a people who have been drawn to want to live under the law of Moses. We get a little bit of a reminder of that or that theme as we uh think about what's here in the text. Uh what has happened so far? Well, men from Jerusalem have come to Galatia and essentially said to those Gentiles, people who are not Jews in the Church of Galatia. You know, if you really want to be children of God, if you really want to be children of God like us, Then here is what you really need to do. Yes, faith in Jesus is good. We're glad that Paul roped you in with the timeshare pitch here. But let's get to the fine print now, because if you really want to be sons of Abraham like we are, here's what you actually need to do. What are they going to come up with? Things like circumcision and Torah and living in kosher and plenty of other things that the Mosaic Law brings with it. Now while for us here sitting in these aren't pews in the chairs this morning, we probably aren't necessarily drawn to exactly those things. The principle from which Paul is operating here and what he's communicating is the same to us. Because we are often drawn to that idea that Jesus is a nice way to start. But then ask the question, what do I really have to do to be his child? Maybe we look at others and think, you know, look what they actually really need to do. Be children of God. That's exactly the kind of way we are often drawn to think, because we're the kind of people who want to do And yet, that's also exactly the kind of thing that Paul is preaching against in this here this morning. It's not that doing good things is wrong at all. But Paul is preaching against that idea that you must do in order to receive God's gracious gift. What we're going to see in the text this morning, what Paul is proclaiming to the Galatians and to us is this. The one born by human effort is enslaved. But the one who is born by God's promise is free. The one born by human effort is enslaved. But the one born by God's promise is free. I mentioned this is a complex text. That means we're going to have to do four points this morning. I'm sorry. That grieves some of us here. Hopefully they make sense though. Point number one is this: an allegorical frame. An allegorical frame. And second, a maternity story Then, third, a prophetic key. And finally, fourth, an impossible path. Join me in that first point here, an allegorical frame. We saw that question which Paul opened with, right? Verse 21, tell me you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? Paul's saying, uh you all want to be under the law of Moses. Have you really heard about the law? What we'd probably expect from that is for Paul to dive into a list of the things about the law that they would have to follow if they really are under it. But that's not what Paul does here. Instead, Paul dives into this story. Look at verse 22 with me. For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman and one by a free woman. But the story of the slave was born according to the flesh. While the son of the free woman was born through promise. So this story here, Paul proposes, of two different mothers. Somehow, the answer to Paul's question has something to do with this story. Paul really does want to kill the desire to go back to living under the law. He says at the end of his argument here that this story about these two moms will do it. And he says we need to interpret that story. Allegorically. Verse 24. Now this may be interpreted allegorically. These women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar. It's time to buckle up. This is going to be a complex text, no doubt. Complexity has led to a wide variety of interpretations Part of the problem for us moderns as we approach this story is we use that term there, allegory. When we hear allegory, what do we immediately think? We immediately jump to the conclusion that this story is made up We think, you know, ah, allegory. Okay, the story isn't really true. This is just something that is here to teach us something true. So the question then pops up, whoa, did Does Paul not believe in a historical Abraham? Or uh what does Paul think about this story? Did it not really happen? Paul does believe in historical Abraham. We know that because he mentions Abraham over and over throughout his letters. Okay, if that's the case, then what does Paul mean by the term allegory? Paul is saying that he is interpreting that historical story of these two moms, Hagar and Sarah, through a particular lens. Paul is using a certain key, what we'll see from the book of Isaiah, to communicate what God is doing now Through that old story. That's a kind of allegory that we'll have here. That may sound in some ways like Paul is playing loosey-goosey with the Bible, but he is not. Apollo is actually being robustly biblical and theological in his interpretation. To understand that, we really need to see first the framework that he builds for the story. Paul dives into this comparison of two different moms, Sarah and Hagar, and also about two different sons, and then two different covenants, and then two different cities, and then two different statuses. And it is allegorical in that the reason Paul is telling the story isn't for most to tell us about moms or sons or cities. What was the question at the beginning? The question he frames it with initially is: Is this really how you want to live? Have you heard what it is to live that way? What Paul is really presenting to us here is two different options for how to live, two different paths of life. Do you want to be the slave or do you want to be free? Do you want to be under the law or do you want to be under the promise? Remember, people have come from Jerusalem saying to the church, if you want to be true sons of Israel, then you need to be under the law. And the way Paul frames this story is essentially: oh yes, you can be sons of Abraham that way. Don't forget, Abraham had two sons, not one. What we'll see then is how each of these moms from them comes this line that maps with all of those different pairs that we see: sons and covenants and cities and statuses. You can in your head or on your paper for a moment just draw a tea table there and think at the top as side A and side B Hagar and Sarah. From Hagar's side then maps on her son Ishmael and then the covenant at Sinai and then enslaved Jerusalem And then slavery itself. On that other side, side B is Sarah, her son Isaac, the covenant with Abraham, free Jerusalem, and then freedom itself. That's the framework, the map that Paul is using in this telling of the story. Let's then dive into the story, okay? Point number two: a maternity story. Paul here is drawing upon a lot of knowledge that these people would have in the background this story of two moms from the Old Testament. In Genesis, the beginning of the story of God's chosen people, we meet Abraham and Sarah. The major recurring element in the story of Sarah's life is that she is barren. God had promised that he would give Abraham and Sarah a child. As you read through the story of Genesis, you read a chunk of the way through and you realize God just hasn't done that yet. There's a lot of concern around it because Sarah has grown older and older, but has had no child. In the context of that story, Sarah feels shame and sorrow over that. And she's saddened by it. In the midst of that, she comes up with this plan to try and fix this problem. As she brings her young maidservant Hagar, that other mom, to Abraham. Sarah says, take her and bear a child with her, Abraham. That's a pretty foreign idea for us today. That's not the kind of thing we think about happening today. But it was a pretty common practice. Back in the days of Abraham and Sarah. Common doesn't mean it was good, but it it wasn't unexpected. And Abraham goes then along with that plan, not necessarily his best moment. He bears the sun with Hagar. He bears the sun relative to how it's gone with Sarah pretty easily, pretty quickly. As time goes on, Hagar is raising this son of Her and Abraham. And the text says that as she raises him, she grows proud. It actually says Hagar started to despise, to shame Sarah, saying things like, look what I've done that you couldn't. I'm the real mom, aren't I? Well, Sarah, of course, in the midst of that, grows upset with the situation, goes to her husband Abraham and basically says, you know, something needs to happen about this. Abraham responds, she's your maidservant, do with her what you want. Abraham doesn't often look good in these stories. There's no doubt about that. Sarah then begins to treat Hagar very harshly, to the point where Hagar takes up her son and tries to flee away, to run away, and then an angel shows up and says, you know. Sorry, no, you gotta go back. You can't run away. Also, by the way, your son's name is Ishmael now, somehow that got thrown in. And Hagar returns Eighteen years after Hagar gave birth, Sarah gives birth to her own son, Isaac. At Isaac's weaning, there's then some tension between the two sons. Ishmael, the older one, Hagar's son, starts to tease and mock Isaac. Mama bears Sarah's not going to let that happen. So she tells Abraham this in Genesis 21:10. Cast out this slave woman and her son. For the son of this slave woman shall not be heir with my son, Isaac. That's what we read Paul quote at the end of our passage here in Galatians 4. 30. So in the story then, Abraham shifts Hagar and Ishmael off into the wilderness. They're given this promise, God will protect you, but they're cut off in some sense. That story is all that Paul brings into the context, what he's interpreting for us. So now we understand what Paul's saying, right? Yeah, me neither. Not yet, at least. Because we're missing something. We're missing this interpretive key that's used. Point number three, a prophetic key. Paul brings us this key from the prophet Isaiah to verse 27. He says, For it is written Rejoice, O barren one, who does not bear. Break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor, for the children of the desolate will be more than those Of the one who had a husband. Isaiah 54 is this prophecy of a barren woman that we read earlier whose fortunes are radically reversed by God. It's radically reversed by God's gracious action. And in Isaiah's own context, that would seem most clearly to be talking about Israel as they're in exile. He's warning about this time that would shortly come where God casts Israel out of the land, and Israel would feel like they had gone from being fruitful to being these barren people. In slavery, cast out. But then God says, Do not worry, I will bring you back. I will bring you back one day. I will give you many fortunes. One day you will come back and you will have so many children that we'll have to do additions on every side of the house, expanding the tent. One day you will be barren no more. Isaiah also in that text mentions another woman, right? God says, you have been barren and shamed for your condition by that woman. That woman who has made you feel lowly and shamed, for she has many children. You could think in that context of Isaiah most closely, they're thinking about the nations that are prospering around them. They have much and suddenly we have nothing. But God says, do not worry. I will bring you honor and glory and joy. It's not necessarily so easy to see right away, but Paul is showing another horizon of fulfillment for that text, for that prophecy. In Isaiah, there's these two women that are mentioned, right? A barren one who is grieving because she has no child. On the other side, another woman who has had children easily. Bearing and birthing a child is like the hardest thing in the world. I'm not saying that's easy, but you understand what I mean in the context. Paul is saying, look, those two women that Isaiah mentioned, that's Sarah and Hagar. Paul isn't just pulling that out of thin air. Paul isn't superimposing that on the text. If you actually read through the Old Testament, this is something maybe you haven't noticed before. After the book of Genesis ends, We never hear Sarah's name ever again. She just doesn't show up. We hear about other matriarchs, uh Rachel and Leah, a number of times Sarah never arrives in the Old Testament again until just a couple chapters before this in Isaiah. In Isaiah 51. The prophet reminds the people, Sarah is your mother. You are born of Sarah. Paul isn't making up what's happening in the text here. Paul is showing where the prophet Isaiah was leading the people to see and think. If you grew up in the context of Israel and you heard this story from Isaiah 54, you would be thinking that story about Sarah and Hagar because that's been mapped into how you think about your own context. Sarah is your great, greatest grandmother. You are her child. You come from her son. Well, how does this answer anything about the law of Moses? There's a lot of other things mentioned here, right? How does that have to do anything with freedom and slavery? You think back to the stories of these two women, and it starts to become clear what Paul is doing. Abraham was easily able to have a child with Hagar, but not Sarah. Actually, with Sarah, it seemed like it was impossible to have a child. Sarah was in her old age, and at some level, that's how biology works at a certain point. The story is impressing upon us that for Sarah to have a child, it would really take something miraculous. For Sarah to have a baby, it would need to take the action of God Himself. The action of God to bring new life into the world. Bringing new life into the world. It's just impossible for Sarah. But it wasn't impossible for God, was it? In Isaiah's immediate horizon, Israel is listening to this prophecy and hearing You know, according to our own work, we as a people will never prosper again. We cannot by our own effort get back there Not unless God comes and does the miraculous. And what does God promise? Isn't that exactly how the Abrahamic covenant itself works? God said, I will give you a child. Through my work, blessing will come to you. That's my promise to you, not of your work, but of my work. I promise this to you. And isn't it exactly the picture that we see in Sarah? Sarah who would never have a child by her own effort. Only God's work, only God's promise could bring this. But in that, Sarah is a picture of God's covenant. to Abraham. This is what I promised to you, and it is all of my. It is all of God's doing. Meanwhile, at the same time, what happened with Hagar? Think about the other side there. Abraham and Hagar did the natural thing. And naturally, according to the elementary principles of this world, there came life. Who is that? That's Ishmael. He was born. Don't want to be crude about it, but that's what Paul's showing and comparing there. There's one way, one child that came by, could only come by God's miraculous promise. And another child who comes by human effort. What humans do. There's two mothers there with two sons representing these two covenants. But what is the conclusion? Well, the conclusion that Paul brings out, and the conclusion in the story is only one of those sons inherits. And it's not the son of the slave. It's not the son of the law. It's not the son who came from man's effort and doing. No, it's the son of the free. It's the son who came from the promise. It's the son who came from God's doing. Paul's question then to the Galatians is, which one do you belong to? Think back to the top of that table. Which one is your mother? In Galatia, what Paul knows is There's one mother who is being promoted heavily in that city right now by those who came from earthly Jerusalem, that city of that day. Now they don't realize it, but they are Team Hagar in that sense, those people from earthly Jerusalem. There are people who are coming and saying, you want to be real Christians, true sons of Abraham like us, then what do you have to do? Then you have to do what the covenant of Moses told you to do. You must do the law. Paul is saying, they are sons of Abraham, but not by Sarah. Rather by Hagar. And sons of Hagar are what? They are slaves. Paul knows that to be under the law for us is slavery. It's the mom which shows us how unrighteous we are It's the mom that reveals we are condemned in our sins because we are sinners. It is the mom who will never, ever be satisfied with you. We'll say do and do and do and never stops. That is the law. That is what the law says to you. It's another Mondo who comes from heavenly Jerusalem, Jerusalem from above, and her son is alive. Her son is true Not by man's performance, not by the things that man do, but rather how? By the promise of God. One whose nature is that of freedom and grace and love unconditional. There is still that problem, though, for Sarah, isn't it? I mean, for her to have a son, it is impossible, right? Point number two, sorry, four, wow. Point number four, an impossible path. It's a little odd to hear the kind of question Paul's proposing. Which mother do you want? It's odd because in this life you don't pick your parents, do you? That is the kind of question that Paul asks here. Which of these moms do you really want to have? The one that means you're a slave and will always ask for more from you? The one who is free and loves you unconditionally. Why even ask the question in the first place? All of this is about that question. How will you be right before God? That's really the grand question that's happening here. How will you be saved from your sin? and the condemnation that it deserves. How are you right before God? I mean the answer from people representing one mom is Yes, believe in Jesus, and also do this, or else he won't make it. The answer from another mom is, trust in the promise. For us who have to be saved, the reality, the truth is, being saved from our sins is just as impossible as it was for Sarah to have a baby in her old age. Paul is asking the Galatians, which way are you going to be made right by God? Is it by your own human effort? Is it the Hagar way? You can try that, but you will always be a slave. You will never find the inheritance. You will never escape condemnation that way Because being right before God is just impossible on human terms. And yet, Christian. You are right in God's eyes. You are righteous before Him. And why is it? If you're a Christian, it is because God acts. It is because he makes promises and he brings life from the dead. Is because God is one who takes the desolate and brings to them a rich inheritance, one like only He can promise. And none of it comes by natural means. None of it comes by you doing enough. It comes through God offering up his own son. One who is called in Scripture the true Israel of God, the ultimate promised son, the one who did come to this world and lived perfectly where we have failed. Who suffered the punishment for our sins upon the cross, and who rose again from the dead. That is the story of Jesus Christ. The Son of God who came and was God Himself and took on flesh. And he did exactly this to offer what is impossible. So that anyone who believes in him will be forgiven and will be free. That is an offer that Jesus makes to any who want it. Which mom do you want? This is a free offer, and all it demands to be received is that you trust it. Sounds impossible. W. H. Auden, in his famous poem on the incarnation, said the idea this way: Nothing can save us that is possible. That's to say, only something impossible could save us. But we are the kind of people who strive for what seems possible in our eyes, right? You could think like Abraham looking for that child. He thinks this isn't working with Sarah. It's just impossible with her. So, but try something that I know is possible. And he turns to Hagar But the point is, that cannot save. Salvation takes something that is patently impossible in human terms. And that is exactly what we have in the gift of God. The dead are brought to life. The greatest, most impossible of miracles happens day after day on earth as God saves. Sinners. And Paul's message is: stop trying to make yourself right before God by your own doing, by your own works. Because that will not work. It appears possible in your eyes, but it cannot save. Instead, embrace God's promise by faith. If you would just trust what God has said and done, then you are, by faith, children of the promise. Then you are by grace residents of a heavenly Jerusalem. And then you are by God blessed and loved his righteous inheritance. Paul gives them this final charge in verse 30. Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. Paul is essentially telling them: anyone who comes to you and says, Yes, Jesus, and also do this or else. Yes, Jesus, and also the law. To be saved, you also need to do X of your own effort. Cast that kind of gospel out. Cast them out from before your mist, for that is a false thing. And that is a lie. And yet it is the kind of message we are tempted to again and again. But it is madness and slavery. Verse 31. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave. But we are children of the free woman. Paul's point is that the one born by human effort is enslaved. The one looking in any sense for themselves to do something is enslaved. The one who is born by God's promise Really is free. That seems impossible. And it is, except by the work of God. I know the fear that comes with this kind of message in some sense. If people really are free. If Ripple really don't have to do the law too, then won't they just live like wicked evildoers because what's the point? Isn't that the fear? Freedom is a little scary that way, that it seems to impose the idea that you can do that. Paul will address that profoundly in the coming weeks in the text. His answer again will feel kind of impossible to us. But this freedom, this freedom that Paul proclaims and teaches, it really is the kind of thing that transforms God's children. from wicked evildoers into the kind of people who love and live like Jesus loved and lived. But to get to that point, we must know and hold fast to this truth. What we learn in the text here, that brothers and sisters, we are not children of the slave, but rather of the free woman. That the one born by human effort, who really tries to do and therefore be right, is enslaved. But the one born of God's promise, who simply trusts, who simply trusts that God has done the impossible. That Jesus has died for them, and that all they must do is believe in that, to have faith in him. That person is truly free. It really does sound impossible. And it is, except for God's work. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do rejoice that we see here this sweet promise. That those who have faith in you are your children. That we are made right in your eyes. Not because we have done enough, but because Jesus came into this world to die for sinners. That we are made right not by our own trying to be perfect, but by the perfect Son of Jesus who was born into this world and suffered and died and rose again for us. And may we see and understand that and hold fast to that promise. May we trust in the truth that Jesus did die for us. And so we are right in your eyes. That we will walk through this life, failing to live up to the various standards that you have called us to. We will walk through this life, striving for holiness as we should, and yet failing again and again. And yet, Lord, how sweet that we are nevertheless, as those who have faith in you, children of the promise. And we not forget who our mother is, that we belong to God. It's in Jesus' name then that we pray. Amen.