The Bible tells us that we as the church together are the bride of Christ. And so as we gather with him, in many ways, it's like being on a date. Now there's a first of all an invitation, a welcome, a call to worship, as we've heard, and then there's a conversation, a back and forth. God has spoken to us through his word in the New Testament, and then we were spoken Fond in singing praise to him, wondering at his the truths of his gospel, and now he speaks again to us. And much like in a relationship with a devoted lover One, if they were to write us a letter, we would read that letter and reread that letter and reread that letter and reflect on what it means, what it says about them, and what it says and means about us. Well, so also God has given us his word to read. And that's important as we turn in our Old Testament reading to Deuteronomy chapter 14. We're going to look at verses 1 to 21, and I imagine that as we read, you're going to walk in Wonder what in the world does this have to do with me as a 21st century American, as it lays out for us the laws of what food is clean and unclean. in in Israel. And yet I hope and pray that as we hear it and as we meditate on it, that we will see important truths from God to us. Important truths about not only who he is, but who we are and what he has done for us. Deuteronomy chapter 14. If you don't have a Bible, it's in the few Bibles provided for you underneath the seats in front of you. On page one hundred and fifty eight of those Bibles. And we're not doing the whole chapter fourteen today, just verses one to twenty-one. Hear now the reading of God's holy Word. You are the sons of the Lord your God. You shall not cut yourselves or make any baldness on your foreheads for the dead, for you are a people holy. to the Lord your God. And the Lord has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession. Out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth The earth. You shall not eat any abomination. These are the animals you may eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat, the deer, the gazelle, the roebuck, the wild goat, the ibex, the antelope, and the mountain sheep. Every animal that parts the hoof and has the hoof cloven into and chews the cud among the animals, you may eat Yet of those that chew the cud or have the hoof cloven, you shall not eat these, the camel, the hare, and the rock badger, because they chew the cud but do not part the hoof Are unclean for you. And the pig, because it parts the hoof but does not chew the cud, is unclean for you. Their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not Touch. Of all that are in the waters, you may eat these. Whatever has fins and scales, you may eat. And whatever does not have fins and scales you shall not eat. It is unclean for you. You may eat all the clean birds. But these are the ones that you shall not eat. The eagle, the bearded vulture, the black vulture, the kite, the falcon of any I'm sorry, the hoopo and the bat. And all winged creatures are unclean for you, they shall not be eaten. All cleaned winged things you may eat. You shall not eat anything that has died naturally. You may give it to the sojourner who is within your towns, that he may eat it, or you may sell it to a foreigner. For you are a whole people holy to the Lord your God. You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing, His help as we meditate on it and think about what it might be. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. That you've promised your word is living, that your word is active, that it does what you set out for it to do To accomplish. Though the grass withers and the foul flower fades, the word of the Lord abides forever. Lord, we look at a passage like this and we wonder why would this word be written? Why would this word be wonderful? That you would have inspired and given to us as your abiding word to live forever and to function for us as living and active, discerning between bone and marrow. And so we ask your help as we reflect on it. Help us to understand. To lay them to our hearts, and to hear as you speak to us today. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, Dr. Peter Jones is not a commonly known name among most people. Maybe some of you have heard the name. He was one of my professors at seminary in uh southern California where I went to seminary many, many, many, many, many, many years ago now, as you can tell by the gray and Anyway, he he has um he has done a lot of uh work arguing that all religions Can be basically boiled down to fundamentally two different religions that exist in the world. He argues this in his book One or Two, seeing a World of Difference. And he called these two religions one-ism and twoism. He says, one-ism is really all the religions of the world. Where there's at some level a claim that all is ultimately one, that somehow God is in creation. And all these religions, at some level, then often Blur or muddy that the God ordained distinctions in the world. We can see this in our Modern day secularism that reigns here in the West, where for a number of years now any sort of gender differences between men and women are denied. More recently, the denial that there are two biological sexes and that these are to be kept distinct, men and women. In contrast, toism, as he describes it, is biblical Christianity. And his point of drawing this comparison is Is to recognize that in the Bible, certain distinctions are ultimately fundamental and must be maintained. Starting with the greatest one, and that is Creator. and creature. That God is not in the world, that God is not part of the world, and neither is God created like the world. But there are a lot of other distinctions that reflect this grand distinction between creator and creature. Things like heaven and earth, night and And day. Humans and animals, all living creatures but distinct. Men and women, male and female, holy and common, clean and unclean. Life and death. So when we think about what it means to bear the name of Godwell, to be His people that he calls holy, not just here in this passage, but also in 1 Peter 2. It it means at some level that we must recognize and affirm and honor the God designed distinction. The twos in our Tuism, the biblical faith. And that's what Deuteronomy 14, verses 1 to 25. Now, remember where we are in Deuteronomy. If you've been with us, you know that Deuteronomy 6 to 26, a central part of Deuteronomy, is an exposition of God's law that is summarized in the Ten Commandments. And so what we've been seeing is Moses in Deuteronomy chapter 5, he introduces the Ten Commandments, and then in 6 through 26, we start working our way through them. Here in Deuteronomy 14, we're actually at the conclusion. Of a section starting with chapter 13, verse 1, that is unpacking for us the third commandment. We talked about it last week. Deuteronomy 5. five eleven. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. And we talked about how that translation may May not be as overt or clear about what it means to take the Lord's name in faith. Literally it means to take it up, or to lift it, or to bear it. And that seems to be the idea that is being unpacked throughout the These chapters, that we bear the name of God in some way. How do we not do it in vain? How do we not do it for an idol? Last week we considered how not bearing the name for an idol or for vanity. As image-bearers of God means honoring the fundamental distinction between creator and creature, and not falling into idolatry, which by very definition is making a created thing God, or trying to make a creative thing God, blurring that distinction. Today in verses one to twenty-one of chapter fourteen We see how not bearing the name for vanity means honoring other God-designed distinctions throughout our lives. Honoring not just the creator-creature distinction, but all the other distinctions that God has established to drive home this Tuism religion, this reality that there are distinctions that God has established. makes. And this is specifically unfolded for us in these what we call these cleanliness laws, these distinctions between clean Here are specifically clean and unclean food, and maybe more particularly clean and unclean meat. And we'll talk about why that is in a moment. Here's the point. What is Deuteronomy 14, verses 1 to 21 all about? It's about this. Bearing God's name well means recognizing through all of life The effects of the fall and the curse of sin, and rightly distinguishing between God's character and the goodness of his creation, and the corruptions that creep in. Due to sin and its effects. I know that's a lot, but let me say it one more time. Bearing God's name well means recognizing through all of life the effects of the fall and the curse of sin. Rightly distinguishing between God's character and his created goodness in creation and the corruptions that enter due to sin And we'll see that specifically unfolded in three points that I want us to consider as we try to work through the details of this passage. First of all, what we want to see is how this text Affirms distinctions in our feastings, feasting distinctions, distinctions in our funerals, funerary distinctions And then third, what the function of all these distinctions was for. Feastings, funerals, and functions are the three points we'll consider. First feasting distinctions. Through these uh clean and unclean food laws, what God is doing here is He's He's inserting Into his people's everyday lives, the very rhythms of life, a way for his people to be distinct from the pagan nations around them and to be reminded of the fallenness. of this world and sin. Right there in verse 2, we begin to get a sense of this where he says, You are, here it is, a distinct people, a holy people to the Lord your God. And the Lord has chosen you to be a people For his treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the earth. Now, right there at the beginning, to be a holy people, holy, what does it mean? Literally in Hebrew, to be holy means to be separate. To be distinct. And that's what he says here. You're a separate people. You're a distinct people from all the other nations. Because I've chosen you, as he says in verse 1, you are sons of the Lord your God, and you are my treasured possession. You're distinct. But then he goes on and gives all these laws that are going to make them overtly distinct. There's no real greater distinction among people groups. than what we eat. Right? If you're Italian, oh we know. That's that's good food. Uh if you're Chinese, that's good food too. We we like it all here in America, right? That's uh if you're Cameroonian you have a certain kind of food you eat, if you're American you eat all the other kinds of food, and hamburgers and hot dogs, right? That's uh we've got that as well. And what more what more daily activity could represent the height of life and living than a feast? And so God gives strict laws about what to eat and not eat, and not just what to eat and not eat in everyday life. Everyday life for an Israelite would have been eating grain and bread and produce. Meat was eaten at feasts. So these are laws about what to eat and not eat when you feast. And the summary is in verse 3: you shall not eat any abominable. And what is an abomination? Well, it's anything, as we see, as the passage continues, anything that is what the Bible calls unclean. Now, what makes something unclean? in the Bible. Unholiness and uncleanness are often uh thought to be sort of m moral categories. Oh, it's something that's evil and sinful. And maybe moral failure. That doesn't work. For instance, that doesn't even work really for holiness because some things that are called holy in the Bible are things like cups, utensils. And cups and utensils don't sin, aren't immoral. But they can be holy or common or unholy. And holiness just means set apart, set apart and sacred enough to be. Used in God's presence. And then there's you know, and for human beings to be holy, that requires moral purity, uh, some sort of moral cleansing. But it's not quite the same for all items. Clean and unclean is even more so. Many things that are called unclean are very good in and of themselves. Leviticus 12 says, if if a mother gives birth to a child, she becomes unclean through childhood. And yet childbirth is a wonderful gift from God. It's a it's a a a promotion of life. Uh it's a wonderful thing. Why is does that cause uncleanness? And and a number of other things cause uncleanness, and certain animals here are unclean. And I think the answer to this is, and we won't get into Leviticus 12, that's for another time, uh, the logic behind unclean things is that they seem to be Anything that is somehow associated with or reflective of the curse of sin. So often often it's anything Maybe that's even why childbirth is, because there's a loss of blood, and the the life is in the blood, and so there's a loss of blood which is somehow symbolic of of death. There's a dead corpse, you become unclean by touching it. Certain things that are related to death are things that make unclean But touching a corpse is not immoral, per se. Being associated with death is just the life we have to live in this world. It's not necessarily a moral failure, but it is an effect of the fall. And that also includes then things that are unclean, also include things that show a corruption due to sin, often things that show uh the c goodness of creation somehow distorted. Things like sickness and illness, leprosy, things like birth defects that sort of seem to uh show life in a distorted way. And this becomes so clear in these clean and unclean laws surrounding animals, because the clean animals seem to reflect the good order of creation. In some sort of prototypical fashion. And the unclean animals seem to be animals that are either somehow associated with death, carnivores, or blur the boundaries. Between created kinds. So let's look at that for a moment. And first of all, if you're here and maybe you're not familiar with the Bible and oh clean and unclean, holy, these categories, they may sound foreign. The simple point is this: God, through these laws, is trying to train his people, teach his people through very tangible symbols to keep alert In the world. To recognize this world is under the curse of sin and it needs redemption. That's the big takeaway here. But let's look at the details for a moment. Notice that the divisions of animals actually follow the major divisions of creation. Genesis 1 and 2. We have the land created, the water created, the air created, and then each one is filled with animals. And so first he addresses clean and unclean Unclean land animals. Verse 4. These are the animals that you may eat the ox, the sheep, the goat, the deer, the gazelle, the robux, the wild goat, the ibex, the antelope, the mountain. Sheep. We're not exactly sure that that's what all these terms mean. It's our best understanding based on research and under but you get the point, right? Generally what these animals are are every animal that parts the hoof and has the hoof cloven in two and choose the cud among the animals you May eat. It seems as though that in some sense is the prototype land animal. Parted hoof, chewing the cud, or more specifically, an herbivore, one that eats plants Yet, verse 7, of those that chew the cud or have the hoof cloven, you shall not eat these. The camel, the hare, and the rock badger, because they chew the cud but do not part the hoof. They are unclean for you. And the pig, because it parts the hoof but does not chew the cud. It's a omnivore. Is unclean for you, their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch. So, the ones that blur the distinction, that clear prototype, clovenhoof and herbivore, or the ones that are associated with death as carnivores. Do not meet the criteria of clean versus unclean. Second of all, sea creatures in verses 9 to 10. Of all that are in the waters, you may eat these. And here it is: the prototypical water animal. Fins and skins. Scales. Whatever has fins and scales you may eat, and whatever does not have fins and scales you shall not eat, it is unclean for you. Again, that seems to be the prototypical things that would blur the distinction, uh, maybe between land animals and sea creatures, ones that have skin or that eat animals like sharks, would not fit the criteria in some sense maybe are reflected. Reflective of this curse of sin. And then third flying creatures, we see this in verses eleven to twenty, a lot longer. And this is unpacked further for us in Leviticus 11. You made all clean birds, but these are the ones you shall be able to do. And notice that these are all carnivores, right? They they eat flesh. The eagle, the bearded vulture, the black vulture, the kite, the falcon of any kind, every raven of any kind. kind, the ostrich, the night hawk, the seagull, the hawk of any kind, the little owl and the short eat owl, the barn owl, and the tawny owl. I think that's all the owls. Uh don't eat the owls. Um the carrion vulture and the corner? I don't even know what that is, but if you do. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe that one doesn't eat flesh, but I'm assuming it does with all the others. The stork, the heron of any kind, the the hoopo. Again, I don't know. what that is. Look it up. And the bat. All the winged insects are unclean for you. They shall not be eaten. All the clean winged things you may eat. If you go to Leviticus eleven you find out that there are actually certain clean Insects, the ones that don't just creep and crawl, the four-legged creatures, but the ones that hop and jump and fly. So again, there's a prototype. The air creatures need to fly and not be carnivores. Unclean food here seems to be symbolically associated, again, not morally or ethically, but symbolically associated with the fall and its effects. And maybe that shouldn't be too surprising. That things that blur God-given distinction between kinds are. reflective of a fall because what is it that motivated to fall? What is it the serpent said to Eve in the garden? No, God knows that when you eat of it, you will Be like God. You'll overcome that distinction between creator and creature. You'll blur it. That's the motivation that leads Adam and Eve into sin. So blurring or transgressing the creator-creature distinction is reflected in blurring or transgressing distinctions between kinds. And this is then an echo of the fall, and it's symbolic of living under the Similarly, anything associated with death is unclean because when you're eating, you need to eat something for life, and so you don't want to eat death. And so carnivores are things you need to eat. don't eat. Dead carcasses that die in the open field. That's verse twenty one. You should not eat anything that died naturally. You may give it to the sojourner who is within your towns. He may eat it, but or you may sell it to the foreigner, for you are a people Holy to the Lord your God. These things probably because they were died and had the blood in them, as uh chapter twelve told us, the if an animal dies in the open field, you need to pour out its blood because you shall not eat Eat the meat with the blood, so you don't blur life and death in your eating. Similarly, I think that's the point. We we we don't know exactly what this final law is. You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk. on this because you could just based on all the research, why is this forbidden? But again, it it seems as though it's it's an unholy blurring of Life and death. The young goat who's dying and being cooked is being cooked in the very source of its mother's milk, which is its life. The point is feasting in Israel was to be a pinnacle expression, uh which which feasting by nature is a pinnacle expression of Of life in this world, it was meant to be a place where the very food itself was marked out as distinctive, with regular reminders that this life is actually under the curse of sin. sin that there are some things of this world that are not to be enjoyed because they are they are not fully reflective of its created goodness. In some sense, this was to be something that distinguished Israel as a unique people, another nation's. The kosher laws, as they're called. Uh I was thinking of sort of a similar example. It's not the greatest illustration, but my mom my dad likes to tell this story. Uh and I don't know if it's if it's uh mythological. Well you can ask him later on, but uh it's of a young girl who uh was in the kitchen cooking uh uh a a feast for the family and it was gonna be a pot roast, and her mom is like, Okay, let me show you how to cook a pot roast and she goes, she takes the pot roast and she cuts Cuts off both ends and throws the ends away and puts it in the pan and sticks in the oven. And the girl says, Mom, why do you cut off the ends of the pot roast? She says That's how we do it in our family. That's how I learned to cook it. That's just that's just our distinctive way of cooking pot rows. But I'll ask my mom. So she goes to her mom, the daughter's grandmother, and Mom, why do we cut off the ends of our pot roast? Mom said, Oh, I just did that because my pan was too small and the pot roast never fit. So I'd cut off the ends and throw them away just so the pot roast would fit in the pan. And not quite the same here, but there's a distinctive way of eating in Israel. Now, how do we apply this to us? What do we do and take away from these laws about what is unclean And what isn't clean. Does this mean we have to forego our favorite bacon breakfast? Right? Because pork is forbidden. And the answer is no. These are all part of what theologians call rightly an understanding. There are three different kinds of law in the Old Testament. These are ceremonial laws, and they were meant to be how Israel was to live and worship specifically In the ancient uh in the context of Israel as a nation. All these ceremonial laws are ultimately fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Christ. This is what the book of Hebrews is about. This is what we see revealed in Acts 10 where God gives a vision to Peter where He put He sends down this sheet full of unclean animals and he says, Eat. They're no longer unclean. The ceremonial law has been fulfilled in Jesus Christ. So, kids, kids, if you want to, you now may eat roadkill. Probably you don't want to, still. That's one of the things forbidden right there in verse 21. But you may also eat bacon. Praise the Lord. Good news. But just because these dietary rules, these specific ones, are gone, doesn't mean there's not a principle here. And this is where the deeper challenge is and remains. How do we, as God's people today, as name-bearers of our redeeming Lord, live distinctly in a world under the curse of sin. How can our feasts and the enjoyments of the best that this life has to offer, how can we allow God to train our hearts through our habits in them? How do we feast with faith and not forgetfulness that this world is still under the curse of sin, even when it is Is sustaining and enriching our lives in it. Even in food and joy and celebrations, how do we remember that as the the God the spiritual goes, this world is not my world? Home. I'm just a passing through. And I can't feel at home in this world anymore. The culture says if it brings pleasure, it must be good. That's pretty oneist that all pleasure is good. No, there are distinctions. There are distinctions between good and evil Between holy and profane. Some pleasures are gifts to enjoy. Sexuality and marriage. It's a wonderful good gift. From God, a blessing to be enjoyed. Others are distortions that must be resisted. Ecclesiastes seven two actually says In this way, feasting is not always the best for us. It's better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for this is the end of all mankind. And the living will lay it to heart. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. Doesn't mean we can't have feasts, but it means that we ought to always remember in those times of feasting. That life is short, that our true citizenship is ultimately in heaven, as Philippians 3:20 says. And this is a very practical call. This is why we in our family pray before every meal. To remember that this is but a taste, but a pilgrim meal on the way. To remember that as Jesus called us to pray, we're called to pray, give us this day our daily bread. But ultimately to have that turn us to say, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Always remembering that food and the life that it offers, feasting and the joy that it brings is but temporal. And our attention always needs to be pulled and guided to the eternal. We may feast with friends. When we do so, may we welcome outsiders even into our midst to feast with us and have us Have a little taste of the goodness of life. Enjoy good gifts from God, but don't enjoy them as ultimate ends. Feast as those who know that all feasting here is but a forte. Taste of the greater feast to come, that marriage supper of the Lamb. And so the principle is still present. Even the highest joys and the fullest elements and moments of life are to be Distinctive for us as God's people, as we remember, as Peter urged us in the passage we read a moment ago from 1 Peter 2:11. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh. Which wage war against your souls. Not to abstain from all passions of the flesh, but the passions of the flesh which wage war against your souls. So, feasting. More briefly, funeral distinctions. And more briefly, because we've looked at most of the passage so far, but there's Couple points, kind of mostly at the beginning of the end, especially there in the beginning, where we see that God also gives instructions uh In his laws about cleanness and uncleanness, not just about how we're to approach life and feasting, but death and mourning. Look at verse 1. You are the sons of the Lord your God, you shall not cut yourselves or make any baldness on your foreheads for Now again, this law is further expanded on in Leviticus 19, verses 27 and 28, that read like this: You shall not round off the hair on your temples or mar the edges of your beard. You shall not make any cuts on your body for the dead or tattoo yourselves, for I am the Lord. Those of you out there this morning are now pulling your shirt. down, covering your tattoos. I don't think that's what it means. And here's the problem. Many Christians have said, yeah, that's why tattoos are sinful. And yet if you say that, then cutting your beard is sinful. And shaving your head is sinful. And I don't think any of us would agree with that, right? This is ceremonial law, but specifically here, why is it that tattoos and cutting our skin, I mean that they seem to go hand in hand, why is it that those are forbidden? Partly it's because they seem to have been pagan rituals of worship. We see this in 1 Kings 18, where uh the prophets of Baal while they're trying to cry out for Baal to just do something. They they cut themselves in the process. But I think if we could step back and say, okay, why Why cutting oneself? And why cutting oneself for the debt, as both this passage and Leviticus 19 says? Seems to be that it was a way Of blurring the distinction between death and life. Of taking living people and putting on them the marks of death. In some way, maybe to bear the marks of death on behalf of the dead loved ones. Or maybe in some way to appeal to God to the gods in the most wild and sacrificial way for mercy on behalf of the dead. Understood like this, it makes sense why the Lord would forbid it. First, it's a blurring of the distinction between life and death. But furthermore, it It it seems to imply that living sinners could do something, could make some sort of sacrifice To save the dead who've perished under the curse of sin, because the wages of sin is death. In contrast, you know what's so interesting for Israel? How was Israel to mourn? Sackcloth? Ashes? Weeping? Fasting? What are those symbolic of? They're not symbolic of like taking on the burdens of death. They're symbolic Symbols of repentance. You repent in sackcloth and ashes. You repent weeping over your sin. You repent by fasting. And praying. Like in Luke chapter 13, where there's this tremendous calamity, uh a tower falls and a number of people die, and the the disciples say to Jesus, you know Well what sin did they do that they die like this? And Jesus said, that's not the way we're to understand calamity and death in this world. We're to understand it as a constant call to repent. No, I tell you, Jesus says in Luke 13, 5, but unless you repent, you all will likewise perish. So what are these funerary distinctions and laws? mean for us? How do we apply them to our hearts and our lives? Well again, these are ceremonial laws, so the details of them are fulfilled in Jesus Christ. We're not forbidden from shaving our beards. I don't need to worry about that one, but I know some of you breathing a sigh of relief this morning, having shaved your beard. We're not to uh we're not to uh forbid tattoos Necessarily, there may be reasons to forbid your kids from getting tattoos, but not necessarily sin. Parents don't don't hang me up for that one. Kids, talk to your parents about that. But again, the principle remains: how do God's people approach death distinctly? And there are similar calls for us to engage in engage with death distinctly as God's people today because of the good news of the Resurrection. The culture says death is natural, it's part of the circle of life. Sometimes it's even considered a beautiful part, living and dying. Two ends of the the same pole, one ism. We're to say no, death is not natural. Death is not just part of the circle of life. Our loved ones who die aren't just watching over us now. They're not becoming stars in in heaven. There's a distinction between life and death. Between creator and creature. And death is something to mourn. It's a great enemy. It's real loss. It's an effect of the curse of sin. It's not part of the goodness So we weep over death, we grieve over death, we ache deeply over the loss of loved ones. And yet, 1 Thessalonians 4:13. We do not grieve as others do who have no hope. And why? Well, it's because of the good news of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. He went through death for us and he came out the other side, not blurring life and death, but defeating death once for all through his sacrifice, his sacrificial death on the cross. Then promising us, because I live, you also will live. John fourteen nineteen. So we can let funerals be moments of reflection. Of repentance and moments of remembering the resurrection hope we have in Jesus Christ. Not just celebrations of life, but sober reminders of death's reality, but also of Christ's victory. Parents, you should talk to your kids about death truthfully, but also hopefully, as we can because of the gospel. And we can plan our own funeral as a testimony. To the gospel hope, and we can grieve. But we grieve as people who know that Jesus is coming again and he will raise the dead, and as Revelation twenty-one four says, He will wipe away everything. And that's beginning to move us into our third point. We've we've seen how clean and unclean laws serve at both ends of life. Feasting times as well as at the end of life in the funeral times, as reminders of the curse of sin that we live under in this world. But what is their ultimate function? What why drive home this Point of sin's curse over and over again through all of life and death to God's people. And that brings us to the third point, the function of these laws. Now, as we've noted, these laws are part of the ceremonial law, which means that they're not for us to simply wouldn'tly follow and try to incorporate into our lives, our menu choices. Uh the point was that uh they were for the Israelites in this time. And I think this point is made very well by the book of Hebrews. It says we don't go back to the ceremonial law, we don't go back to the sacrificial system, we don't go back to these laws of cleanness and uncleanness as acts. Acts 10 points out to Peter. Nonetheless, there are lessons for us from them as we see their function in the lives of Israel and their function in it for us as we reflect on the other. Their meaning. And there are three very briefly. First, as noted already, these laws were constant reminders in life and in death, in feasting and in fasting, that this world is not our eternal home. But it's a world under the corruption of sin. So don't fall in love with it. This world is Passing away. And all who fall in love with it will pass away with it, as 1 John 2 tells us. Second, these laws were constant tests of submission to God's word and trust. In his sovereignty. Some people try to un try to figure out why these animals are clean, these animals unclean, and often they say, well, maybe these were for reasons of health. I mean, look, pigs are unclean, and we know that if you don't cook pork properly, you you can get trichonosis, right? Which is some sort of worm that grows in pork meat. The Canaanites weren't stupid. Like they knew how to barbecue pork. and cook it well. They ate pigs regularly, and in fact, seems like many Israelites might have eaten pigs regularly because we've found lots of bones in Israelite sites. They didn't follow these laws as they should, which we'll talk about in a moment, but instead, like in the garden, why was the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil forbidden to the first? It wasn't because it was unhealthy. Yeah. Eve can look at it and say, it's good for food, Genesis 3. 6. But it's simply because God had said, not that one. And so there's a certain sense in which what God this defines here as clean and unclean is not necessarily related to health. That's why, you know, an animal that dies and naturally can be eaten by a sojourner, and that that's not a curse on the sojourner. God said to love the sojourners. So this was a blessing to them that they could eat this meat. It could be sold to foreigners. Again, God said to love the foreigners in their midst. So these weren't health reasons, these were simply God's distinctions. His word. Will you trust? Will you obey? See, when God commands things, we aren't to obey because we necessarily get it. We're to obey because he says it. Something true, uh we tried to teach this to some degree with our kids. It's not fully true of parents, but uh often when we would give uh a law, you know, my my friend says He he always felt like Hammurabi, the great Babylonian king who were is known and remembered for his great law code. It's like I feel like all I do is a parent is just write law codes. Thou shalt not put thy feet up on the sofa, thou shalt not eat in the living room, etc. etc. And when we would like Hammurabi make these laws, especially when our children were young, often we would get a Question. Why? And at first I was really duped by that. I was like, oh, my kid wants to understand the reasoning in my own Heart and mind. Well, you see, your feet often have shoes on them, and you wear those outside. You wear those into restrooms and things like that. They're kind of dirty. We don't want those on the couch where we sit and lay. But very quickly I learned my kids were not asking me why in that way. They were asking me why in why should I? So we actually had a rule that we developed. You aren't allowed to ask why, because that often is an obstinate why, trying to slow things down. And not obey quickly. Instead, you can ask if you can ask why. May I ask why? And then if if we said, yeah, I'm I'm sensing And a curiosity about my reasoning in my heart, then we could say, sure, you may ask why, and we could go on. But if it was obstinate, it's like, no, just do it. Just do it. I said it, so just do it. So it is with with the Lord, much more so than with parents, right? We don't first figure out why. We first hear that So it was meant to build that sort of trust and that sort of obedience. It was And then the third function of these laws is ultimately, how did Israel do with that test over and over and over? ate pork. They broke these laws. And we struggle to maintain the distinctions we know we should in the world. And so these laws ultimately serve a third function, and that is to drive us to realize our hopelessness in our sin. And our inability to save ourselves from the curse of sin. They were a constant reminder in feasting and at funerals, and many more times in life, at births. Once a month for women in illness, all driving home this point that this world is not our ultimate home, but to reach the true promised land, we need a miracle. We need God to step in and save us. Because we can't save ourselves. And that's what God has done in Jesus Christ. God the Father sending God the Son into the world to take on flesh as a man, to live faithfully, carefully. Perfectly according to these laws, to do them like nobody else could ever do because he was without sin. To live in submission to these laws. It's so interesting. Now in Luke chapter two, after Jesus is born, it talks about how they actually did the cleanliness laws of Leviticus chapter twelve and bringing an offering. At the end of the time, Jesus fulfilled all these laws perfectly in perfect submission to them, submitting to his Father's word because it was his word, only to reach the end of his life and suffer. The ultimate effect of the curse of sin, which was a cursed death on a cross. Bearing the full wrath of Father, Son, and Spirit being poured out on the man Jesus Christ on the cross. cross. Why did he do this? He did it to reverse the curse. He did it to reverse the curse, as Galatians 3. 13 says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming the Curse for us. Friends, that's a remarkable power of Jesus' salvation. While in the Old Testament, these laws of cleanness and uncleanness created this fragility of life. It was so easy to become unclean. You could simply step outside your house and accidentally touch a dead bird that had fallen and all of a sudden you're unclean. But Jesus' power is such that he can reverse the curse and make Make that infectiousness go the other way. That he is the clean makes everything around him, every unclean thing around him clean and s A single touch, a simple word from Jesus makes clean. We see that in Levitic in uh Luke chapter five, where a leper comes to him. A leper is unclean. If you touch a leper, you become unclean too. And the leper comes to him and says, Lord, if you will, you can make me clean. And Jesus. Jesus says, I will be clean. And he was cleansed from his leprosy. And that's the good news of the gospel that Jesus holds out for us: the offering of cleansing by his blood from our sins. Our sins being borne by him on the cross in our place, so that his righteousness could be credited to your account, to my account, so that as the Father looks on us And we come to him with repentance and faith in Jesus Christ, what does he see? He doesn't see an unclean, unholy sinner. He sees sons. And daughters of the Lord. Why sons? Because they're the ones that have full inheritance rights in the ancient world. He sees a holy people. He sees a treasured possession, a holy priesthood of people, as we're covered with the cleansing blood of Jesus Christ. And I know some of you out there are thinking to yourselves, but Pastor, you don't know the depth of the darkness. Sin and the dirt and the filth that resides within. You don't know what I've done, what I've seen, what I've thought, things I I I can't mention aloud. I'm unclean. I don't think I can be cleansed. And yet the good news for you is yes, you can. Can. By the almighty power of God unleashed to save wretched sinners like us through the cleansing blood of Jesus Christ. Jesus takes our uncleanness and our death into his very own body in order for us to be clothed with the cleaning. cleanness of his life. He was numbered among the transgressors, as Isaiah 53 says. He was numbered among them so that we could be named with him in glory. As his beloved brothers and sisters, as members of his household of faith, as his saints, his holy ones set apart through faith in him. So don't stay steeping in your sin Repent, believe, be clean, follow Jesus, and bear his name forever. Forever as Christians, little Christ. Jesus is leading us to the true promised land of everlasting, glorious life in an age where there is no longer anything unclean anymore. Revelation 21, 26. seven paints this picture of the New Jerusalem that comes out of heaven, the new Jerusalem where Christ will dwell with his people, and it says this nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false. How can I be there? How can anyone be there? It goes on, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. If your name is there, and how does your name get there? By bearing the name of Christ, repenting, believing in Him, following Him, having your name Written in the book of life, the Lamb's book of life, forever. May you not let another day go by before you commit yourself to God. Let's go before God in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these laws that are given to us here in Deuteronomy chapter 14 and for how they do. Remind, convict us of the reality that though this world can seem so good to us and as Western Americans, full of the blessings of this life, and yet this This world is passing away. It is under the curse of sin. May we never fall in love with it, but may we grow in our love for you as we look to and lean on. Our Savior Jesus Christ and His great redeeming work on our behalf. In His name we pray. Amen.