Thank you, Pastor Fix. Thank you for thank you, Church, for taking care of my daughter. I uh Do go by the name of Esther's dad when I'm here. I someone asked me why I was wearing this. It was uh so that I do have another name and and another role. But uh usually here I'm I'm Esther's that it is a joy and a privilege to be back with you again. Uh just to to share my heart, to open up God's word. Again, thank you for opening the pulpit. but uh to uh w when I was in pastoral ministry, um I had I guarded we we we guard our pulpits. You know, and and he's opening his pulpit to a strange Northern Irishman that lives in Arkansas and talks about Israel from a reformed perspective. How weird is that So uh I'm thankful for the open pulpit. Quick uh reminder of what you just sang in the hymn, which is actually a psalm, and I'm surprised fixed it in Set you right on this, because it was a psalm that the ancient people would sing, O God, through us show mercy. It was their singing that psalm that led to where we are today. They prayed for the Gentiles of the world to know the God of Israel. and his salvation. 3,000 years ago they were singing what we just sang. Think on that. And then when we're here now in the United States, I'm a proud American citizen. We're here with 42% of the world's Israel living beside us. Church, what are we to do? We pray, we sing that psalm. We sing that psalm on the flip side of Calvary. And we sing that psalm for them. That they may know their God and his salvation, his Jesus. And that's what we're about in Christian Witness to Israel. And I'm going to get into the word in a very brief moment, but I want to wave a few things at you just prior to that. And that is some of the materials. I have a ton of materials on the table. I often say please make my gas mileage better on my return journey than when I arrived. So please take materials. If you don't know what we're about, that's That's the kind of one sheet that will give the summary of what we are. So that's the summary sheet. We do have part of our ministry has really been to to awaken the conscience of the Christian church and really to to stir the heart of particular our my Reformed buddies. And so we've been reprinting A lot of these masters, we've got Spurgeon, McShane, Bonner. This one is a little more recent, but uh not in in in terms of his history, but in terms of our printing history. And that is Bill Helmus Abrachel. If you have any Dutch among you, and if you ain't Dutch, you ain't much, but if you have any Dutch among you, this is the one to get for the Dutch folks. Excellent, excellent material. Reminding us that our reformed heritage is to pray for, as even the larger catechism said, 191, to pray for Jewish redemption. So we we try to reprint those things and really get them out into the church so the church is instructed in these things. I've tried to really up the game in the magazine. This is a labor of love for myself, but it is a labor uh learning the uh the software to to to produce those things, not easy. But uh I have enjoyed this uh this challenge um and I'm trying again to bring substance into the whole Israel question because there's a lot of silliness out there. A lot of A lot of craziness and I can could speak of that at length. Um we need to get into the word. One final thing, I'm gonna make a gift of you, brother. A gift to you, rather. This is a reprint which I have been involved in really getting it done and indeed the the acknowledgement says that some to the author I've known for about 20 maybe more years I basically bugged Christian Focus to get this reprinted. And the author certainly acknowledges that his American friends laid siege, quote, to Christian Focus. to get this reprinted. And what really stunned me was that he called me his American friend. That was that was interesting. Time for favor, forward by Ligan Duncan no less, and endorsements by Joe Beake, Michael Morales. Needs no further endorsement really. Tells the history of Scottish missions to the Jewish people in the 1840s. It's where we began in a ministry. This book, we got it at a bargain basement price. We can give it to anybody here for ten bucks. What we've also been doing is if you pay the full price of 20, we're giving it away freebies to seminary students. So all the resident students at Greenville Seminary have got one. All the resident students at uh RPTS Pittsburgh, the Reformed Presbyterian Assembly Pittsburgh have got one. All of Mid-America resident students have got one. The more I get you to pay twenty bucks for it instead of ten, then I'll give the freebies away. Michael Morales said that this book should be required reading for every pastor. Brother, there's required reading Let me pray, and then we'll read God's word and then we'll then preach. Let me pray. Father, in heaven, we come to the word of God. You have blessed us with every spiritual blessing. You have given us the inerrant, infallible Word of God. as that light unto our path. We pray now as we read and as we consider its content and its message to us. That your spirit would do that work among us, drive that word home to us with all aspects of rebuke. And training in righteousness. May we see Jesus. We pray it for his glory and his name's sake. Amen. Let's read then in chapter three of Genesis. Just check how many verses I've planned to read, verses one through nineteen. I'm going to focus in on one particular verse, but let's read the whole of the passage. Genesis 3, 1 to 19. Let us hear the word of God. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say you shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the servant, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise. She took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate Then the eyes of both were opened and they knew they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit from of the tree, and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all beasts of the field. On your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. To the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing, your desire in pain you shall bring forth your children, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. Till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, you were dust, and to dust you shall return. Amen. May God instruct us from his holy word. John 3. 16. John 3. 16 is probably the best known verse in the Bible, so much so that people say 3. 1. 6 Or you'd see banners with 3-1-6 on it, or t-shirts with 3-1-6, or John 3-16. What if those t-shirts said 3-1-5? Would people know what you were referring to? I actually think that 315 is even more pivotal and more powerful. More heaven and earth shaking than 3. 16. And by that I mean Genesis 3. 15. Genesis 3. 15. Martin Luther said this text embraces and contains within itself everything noble and glorious that is to be found anywhere in the scriptures. Wow. And I think he's right. Now maybe I don't have as many good commentaries as Pastor Fix, but uh as I was checking my commentaries, I I I was surprised by the scant nature of the commentary. And to me this verse is crucial. This verse is crucial for Jew and Gentile. This is the gospel of God. 3. 15. This is as jaw-dropping as Genesis 1. 3. God said, let there be light. Here, what we're going to focus on, God said to the serpent, I will. I will. Now in passing you might ask, well what what has this got to do with Jewish mission? And I answer everything. Because it predates Israel and it contains the whole Israel story. It contains everything with regard to the seed of the woman, the later the the seed of Abraham, the seed of David, the stump of Jesse. Martin Luther is right. This contains everything glorious in the scriptures. In 315. And the sad reality, and and fix mentioned it really, that modern Judaism Not only missed that, but have poured a ton of stuff onto it to obscure The reality of what this is speaking about. Modern ethnic Israel has lost the glory of this text in their scriptures. And we need to bring that message back to those that brought it to us. The verse is often called the Proto-Evangelion, the first gospel. It's simply gospel. The first declaration thereof immediately after the fall, as we read. And again See the mercy of God in that. Immediately after the fall, we have we have gospel, we have good news, we have this declaration of God. The gospel is proclaimed to whom? To Satan. Now that comes as a little bit of a shock to 21st century American life. It's not about you. It's not about you. It's not about God having plans for you. It's not about God doing this and that for you. It's not about him being your life coach and Granting you're your best life now, and he gets us, and all of that nonsense. This gospel declaration is to Satan Because God's glory is at stake. God's image bearer, Adam, has failed. And God is telling the devil that serpentine slandering Satan, let me teach you something. I will. I will. And forever after we have truth and error And enmity and victory. And it's that that I want to open up this morning with regards to the enmity on the one side And the divinely determined declaration of the I will, the victory, on the other side. And indeed, this week we will be thinking, I trust. And those very things. So two points. The enmity of the enemy and the mission of the man. The enmity of the enemy and the mission of the man. The context of the gospel as it is declared to the devil is that man and woman, Madam, Eve, are in their ruined state. Eve took, Adam took, Adam blamed Eve, Eve blamed the serpent God turns to the serpent. He turns from the shamed and ruined man and woman and turns to the serpent And he makes this declaration. First subheading I want us to think about is the placement of enmity. The placement of enmity. Note the word, I will put enmity. That's good news. That is good news. You see, God could have commanded Adam and Eve and said, now listen up, Adam. Be at war with this enemy. Because you know he's really messed up your best life And now really you've got to do is just do your best and and try to fight against this enemy here that has entered into the plot. If God had said that, that would effectively be in a works religion. And sadly, that's where Judaism is today, and that's where indeed most of the world's religions are. There's a problem in the world. There's fall. There's sin. There's misery. So Adam, do your best to fix it. Works religion. Post fall, man in his ruin and rebellion is friends of Satan. He lives anti-God. He's hiding from God He's sinned and fallen short. Today all have sinned and fallen short. All are in Satan's power. Again, going off on a tangent, but I don't want to go down that route. But Satan came to destroy that. Christ came to destroy Satan's power. Christ came to set the captives free. But right here to hear God say he will put enmity is glorious good news Because God could have simply left us as friends of the devil. Like the hordes of hell. We're done. Like fallen demons. The gospel begins with a placement of enity. Now, please don't misunderstand me. Fallen means fallen. I'm not Not taking any Arminian or any lesser opin position. Don't don't misunderstand. Total depravity means total depravity. There is none righteous. Nothing good dwells in us, in our sinful nature. But God has set eternity in the hearts of man. God has placed enmity there. The heavens are declaring the glory of God. There is an enmity here. Which we see and will ultimately see by God's grace in the new birth. When God places the law in our hearts When God pours out his spirit upon us, that is the pudding of gospel grace and that real enmity. As we struggle, as Romans 7 would say. But I want us to note even in this first instance, That there's gospel in the placement of enmity. I will put enmity. We're not as the demons. But the second subheading I have the persons of the enmity. The persons of the enmity are Eve and her seed. Now we're we'll come to Christ. Don't worry about it. We'll come to Christ in a moment. But note. That in the first instance it's mankind. Eve is the mother of all living. We stopped at verse 19, but if you went on to verse 20, Eve is the mother of all living. All have sinned and fallen short. Satan would sift us as wheat, he would court our favor, but he hates us as the image-bearers of God. He's a slanderer, he's a murderer from the beginning. There is enmity between him and us. The Hebrew word for enmity signifies an extreme hostility, a murderous intent. Our world needs to learn who the enemy is. Our politicians and worldviews flirt with All manner of things that are anti-God. In the political sphere, sometimes you have to flirt with the enemy. Don't want to go down that route on a political slant, but that's the real world of world politics. But in the spiritual world, we need to know who is our friend. Well, you need to know Satan is not your friend. He wants you dead. What about you this morning? Is God just the big spoiler in the sky? Satan's friendship with you, my friend, is a falsehood. He wants you dead. Because when you start to know that, that's the beginning of gospel revelation. When you get to know God has actually put this enity. When he has placed some enmity in your heart, there's the stirring. The recognition of the law. It's what the old Puritans used to speak of as the law work. When there is that conviction, when there is that recognition that I'm not, I shouldn't be friends with this guy, I should be friends with this guy. And there is this recognition that starts to weigh heavily upon us. Again, we live in a society that is so inverted, God and his ways and God's image. We live in a society of God haters. We live in a society where God's bearer in the womb, image bearer in the womb, is is killed because Satan's a murderer. We live in a society where people call men women and women men. They hate God. We live in an increasingly anti-Christian Anti-God, very visible and very vocal, and even very legal hatred. The normal man, woman, and children household is deemed weird Where did that happen? And some have sold themselves to the friendship with the devil. Are they beyond the pale? No, no, no. Not while they breathe. But it is an awful thing to fall into the hands of a holy God. Beware, sinner. Where are you today? Know who the enemy is. So the enemy is against mankind, then second, the enemy is against Israel. And we haven't time to fully flesh this out, but it is evident a scant reading of history. There is a diabolical hatred of the ethnic ancient people yet today. Haman or Hamas? The Spanish Inquisition, the Russian pogroms, the Germanic Holocaust, why why not against the Chinese or the Mongols or the Aztecs? Why Israel? Because of God's purposes through the scene of the woman, and I suggest God's unfulfilled purposes for the ancient people yet today. Revelation 12 speaks of that hatred, the dragon against the woman. I want to suggest, and again, good people disagree on this, but I want to suggest that the woman in Revelation 12 is Israel. The Roman Catholic Church has said it's Virgin Mary. No, no, no, no. It's Israel. Because Satan's enmity continues against the Church and Israel. To those who follow the commandments of God, to those who hold the testimony of Jesus. Isn't that both of us? There's a twofold aspect of that enmity The Jewish people and the Christian Church. Satan's enmity is against mankind. Satan's enmity, narrowing the focus, is against Israel. Satan's enmity narrowing the focus even more is against the Christ of God, against Jesus. From Eve and her seed, as we read in Genesis 3, and through that covenant ancient people, then we consider the specific offspring. The specific he of 315. And with the full revelation of Scripture that we stand the other side of Calvary and that we even recognize and remember and be thankful this coming week. We know that he is Christ. Psalm 2 speaks of the rage of the nations against the Lord and his anointed. That is a satanically induced rage. The godless peoples of the earth do not want his rule. They want to cast away restraint, as the Psalm 2 says. They do not want The placed enmity, they want to be friends with the enemy. Godless around us have Christ as a swear word. Satan would have the man spoken in gutter language. Why do they not speak of any other God in the world in that way? It's Christ who is in the gutter. Why? Because of Satan. There is a diabolical and even illogical hatred. Hatred against Israel. Why Israel? There's a diabolical and illogical hatred against Christ. Why is it deemed a mark of an extremist for the Secretary of Defense to have a cross tattoo? There is an increasingly satanic, visible enity against Christ, Christian, the Christian church. Why? Because God said, I will. I will put enmity between you and the woman and her seed, against mankind, against Israel. And against my man. Satan, I have more to say. He shall bruise your head, you shall bruise his heel. From the enmity of the enemy to the mission of the man. The mission of the man. Again Immediately our minds are right into the thinking of Christ, thinking of the Messiah. But the immediacy of the context, again, we need to just Pull back a little bit, pull the focus back a little bit, and think of it as humanity's victory over the serpent, the seed of the woman, Eve's offspring. This is mankind's victory that we read of. This is the gospel truth that our second Adam has won, and we win in him. But first, Houston, we have a problem. I want to just take a little digression on a little bit of linguistics. It's not going to be intense. Which I've subheaded as the errors of Ipsa. And I think Pastor knows what I mean by this. But without going into too much Latin, I know all you CC people in your homeschooling, you know your Latin well, don't you? Without going into too much Latin and textual linguistics, we need to note that the Vulgate, which was used by the Roman Church for a thousand plus years, Since the late fourth century it has had a scribal error. And that has played into their Bible, their understanding of things, and they need to do a remote Bible. Because here's what it's translated as. I will put enmities between thee and the woman, and thy seed and her seed. She shall crush thy head. And thou shalt lie in wait for her heel. She? Where in the world did that come from? Well, it actually came from Jerome's Latin Vulgate. Translating the Hebrew as ipsah instead of ipse. Now, whether it was Jerome and scholars are disagreed, or Jerome or someone subsequent to him, nonetheless, that scribal error. Is in the text for them, in the Dewey Ream Bible, in the Vulgate, and it has had serious ramifications, obviously, because now we have Mary as the co-redentrix. She's the co-mediator with her son. She's doing the crushing. Calvin says, by a common error, this most corrupt reading has been received. Then a profane exposition of it has been invented by applying to the mother of Christ what is said concerning her seed. That's just a little lesson by the way in linguistics, and I know you have a pastor that knows his stuff because he often ends up at conferences with Esther's brother and my son. at linguistics conferences. Don't take that lightly. You have a precious deposit in someone that knows Hebrew and linguistics. We're thankful for the Reformation to set those things aright. It's not Ipsa. It's not she. It's he, and so which he, and again I'm drawing home the what the narrow, first of all, it's mankind. It's mankind's victory. Kylan de Leach, they're again recommended in the in the Hebrew uh commentary world. Dilech says, as the woman is the mother of all living, verse 20, her seed to which the victory over the serpent and its seed is promised must be the human race. We're in this. And together, this is mankind's this is gospel. Not because of any works. But rejoice, my friend, in your victory because of this. Hebrew scholars, some at least, would suggest that when Eve gave birth, she thought That she was bringing the solution. Giving birth to Cain, she says, with the help of the Lord, I have produced a man. Now think of that in the in that in that context of Adam and Eve being promised someone, a man. And she gives birth. This is it. Mm well no, but nonetheless, the posterity Christ goes on, or did sorry, Delitch goes on to say, Christ is the seed of the woman who tramples Satan under his feet, but not as an individual, but as the head of the posterity which kept The promise. So Jesus, the Christ of God, is the federal head of humanity. He is the second Adam. He is our brother, he is our head, he is our vicar, he is our substitute, he is our second Adam, we know the Him in loving wisdom of our God, when all was sin and shame, a second Adam to the fight and to the rescue came. The And Calvin rightly says, The sense will be in my judgment that the human race which Satan was endeavoring to oppress would at length be victorious. Humanity wins! Because of the second Adam. Well, you see that in the joy of the disciples. Remember, Jesus sent them forth, and they said, Jesus, Jesus, the demons submit to us in your name. He says, I saw Satan fall. And so we can rejoice in these scriptural affirmations and we can have that victory. Who shall lay any charge? Who is he that condemns? Take your Romans 8 and treasure it as your victory in him You know the story of the the the Narnia story and the and the white queen and she tricks Edmund and He takes the Turkish delight. Turkish delight is really nice, by the way, especially if it comes from Turkey. And when Edmund is in her camp, she's says the boy is mine and Aslan says no no Edmund is mine Aslan, there is a deeper magic. We know the story. Edmund, humanity is Christ's. So this is mankind's victory, but then it is also Christ's victory, the Christ who crushes. The Christ who crushes. There's much that we could say about it, but Scripture says it better than anything. Sometimes we just need to read scripture. Isaiah 7. The virgin will be with child and bear a son. And shall call his name Emmanuel God. With us, Isaiah 9, 6, to us a child is born, to us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called wonderful, counselor, mighty God. Get that, Mr. Rabbi? Isaiah is saying that this human will be born who is called mighty God. How does that fit into your Shema? Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. Isaiah 11, there shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, this is what's promised, he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth. Isaiah 40 Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, cry unto her that her warfare is ended. The warfare that her iniquity is pardoned. A voice cries in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. I think I preached on that the last time I was here. Say to Israel, Behold your God. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. As we read earlier, Isaiah 53, he was pierced for our transgression. He was crushed For our iniquities. You know, we break bread and we do it very tidily, don't we? I can imagine the matzah being crushed. Distributed, because he was crushed for our iniquities. The chastisement that brought us peace Upon him and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned each one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. It was the Lord's will to crush him. When his soul makes an offering for sin, he shall see his offspring, his seed, making the many righteous. Our second. Adam to the fight. It's our king who crushes it. And also again, as we come to the table, can I just again a little aside? Remember in the upper room. They're taking Passover. Jesus is breaking matzah. He's dipping it in the bitter herbs, etc. etc. So he takes the cup. And he then he says something really staggering to, now we we're so familiar with it, but he says it's it's so staggering to this group of Somewhat dull, slow-to-learn believers, and we're there with them. But he says, this cup is the new covenant in my blood. And they're thinking, where did I hear that before? Uh-oh, with Jeremiah 31. Behold, I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel. And with the house of Judah. In fact, and I'll show you it in if you if you stay, please do stay for the 35 minute PowerPoint. I will show you the t-shirt that we wear when we're on the streets and in outreach. It's got Jeremiah 31, 31 on the back of it. It's in Yermiyahu. It's from the Jewish Scripture translation. It's their translation. And it says, Behold, I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel And so many people have come over to us and said, well, what is this about? I said, you haven't read Jeremiah? It's a new covenant. What is this new covenant, Mr. Rabbi? But Jesus, on that night in which he was betrayed, he takes the cup and he says, This is it. This is it. This cup is the new covenant in my blood. And so as we think through this week, the harass, the mock trial, the cross, the declaration, Tetelestai, it is finished. There's the bruised heel of the man. There's the crushed head of the serpent And so fast forward another month and you have Peter preaching to his Jewish audience on Shabbat. He's preaching on the day of Pentecost. That's not a Christian festival. That's the Jewish festival. All the Jews have gathered for Shabbat. Peter preaches. Let the house of Israel know for certain God has made him Both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. And they were cut to the heart and drawn to repentance And then again, fast forward decades, and old John, the old apostle, 1 John 1, that which was from the beginning. Which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which our hands have touched concerning the word of life. This he proclaim. It's the gospel, the Christ who crushes, gospel to Jew and to Gentile We need to wrap up. But I want to ask a question. Rabbis and rebels, who is your man? Who is your man? Because that's the ultimate question for you this morning, and for the rabbis, and for the Jewish people that we meet in our street evangelism and elsewhere. Who is your man? There is a diabolically dangerous diagnosis that man is basically good. And we just got to pull ourselves up by our bootstraps. And that we find it in liberal churches, and we find it in rabbinic Judaism. We're all good people, we're all pretty good, we're not perfect, but we're all pretty good, and we just gotta get together, let's all huddle and sing kumbaya I I don't often get the chance to preach in a Methodist church. I'll preach in the Vatican if I get an opportunity, but I don't haven't been invited yet. But I I some years ago I preached in a Methodist church Can't remember exactly even what I preached on, but I read John 3, John 3, and the pastor told me afterwards that it was a bit judgmental. This is the judgment. Light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light, for their deeds were evil. Yeah. Liberal Christianity has no man, no answer. Or rabbinic reinterpretations, the rabbis, you see, the rabbis will uh believe that man is not uh Completely fallen. They believe in a Yetzhuharan, a Yetzah Tov. What does that mean? It means we have a little a little devil on our shoulder and a little angel on our shoulder. We have a bad inclination, an evil inclination, and we have a yatzahatov, a good inclination. And it's just like the cartoons, and we've just got to listen to this guy more than this guy, and hopefully that your your scales will be in the right direction. No, no, no, Mr. Rabbi. No. Go read Isaiah. Go read Job. Go read any of the Hebrew scriptures. Read Genesis 3:15 and learn from your scriptures. That because of sin, God has demanded blood from the covering of the nakedness of our first animal Of our first parents, God covered with the skin of an animal. There was blood. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission for sin. We had one of our Now my colleague Mitch loved the the controversy. He's a Jewish believer from Brooklyn and he just loves to go head to head But it was really getting out of out of sorts and I had to pull him back and said, I think we people were looking at us. And it was all over without the shedding of blood. There's no remission for sin. The rabbi couldn't take it. Liberals and rabbis and liberal rabbis, who is your man? Who is your man? Man is not basically good. He is a friend of evil. And only when God places the enmity, and particularly the enmity of the new birth. There's another, and again I don't need to go off on too many tangents, but there's another very strong belief in modern Judaism of Tekkun Lam. Tikkunolam is their one of their major mitspots, one of their major deeds. Is to repair the world. And so you'll see a lot of Jewish philanthropy, and that's that's good. But they want to repair the world, and that is part of their sense of duty. And so that again ties into this whole question that man has got to do it. And particularly post-Holocaust, a lot of the Jewish world believes God is dead. You weren't there for us in the death camps, God. So you're dad, we've got to look out for ourselves. And so you see a lot of Jewish communities looking out for themselves. And we've got to repair the world because it's a mess. Who is your man, Judaism? You don't have one. And that's why we need to tell Jewish people about Jesus. It's their story, as well as by grace ours, the Gentiles, which they prayed for 3,000 years ago. In the whole world of Jewish missions and and and Israel staff, as I said, there's a lot of craziness A lot of people get interested in Israel, a lot of people get interested in the end times, and they're fascinated with Judaism and the festivals and the ceremonies and I read 32 pages of John Hage's magazine, Christian Genitia for Israel. I read the 32 pages, cover to cover, full glossy magazine. It never mentioned Jesus once. He is he who shall not be named. He's the Voldemort of that kind of radical dispensationalism. Christ must have the preeminence. The man must have our primary interest. We get so distracted by stupid things. Lift him high, sir, we would see Jesus. Postfall, where are you, Adam? As if God didn't know. That was a question really for Adam to think. I'd like to ask you this morning, where are you, sinner? Where are you? Are you running from God and running friends with Satan? By nature, you're in a state of sin and guilt and you demand punishment. You're awaiting sentence, but here's the gospel, here's your man. You know it's come into our common language, you demand, you nailed it, you crushed it. Even Pilate, we read it, John 19. Pilate exclaimed gospel truth. He brought out the bruised and Scorned Christ and he said, Ekehomo, behold the man. Little did Pilate know, you're dead right, Pilate Behold him. Behold the victor with his crown of thorns. Behold the seed of the woman. With the help of the Lord, she has produced a man, the man. Who nails it, who crushes it, and if I can say it reverently, he demand, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring He shall bruise your head. You shall bruise his heel. This is the gospel that we bring to you and to Jew and Gentile. May the Lord bless and use it for his glory. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you for the truths, even as we contemplate them this coming week. For the wonderful gospel story of God, the grand drama of redemption. May these things thrill us May we glory in them and them alone and not be diverted on silly themes, but rather may we focus on Jesus And then go forth and tell a lost and ruined world. The gospel is indeed that power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes To the Jew first, and also to the Gentile. Help us in all our ministries to set Him high. In Christ's name we pray.