Jesus said, I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. And then the Jews disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat of the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood, he has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also Will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live. Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we see here before us words which are certainly on the surface perplexing, maybe even disturbing, a call to Partake in Christ's flesh and blood, not the kind of thing which we normally speak of. And yet words which have within them deep meaning For by feasting on Jesus Christ, we see here that we do have life, that he is our life. Father, we pray that your Spirit would be at work in us today, revealing to us, making sense of what we've seen here, that we might truly and genuinely by faith partake of Jesus. That he might abide in us and us in him, that we might be those who walk in the life which he has provided for us. It's in Jesus' name then which we pray. Amen. Well we are approaching here this week that great American feast. We don't necessarily have many feasts like some other cultures do, but we do have this one as people in America, Thanksgiving on the way, right? When we gather together, family, friends, if you love football, you probably incorporate that too. But what is it that Thanksgiving is really centered on? Of course, it's food. It's food. It's a feast. We eat, we partake. That is how people celebrate. And as we partake in Thanksgiving, particularly, we're partaking of, we're participating in some sense. Remembering back to that first Thanksgiving feast that the English Puritans celebrated, they came over from England, they found the new land And many of them suffered, and many of them died, but through the providence of God, through Him providing, as God provides for each of us every single day. And then also in God's providence, through the help of other Native Americans, these English settlers were able to live. They were able to have rich harvest, and they celebrated that harvest and what God had done by feasting. That's what a feast is. That's what we do. That's what we remember and celebrate. And why do we call it Thanksgiving? Because here we are thankful for the providence of God. We give thanks to God because of what He has provided to us. How is it that we Christians feast in thanksgiving to God each and every week here? We're concluding this elongated journey through John chapter 6 this morning by examining a different feast. looking at another feast, actually a series of feasts. We're going to see three different feasts here and they're in a relationship with one another. What's the event in John 6 which triggers the rest of what goes on in the chapter? It's the miracle of the feeding of the 5,000. Have you been to a feast with 5,000 people? I have not, but to feed 5,000, it's going to be a feast, right? That is actually one of the few miracles which is repeated in every one of the Gospels. It's there in Matthew, it's there in Mark and Luke, and even here in John. That event is reported to us in each of the Gospels, but there's only one gospel that directly and intentionally connects that feast event to another feast event. It's actually here in John. In John 6, verse 4, John mentions that this event occurs when the Passover feast was at hand. Matthew, Mark, and Luke actually do not make mention of the Passover feast at all during Jesus' earthly ministry, as they report Jesus' earthly ministry to us. But John is concerned about that. John is the only one who connects this to the feeding of the 5,000. the Passover. In the other gospels, uh in Luke chapter 2, we hear reference, this is in Jesus' childhood, not his ministry, we hear reference that his parents participate in. the Passover. The rest of the Gospels will talk to us about the Passover in the upper room discourse, but in between those moments, here in John, John is the only one who gives it to us, who mentions anything about it. It goes to show, as John consistently is throughout his gospel, that he's very intentional and specific about his retelling of the events at hand. John particularly highlights this event and its timing. John actually gives us much more detail than anyone else about what all goes on with this event. John is the only one who gives us the rebuke that Jesus shares with the people here. What will Jesus say to them, Eat my flesh, drink my blood, or there is no life in you? you or you are dead. What do we have here? In John's account, we have a host of hungry people. And if you've been with us for a few weeks, you know, yes, these people are very concerned with the food. As anyone at a feast is. Jesus feeds them, he provides for them physically, but in turn, what does he tell them? Jesus tells them, What I have fed you, what I have given you, it is a sign. This is all a sign that I am true life. So eat my flesh and drink my blood, he commands them. On the surface, is that not one of the weirdest things that could be said from the pulpit? Eat my flesh and drink my blood? But that's what Jesus says here. Hear me out. In light of all that John does and says here in his retelling of the feeding of the 5,000 and what follows, if we were to come to the conclusion That this passage has nothing to do with the way that we Christians celebrate a kind of Thanksgiving feast every Sunday. Doing what? Feasting on Christ's body and his blood, his body and the bread, drinking his blood and the wine. If we were to totally separate those things, I think we would be sorely mistaken. I think that John is very intentionally connecting these events together. After all, what do we say in our celebration of the Lord's table every time we partake? What do I say as we're about to partake of it? It's eat by faith with thanksgiving. I drink by faith with thanksgiving. And this morning we're going to conclude John 6, and I want us to see and examine what it is as a Christian, what is taught about how we celebrate that feast. The Passover transformed for us into what? The Lord's Supper. By the time that John is writing his gospel, we know he has participated in the Lord's Supper. He was there in the upper room with Jesus. He writes his gospel after all of those events and after the resurrection. And John does not actually include in his own gospel That scene of the Lord's Supper in the upper room discourse on the night before Jesus was betrayed. We'll get there eventually. It might take me a little bit. I know we're not going too fast through John. John won't mention that event there, but he does take the opportunity here in John 6 to teach us about what the Lord's Supper means for us. John is teaching us here in part about how we participate in the Lord's Supper. What we're going to see is that the Lord's Supper is a feast of thanksgiving for us. It is our weekly Thanksgiving feast. We're going to examine that by stepping through three points here. First, we're going to look at the account of the feast. We're going to look at the account of a couple feasts. Second, we're going to see the lesson of the feast. What is it that John is calling us to learn here? And finally, this the nourishment of the feast. What is it that we are nourished by as we partake in this feast? Join me in that first point here, the account of the feast. To do that, we're going to have to do a little bit of review before verse 51, right? What is it that the crowd who is around Jesus here in verse 51 experienced just the day before? Keep in mind the pattern of actions that happen. In John 6, verse 10, the people are gathered together and they sit down. And then in verse 11 it says, Jesus then took the loaves, and he had given thanks. And he distributed those to those who were seated. On the surface, not a huge deal, right? Kind of what you would expect someone to do if they're giving out bread to everyone that's gathered around. Seems pretty straightforward, and it's very similar to how the other Gospels retell that event. This is how Luke speaks of it. In Luke 9, 16. This miracle, the feeding of the 5,000, it says And taking the five loaves and two fish, he looked up to heaven, set a blessing over them, and then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd. It's a similar pattern. It's a consistent pattern of actions. The people gather, and then Jesus seats them, and then Jesus says a blessing, and then Jesus breaks the bread, and then he distributes it out to the people, and the people eat it. But John, in his telling, does give us other clues and details, ones which we've already mentioned a little bit here John is the one who tells us that this event occurs during the timing in the season of the Passover. Now here we are in the book of John, one year out from when Jesus will celebrate and transform the Passover meal into his supper. We're one year away from Jesus' crucifixion and sacrifice for us. A whole event which by the time John writes this, we said John has already experienced and knows. John sits at that table too. Oh, but here in John 6, John informs us in this sequence of what we're going to see today that Jesus' food They'll say it's true food. That Jesus' blood is true drink. Mysterious words, right? But additional details that John is giving us, which we don't necessarily see in Matthew or Mark or Luke, John's account is similar to the account in Luke 9. Let's fast forward for a moment and see a different feast, how Luke recounts the Lord's Supper in Luke 22. Tell me what you notice about the pattern of events here. In Luke 22, In the upper room, when Luke is telling us about the Lord's Supper and Jesus instituting it, it goes like this in verse 13. And the disciples went and found the room as Jesus had told them, and they prepared the Passover. When the hour came, he reclined at the table, and the apostles with him, and he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. Then verse 19, and he took the bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and he gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Did you notice the pattern of actions there? What happens? There, disciples are gathered together, they're seated there. Jesus said a blessing. Jesus breaks the bread, he distributes it. And the apostles eat it. Is that pretty familiar? Does that sound similar to something else that we just read, that we just picked up on? John is at least bringing into this some kind of connection here with what Jesus will do at the next Passover. There's some kind of connection to that. And here, John also says in John 6, unlike Luke, That Jesus says, I am the true bread that has come down from heaven for you. That you must eat of my flesh and drink of my blood. Elements that we hear traces of in Luke 22, but not in Luke 9. So think with me here about how John has put this together. John does not give us in his gospel the Lord's Supper in the upper room discourse. He doesn't give it to us in his vast retelling of what happened on that night before Jesus' crucifixion. But he does give us what? Here he connects us by timing to that meal. He connects us by the actions that happen to that meal. And he connects us by the theme and the lessons too, right? That Jesus' body is true bread, which we must partake of. That Jesus' life is true life, that his blood is true drink, that Jesus has come down from heaven to be offered for you. All the things that we pick up on in the Lord's Supper. And that's the event that happens there in this feast in John 6. So, what is John then teaching us about this meal, about this feast? Point number two, the lesson of the feast. I don't want to go so far as to claim that the only intention of John in chapter 6 is to Tell us about the Lord's Supper. John teaches us many different things, and hence I've preached on this chapter. This is the fourth time now, okay? But there is certainly something that he is teaching us. about the Lord's Supper here. John Calvin, the Reformer, in his commentary on the book of John, he is very concerned as he approaches this chapter with his polemic against the Roman Catholic view of the Lord's Supper. of the Eucharist, of the table. Rome would do what? They use John chapter 6, this chapter, this set of passages, to say that when we partake in the Lord's Supper, we are physically. carnally eating of Jesus' body and blood. And in that they communicate that we are here performing a kind of re-sacrificing of Jesus. And that though the accidents, the appearance of what we eat and drink are bread and wine, yes, in partaking of them, the substance of them, their essence, is as truly Jesus' body and blood as the bread and wine which you might drink at home if you eat bread and wine. That's confusing. I know. You would not be the only one to be, huh, I don't I don't know about that, but it's this Aristotelian element. Accidents and substance. They would say the substance, what we are really eating is Truly, though it doesn't look like it, though it probably doesn't taste like it, Jesus' physical body and blood. John Calvin is very concerned with that, as am I. We do not believe that. And so in his polemic, in his discourse on John 6, he goes so far as to say, I can't have this talking about the Lord's Supper at all, because I can't I just can't give Rome the opportunity to use this chapter that way. Well, I agree with John Calvin's theology of the supper, I disagree with him a little bit at that point. I think he's gone a little too far exegetically to totally disconnect us here. And you know, John Calvin will actually agree with me on that point himself in some sense when he gets to the end of his own commentary. He says this about John 6. He says, I at least acknowledge that there is nothing said here in John 6 that is not figuratively represented and actually bestowed on believers in the Lord's Supper. And that Jesus Christ even intended that the Holy Supper should be, as it were, a seal and confirmation of this sermon in John 6. So even Calvin acknowledges, though he wants to disconnect it, that this passage had something to do with the Lord's Supper, that it's teaching us something about that. that. So what is taught? What is the lessons that we're supposed to see? Is what we receive and eat in the supper the physical body and blood of Jesus? I mean, certainly no more than what we receive when we when the people here in the miracle at the feeding of the 5,000 partake of the bread that Jesus gives to them there. I mean certainly it's no more Jesus in his physical body and blood than what's partaken of by the disciples in the upper room on the night before Jesus his crucifixion. You don't see the disciples there going, his body? Oh, is this his arm? Right? We don't get that. We don't see that here. But what do we see? What do we learn and know? This is what is true. You Christian, as you partake in the Lord's Supper, You receive nothing less than the body and blood of Jesus Christ. You receive nothing less than his body and blood. And that sounds confusing, I know, but hopefully as we work through the lessons. It will make more sense. John 6 does make clear to us that if you do not receive Jesus' body and blood, he says, then you have no life in you. He says, what, this eating that we partake in, it happens by faith. This is an eating that occurs by faith, but we do receive here a physical sign. I want to take a page out of Pastor Fix's book and bring us into the Westminster Shorter Catechism for a second here. It talks about it. It asks in question 96, what is the Lord's Supper? And it answers this way. The Lord's Supper is a sacrament wherein, by giving and receiving bread and wine, according to Christ's appointment, his death is showed forth. And the worthy receivers are, not after a corporeal or carnal manner, but by faith made partakers of Jesus' body and blood with all his benefits. To their spiritual nourishment and growth in grace. There's a lot said there. Two particular lessons, if we break it down a little bit grammatically, if we simplify the grammar here. Two things that are put forth, two lessons. First, his death is showed forth. Jesus' death somehow in us partaking in the supper is showed forth And second, we are made partakers. Think with me about that first one. His death is showed forth. What does John communicate in John 6? What does Jesus say there? Verse 53. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat of the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, then you have no life in you. But whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood, he has eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. What's being proclaimed there? What's being stated to us there? That there is an intimate connection between feasting on Christ as the Passover sacrifice and being raised up to life. There is some kind of connection in what is communicated there by those events. There is a way in which participating by faith In this meal, it says something to you about who you are. And even more importantly, it says something to you about what Christ has done and therefore will do for you. And namely in the passage there, that he will cause you to be raised up to life. And this point is made especially clear as interpreted by Paul in 1 Corinthians 11. In 1 Corinthians 11, Paul says, For as often as you drink this cup, as often as you eat this bread, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. What's Paul saying in that? By doing this action, the eating and the drinking, you are actually proclaiming something. When we practice the Lord's Supper, I verbally remind us each time about Christ's death and his resurrection. I strive to be consistent in always mentioning those realities as we approach the table. Me mentioning that, that's not what is actually being talked about there by Paul, though. Which part is it? Paul says in the eating, in the partaking, as we eat and drink, that action itself, when done in faith, proclaims something. That actually proclaims that Christ's body was broken, that his blood was spilt for his people. The meal shows forth, it puts on display to us, it presents to us Christ and his sacrifice and his resurrection and what it all means for us. He is presented there to us. in the eating and the drinking. What's the second thing that the catechism mentioned? We are made partakers of his body and blood. That's a little odd to say, right? We're made partakers. How do we unpack that? Remember as we begin to unpack that, what is said by the catechism, how is this eating done? How are we made partakers? It said, by faith. It's not that the elements, the bread and the wine themselves, have magical powers imbued in them. They are imbued with meaning and significance as they are partaking of by faith Uh what does that mean? If you are an unbeliever here, by no means should you think that if you just got a little piece of that bread and ate it, you just ate your magical ticket to heaven. No, the bread in and of itself does not have the power. Where is it? It says the Spirit brings it through faith, as we partake by faith. Faith is key. It is essential to the meal. And that makes sense in light of all of what John 6 has said. If you were with us last week in the evening, we looked extensively. Intently about how Jesus says that you must come to me, that you must believe in me, that you must have faith That's the message that Jesus is teaching as he gets up to this point here. The whole thrust for leading up to this point in John 6 is this idea of reciprocal action and participation. But we must come in faith. John 6, 35, Jesus said to the people, I am the bread of life. Okay, sounds familiar. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. Without faith, the meal is meaningless. Okay, so what is it then that we are partakers by faith? There is this idea of that reciprocal action, this participation there. Look with me at verses 56 and 57. There's this call from Jesus: whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood, he abides in me, and I in him. For as the Father, as the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he will also live because of me. And that same idea abiding in Jesus, and Jesus abiding in us, uh, it's a familiar one to many Christians But we don't necessarily think about it here in John 6. We think about when John tells us about Jesus saying those same kinds of words in the upper room discourse. We think often about it in John 15, that place where Jesus transforms the Passover into the Lord's Supper. In place of that, Jesus talks about abiding in him in John 15. Let me read part of it for us. This part might sound a little more familiar to you. In the upper room, Jesus says to his disciples, John 15, verse 4, Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine, and you are the branches, and whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me, you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away like a branch and it withers. There's this impressing of the idea of this kind of participation. Abide in me. And Jesus says, and I abide in you. And that then is what John is picking up on and emphasizing here in John 6 in its connection to the Lord's Supper The way that Jesus says, I abide in my people, the way that they abide in me is by eating my body and drinking my blood. Obeying that command, following that instruction, you know, we establish what that eating and drinking is. It's not just the physical action of doing it, but it is the expression of faith and belief. Whoever comes to me and participates by faith in me, Jesus says, this is who I abide in. And this is who abides in me. What is shown in that? That there's an interaction here where all that Christ has becomes yours. Abide in me, and all that I have is yours. There's other participation there too, where all that we have becomes Christ's. Verse 57, as the living Father sent me. And I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also lives because of me. There's this interaction here There's this interaction. Who is Jesus? I mean, what he proclaims profoundly by those words is that he is a royal son of the Father. Jesus in his resurrection and glorification is one who is justified, that is proclaimed righteous by his action and his deeds. all that he did in his life on this earth, he is truly righteous. He has merited eternal life. Christian, if that is what belongs to Jesus, then what does that mean for us who abide in him and he in us? It means that all of those things which he has, that righteousness, that justification, that life, those things are yours. That's what we're beginning to see, to learn, to partake in, as we partake in the Lord's Supper. Conversely, there's another side of that too, though, right? Because what about all that we have? All the shame and the sorrow, the guilt and the burden of sin, certainly the judgment which follows it, we know that becomes Christ's at Calvary's. There's this idea, the lesson of what the feast teaches us, of this kind of participation, this interaction. But the feasts don't only teach us. No, the feast also, as any true food should, it nourishes us. And that's what food should do, right? It nourishes us. Point number three: the nourishment of the feast. What is it that we gain by the feast? John mentioned the Passover and that the Lord's Supper is enacted on the Passover. We should consider for a moment this. What was the Passover? What is demonstrated and done there? It was instructed by God as the last of the signs which God would use against the Egyptians and against Pharaoh. Back in the Exodus. God's people, the Israelites, once upon a time, were slaves in Egypt, and God promised that He would deliver them. And God sent many signs as judgment against their enslavers. against Egypt and against Pharaoh, and the ultimate sign, the final sign to what happens in the Passover and his instruction there For the instructions of the Passover, it was a kind of recipe, right? God told the Israelites, go and take a lamb and kill it. And then take its blood and smear it over your doorpost, and then roast that lamb, and then sit around your table at home and eat it. And uh you could say in that, once you've eaten that lamb, it now abides in you, right? We don't really abide in it, but if you eat it, it abides in you God then, on the night which they did this, which they participated in that meal, that feast, he said he was going to send his angel through Egypt, and that that angel would enact, would bring judgment upon Egypt. in such an immense sense by killing all the firstborn. And God is enacting his judgment By coming in with death. But what would happen to each of the houses who participated in the Passover feast? The angel would see the blood of the lamb smeared over their doors. It knew. The angel knew that they had partaken in that feast. The angel would not touch their house in judgment. He would pass over it. Hence the name, right? Passover. Consider this. Ask this question. How many times does the Passover happen? How many times does the Passover happen? It's kind of an awkward question, right? Because what are we talking about? The event of when it occurs in that judgment only happens once. But the people are called to participate in the feast. Over and over. They celebrate that feast every year. That's what we read in Deuteronomy 16, right? That God commands them, you are to practice this meal, to participate in this meal. Every year around that season, generation after generation. Why? Think about this for a moment when Moses is communicating this instruction in Deuteronomy. That's not for the people who are experiencing that first Passover. He's speaking it to the generations who will follow. But what is said in Deuteronomy 16? The instruction is, you shall eat no leavened bread with it. Seven days you shall eat it with unleavened bread, the bread of affliction. For you came out of the land of Egypt in haste. That all the days of your life you may remember the day when you came out of the land of Egypt God is speaking to the following generations there as who? As you who came out of Egypt, you who were freed from slavery. God identifies them in some sense as participants in that event, as they participate in the feast. But are all the Israelites throughout the thousand years that they do this meal and even now to today are they actual physical participants in that event. I mean it's not like the Jewish people are re-enslaved in Egypt each year and then re-delivered by God, right? But there is a sense in which by participating in this God identifies them as that. A sense in which they can say, we were slaves in Egypt and we were delivered by God. Why is that? It's because that meal is a covenant memorial. And that's the very nature of covenant memorials, that there is a kind of covenant participation. Well, what do we have in the Lord's Supper? But a covenant memorial. The Lord's Supper is a meal in which we remember, yes, but not just for the sake of remembering. It's a memorial where we reenact in certain ways what happens, where we practice and repeat what Jesus did in the upper room so that we might enter into and be placed into the flow of that history. And when you come to the table in a few minutes, Jesus is not being re-sacrificed. Of course not. And no more than the Jews would have believed that They were put back into slavery and taken out and back in and back out over and over. Of course not. But when you come, what are you saying? You are recognizing and you are saying that in some sense you are a participant in that event That you hear and you know and are saying, and you see what Jesus is saying when he says, truly, truly, I say to you. Unless you eat of the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, then you have no life in you. But whoever feeds on my flesh. Whoever drinks my blood, he has eternal life, Jesus says, and I will raise him up on the last day. What are you saying as you partake in the meal? You were saying, I know I must be one who has fed on his blood, fed on his Uh, body, sorry. Are you uh you were saying I know I must be one who is drink of his blood. I must have participated in that event in such a sense that I am nourished by it, that I have his true food and his true drink. And why must we participate in that? Because what do we know about what else we've participated in? About who we are and what we have done. We know that we are those who have sinned and participated continually in sin And as the judgment of the Lord passed through Egypt and brought death, what is waiting at the end of days? It's the final judgment where he brings final death. We know that God will bring judgment upon all who have sinned, and that his judgment is death, and that his wrath is stored up against sin. There's only one way to be delivered from that. What is it? If God's judgment passes over you. There's only one offering where that's found. It's through what Christ has done at Calvary on the cross. It's through what we see, what we recognize here in the meal, through that event in which He was hung and he faced judgment through that day when Jesus met God's wrath and death. A Christian, when you eat the bread and drink the blood, what is it that is happening there? You don't merely remember what Christ has done You are calling out and looking to that event and saying, I am a participant in that event in some sense by faith. You are calling out and saying, Look to that cross. Christ there took my sin Christ there took my shame. Christ took in his body my judgment that I deserved. Think about what Paul says to the Galatians in Galatians 2. 20. He says there, I have been crucified with Christ. So it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. The life I now live in the flesh, I live how? By faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Paul says, I have been crucified with Christ. Was Paul physically there on that cross? Paul. I mean, of course, physically, no. But in some sense, yes. In some sense that he can say it and write it in Scripture. Physically, carnally, he was not there. But by faith, his sins, what he had committed, what belonged to him, was nailed to that cross in Christ. He has become a participant in that event in such that he can say, I mean, it's no longer I that live, but Christ who lives in me, and I now live by faith. Paul says the same kind of thing to the Corinthian church, too. 1 Corinthians 10, 16, speaking of the Lord's Supper, he says the cup of blessing that we bless. Is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there's one bread. We who are many are one body and partake. Here, as we approach the supper, we praise God. We bless Him. We give thanks. Because in this we have participation in what Christ has done. And just like Paul continues, he says, consider the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? What's that term participant there? Might feel a little awkward. It's actually the same word that we use for fellowship. It's a Greek word which if you've been around the church for a while you have probably heard before. It's koinonia. It's the word that we use to talk about churchly fellowship. community, relationship in that sense. Can you have relationship though with an event? That would be kind of an awkward way to speak, right? To have Fellowship, community, relationship with an event. The term quonania is used in a particular way when it's talking about event. It means to share in, to participate in. And that's how the term is used by Paul in that context. He is saying: we have koinonia, we have participation in Christ on the cross. Think about what that means. What is it that we are nourished by, consuming, partaking in as we partake of the feast? What is it that Jesus says in John 656? Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood. He abides in me, and I in him. As the living Father sent me, I live because of the Father. To whoever feeds on me, he also lives because of me. What is it that you are nourished by in that meal? It is the gracious, loving life of Christ, which is offered for you. which is presented there to you in the bread and in the cup. As you eat and drink by faith, the Spirit makes you a sharer in all that Christ has won for you on the cross. All the benefits of Christ are brought to you by his Spirit. And here at the table by faith, we remember and also participate in that reality. Now, this doesn't only happen at the Lord's table. But what is this sacrament? It is a sign and seal, a physical sign and seal. instituted by Christ, given to you to participate in, to practice. It's a place that God has given us that we might come and partake How many signs of what Christ has done has He actually given to us? There's not that many. But here is something you can actually touch and see and feel and taste. There's a reason we don't have images of Jesus. It's because of the second commandment. But he has given us something to see. And to feel, to even to touch and to taste. And is it not his body and blood for us? As you come, what do you do You are fed. I think of the Lord's Supper in these terms for a moment. There are times when we come to church, we prepare for the Lord's table, and we come with a faith that is weak. Now you may come with doubts, you may come with fear, you may come with despair, but what happens as you partake in that sign? By eating, we said, you are proclaiming. By that action, you are saying and proclaiming Christ has died for sinners. And by partaking of it yourself, you are saying then what? Christ has died for me. That's what you are doing is you chew and swallow by faith what Christ has done. What Christ has said here in John 6: whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. A Christian, though you may die in this world, what is his promise? That you who partake in faith, you are eating, you are proclaiming, you are being nourished by the living Christ, who too will raise you from the dead. What was true in the Passover meal? You killed that lamb and you roasted him and you ate him why? Because the sign was that lamb whose blood was on the doorpost, that lamb who you ate took your place, ye faced death and judgment so that you would not have to. What's the sign in the Lord's Supper? Here we feast on Christ, the one who has taken our judgment upon himself. And as we eat the feast, we know and say, so he is in me. So his life is in me. So his promise is in me, so that all that he has wrought and won, that is in me, and I am in him. Now, Christian, what do we learn and see and receive here? That as you partake by faith in feasting on Christ, So surely is Christ in you and you in him. So surely is his life in you. So surely shall you be raised up on the last day. And as you partake, so you receive nothing less than the very body and blood of Jesus Christ. But what does he say? He is true food and true drink, and by him we receive true life. This is what God has provided for you. This is what he provides for you week after week as you come and partake in the feast, as you partake in the Lord's Supper. This is what he has blessed you with. To step away in thanksgiving and joy every single Sunday. You know, another term that we use for the Lord's Supper is the Eucharist. You know what that means, the Eucharist? It's Greek, kids. Greek for thanksgiving. What greater thing could we be thankful for? And how God continually provides for us His Son. May we be a people who feast in thanksgiving week after week as we rejoice in all that Christ has won for us. us. For he is true food and he gives us true life. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for what we do see at the table, even as we begin to prepare for it now, Father. We thank you that through Christ we do have true life. We thank you, Father. We thank you. We come in thanksgiving. Because of what significance we have and see and receive in that meal. Signs and seals to us of the covenant of grace. Signs and seals of the promise that Jesus is for us. That Jesus has been given for us. That my sin has been nailed to that cross with him, and his righteousness is now mine in life. Father, may we walk through this life Rejoicing in that truth. Rejoicing with loving hearts. It's in Jesus' name then which we pray.