Uh you don't have to go on too many road trips with small children to realize that us humans might be prone to grumbling and complaining, no? If you've ever gone on the long road to grandma's house, there's a question that comes from a heart of grumbling and complaining that You hear maybe 20 different times on the road trip. It's are we there yet? And of course the answer all but the very last time is no. No, we are not there yet. So please stop asking. But on the long road to grandma's house as a child, you are compelled to express the discomfort that rests in your heart. Because we aren't there yet, and I want to be there. We see the same kind of heart with children again as when it comes to food. Uh you could be on your way to the finest of Dining establishments. But if it isn't McDonald's, then it's all for naught. There were multiple times in the Calvi home growing up when uh we would go to a nice place to eat. But unless that establishment had chicken nuggets and French fries, the complaining would ensue. Of course. There would be grumbling and whining. There is something about us humans that are drawn to grumble and complain, and you know if you look into your heart and your life, that that doesn't necessarily stop as soon as you're no longer a young child. No, we are prone to express our dissatisfaction with this life. To expound upon the way that we feel we are not met with what we feel we deserve, to worry that what has been promised to us just isn't going to satisfy us. And to demonstrate That we do not believe the words and the promises of God to us. And in the Old Testament, if you know the story of Moses and the Exodus and the Israelite people, you know they are A prime example of this kind of behavior, of expressing this kind of ingratitude. They are a people who grumble and complain again and again Again. And that reality and that story is very intentionally mirrored here in our text in John 6. At the end of John 5, Jesus tells the Jewish leaders what? He tells them If you believed Moses, then you would have believed me, for Moses wrote of me. If you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words. John, the author here is lining these up to cue up some memories for us, to bring to mind Moses and who he was and what he did and his story. And what is that story? To summarize it, God sees his people as slaves in the land of Egypt. He sees them in desperate. Need. So God raises up a kind of proto-prophet, the prototypical prophet, Moses. And Moses does all kinds of signs and wonders. The staff turns to the snake. The nine The Nile turns to blood, the light turns to darkness, and finally there is one sign which provokes the Egyptian Pharaoh to release God's people from his hold on them. Pharaoh permits the people to leave and they go off. And the people of God are freed. They are delivered. And they rejoice as they escape. Escape the hands of pharaohs, and all seems right, until suddenly we run into the very first roadblock. It's a great sea. The Red Sea is before them in their path. And the people turn around and they see suddenly that Pharaoh is on their trail. He's changed his mind. He's coming to recapture them. And do you remember how the people respond to this seen. It's in Exodus 14, verse 11. The people said to Moses, Is it because there are no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? What have you done? done bringing us out of Egypt. They go straight to complaining against Moses and God's plan. If you know the story, you know what happens. God has a plan. The waves swell up on either side. There is this majestic sign, this wondrous event where the people are able to cross Through on bone-dry land where the sea once was. And as they escape onto the other side, Pharaoh's people are coming through, Pharaoh's army to capture them, and the waves Crash upon them. And God delivers his people. And the people rejoice at the Lord's saving work. And then it's just one more time It says they grumbled against Moses, saying, Well, what shall we drink? Moses performs another sign, and the water becomes good to drink. Hooray! Everything is okay. And then just uh the very next chapter later, Exodus 16, it's what we read in our Old Testament reading. A whole congregation of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses. Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. And they said to him, Would that we have died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, for there we sat by the meat pots and we had full bellies, but you have brought us into this wilderness to kill us all. And yet even here, as we read, God meets their needs. He sees his people grumbling against him He brings bread and quail from heaven for them to eat. Again and again the story is God is faithful. He is faithful. He provides all that they need, and yet the pattern over and over is Yeah, but it just isn't quite enough for us yet, God. We'll be happy for a moment, and then the next thing comes up and we will grumble and complain in distrust. And that pattern happens Again and again. It's gonna continue to happen. Finally, in Numbers eleven, it appears that God's patience has worn thin. The people in the camp complain, and God rains down fire from heaven to consume the greatest of the complainers. All the people are silent about, okay, we we made a mistake, okay. They're fine for about three verses until they come whining about food again. Is it just a pattern? It is what they do over and over. Take all of this and let's step into the context of John chapter 6 here. We have seen Jesus perform what? Many signs and wonders. And that's why the people are here. They have seen that. You look at verse 2: a large crowd was following Jesus because they saw the signs. that he was doing on the sick. Here is where the question steps in and we should wonder for ourselves, we should ask, what is Jesus going to do? The question the people are asking is, what is Jesus going to do for us? We know he works these signs and wonders. What's he going to do for us? That's what we often ask. What is Jesus doing for me? John 6 is a long chapter, and I'm going to address parts of what I read this week and then other parts. in later weeks. So if I miss your favorite little part of the story, don't worry too soon. Okay, don't come grumbling and complaining. Just yet. But I want to especially maneuver Maneuver around and focus on this interaction in which Jesus feeds the five thousand and then Jesus tells the people what that bread is. You shouldn't Be surprised by what will happen in this story. The people, just as their forefathers, will grumble and complain. Why is that? It's because ultimately they They are unsatisfied with what Jesus has come to do. That's where it stands here for us to ask up front, what is it that you expect Jesus to do? What is it that you expect Jesus to do for you here in this life? Because when we are drawn to grumble and complain, What is it that we are doing? We are falling into the same trap as God's people in Exodus. We are looking at what God is doing in our lives and we Grumble and complain. We're saying, well, God, you just must not have had a plan. At least you didn't have a good plan. Or maybe you've forgotten about me in your plan. Or maybe God You just aren't interested in satisfying me. All of that can be very personal. Even as the Lord's people in Exodus, it could be very communal. We could Gather together in grumbling and complaining and be marked by that. The spirit of grumbling and complaining rises out of a misplaced and misunderstanding trust. And John is leading us to see this today. The God of heaven brings heavenly satisfaction. The God of heaven brings heavenly satisfaction. We're going to explore that idea today in three points today. We're going to step through the story in three phases. First, it's this. An earthly feast. Second, then an earthly expectation. And finally, a heavenly answer. An earthly feast An earthly expectation, and then a heavenly answer. Join me in that first point, an earthly feast. You can guess what part that's going to be about. John has demonstrated so far throughout his book. That Jesus is one who acts like Moses, performing great signs and miracles. And the people know this. And so they are looking for Jesus and they're following after him. And then We read this in verse 3. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. Now the Passover. The feast of the Jews was at hand, and lifting up his eyes, then, seeing that there was a large crowd coming towards him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread? So that these people may eat. Jesus sees this great crowd amassing to come and see Jesus, and he turns to Philip and he asks him, It's a lot of people, where are we going to order And uh it's uh we see in verse six it is a kind of test for Philip here. Uh the question is, uh Philip, where could we possibly get this kind of bread? And Philip's answer is essentially. Uh Jesus, there's nowhere that we could do that. Verse 7, Philip answers him, 200 dinari, that's 200 days of labor. That amount of bread would not even be enough to give them just a little bit. In this test here, Jesus is working to get his disciples thinking, asking, where could this amount of food come from. How could God supply this great of a need? Philip is a very practical disciple. We'll see that in John a couple of different times. In his practicality He tends to miss the point of what Jesus is doing. And uh we see that here because he's just counting up, you know, how much money could it possibly take to feed these people? And the the clear conclusion is that no. There's no way we could do this. Andrew, another of the disciples, he comes up with something. He finds this boy. He says in verse nine, there is a boy here who has five loaves and two fish, but What is that for so many? That boy brought that just for himself. It's something, but certainly not enough, right? But then how does that the story go. And Jesus has all of the people sit down and he takes the loaves and the flip fish and he blesses them and distributes them out. And the text pretty clearly tell plainly tells us. That all ate and were satisfied. There's even immense leftovers. It's all here proving the immense providence of God. And that God God is one who provides over and above what his people need. And where has this bread come from? It's come from the work of God And now what is the response of the crowd to this? You look at verse 14. When the people saw the sign that Jesus had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet. Who has come into the world? The people here are bringing us back to Moses. John reminded us of Moses when he reminded us we're near the Passover. He's bringing in that kind of exodus sense. And then the people here are bringing this us to Moses because the prophet that they're referencing is the one who Moses promised back in Deuteronomy 18. Moses promised that there would be a future prophet who is. just like Moses, but even better. And that that prophet would be a Messiah, who would be a deliverer. And so the people here seem to be putting together the pieces. They're putting together the pieces of who God has sent. They're seeing, huh, Jesus does signs and wonders. That's what Moses did. Right? Jesus speaks God's word to us. Well, isn't Moses where we got the first few books of God's word? And Jesus somehow feeds the multitude. I mean, isn't that what Moses did in the wilderness over and over? So we'd probably expect here as the people are coming to this conclusion that Jesus is going to rejoice, you know, finally. The people are starting to get it. Finally, they're starting to understand. People seem to be seeing who Jesus is and what actually happens in verse 15. It says, perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. Okay, what wait a second, Jesus, wasn't wasn't that what we wanted to happen? Don't we want people to see Jesus and want to make him king? Don't we want them to acknowledge Jesus as the anointed one. And instead, Jesus here is just ducking out. He's running away. What we have seen repeatedly in John is what? The people want Jesus because they see the effects of his signs and powers. They're impressed by the miracles. They come for the wine. And for the healing, and they're here for this kind of feast. But Jesus knows they're missing the point. They aren't looking for what he truly brings Essentially, what did the people say? What is their expectation here? They're setting up this expectation. Jesus, if you do these kinds of things for us, if you feed us like this, I mean then we definitely want you to be our king. But Jesus's kingdom, they don't realize, is of a totally different kind. It's of a totally different nature. Jesus Jesus' kingdom is not explicitly about feeding these people lots of fluffy bread. I mean, even though he does that. As has been the nature of Israel in its past. They demonstrate here that they are happy to follow God so long as their bellies are full, so long as they're kept Fed. It's in the midst of that we should hear and think about what the prophet Isaiah said. It's from the same chapter as our assurance of pardon, Isaiah 55. The prophet writes, Come everyone who thirsts. Come to the waters, and he who has no money, come and buy and eat. Come by one Wine and milk, without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread? Labor for that which does not satisfy. Listen diligent to me and eat. Eat what is good. Delight yourself in rich foods. And yes, here there is this earthly manifestation of supply. But what Jesus comes to offer truly is not just these loaves and these fish. I mean, but that's their expectation. Our second point here, an earthly Expectation. If we jump along to verse 22, we see the story continue with the same crowd. They're looking for Jesus, and then finally in verse 25, they find Jesus, and it says, When they found Found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? And Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me not because you you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. Jesus is being straight up with them here. He knows their expectation, what it is that they want, what they're looking for. For you. He says, listen, I know why you're here. It's for the bread. And then Jesus continues on from here, and he actually quotes Isaiah 55. Well, we read a moment ago. He said in verse 27 do not work for the food that perishes he interprets it but for the food that endures to eternal life which the son of man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal. He's telling them, I know that you came for the physical bread, but that's That's not what I am actually offering to you. No, I, the Son of Man, have something far greater to give to you. I have the kind of thing which can truly save Satisfy you. They respond to that request in verse 28 essentially of okay, we're game, Jesus. We will obey, we will follow, and then they set up this kind of deal. If you do something for us. And this kind of deal that they set up here in verse 31, they remind Jesus of Moses in the wilderness story. Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness. As it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. They're bringing up that story that we read. And they're reminding Jesus about Moses. And saying, you know, Jesus, Moses fed our fathers a great multitude, just like you did yesterday. But the thing about Moses is what? He did that day after day after day. day. So Moses, you know, he was that great. And Jesus, if you're great like Moses, as promised even greater than Moses, you think you could have at least do that? You think you could feed us day after day after day? They're calling back here to their forefathers and how they remember that Moses fed them. You know, Jesus, we will believe like our parents did. We will trust and obey like our parents did. You just prove to us like that that you are even better than Moses. Now there's some selective memories Their forefathers weren't necessarily marked by trusting Moses. Jesus responds to them though, verse 32. And Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. Heaven. He's pointing out their misunderstanding. at multiple levels here. First, it's that correction. What we actually know in Exodus what God said. God said, I am giving these people the bread. They're remembering it As a gift from Moses. So Jesus is saying, first, it wasn't Grandpa Moses who gave all the bread, it was God. Second, the point of the bread, the purpose of it, it wasn't No, he says for the bread of God is he who comes down for From heaven. The greater bread, what the bread is pointing to, it's a person. And he doesn't come down just to feed you all fluffy bread occasionally. No, he comes down from From heaven to feed the whole world continually. Verse 35, Jesus continues: I am the bread of life Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, whoever believes in me shall not thirst. Jesus is drawing them to understand what it is that Moses Was writing about what Jesus is doing. He says, I am the bread of life. I am the point. I am the promised bread. And I am here to end the real Hunger that you have. If you just glance through the rest of this chapter again and again, Jesus says, I am the bread of life. I am the bread of life. And verse 48. I am the bread of life. And he draws this comparison there. Your fathers ate manna in the wilderness, and what happened to them? They. Died. Your fathers ate Moses' bread. Maybe it sustained their life for a little bit, but what still happened to them? They died. In contrast to that, though, Jesus says, Who am I? Verse 50: This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven, and if anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the Life of the world is my flesh. The people have come with a certain expectation. They're expecting they wanting the good all reliable bread of Moses. And Jesus comes offering something much greater. So what is bread a sign of? Bread is a sign of something that can sustain your life for a time. But the people in the wilderness died. Here are these new people in the wilderness. And Jesus is saying, I can offer you the kind of thing which grants Life eternal. Now, what's the response of the crowd to this? Is Jesus is re-leveling their expectations. We see it a number of different times in verse 41. The Jews grumbled about him because he said, I'm the bread of life that came down from heaven. Verse 43, Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among yourselves. Verse 53 two, then the Jews complained, disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? That is the response of the crowd who have followed Jesus out to this This wilderness. Sound pretty familiar here? This is a repeat of exactly what we see in the wilderness of Exodus. They never trust what God is doing. They may be occasionally physically placated until it comes time for them to just grumble again, until comes finally time for them to die. These sons of Israel come to Jesus and they say, give us that sign. And Jesus gives them a sign. And yet, just like their fathers, they grumble and complain. And so what should we expect for them? What should the pattern be? It should be that they, too, die in the wilderness John is very intentionally connecting the event here in John 6 with the Exodus story of old, or near the Passover We're in the wilderness, is that familiar? We're in need of food, and what are we doing? We are grumbling and complaining with what God has provided for us. Now the people are coming to Jesus with explicit earthly requests. They have earthly expectations. There's this question from that expectation. Will God God provide? What is God's answer to our need? Point number three, a heavenly answer. Here's the question we should be asking. as we continue through this text, what is the point of John retelling this story to us? Why has John drummed up this story to recount to us? We know John is pretty selective about the stories that he tells. He tells us he's selective, that he's picked particular stories to tell us so that we might believe in Jesus. Why bring us this one? Is it just so we can look back on these people and say, man, just like your fathers, you fools, uh, just to see the people and think, I I guess they never learn, if some things just never change. And that would be pretty petty if that was the intention, no? John is communicating to us Us a heavenly answer to the dissatisfaction that rests in all of our hearts. John is bringing us into this story because it is very relatable to who we are and the kind of expectations and questions that we set and bring. Because we come with certain expectations. Of God. And it's as soon as we feel like the road trip is taking too long, that our hearts churn with complaint at what God is doing in our lives. I mean, does God provide? The answer is a resounding, of course He does. He provides all that we need in His Son. He sends true bread. From heaven, and it is his son. And that bread still comes from heaven. But it's not in the form of fluffy manna. No, it's named. Is Jesus. And that's often a hard reality for us earthly creatures to swallow. That's because we are not in heaven Heavenly answers are a little difficult for us earthly people. So often we see the satisfaction which God does provide Wrongly, because we come with the wrong expectations. There is a day that is coming when there is true physical rest and satisfaction And there is a promise of all of that kind of satisfaction to come. But what is that reality? It is a heavenly reality And we on this earth, we haven't quite gotten there yet, have we? John will go on in Revelation to relate to us pieces of that promise. John seems essentially speechless. And yet strives to relate to us in Revelation when he makes it to heaven the glory to come, the joy to come, the holistic satisfaction of the next life. But we are not there yet, are we? No, who are we like? We are like patriarchs in the wilderness, journeying to our new spiritually and physically on his finest of aged wines, on his choicest of meats. Okay, but what answer do we have in the here and now? Is it nothing? Nothing? Does God give us nothing for here and now on this journey? Christian, far from that. What has been for provided for us in this life for this journey, he tells us, is his son. It's his son. And if that isn't enough for you in this life, Trusting in his word, believing in the work of the Son, and we're gonna run into problems. This is a theme which the apostles take up as they continue to write. Now think with me about what Paul says in Philippians 2. As Paul is writing to the church, he says Philippians 2. 14, do all things without That you may be blameless and innocent, children of God, without blemish, in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation. Among whom you should shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ, when he returns, I may be What is Paul offering here to the church? Just before this, he reminds the church of the human Of Christ. That Christ came how? As a servant. That Christ came to labor and to serve. That Christ came to live and to suffer and to die. And then And what's left for us from that? What's left but to follow in that pattern, on the path of the cross, to hold fast to the word of life? But here we are, and what is it often that we want? So often we are like the people in the wilderness looking and saying, I would rather I would rather have full belly. I would rather have the comforts of slavery to sin in the land of Egypt. And yet, what does Christ come and bring? He comes and brings a cross and forgiveness of sin. I mean does God provide for physical needs in this life? Yes, he does. He promises that. He says, look to the birds, remember, I provide. But if what you're coming to Christ for in this life is merely physical comfort, you're Missing out. You're coming with the wrong expectations. Because where is that going to leave you when Christ comes and he asks you to do what? To suffer and to die and to give of yourself for his work. And his purposes, of course that is going to leave you grumbling and complaining. Paul will draw a very similar point in First Corinthians ten. He draws us to remember our spiritual Spiritual ancestors, these same people. First Corinthians 10:1. He says, I don't want you to be unaware, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and they passed And they all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. They drank from the spiritual rock that followed them. And that rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them, God was not pleased. And they were overthrown in the wilderness. And he goes on to remind the church then a couple of verses later. Nor should you grumble as some of them did. They were destroyed. by the destroyer. We are prone to complain in this life and to grumble because what Jesus calls us to trusting, believing, obeying It's not what we expect from this life. He calls us to trust in him and that the food will come from heaven. we'd often much rather have is five easy steps to spiritual and physical blessing in this life. And we look to what this life has to offer. And we come with the expectation that this life can and will satisfy us. Think about the Israelites in the wilderness. They're looking back to Egypt. Egypt. Egypt had power and prestige. Egypt had money and food. Well, it's the reminder, yeah, but you were slaves in Egypt, just as we are. apart from Christ, slaves to sin in this world, what does this world have to offer? It might promise some level of satisfaction. You might see varying degrees of satisfaction in this world as you look to the haves and feel that you are the have-nots. Think about what Jesus does here. here though. Jesus comes in this life offering not full satisfaction in this life, but he says he offered offers new life, a different life. What is it that Jesus does here with the people? He retreats from them because he knows the people will want Want to make him king. Think about that for a moment. I mean, a king in this life, they want to provide all that they want here and now Is that not reminiscent of some of our political impulses in the here and now today? We are drawn to want a king or a nation or a government that can make Everything right for us here and now to maintain or reclaim our power to ensure a good life for our children, and of course A righteous and just and good government is a very good thing. But is that what Jesus promised to you in this life? Is that just what you're going to grumble and complain about when it doesn't come in two weeks? Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life for I am the bread of life the answer from heaven is that he will sustain that he will provide as you need, that he will be your spiritual bread in this life, that Jesus Christ is your bread of life. And he has come down from heaven He came down from the place where all was right. Why? To live and to suffer and to die all so that you who feed on him, who believe in him, who trust in him, so that you won't die in the wilderness as grumbling complainers. So that you won't Don't die as unforgiven sinners, but so that you too might be resurrected with him, and that one day in that resurrection you will join him in In the heavenly of heavens, where all is right and good, both spiritually and physically. Christian, Jesus is one who has come from heaven and he tells the crowd my father has sent me he tells them that he has come down from heaven And that he wants you, and that he calls you to trust in that, to believe in him and what he has done and what he is doing and to hold fast to him even when it looks like there is no way forward knowing that as he has come down for you He will surely bring you back up to be with him and to bring one day all the satisfaction that he has to offer. That promise is absolutely sure, even if we don't see all of it here today. Let me close with what Jesus has to say. That he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in Him should have eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. And Jesus offers a level of satisfaction in this life as he spiritually nourishes you here until that day when he will resurrect us up to full satisfaction and resurrection life with him As Jesus calls the people to look forward towards that day. Can you look forward and trust in that day that he will bring the work he has started to completion when we will Be with him. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice that you are a God who has sent us. food who sends us continually throughout our lives, yes, physical food and varying gradations of physical satisfaction that we might Live. You do offer to us what we need. But how much greater is the truth and reality that you have provided for us true life in In your son, true satisfaction in the person and work of Jesus Christ for us, our true shepherd. Bread, that we might be nourished as we journey through the wilderness in this life until we reach the promised land, until we are together with you. At Mount Zion, feasting on all that you have provided. Father, that promise is before us. And what is here for us in this life To follow in the path of Jesus Christ, to live this life in trust and hope and belief and faith in what Jesus has done. And yes, as Jesus suffered, so that might look in this life like suffering. So that might look like not receiving all that we want in this life. Father, may we hold fast to the promise before us as we journey along this road trip of life Maybe we not turn to grumble and complain at what you have done, but to trust in what you have done, to trust in the path before us. And that our hope might be in what you have promised to us, Father. May we walk by your Spirit in this life along that path, as difficult as it might be Sustained spiritually by the word you have provided us in Jesus Christ, in whose name then we pray. Amen.