Today we continue in the book of Ruth, and we take a very natural turn. Last week we looked at this family in a time of judges, a time of darkness. Uh this family was present uh in the land during a time of famine. And so what did they do? They left the land of Israel. They left their home in the house of bread, they left Bethlehem. Where there was no bread. And they pick up and they move to Moab. From our vantage point, where we're sitting, that seems like a pretty smart thing to do. There's no food here. Okay, let's go somewhere where there is food. But what we saw last week was what? This action by Elimelech by the husband departing God's land, it was action A sign of rebellion. The husband, Elimelech, his name means my God is king. And rather than repent, rather than turn to God, rather than acknowledge God as King. He takes matters into his own hands. And we see in the opening verses of today's passage how that decision pans out for this man. In verse 3, Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, dies. And then in verse 4, these sons, they marry Moabite women. But in verse 5, these sons die as well. Two major things to note here. One extremely obvious, one a little more subtle. Here death strikes, and it is fierce. Alimelech, my goddess king, he dies. Nalon, his name seems to mean sickly one, maybe not his original name He too dies. Killian, his name seems to mean weak one. Again, prob probably not his original name. He too Dies. Something in the narrative a little more subtle here though happens as well. Look at how verse three reads But Elimelech, the husband of Naomi died and she was left with her two sons. How is Elimelech described here? Who qualifies him? The husband of Naomi Suddenly and subtly Naomi takes center stage. It's pretty normal for me to be described as the husband of Ishani. She's cooler than me. I get that. That's that's pretty much. Pretty natural. But in the Old Testament context, this is a big deal. Here is Naomi who was dragged out of a f out to a foreign land and she is left Destitute. Here is Naomi who had a husband and two sons, and she is left in despair. The author is pointing us to see. Here is Naomi. Here she is. So the question will rest for us to see, how will Naomi respond? Naomi's name means pleasant one. But how can someone be pleasant when they have faced this much tragedy? When this is their situation. Uh step into Naomi's shoes for a moment. Maybe that's a little close to home. When everyone who uh when everything you know has Been robbed from you, when everyone you love has been stripped from you, when this is life, the question follows: how could God be for me? How could it be true that he is for me? Where do you turn in this kind of despair? How do we respond to this kind of Probably the natural response, the kind of response we'll see in this passage that we may be drawn into is bitterness. Clearly, God is not for me. He must be against me. And if God is against me, who could possibly be for me? What we're going to see today is this truth, is this promise. God is faithful to the end. And it begs this question: do you know your end? God is faithful to the end. Friends, Do you know your end? We're going to explore that idea, that truth, that promise, as well as this question by looking at these three speeches in this. This text. There's three core speeches here. We're going to call them this. First, Naomi's faithless assertion. Naomi's faithless assertion. Second, Ruth's redemptive concern. Confession. And finally, Naomi's bitter admission. Let's look at that first Speech here, this first section of our text, Naomi's faithless assertion. As Naomi steps into the spotlight here in our story, She takes center action, all of these verbs, they are Naomi's action. Naomi rises with her daughters-in-law to lead from Moab. to return to her homeland, to return to Bethlehem. They left Bethlehem last week. We said why? Because there was famine in the land. We talked about what they should have done. They should have repented. They should have turned from their sin and back to God. But instead, Naomi's husband led their family away. Away from God's rule, away from God's land, away from God's promises. And he brought them into Moab. Well, here finally we see a turning back. That Hebrew word we use for repentance. And yet it's not used here for the purpose of repentance. No, this turning back is because God has blessed Israel with food again. God has visited his people again. So Naomi gets up, and she returns to Bethlehem. And the house of bread is full of bread once more. God has shown his goodness to his people. And here we get a little peek into Naomi's thoughts, Naomi's feelings. Naomi prepares to depart in verse 8. And she turns to her daughters-in-law. And she says this in verse 9. She tells them, Go return each of you to your mother's house. May the Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant that you may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. And then she kissed them, they lifted their voices and wept. There's that that word return again. Naomi is wishing blessing on the Women by calling them to return to Moab. The way this is worded, it almost sounds like a benediction, like what we hear at the end of each service. May the Lord bless you. The blessing she wishes for upon them is what? That they would find new husbands. What does this mean about Naomi? Where does she identify the Lord's blessing with having a husband. At one level in this context, this is very practical. Go back to the land of Moab or the land of Israel. Go back to the ancient Near East. There are not a lot of opportunities for women to provide for themselves. A husband was pretty necessary. The glass ceiling was pretty low. These women they need to be provided for. The other thing to recognize, though, is how this blessing is phrased. Naomi uses pretty particular words, and Naomi wishes God's hesed love upon. them. You all have basically an Old Testament professor for a pastor. You've probably heard this word, Hesed. This is the special Special, loving, merciful kindness which God shows. This is the kind of loyalty which you and I cannot ordinarily perform. This is the kind of you could almost say unreasonable. Covenant faithfulness, which God expresses. Now, how did Naomi believe God can show that faithfulness to these women? By providing for them new Husbands. It tells us something about Naomi's heart. If God blesses and shows his faithfulness in this way, what does it mean for me What does it mean when God has taken my own husband away? Naomi is showing us her perspective. God has taken away her husband and her sons and so she believes uh God could not be showing faithfulness to me. He's not faithful to me So sh he and so Naomi ushers her daughter-in-laws away. And the women kiss, they cry out in sorrow. We'll see that again. And they do something special here. Verse ten. The daughters respond, they said to her, No, we will return with you to your people, but Naomi will not hear this. She won't hear it, and it's because of Her perspective. It's because of her perspective on what God's faithfulness is. So she says to them again, verse 11: Turn back, my daughters, why will you go with me? Have I yet sons in my womb that they may become your husbands? There's no reason to go with me. I have nothing to offer you. The reference to future sons in her womb. This is a reference to a practice called leverett marriage. This was a practice when a husband would die. That husband's brother would take the wife as his own to care for her, to provide for her, um, so that she could have children. It's kinda odd. And it's also kind of really sweet too at the same time. It's not for today. And Naomi makes explicitly clear here, it's not ever for me. Your hope of blessing is in finding a husband that's not That's why Naomi urges them again, verse 12, turn back, go your way, for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say I have hope, even if I should have a husband this night and bear sons, would you wait till they're grown? Would you refrain from marrying? No, my daughters. Look here. It is exceedingly bitter to me for your sake that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. There is No hope for me. In fact, I am embittered for you. Embittered. Why? Because The hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Naomi sees this whole situation as God judging her. As God's judgment against her. Naomi says, I know why this is happening. It's because God is against me This reference to God's hand being against someone, this is the terminology used to describe God's cosmic judgment. God sent his hand against Pharaoh in Egypt by sending the plagues. God sent his hand against the Canaanites when he led the Israelites in supernatural conquests against the land. This is his cosmic eternal justice at work. And Naomi says, that's the kind of judgment being prosecuted against me. Naomi sees everything that has happened as God's judgment against her. She looks at herself and says, God, can't We can sympathize with Naomi's experience, can we not? When things fall apart Uh when problem after problem arises, uh this feels like watching a boxing match. Sometimes uh there is a flurry of strikes from one opponent And you start to realize this match is over. Right? There's no coming from this. This is the end. There's no escape. There's no hope. And you're begging the ref, step in, stop this. When the cosmic punches of loss keep landing, when the barrage seems unending, how quick can we be to assume a God is judging me. There's no hope for me. There's no escape. Is this my end? Is this my end? God cannot be for me. He must be against me. against me. And that's where faithlessness and bitterness grabs a hold and it sets in. And so these women they weep and they cry again, and there's another kiss, but this time it's just from one of the daughters. It's from Orpah. And she takes heed of Naomi's word. She's swayed by them, and she will drift away and never be heard of again. But there is another daughter. Ruth clings to her. Ruth clings to Naomi. So let's look at Ruth's role here. The second point, Ruth's redemptive confession. Ruth will not reject Naomi Following her own namesake, she is a close friend. She clings hard to Naomi. She is a faithful friend. Verse 15. Naomi looks at this and she says, See, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people, to her gods, return after your sister-in-law. And Naomi is pleading again, won't you just leave? Go back to your people, go back to your gods. Naomi lets on to something here. You see, while Naomi may be wishing the blessing of the God of Israel upon these daughters, she knows what she sends them away to. She knows that she sends them away to worship pagan gods, that she sends them away from faith in the covenant, that she sends them away to spiritual death. And Naomi is telling Ruth here, you could have rest, you could have a blessed life. If you would just abandon me and the God of my people. But how does Ruth respond? What does she say? Ruth said, Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go, I will go. Where you lodge, I will lodge. Your people, they shall be my people. Your God, my God. Where you die, I will die, and there I will be buried. May the Lord do so to me more also if anything but death parts me from you Ruth's first words say so much about her character, who she is. It's a little hint into reading Hebrew narratives. Someone's first words kind of define Who they are. At first, Ruth here, she begs Naomi, stop pushing me away. Ruth uses this literary term we call marisms here, a device we see in scripture. where extremes are pointed to on both ends to demonstrate the totality of meaning. Everywhere you live, there I will live. Where you die, I will die. Ruth is saying, everywhere I will be with you. I will always be with you. Second, Ruth says something so incredibly meaningful to our faith, to the Christian faith. Ruth invokes the language of the covenant of God. Grace. She says it's just four words in Hebrew. Your people, my people Your God, my God. When we look to God speaking to Abraham, to Moses, to David, to you and I through the prophet Jeremiah. What is the covenant of grace? What is the promise that God makes over and over? I will be for you, God. You will be for me, people. Ruth confesses her faith So beautifully here. As she is saying, I am one of God's covenant people. Yahweh is my covenant God. Naomi, don't send me away to pagan gods, to false idols. I belong with you. I belong to Yahweh. Here is this Moabite woman. Her husband has died. Her sister-in-law has just left. As Naomi has shown, Ruth here has no hope of earthly blessing. Life for a Moabite woman in Israel is going to be rough. It's going to be difficult. But where is Ruth's faith? It is with the God of the covenant. This is not a normal experience in Moab. It's not normal for someone to convert religions. As an aside here, maybe hopefully a word of comfort for us. Ruth learned these words of promise somewhere. She didn't learn it out at the MOA of a watering well. She didn't learn it by the water cooler. No, where did she learn this? She learned this from a couple of imperfect, sinful, fallen Israelites. She learned this truth from Elimelech, the man who was running from God She learned this truth from Naomi, the woman whose faith is broken. We're pretty imperfect people, but praise God, he uses us in spite of that to communicate. Communicate his word, to speak his word to people. And here Ruth has heard that word. So she's refuting her mother-in-law. Her faith was not in the men who she She has lost. Her hope is not in the promise of earthly blessing. Her life, her very being, is identified with the God of Israel and his people As she knows, this God, he is for me. He is mine and I am his unto the very end. As Ruth would say, until death itself. Ruth has confessed her faith for us. She has confessed to Naomi and to us her faith in the redemptive work of God. And so now here, after this profession of faith, this oath of commitment, what do we expect? What would we hope to see? This was our Hollywood, like you completely mowing. speech. Naomi, just say you had me at Shalom. And yet How does Naomi respond? What does Naomi say back? She doesn't say anything. The text says literally, she stopped talking to her. Okay Okay. And so the women go on. And then we get to this third point, Naomi's bitter admission. Her bitter admission. Naomi and Ruth return to Israel. They make it to Judah and they make it to Bethlehem. And when they arrive in Bethlehem, the people notice the whole town in verse 19 gathers. They're stirred up. They're ready to greet Naomi. And they're actually uns Settled. They're unsettled. And you would think they would be unsettled because she brought this Moabite women woman with her. Okay, that's odd. You would think maybe they're unsettled because they're wondering where's a limelech? Where's Malon? Where's Kilion? Those are the obvious things. But what is it that they recognize? What they say is this: this is This is the woman who we called pleasant? This is Naomi. Uh the way Naomi arrives, enters into the town, everyone recognizes she's she's not that same cheerful Pleasant woman who they knew. And Naomi snaps, she snaps back at them quickly. Don't you dare call me pleasant. Call me Mara. Call me bitter. And Naomi tells them why. Why to call her this? Why this is who she is now. For the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went away full, and the Lord has brought me back empty. Why call me Naomi? Why call me pleasant when the Lord has testified against me? And the Almighty has brought calamity upon me. Upon me. Notice this first, who does she put at the center of her bitterness? Who's there at the centerness? Who is it that she blames The Lord God, He made me this way. He is who did this. Her bitterness, it's not, she's not saying it's just because of her own feeling about the situation. No, her bitterness, she says, is because God has acted against her. Recognizes too. She actually uses two different titles, two names for God. She uses Shaddai and Yahweh, the Almighty and the Lord. She recognizes in saying that That God is almighty, that he's omnipotent, he's all powerful. She knows that God is sovereign. And in control. She knows her Westminster shorter catechism well. That's anachronistics. She knows the theology, though. She knows the theology. God is in control That God has decreed all things, and this is what He's decreed for me? And what was her case? So how do I know that? I left this land full and God has brought me back empty. Imagine for a moment your roof next to her was What about me? And let's not forget too why they left this place in the first place. You were full? I remember your belly was empty. Famine in the land. But what is Naomi saying here? Defines her well-being, defines for her security and blessing. I was full because I had my husband. I was full because I had my sons, and now I have nothing. And so, what is Naomi saying about God? He is nothing to me, He is not security to me. He is not blessing to me. He is not a husband to me, even though he has promised to be a husband to the widow and father to the fatherless. So what? So call me bitter The Lord has ushered me into his courtroom, where he has testified against me, and he has brought condemnation on me. He's taken my husband, he's taken my sons. You can see the predicament here when we try to do math with God's providence. God, you are sovereignly in control of all things. And everything has been taken to me. I add those together. It must mean God is not for me. He is against me. Do you feel that sometimes? That burden, as the things which matter most are taken from your grasp, how could this possibly be a God who is good to me? The math that Add up to that. Naomi is looking at God and has decided that that is the situation here. This is the final word on my life. This is all that I am now. This is the end. Naomi cannot possibly see how God is for her in this. She can't possibly see how God is working for her through this. This is not blessing, this is curse. I cannot be blessed. I can only be cursed. We feel that sometimes. Trapped in our perspective on the providence of here and now. That God cannot be for me. He could only be against me. That's the only thing that I can think of that explains this right now And that's what Naomi is admitting. This is the last word for my life. So who am I now? Call me bitter. While this may be Naomi's last word in the chapter, these are not the last words of the chapter. As we wrap up, as we conclude, I want to see one more word. One more providence of God. What's the last sentence here? And they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest. God has returned to his people. God has ended the famine. And God has brought Naomi and Ru Back for the harvest. Naomi has confessed she has no faith, no trust in God's faithfulness, but here he is at work because the harvest has come. For those of us who know the rest of this story, how this pans out, you're you're you're begging Naomi. Could you just hold on a second here? Just wait a little longer. If you could only see what God God has in store for you. If you see what if if you could just see what God is about to do in this harvest, then it will be said of Ruth, who you just counted as in Nothing, she will be as more to you than every son. But Naomi can't see it. She cannot see the end And is that not us again and again? Nevertheless, God is faithful True to us beyond that bitter end, unto his glorious salvation. Unto salvation. And friends, whereas Naomi cannot see the future, She cannot see the end. You know what? You and I can. We can. We know what is promised. We know that He is for us. How? Because he has proven it. God has proven that he is for us by offering up his very own son. God too has a son. Who is given up to death, offered on an altar, sacrificed for you and for I. And why would he do that? Because he is faithful. Because he is faithful to his promise. Because the God of the covenant will offer up what is most precious to him so that you can be united. With him, so that you can have security in him. The truth is that we do deserve God's justice. We do deserve to be ushered into his courtroom and connected. Condemned. We are faithless, we are rebellious, we are hopeless, and yet God brings that justice to bear where? Not on you and I. But to bear on his own son at the cross so that you can receive salvation by him. There is the blessing. There is the blessing. The ending of your story, Christian, is written. It is written in the book of life, in the ink of Christ's own blood, proven by the resurrection, his resurrection in which you and I will share. Sealed by the Spirit, the Lord God, He is for you. He is for you, and He has proven it, and He will continue to prove it. He is faithful, and he is for you. He has promised to be your husband, to be your father, to never leave you nor forsake you. He has promised to be And so what do we do? We remember him. We look back to the cross. We rest in that promise. We believe in him. We look like Ruth. We trust and we cling to that as we walk through this life. And it will be difficult, and problems will arise again, and yet we hold fast to this promise. Because he is faithful. He is for you. Let us pray