After this, Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. Now the Jews' feast of booths was at hand. So his brother said to him, Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works you are doing. For no one works in secret, if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world. For not even his brothers believed in him Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come. Your time is always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feast. I am not going to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. And after saying this, he remained in Galilee. But after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but in private. And the Jews were looking for him at the feast, saying, Where is he? And there was much muttering about him among the people, while some said he is a good man, others said no, he is leading the people astray. Yet for fear of the Jews no one spoke openly of him About the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching. The Jews therefore marveled, saying, How is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. And the one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him, he is true, and in him there is no falsehood. Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. So why do you seek to kill me? The crowd answered, You have a demon. Who's seeking to kill you? And Jesus answered them, I did one work, and you all marveled at it. Moses gave you circumcision, not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers. And you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken. Are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well? Do not judge by appearances. But judge with right judgment. Some of the people of Jerusalem therefore said, Is not this the man whom they seek to kill? And here he is, speaking openly, and they say nothing to him Can it be that the authorities really know that this is the Christ? But we know where this man comes from. When the Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from. So Jesus proclaimed as he taught in the temple, you know me and you know where I come from, but I have not come of my own accord He who sent me is true, and him you do not know. I know him, for I came from him, and he sent me. So they were seeking to arrest him. But no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. Yet many of the people believed in him, and they said, When the Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done? The Pharisees heard the crowd, muttering these things about him And the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to arrest him. And Jesus then said, I will be with you a little longer, and then I am going off to him who sent me. You will seek me and you will not find me. Where I am you cannot come. And the Jews said to one another, Where does this man intend to go that we will not find him? Does he intend to go to the dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks? What does he mean by saying, You will seek me, and you will not find me, and where I am you cannot come? On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, If any one thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now this Jesus said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive received. For as yet the Spirit had not been given because Jesus was not yet glorified. When they heard these words, some of the people said, This really is the prophet. And others said, This is the Christ. But some said Is the Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that the Christ must come from the offspring of David, and he comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was So there was a division among the people over him. Some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him. The officers then came to the chief priests and the Pharisees, who said to them, Why did you not bring him? And the officers answered, No one spoke like this man. And the Pharisees answered them, Have you also been deceived? Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him? But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed. Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, and who was one of them, said to them, Does Allah judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what he does? And they replied, Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee Let us approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you've given us your word. That as you have sent your son to these people in that time, so you have sent your very word to us, for us, even here and now, that we might receive it as truly, to see as clearly. This was seen in Christ. We pray, Father, that your Spirit would make clear to us what you are speaking to us, how it is that we ought to receive the Messiah who you have sent to us. Messiah who has come from heaven, who has come from you. Father, may we receive and hold fast and believe in faith in the one who you present to us here in your It's in Jesus' name that we then pray. Amen. In an essay from his collection, God in the Doc, C. S. Lewis asserted this idea. He said A miracle is an interference with nature by supernatural power. The name of that collection, God in the Dock, is uh evoking the idea of uh an ironic reality. Uh what is the idea of being in the dock? It's the idea of being set up on trial. When you see an old-fashioned depiction of an English person being tried as a criminal, you would see them sitting in what's called the dock. You see that person on trial sitting in the dock. The idea then of God being in the dock is ironic to Lewis because He knew the truth that we are the ones who belong in the dock. We are the ones who should be tried as criminals because of our sin. And yet we continually delude ourselves into thinking we can be the judge and throw God in the dock and try him, test him. We delude ourselves into thinking we're the judge who can challenge him, even though there is a mountain of evidence against us and a mountain of evidence for him. A mountain of evidence showing how he has created, showing how he has provided, how he has, as Lewis said, worked so many miracles, even interfered with nature in ways that we can see. He is continually revealing to us who he is to us, who he is for us. And yet here we sit in judgment, contemplating. I mean uh well God, who you are for us and who you've come as for us and what you've done for us, is is that really what we want? Is it really good enough for me? Does it really match up to my expectations that I've set up of what I want from you? Maybe you remember the way that we opened up this whole series in the book of John. I shared with you a story about how 14-year-old Chris Calvey desperately wanted from his parents a dog. Mom, Dad, you have to get me this dog. But then once I realized what it was to truly have a dog the responsibility it entailed, the stature of that task, the reality compared to just my expectations. Tragic 14-year-old Chris Calvey changed his mind. He said, no dog for me, please. I can't I can't say that's not really what I wanted. Now, since that story, some of you have come to me and confronted me, concerned You know, is your current dog Iroh really cared for? Is he really loved? And I mean if you know me, you do know I love that dog. I uh me and Iroh are thickened thieves. I love him to peace. He is my fluffy son. There is no reason to worry. I do want him. Now Isaiah is my real son, and I love Isaiah more, yes, but I do love Isaiah. What was the point of that story though? The point of what we looked at back in chapter one is that question, is the Christ who comes is all that he is in what he entails? Really, what you want? Is that really what you want? And the reality is that the presence of Christ as he approaches brings that kind of question to us. Because the way that Christ comes. The mission with which he comes is not necessarily what people expected. Certainly not what was expected of him in this day by the people who he approaches here in John chapter 7. Because Jesus comes with a particularly spiritual mission, even in his own day. That evokes much confusion amongst people who know the scriptures, who know these words, who are trusting and waiting for a Messiah to come. We've seen that again and again, and hence when reading the book of John, we see repeatedly people who just don't get the Messiah that's before them. People who don't understand who he is or what he is saying. And John is bringing again to us that kind of experience here, that kind of situation to the forefront. This challenge presented to the people, and hence to us as well, this challenge that Christ must be received as He came, and not merely as He is wanted. Christ must be received as he came, and not merely as he is wanted. That's a challenging statement, uh both to the people of Christ day and to us, because we come up with all sorts of ideas of Who Christ should be for us and what Christ should be about. We develop our own patterns and expectations, and it's with those expectations that we then challenge what we've heard and seen about who he is and what we've done. And we develop these kinds of expectations and we take them like little tickets to use to challenge his place, to put him in the dock to try and negate what he has done or what is blatantly clear and true. And we're going to look at what John is communicating here about challenges that Jesus is going to receive with three different points today. We're going to see three different challenges. First, people who are challenging Christ's calling. And then second, challenging Christ's qualifications. And finally, this challenging Christ's origins. Three different challenges: his calling, his qualification, and his origins. We're going to do that as we march all the way through John 7 here. Are you ready? Okay. John opens up chapter 7. So we step into this first point, challenging Christ's calling. John opens up chapter 7 with a few details that we need to remember that are going to serve as context. Points throughout this chapter. Look with me at verse 1 here. John chapter 7, verse 1, we see. After this Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. Now the Jews' feast of booze was at hand. The first little thing that's brought to the forefront is a reminder of what happened back in chapter 5 of John It's in John chapter 5 that we learn when we see the Jews here, it's these Jewish authorities. They began to seek out to kill Jesus. And do you remember why he did that? Because back in John chapter 5, Jesus healed the paralytic man at the pool. Okay, we're killing a man over healing someone. Oh, but Jesus did it on the Sabbath. The Jewish authorities were filled with anger, the reality that Jesus would do that kind of work on the Sabbath. And we'll see how that plays out a little more as we work through the chapter here. There's a second contextual point for us today. John brings that out that we are approaching the Feast of Booze. The Feast of Tabernacles. This is one of the major feasts in the Jewish tradition, and it's one where the Jews are called to make a pilgrimage back to Jerusalem. Some are doing that from nearby in Judea. Some are coming from the far-off reaches of the Roman Empire, coming through Greece, from Turkey, from different places, back to Jerusalem to celebrate this feast. This feast is the last in the agricultural cycle, and it's one in which they would come together to thank God and to praise him for how he has provided for them that year. All the ways that God has brought rain, that He's brought crops together. And along with that, they're also called to think back and to thank God for how He provided for their forefathers in the wilderness. In that pocket of time between when the Jewish people were slaves in Egypt, when they entered into the promised land, they journeyed through the wilderness, through the desert. And it's there that the people lived in booths. What you might call little tents, little tabernacles. This feast is called the Feast of Booths because it's reminding them of that time, back when you lived in your tents in the wilderness, in your little booths there. What happened for you there? You were in the wilderness and yet God still was faithful to provide. He brought manna from heaven. He brought water from the rock all the way through their time in that journey. God provided for them until he brought them to the promised land. Now, the present-day for Christ and his people, the present-day experience of being in the Promised Land and celebrating this feast, it's a little disjointed. It's a little disjointed in large part because of what we read about in Micah chapter 5. The Jewish people were expelled from the land. They were sent into captivity in Babylon and Persia and eventually are permitted back. But it's not this full fulfillment of Being back because not all the people are back. There are still some who are out in the dispersion, out in the Roman Empire. And there's also, if you think about what was promised in Micah Not yet political independence. The people are still ruled over by the Roman Empire. So there's some element of being back. But are they really back? Not the way that was promised. And so there's this attention and expectation that's baked into the situation of this feast for them, knowing that one day God is really going to bring us back. Knowing that one day God is going to send that Messiah who He promised to free us from our oppressors. And they are waiting and hoping for that day, even as they celebrate that feast. So who walks into the scene here? But the Messiah? Jesus. Oh, but the leaders want to kill Jesus. Nevertheless, the feast goes on. The people of Israel are gathered together, and part of what celebrating this feast would look like is each day the priest would lead the people through the town in this procession. And then out the east gate and down to the pool of Shalom. And there the priest would dip a bowl into the pool, and they'd take that bowl of water. recess back up into the city, march all the way to the altar, and the priest would pour the water on the altar, remembering how God had provided for them water. He had provided for them water from the rock. With all of this context, we get into the scene here with Jesus. And who's he with? He's with his brothers. This scene helps accentuate to us the difference between the expectations of Jesus and what he is called to do. Because look at verse 3. Jesus is with his brothers, and so they said to him, Jesus, leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works you are doing. For no one works in secret if he wishes to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world. What are Jesus' brothers doing here in the beginning of the chapter? What are they saying to Jesus You know, Jesus, there's a big old crowd in Jerusalem. Everyone is there. And if you are who you say you are, why not go show yourself off to them? I mean, if you want followers, they're there, they're ready to be taken. Go and get them. And as you read that, you can see his brothers are just kind of snickering at him. They don't actually believe in him. They're being so snied with their remark. And that's why we get the next verse, verse five. For not even his brothers believed in him. They're mocking Jesus. They're challenging what all Jesus has been called to do, and how does Jesus respond to that challenge? He tells them, essentially, you don't understand what and how I'm here to do what I'm here to do. You don't understand my calling And he does that by demonstrating that one, they don't understand his timing or his ministry and what he's doing. The challenge is first, clearly they don't understand his timing. Verse 6. Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come. Your time is always here. And you all do what you want when you want. Jesus, though, what's he doing? He's saying, I must wait. I'm waiting on God's timing. I'm waiting on my Father's plan. And John has been highlighting that idea all along the way as we've worked through this book. Because what have we heard again and again? Jesus says things like, My hour has not yet come. John reminding us for Jesus' time had not yet come. We know that Jesus is moving forward towards something. But only in God's timing. Only as the Father has ordained it. Jesus responds, secondly, though, they clearly don't understand his ministry, how he's doing what he's doing. Verse 7. He says to them, the world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it, and its works are evil. He says, the world cannot hate you. We'll learn later on in a few chapters because they're of the world. But Jesus, the world, does hate. Because his message, what he's been proclaiming, what he's been saying throughout his ministry, reveals to them that their ways are evil, that their deeds are evil. And guess what? People don't want to hear or see or learn that truth. That what they've done is evil. If we think about uh you know ways to win friends and uh followers and gatherers. Not exactly is what Jesus is doing here what we would expect. We get this division, this challenge. You know, Jesus, if you were really to fulfill your calling, shouldn't you do it this way? And of course Course. Jesus is not following the conventional wisdom of this world because he's not of this world. We hear and think success comes from what continually. You know, seize the moment. Be really likable. It's not really what Jesus is about, is it? It's not how he's pursuing his calling. So Jesus tells his brothers, verse 8, you go up to the feast. I'm not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. Now after saying this, Jesus remained in Galilee. You can see even under the sneer of disbelief from his brothers that there's just no understanding of what Jesus is doing. That opens up a familiar experience throughout the book of John because again and again, people do not understand what Jesus is doing. They don't understand how he's fulfilling his calling. They don't understand him. In large part because clearly he's not doing what they'd want or what they'd expect. Point number two here, the challenging of Christ's qualifications. As the story continues, what happens It's a little bit confusing. Verse 10. After his brothers had gone up to the feast, then Jesus also went up, not publicly, but in private. The Jews were looking for him at the feast. Saying, Where is he? And there was much muttering about him among the people. Some said he is a good man, and others said no, he's leading the people astray. Yet for the fear of the Jews no one spoke openly of him. But then about the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching. So it's a little confusing there what all has happened, because it sounds like there's some conflicting points there, right? Uh which is it, Jesus? Are you staying or are you going? Are you going to do everything privately or are you going to do everything publicly? You said you were going in private, and then suddenly you're up in front of everyone in the temple proclaiming everything. What's happening here? John is accentuating the timing. John is demonstrating that Jesus is very particular and specific about how he's doing what he's doing. doing, the timing with which he's working, the specific action that is taken about how this unfolds. That's then how we get to verse 14 where now is the time for Jesus to begin teaching. When he does that, there's a very public reaction to it. If you look at verse 15, the Jews therefore marveled, saying, How is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? Why that reaction here from the people? What are they saying? The expectation in Jesus' day when one would get up in the temple to begin teaching before the people is that you would start quoting various rabbis. You would be quoting rabbi after rabbi in their teaching. What you had learned from them, why. That was the expectation because that's what was typical of rabbinic teaching in the time. Because it served to demonstrate to the people who you're speaking to the kind of authority and reliability in what you are saying. We couldn't do that today, right? And they're calling out familiar and renowned names. If I get up here and I say When I studied under Dr. Horton and Dr. Van Droonen, if you say, when R. C. Sproull said to me, dot, dot, dot, we all say, you know, what did Dr. Fix say about this? It's old-fashioned name-dropping. We've been doing it for a millennia, and it's a way to display credentials and authority in what's said. But that's not how Christ acts here. What we see from Christ is that he doesn't do any of that in verse 15. They've marveled saying, how is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? If we look at this story in the other gospels, we see confirmation here that when Jesus gets up, he doesn't start quoting other rabbis. He just gets up and he starts preaching. And as the people challenge Jesus' authority, his credentials, that's what they're doing here. They're saying, how do we know this is true? You're not demonstrating your learning and your teaching. And Jesus turns to address that. They're asking, Jesus, who's your teacher? Where did you get this from? So verse 16, Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine But his who sent me. If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. Jesus is telling them, oh, I have a teacher. Yeah, I'm not just making this up on the spot here. I'm not some upstart solo rebel. No, I have been sent, and I'm coming with the teaching of the one who sent me. And he pulls this in there too. Did you notice? If you actually knew the one who sent me, well then you'd know that my message is true. They're challenging Jesus' authority, and then Jesus here is spinning it back on them. He presses against their question about the genuineness of what they're saying and asking. He's saying, if you really wanted and practiced God's word, then you'd know that what I'm saying is true. Zoom out for a moment and think about the scene here and what's happening. Jesus is speaking to who? He's speaking to devout Jews, descendants of Abraham. And Jesus is speaking amongst those to people who have journeyed, pilgrim from very far off even. They've pilgrimed, they've come together for this feast. And they've gathered here in their own eyes to do what? To obey God's word. To obey God's law. They see themselves as faithful followers, faithful pilgrims. And Jesus had just said to them, well, if you would just obey God's law, then you'd know my words are true, and you wouldn't be challenging me here. Again, it's not exactly a chapter out of how to win friends and influence people, right? Jesus goes so far as to challenge their own teachers' credentials in it What does he say? Your teachers seek glory from men. So they actually have no authority. That's what we're doing when we're name-dropping back and forth, right? But who am I? Verse 18. The one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood. It's here that Jesus very cleverly is setting up to reveal to them how they actually have been disobedience, the brokenness of their challenge against him, because they don't actually understand what they're saying. doing. Verse 19, he sets this up. He says, has not Moses given you the law, and yet none of you keeps the law? So why do you seek to kill me? And you can imagine the response of the crowd. Jesus, what do you mean we don't keep the law? We are here. We've gathered for the feast to keep the law. We obey Moses. That's why we're here. And Jesus drops in there and you know, also I know that you're plotting to kill me. I know that that's out there. Some of the people here are going to use that to kind of redirect the situation. The crowd answers verse 20, you must have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you? Uh now there are probably some in the crowd there who are from far off who aren't quite in on the situation and the happenings of Jesus and what has what all has gone on. They don't really know that some people are plotting to kill Jesus, and surely the authorities at some level are willing to just fly under the radar of that ignorance. So Jesus brings them back here to remember that situation, to reveal to them the situation which has led to the authorities plotting to kill Jesus. It says in verse 21. Jesus answered them, I did one work. You all marvel at it. What was that one work? It's when he worked on the Sabbath. It's calling back to that conflict on the Sabbath at the pool. I healed one paralytic at the pool, and you all lose your minds. Because I did it on the Sabbath. So here you are with the death penalty, right? So humor means, Jesus says, you know, consider this for a moment. Let's work out your thinking here. Verse 22. Moses gave you circumcision, not that it's from Moses, but from the fathers, and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath What's he revealing here? Now you all are very concerned, you say, about following the law of Moses, and so you circumcise your boys on the eighth day because that's what Moses told you to do, and he knows that now. Actually, that comes from Abraham, but let it be. And now you all are up in arms because I did work by healing that man on the Sabbath. What he's bringing us to is this. Now remind me, what do you do with that baby boy when his eighth day lands on the Sabbath What do they do? They circumcise that boy. Oh, that's right. You do some kind of work there, one of you. Puts on your gloves and comes out of your tent to go do work there, to do something. You do some kind of work on the Sabbath, don't you? Verse 23, if on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me? Because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well? Now Jesus has got him here, right? He's kind of turned it around on him. He's saying, you realize somewhere in your understanding of the law that there are situations where you do work and that work does not break the Sabbath. But you just you just can't see how my work of mercy might also fit into that category, how that might fit it too. Notice the argument here is not you broke the Sabbath, so I can break the Sabbath too. That's not what Jesus is saying. The argument is you know it is good to give that baby the sign of the covenant. You know that giving him this sign of circumcision, it shows that he is whole and he is at peace in the whole of the covenant community. That's important to do. That is good to do to make this baby whole. So you even know to do that kind of work on the Sabbath But you can't see how it might be right for me to make this man whole on the Sabbath, even on the Sabbath There's an immediate point here. You are all, he's saying, actually very hypocritical. He's showing them in the immediate sense, what you are doing here is so hypocritical. But there's also an overarching case that Jesus is showing. He's showing them all, you all clearly don't really understand Moses. You don't have a whole understanding. The point of the Sabbath is what? It's to bring rest and peace, shalom to those who have worked six days. Jesus saying, so I had to give this man rest and peace. Peace. He had gone so many years without having it. I had to bring him wholeness and shalom. And that what was the Jew's response? Yeah, but you did it on the Sabbath, Jesus. Jesus says, I had to because it was the Sabbath. Because that's the point of the Sabbath. If you can't see that, then you clearly don't understand. You don't understand Moses. If you don't understand him, how could you possibly obey him? Jesus has taken their challenge of his credentials and authorities, and he's clearly flipped it back on them. You think I might be the one who shows up without understanding? Who does not understand? If you can't understand, how can you possibly obey? He's flipped it on them all. And the way that John has presented this to us as we see it here makes us go, gosh, these people are fools. He got 'em here. Jesus' case is clear, it is tight, the evidence is all here. These people should be convinced. Maybe some of them are. But a number of them clearly just cannot see. They don't believe. Why? Why can't they believe and see who Jesus is before them? Point number three, challenging Christ's origins. The next challenge that comes here. As we step into the next element, uh we see various people uh begin thinking. In verse twenty-five, uh some are thinking, hey, maybe this is the guy that they're seeking to kill. In verse 26, they're saying, well, he's out in public, he's teaching. So maybe the authorities have decided this is the Christ. And it's in the midst of the group think here that we get this conclusion in verse 27, oh, but we know where this man comes from. When the Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from. Christ is the term for the Messiah. When the Messiah shows up, the anointed one, no one will know where he comes from. It's kind of an odd thing to hear because in a minute we're going to hear other people say, oh, we know where the Christ comes from. We'll we'll get there. Well, why does the crowd bring up this idea that no one will know where the Christ comes from, where the Messiah comes from? That statement, it's ironic and odd because it demonstrates a variety of both truth and disbelief. In Jesus' day, there was this kind of expectation that was generated through rabbinic teaching about the Messiah. Remember, the rabbis are quoting each other back and forth, and they're developing this kind of idea within their authority, this expectation that the Messiah when he came would be kind of an anonymous figure. That he'd come and swoop in and he'd act swiftly and efficiently, and he'd overthrow any of the various visible enemies of the people you could think particularly here in this moment, enemies like Rome. But what is true of Jesus in their eyes here as they see him? Oh, but we know where Jesus came from. We know his father, Joseph. We know his brothers, they're here at the feast. We know that he's from Galilee, and he hasn't actually come in. He hasn't actually swooped in to do any of those things that we expected. One pastor described uh the writing of the scene here this way that John the author must be kind of giggling to himself as he recounts this because it's just laced with irony because John knows, and we all know who have read John of what's baked into the background that even just a chapter ago John had told us how Jesus recounts nobody has come from and nobody has been where I've come from. from or where I am going. He repeats it here in this chapter again. Jesus has told us, none of you know my Father. And I know that because you don't believe in me. And we even get that kind of thing restated here again. That's even seen in how John started this whole book, right? That in the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. Ah, but this guy before us, this Jesus, he's just a guy from Galilee with a carpenter for his dad, and how can anything good come from there, right? The people are so tethered to their earthly expectations of what the Messiah should be that they just cannot see what is plainly true before them. Christ hints at what John is doing here in verses 28 to 29 and again in 33 to 34. Jesus tells them, I came From the one who sent me. I came from the one who sent me. If you move through the rest of the text, you see there are all these responses to Jesus Some want him arrested. Some want him killed. Some seem to believe. But even in John, when we hear that, it's not all that who believe right away really believe, right? And many are just confused. And Jesus said, verse 36, where I am going, you cannot come. And the crowd responds, what, you mean Greece? I guess we don't want to go back there. Some of us are going back there when the feast is done. John, though, knows what we know, having read John, and what Jesus is saying. Because John has structured this in such an obvious way. That where did Jesus come from? He came from heaven. That's his origin. Jesus was sent by God, his true Father, and that's the authority by which he acts. Jesus has come from heaven, sent by the Father. That's his origin. So as we approach the rest of the story here, have that frame in mind. Think here about the last day of the feast and what Jesus is doing. He says we're at the feast of booze. So the people are marching through the town to that pool. They're pouring the water of the pool on the altar as an offering. They're doing all of this remembering all of God's faithful to them. faithfulness to them in their own day and even back in the wilderness of what God has sent to them He sent them rains. And then back in that day, he sent them manna from heaven and he sent them water from the rock. And they needed that back in the day because when you are cast out in the wilderness, When you are in the desert, that is where you die from thirst. God has provided, He has sent for them what they need from heaven. And then what happens in verse 37 here? On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, If anyone thirsts, come to me and drink. Does that sound familiar from Jesus? If anyone thirsts, come to me and drink. What's Jesus? Doing here? What's he calling out to the people saying? Think about what you're doing. Think about what you are celebrating. How water gave you, how God gave you water in the wilderness. Jesus is saying, I'm right here. I am what God has sent. What you're celebrating right now, I am what you are celebrating. What you have been hoping for, even though you don't know it or believe it, I am what you are hoping for. I am the great promised harvest. I am the mighty reigns. I am salvation and deliverance. I am what all of these things you are celebrating are about. They're all pointing to me. And if anyone is thirsty for God to fulfill his promises, to fulfill the promise of the Messiah, come to me. You could hear the echoes of our call to worship in here, right? Come, everyone who thirsts, come and buy without money, water and drink, come to me Verse 38 he says, For whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. From me comes that life, he says. From me comes the fulfillment of those promises. Living water. So come to me. We know what he says with that. You need to believe in me. I am what God has sent for you. And yet so many of the people seemingly just can't or won't. That's here we get this note from John that we've actually looked at before. That we've seen before, especially we looked at the Samaritan woman and her story. Now, this verse 39, Jesus said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him. were to receive. For as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. Remember how Jesus is waiting on his Father's Timing. He's stepping through his father's plan. And he's waiting for that moment, for that day, when what is going to happen? Water will flow from his pierced side. Because what is the Father's plan and the Father's timing and Jesus' hour? He is stepping through this life. He is stepping through this timing, knowing the plan. He is going to go up to the cross and be crucified for sin. That has to happen. So that then he can be raised up. And so that then he can be glorified. And so that then he will send his spirit, that the spirit might proceed from the Father and the Son to rain down on his people, to regenerate them, to bring them to life. It is in all of this that Christ is claiming, showing who he is, where he has come from, what he is doing What he has come to do. You want life. You want the deliverance that the Messiah brings. It will only come from me. If you want life, come to me. And his words and his deeds and all of the evidence that he presents is so clear. But it is impossible to see without faith. We do get here a list of responses to Jesus, right? In verse 40, some say he's the prophet. In verse 41, some say he's the Christ, but verse 42, oh no, he can't be. Why? Verse 42, is not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David? And he comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was. John is definitely giggling here, right? Because John's read the synoptic gospels, and if you've read them, you know what they say, that yes, Jesus comes from heaven, but how is he born on this earth? Oh yeah. He's born from the line of David. He's born in the city of Bethlehem. All that he has claimed is true. People just cannot see it. And do you see what the problem is? All along the way at this feast Jesus here, he is the Christ, he is the Messiah before them, he is what they are waiting for. But because they just won't believe, because they can't get over their own faulty expectations of a Savior, they just cannot see it. And they are so trapped in their various impressions of what the Messiah should come to do, what he should provide, how he should act, what he should bring, where he should be from, the credentials he should bring. Here he is with all of those things, and yet they just cannot see. So, what is the call here? Would you believe? Would you receive the evidence that is here before? What is presented to us as the Christ? Would you see and believe receive Jesus for who he is as he came? Because all the evidence shows that he is true, that he has fulfilled those promises, that he is real, that he has acted, that he has brought life and regeneration to his people. He can take the challenges. We see so many challenges here. And what has Jesus done with every single one of them? He's answered them. Call is to come to Christ, to believe in him for what he has done. I think about the situation in the story here. Who might we be in this story? We are certainly needy people. We are often the accusers here of bringing our own challenges to Jesus. Yeah, but if you would have just done X. If you would just do why for me now, if you would just act this way, then I would believe. We are who? Oh, you know who we are? Is we are those in the desert in desperate need. We are those who will die from thirst. Because we are weak, needy sinners. But what is presented here to us? That Jesus has come from heaven As we'll see as we walk through this Advent series, he was born in the town of Bethlehem from the line of David. That he has fulfilled every prophecy, every promise about the Messiah who would come. And though he doesn't come necessarily with the appearances that we might ascribe to the God man, he He has acted perfectly. If you know the story, you know what he does. Not what we would expect, not what we would ascribe to some god-like figure. No, he has come humbly. He has taken on the form of man. He has taken our place on a cross, suffering the debt that we owe for sin. Why? So that he can do what he's promised. So that he can provide life, so that he might be who we can receive in faith, who we can hold to, who we can trust in. So that he might send his spirit who could bring us to life, might nourish us even here in this life, and lead us to that perfect time that even Micah has prophesied when all the oppressors are gone. In his first coming, in his spiritual mission, Jesus has conquered the spiritual oppressors. He will even come again and conquer all oppressors What is left for us to believe and to trust, to receive him how he has come? And John has done a masterful job presenting to us along this way the person of Jesus, who Jesus is to us. Now, I have to admit, it's not the kind of Jesus who I might have crafted in my head, who I might have set up expectations about. But the Jesus who comes to us is exactly the Jesus who we need. So we can hold fast. Come in faith to believe in that. Amen. Let's conclude in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that the Jesus who you have sent to us is not the kind of Jesus who we would construct or build for ourselves. Because that Jesus would never be what we need. Who you have sent to us is your true Son, your perfect Son, the God man. And he comes and lives a life of sorrows. He comes humbly. He comes in the form of a baby in the little town of Bethlehem He comes not with all the appearances of a king, though he is one. He comes and he suffers, and he dies. Even for us, Father. Us who would reject him, who would deny him, who are it not for the work of your spirit, would never believe in him Father, may we hold fast to in faith the Son who you have sent to us. The challenges have been brought against him. He clearly passes them all. Father, may we see who you've put before us. May we believe in who you've put before us, that we might trust and have faith and therefore have life in Him. For from him flows rivers of living water, Father. And we trust in that truth even now. So we pray in Jesus' name.