If you were to teach your children or class a geography lesson, let's say you wanted to teach them the geography of New England. How would you do it? Would you give them a ticket on a train, send them up to Boston, say, learn all you can about New England? And as you learn and as you travel and study some of the culture and some of the part of the history, but especially the geography. And as you go along, draw a map. Figure out. all that you can about New England. That sounds silly. Doesn't it? I mean there are maps. Nobody ever studies geography without looking at a map. Now maybe on a bark, to be romantic, you might just take off in a car, learn what you can. But if you're serious about geography, you want a map. You want the latest map. And once that first person drew that first map, everybody. that studied the geography of New England would seek out and study every mouth they could find, not duplicate what had already been done, so that they could build a foundation and study what else they could find out. Yeah, you know what is interesting? The church teaches that way today. Say, when someone becomes a Christian today, we give them a Bible, we tell them to read it, and then often In fact, usually it ends there. But often we put them in a Bible study where we study the word and we go around and we read the word and then we say, raw map. What does it say? And sometimes for years and years and years, the most teaching we ever get is to sit in a group where everybody shares their opinions about the Word of God. And we learn very little. But it makes us feel great. Because we've had a chance to share. It's been an informal group, and there's Bible studies like this proof the word. Proliferating all over the country. With no not. It's me, the Bible, and the Holy Spirit. And I get out of it what I want, and you get out of it what you want, and consequently we have two to three thousand denominations and probably two hundred and fifty million CELOs. And we're confused. To the point where you can talk to the average Presbyterian elder or Methodist board member and they'll have No idea what the doctrines of the church are. In fact, you can find some that have no idea there are such things. Result is confusion, distortion, and mainly a lack of the. lack of power. We've left our masks in the glove department. Now I can relate to that. I hate masks. I get lost probably more than anybody in the world. When I look at a map I start to sweat. I don't like it. I don't understand directions. I still don't know how to go downtown BC and come home and I've done it probably fifty times. I don't know where I am, I don't know what direction I'm going in. I can basically get to New York out. Eventually. And I get home. Hopefully Barbara travels with me. She takes the map out, tells me where to go. I don't like them. But that's silly. It's just not the way to go. I mean the map's there. It's clear as a bell and it's all laid out. Just look at it and find out where you're going. And yet that's the way we do it in the church. We have maps that represent centuries of the teaching of the church, and we never look at it. In fact, most of the We never even take them out or admit that they did. Well, let me ask you, since we've been doing this for quite a few years, is the church stronger today? Now that we're so Educated, and there are so many Bible studies, there are so many sharing groups and praying groups. Is the church stronger today? When you compare it, say 100 years ago with a nice little grandmother who used to memorize the catechist. And memorize the scriptures, memorized their Sunday school lessons, had very little education. What's the state of the church compared to the state of the church when people were memorizing catechism? Studying the history of the church, the theology of the church. How do we compare? Are we stronger? I would say we're not. I would say with all of the education and all the pizzazz and all the technology and all the music and everything we have, the church. is at one of its lowest deaths, and that even the leaders of most churches don't really know the doctrines of the church. We've left our mouth in the glove compartment. Of faith, catechisms of our church. Well, they weren't as spiritual. They memorized all these questions and answers. I mean, that's not spiritual. Anytime you answer a question specifically in the same episode, Every time for some reason we don't think it's spirit. So long time ago, what do they have to teach us? Let me ask you, compare the bookstores today. It's the bookstores at the time of the awakening. If you buy some of the old Puritan literature, you'll find on the on the uh jacket they'll explain to you that this book, Pilgrim's Progress, Commentary, Calvin's Institute, West Roof. 10 and 15 printers. And everybody, from the educated to the non-educated, bought one and read it. Farmers and artists. People who could barely read. bookstore today. What do you find? You find devotions, read the scripture, and it'll give you a thought for the day. You find testimonies to Lord. Everybody wants to tell you how they met Jesus. Very little in doctrine. Very little in what the scripture teaches. What's the difference? Well, I believe the difference is the math. The confessions of faith that we have in our church, we have three sitting over there now. Hopefully many of you have them in your house. The catechisms of the church. These are simply maps to help you understand what the scripture teaches. This is sort of a State of the Union dress for the new year before we go back to Genesis. And I'm really encouraged, like I said last week, I believe God is. I've done some great things amongst I've never been in a group of people before where so many people open the Word of God. They pray together, they love one another, and I'm real encouraged. I'm even more encouraged that we don't have write our own map and draw our own map. That all of you out there can teach your families the scriptures. Can learn the catechisms and understand what the Christ what the scriptures teach. That we're not one of those churches that just is independent in everything and we start from scratch all the time. That we have the history of the teachings of our church. Well let me explain this. First of all, what is the general responsibility of God's people. Turn with me to Deuteronomy 6. And this is just representative. This scripture is all over the Old Testament. In one way or another. Just the parallel passages to this very scripture in Numbers 1538. Deuteronomy 11, 18, many other places. The people of God, after 40 years in the wilderness, experiencing the judgment of God on their sinfulness, are now about to go into the promised land. This is the Second reading of the law, if you will, Deuteronomy, Deuteronom. Second reading of the law. In fact, in Deuteronomy 5, the Ten Commandments were said again. So the people are to be prepared. What are they to do? to love the Lord, their God, with all of their hearts, their mind, their strength. At the foundation of all of our faith is a love for God. And we could think about that verse forever. And we are to love God with all of our hearts, all of our minds, and all of our strength. We're to know it. You shall love the Lord your God with all of your heart, and all of his soul and all of your might. And these words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart. You are to take the word of God, because you love God, and take that word that's outside and put it on your heart. It's not only in your mind, but in your affections. To know God's word. Then you're to teach your children. You're to perpetuate this faith, the teaching of God's people, so that generations from now people will know what God has done and how. they're supposed to live. Why is that? Well, first of all, it's the only response you could possibly have to God. That God has created you, has created the world, has given you life. is enough to make you praise him forever. Added to that fact was that they are the people of God who had been brought out of the land of Egypt, out of the land of slavery, and had per participated in God's particular blessings. So what else could they do but love out? Obey his commands. Besides that, it was practical. If they disobeyed, they would be punished. They would be judged. It was the road to health, prosperity for the Israelites. But also, why such an emphasis? Why this repetition? You're to think about it when you sit down. You're to think about it and talk about it. when you rise up. Yeah, yeah, get the message. Not finished. When you walk, think about it and talk about it. When you lie down, think about it and talk about it. Put it on your forehead. Put it on your hands. And that's all ready. And I'm finished. When you open the door to your house, I want it on the door post. And when you walk out of your yard, I want it on the Has God made his message clear? How much we're to know, love, and understand the Word of God. Why is He so repetitious? Numbers 1538, he tells all the sons of Israel that on all their garments they're to wear tassels. Not very practical. Wonder if it fit into the fashion of time. But what were the tassels for? The tassels were For a reminder. The old string on the finger that every time you see these patches, you are to remember the commandment of God. That you are not to walk in your own way, but to obey Him. Why? the repetition goes to forget. In fact, the word forget is not strong enough. I wish there was another word that we could invent today to make us realize how much we forget. I can put a pen down on my desk and turn away and look back and I can't find the pen. I can't find it in my office. I can turn the house upside down, I can't find it. Barber can say to me, whatever you do, don't forget the milk. Don't remember any. I don't care about anything else. Just remember the milk. Okay, I'll remember the milk. But I can't remember the milk. The Israelites watching the Red Sea part and experiencing the grace of God in two days, three days, just saying we don't have any water. We want to go back to Egypt. You can't give us any water. You could part the Red Sea, maybe you could create the world. You couldn't give us any water, could you? One of the great enemies of the church is our enemy. We can't remember the grace of God that happened yesterday. When trials and tribulations come into our life, it often overwhelms us. God entered our prayer yesterday, but today my life's coming to a woman. We forget. The constant admonishment in the scripture, Joshua 1. 8, the book of The law shall not depart out of your mouth, but you shall be careful to meditate on it day and night, that you may be able to do according to all that is written. Think about it day and night. David, thy word have I hid in my heart. It's in my heart. I love it. I know it. That I might not sin against sin. The way to live the life of the people of God. And now what he says and remember. The New Testament, Matthew 28, verse 20, 19, and 20, go therefore and make disciples. Of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Boy, how that's business. That's quoted and quoted and quoted to justify all kinds of evangelism. And certainly that's included in there. Evangelism is in there. But it says to teach and make it. just teach them those things that make it easy for them to come to Christ or easy for them to stay in church. Teach them the whole counsel of God. That's what's to be taught. The verses of the scripture the chapters of the scripture, the whole of the scriptures, and what it means. And then apply it to life. We are to become disciples and learners, followers, who know what? Who know Christ, the power of his resurrection, who know his commandments, John 14, 21, who know how deep is his love in Ephesians, know the hope of his calling, the riches of his glory and his inheritance. To have the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, so that you might know the will of God for your life. Does that sound like we're just to pick up the scripture? and decide for ourselves what it means. Or is that a bit more substantial than that? I was a Christian for twenty years, and I don't think I could have answered the question. What is God? And so I started memorizing the catechism. If you would have asked me after theological training, what is God? If you'd have given me 20 minutes, I could have done it. Maybe not clearly, maybe you'd be just as but you know that I had an idea. I worked for the attributes of God. Somehow, some way. Now. No. God is a spirit. Eternal, unchangeable in its being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. And I know where to find those verses. And I've got a foundation before God. That's what I believe is a step further. That we need to go as a church. To pull the map out of the glove compartment. To begin to go beyond the scriptures, which are our foundation. I'm not replacing the scriptures. But now we need to find out what to teach. So that we might know. So that our children might know. For without that, we are no different than the cults. The cults study the scriptures. All the little Bible studies that people start, they study the scripture. The point is, do we know what they teach? And are we being consistent not only with this verse, but with all of Scripture? Maybe you've experienced in a conversation with a Jehovah's Witness who's been trained to come to your door and you've realized they know the scripture. And I don't, and yet I know somewhat of what they teach and we disagree. What's the problem? Well, how do we do this? What is the method? Well the method is the catechetical method. I didn't want to use that word. It's a strange word. Makes you think of me. of your Catholic friends growing up. Heard that word once in a while, but I couldn't think of another word. What is the catechetical method? It's very simple. In fact my oldest son is learning his multiplication tables and we've been working with that method for quite a while. What's four times three? Twelve. What's three times four? Twelve. And you ask the more questions. And then you go back. What's four times three? 12. So much so that he knows what four times three is. Without any shadow of doubt. And he'll build on that so that when he's older, he'll be able to do math without going through all the steps every time. We don't have any problem with that. It's a way to live life. In your job, you probably have a whole a group of statistics or a set of information that you memorize so you can go back to town. If you had to think of those things every day, you couldn't do it. You memorize phone numbers, you memorize addresses. But when it comes to an oh no, that's irrelevant. Oh, I couldn't do that. Why is that? Why is it we can accept it in the outside world that we have to memorize things that it helps us, that it's good for us. But when it comes to the catechism that was written over a long period of time, taking into consideration all the maps that have been drawn before to help you to understand the words. I'm just memorizing. I'm not good at memory. I'm not into memorizing. Neither am I. I'm not good at memory either. But it's the one the most exciting things I've ever done in my life. Finally beginning to understand what the scripture teaches. That's how we do it. In Deuteronomy 6. 7 the word, teach your skills. basically means to refuse. Craig in his commentary said the commandments were to be the subject of conversation both inside and outside the home from the beginning of the day to the end of the day. It was to permeate every sphere of life. Meditate on it day or night. Wait a minute. We don't want to be a fanatic. How many times have you said that? How many times have you thought that? Well, I'm not encouraging you to go outside and be obnoxious, but I challenge you to read. Scriptures and get any other interpretation on your view of the Word of God and how you should learn it, then that you're to be a fanatic, you're to love it, you're to think about it, you're to talk about it. When you lie down, when you rise up, when you go out. When you come in, when you're talking to your children, your wives, your husbands, you're to talk about the word of God and learn what it says. How often could you take that? In the New Testament, God said oh, that's where we get the word. It originally meant to sound from above. The Greek poets would stand up on a very high stage and speak down to the people, and the word that was coming to them from above was tapaketo. But it developed over a period of time and meant that you were to instruct someone in the basics. To teach them the foundational truths. And of course the Christian church picked that up as catechism simply meant to instruct someone in the faith. Romans 2. 18, Paul said he catechized people in the law. 1 Corinthians 14, 19. I would rather speak five words with my mind that I might catechize or teach as translated usually. Others. Specific instruction before baptism. in the early church was called catechism. And the method was simply to repeat again and again and again until it could come right back like an echo. Children, do you know what an echo is? You stand out where there's mountains and you shout out, hello. And it comes back to you, goodbye. Right? No. What comes back? Exactly what you said. That's what catechism meant. That you would ask a question and get the same answer back over and over and over again, and the person began to have a foundation. So that every Every time they read the scriptures, they didn't have to wonder what did I learn yesterday? What do the scriptures teach about this? This is what the churches should do. To teach and teach. repeat until our children and our very selves know what this precious means. You would know it, not find it somewhere in the recesses of your mind. Who is to do it? Aaron for Natakai for children. Genesis 18, 19 is the very beginning of the giving of the covenant between God and Abraham, chosen him in order that he may Command his children, his household after him, to keep the way of the Lord by doing righteousness and justice, in order that the Lord may bring upon Abraham what he had spoken about him. Deuteronomy six, which we've been focusing on, we keep your children diligently. Ephesians 6. 4, bring up your children in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. The church is to catechise its people. Galatians 6, 6. Let the one who is taught, not the cate-oh, one who is catechized. The word share all good things with him who catechizes. What could geography like? You read Luke chapter 1. Verses 1 through 4. Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile an account of the things accomplished among us, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and servants of the word have handed down to them to us, it seems fit. for me as well. I've investigated everything carefully from the beginning to write it out for you in consecutive order, most excellent Theopolis, so that you might know the exact truth about the things you have been catechised. You have been taught. Notice the pattern. He was taught the essentials of the faith. And then Luke sent him the gospel to show him what this teaching came from. That's the way we bring people along. We don't hand them the scriptures and say, draw your own map and come back if you'd like to hear some of the things I believe. We teach people what the scriptures say as we're teaching them. the scriptures to show where we die from. From the Word of God. Well what should we do now? How should we do this? Start teaching your children in past people. If you don't have any children, start learning. If you need somebody to do it with, start meeting with someone. Do a question a week. Question every two weeks if you can't handle it. Start learning. So that you know what the scripture teaches. You can look up the verses that support it. If you find something there you're not sure of, you can call your pastor and he'd love it. Or one of your elders. You don't have to wait to go stuff. seminary. This is exciting. How many people do you know that say, oh I wish I could go to seminary? Oh I wish I could take a course. Or I wish I could find a good Bible study to really do some teaching. Or you can start at home. Just together in group. From the very beginning, the church started to put together summaries of what the scriptures want. In fact, we have examples of that in the scriptures. would agree that 1 Corinthians 15, first three verses, were a summary that was passed around. Now I make known to you, brother, the gospel which I preach to you, which also you received, and which you also stand, by which you also are saved. If you hold fast the word, you which I preach to you, unless you believe in vain, for I delivered to you, as of first importance, what I also received, that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures. That he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, according to the scriptures. the scriptures. That's a summary of the facts that Paul passed around and included in his letters, of course. 1 Timothy 315. But in case I am delayed, I write you So that you may know how one ought to conduct himself in the household of God, which is the Church of the Living God, the pillar and support of the truth. By common confession, great is the mystery of godliness. He who was revealed in the flesh was was indicated in the spirit. Beheld by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory. Six little lines. The summary of the things. Hebrews 5. 12, we're told that we are to go on beyond the new. Don't keep studying the same things that you've always studied. Move on. You should be getting staked by now. Learn what the scriptures say. Without this we have doctrinal confusion. It's really popular today to say we don't have creeds. In fact, there's a denomination that says no creed but Christ. You wouldn't know Christ is without the creed. One of the great councils of the church has spent years studying the person and nature of Christ. And they've come out with a statement to say that Christ was fully God and fully man. Where did it come from? Of course it came from the scriptures, but it wasn't articulated until they put it together. And that's been done with so many topics that we don't need to go over anymore, other than just the study of the scriptures to understand it. It's written for you. And you can teach it to your children. Now I'm not elevating the catechism to biblical status at all. Please don't misunderstand that. The catechism is a help for you to know what the scripture teaches. If you find any place where it's wrong, it can be changed. There are scriptures in there that are a bit confusing at times. You might need to discuss it. You can call me. But it is a help that was witnessed by the church to teach people the scripture. In a way that you can teach it, you can remember it with all the scripture proof. It's our urgent need for today, I'm convinced, to know what Scripture teaches, not just to know Bible verses. To give our children a foundation of foundation that's there in their memory. So that when they go to college and they're assailed by professors who know all the answers, they can at least remember their status. And the verses that they've memorized. When you watch a professional athlete and he practices and he practices and he practices, I've said to myself many times, why do they practice so much? They know how to play. If you've ever been to a golf run and a guy will stand up there and he'll hit fifty. and they look exactly the same. Why are you doing that? You can do it once, you can do it twice, that's enough. They do it for muscle memory. They do it so that when they're under all the pressure. Gotta throw, I've got one play left, there's three seconds, and I've got to drop back and throw a touchdown pass. I've got a three foot punt to feed my family. To make fifty thousand dollars and all the pressure that's on a professional athlete He wants his muscles to do what's right no matter what the situation is. Muscle memory. Well that's what we want. We want the word of God and the catechism in our hearts so that when Satan fails us, we remember. What are the decrees of God that this has been ordained from the beginning of the world, and that this is good for me? What an encouragement. This can be in our lives, in our hearts. say this is indoctrination. This is brainwashing. It might be. I got news for you. There are lots of people out there trying to brainwash you and your children. Just watch any Saturday morning on television. You don't believe that, you're living in a dream world. They're going to be indoctrinated, the point is who's going to do it? They're going to be taught lessons over and over again. The point is who's going to do it, who's going to win? Certainly you want to do it and explain why you're doing it. You don't just memorize questions and say, okay, good night. You look up the scripture and you do it with a joyful heart so that the children know that this means something to you. Don't just seek to close the book while you're yawning. Certainly there's got to be life, there's got to be explanation, there's got to be discussion. But there also has to be the foundation. It's got to be in your memory. That's just something they remembered, oh yeah, when I was a child we used to do that. And also, if you do believe it's indoctrination, tell it's a dollar. There's anything that's indoctrination, it's pseudoronomy. If you're going to talk about something when you lie down, when you rise up, when you sit down, when you walk out the door, when you walk out the gate, when you come back, and you're going to talk about it day or night, what would you call that? You are to command your children. You're not to say, hey, there's many philosophies of life, and I want you to have an open mind and go out and study on your own. And this is what I believe, but who cares? You're going to say, this is what I believe. Your eternal salvation depends on this stuff. Now certainly they They can go out to the world and make their own decisions. And we love them and we care for them, but we need to tell them carefully what God has told us to tell them. The commandments of God and what the scriptures teach. This is what we need. need to pull the map out of the glove compartment. Professor Mason said the an outstanding fact of recent church history is the appalling growth of ignorance in the church. John Murray said there is there is no more ominous feature of members of the church than the lack of discernment. They can listen to what is good and true and to what is bad and false without discrimination. They go from praising God to cursing God. They go from what watching truth and hearing the word of God preached to watching smut doesn't make any difference. Williamson in his paper on the subject, G. I. Williamson, who will be in this area, I think, in a couple of months, hopefully we can hear him. That their defense, excuse me, I get something. It's very important. Whenever the church has been awakened from deadness, the first thing the reformers did was write pathogens. Luther, Calvin, Swingley, every one of them. During the Puritans, churches, individuals wrote catechisms that they can teach the Word of God. Luther said, I've been impelled to cast this catechism or Christian doctrine into the simple form by the lamentable deficiency in the means of inst instruction which I witnessed lately in my visitation. Imagine being visited by Martin Luther? Interesting thing. God help us, what deplorable things. have I seen the common people wholly without any knowledge of doctrine. Not that they didn't know some scripture verses, but they didn't know the doctrines that were taught them. So he wrote that again. Your defense against biblical ignorance, one of the chief means of it was catechetical training. Parents teach your children patent. I take a year, I take three. years. I think three years. And I don't believe the power and the results will be fully realized for generations. This hadn't been done for years. But I believe wherever you found true life and by The history of the church will find people and children being patent. Look it up. Spurgeon said, those who use it in their families or classes must labor to explain the sense to the The little ones. Don't just memorize it, explain it. But the words should be carefully learned by heart, for they will understand better as the child advances in years. To the framers, said Warfield, if they were less careful to make it easy to than to make it good. It won't be easy. It'll take a lot of sweat on tears. The results, I believe, will be tremendous. The church could have catechism classes for children Taught by the elders. Children would learn a lot by that. They learn that the pastor isn't so special, so set apart, that he's not the only one who knows doctrine. They hear it from someone else. So often it's important. It's important for your children not only to hear these things from you and the pastor, but someone else. And it also will help your elders to grow in their knowledge of the Word of God. T. F. Torrance said there can be no question about the fact that the generations of people brought up on the shorter catechism, even though otherwise not highly educated, had powers of intellectual, spiritual grasp, which the ordinary man markedly lax today. This is what we need. These are the maps. They're there, they're written, they're prepared, they're in our hands. We need to give them to our especially to our children. The result will be, I believe, that you will understand the scripture in a much deeper way. You hear the preaching of the word, you read it, you've got the foundation of the catechism. It will help you to understand the doctrines of the church, the doctrines of the scripture. Reminds me of a story I think I told you last year about D. L. Moody. He was preaching in England and tremendous accolades all over, and he was seeing the house and folks had invited all these people uh to be with Moody around this dinner table. So one of the young men there who heard him preach and said, Mr. Moody, I thought that was tremendous, but I have a few questions. about prayer. We talked about prayer and I don't understand it. What is it? Of course, like many preachers, when we're asked a question we ought to know, began to hesitate, mumble a little, rumps a little bit. Real quickly think through all the verses we heard. In the meantime, a little girl named Jenny is running down the steps and the host, in the awkward hips of the moment, said, Jenny, come here. She walked up. But what is prayer? Automatically she knew. Folded her hands, stood in attention, called to answer her questions, catechism questions. And she said very clearly, prayer is an offering up of our desires unto God. For things agreeable to his will in the name of Christ, with confession of our sins and thankful acknowledgement of his mercies. Now what's wrong with that? Would you rather your child or yourself have to think through and let me sit? John 1624, if you ask anything by name, then I'll do it. First of all, we can ask anything. Secondly, what's John says we should ask according to will. We have to know those things. But we also have to know the summaries. We need to put them together. We need to know what there is. What better explanation than the shorter plan? Moody, after this little girl finished, said, ah, that's fantastic. Thank God for the catechism. Thomas Carlyle said, The older I grow and now I stand on the brink of eternity, the more comes back to me the first sentence in the catechism, which I learned when a child. Fuller, deeper, its meaning becomes what it's the sheep and she done your hand. Works by God. Enjoy and forever. You want that in your heart? You want that in your children? Children's hearts and minds. Think about that. Just that one question. When you go through the trials and tribulations of life, you wonder what you're about and what you're doing and what you're supposed to do to reflect. In your life, in your victories, the joys of life, even if you die, to bring glory to God, and enjoy him and point you forward to that. We know our catechism will have a greater capacity to discern the truth. Where Williamson's church was in New Zealand, the more Reformants would not worry at all about the people who went to the Reformed Church because they knew the catechism and knew what the scriptures call. We'll have a unity of mind in the congregation. We'll have that foundation that we shared together. What do we need for 87? We need to test it. How silly to leave those matters and love them by them. And go out on our own. We need to take up the catechetical method. Only give he to your yourself and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget things which your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. But make them known to your sons And your grandson. Let us pray. Our gracious God, how we praise your name for who you are. How we thank you for your gracious blessings. How we thank you for the word. God. Father, how we praise you that we can hide it in our hearts, that we can memorize it and meditate upon it. And we do thank you for the history of your church that throughout the years there have been many creeds written to help explain to us the scriptures. The great doctrines of the Trinity, the person and work of Christ, the nature of God, the doctrine of God. We don't have to start from the beginning, but we can read. and know what the scriptures teach. Help us, Lord, to be diligent, to study the scriptures and teach them to our children. And help us to be wise and to use the children's catechism this year, that we would all start To learn it, teach it, study those scriptures on which it's made. Father in heaven, help us to be diligent. Help us to be diligent. Tell us that we might know your word as that foundation upon which we can face any situation. T