I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity. Not that I'm speaking of being. In need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing Plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Yet, it was kind of you to share my trouble. And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving except. Except you only. Even in Thessalonica, you sent me help for my needs once and again. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases To your credit. I have received full payment and more. I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts that you see. Sent, a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Jesus. To our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Let's go before God in prayer and ask his blessing on our time as we pray. Meditate upon this text. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, that it is living and active, that it does attend to our hearts, that you, by your spirit, cut us to the heart. Convicting us of sin, and that it is only by the work of your spirit through the word that we can have truly the comfort of the gospel of Jesus Christ. May you apply that gospel to us tonight. May we be And may you call us out of our sin and the way in which we tend toward uh the bentness uh in which it leaves us, help us to grow in our love for you and our love for the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, as his story is told, Horatio Spafford had just suffered tremendous personal loss. In eighteen seventy-one, he had lost. A tremendous amount of his financial means in the Great Chicago fire of eighteen seventy-one. He had put a lot of his money into property to basically invest it and keep it and have it grow over time, and most of that property was burned up in the fire. Two short years later there was an economic downturn uh across the Nation, and that further strained his already poor financial position. Yet in eighteen seventy-three he He planned with his wife and four daughters to travel to Great Britain to uh join in Dwight Moody's evangelistic campaigns. were going on over there. He had a heart for the gospel, heart for Christ, and he wanted to join up. Yet sadly all of his financial woes were mere prologue to what happened when he was Detained because of his business troubles and sent his wife and four daughters on ahead. And we all know the story. They were crossing of the Atlantic, their ship was hit. Sank, and all four of his daughters died in the waters. Only his wife was saved, and she lived on and arrived in Great Britain and sent a telegram back to Spafford. With two words, saved alone. Not long after, Spafford quickly uh got on a ship and headed to Great Britain, and as he was traveling across It is then that he penned one of the most beloved hymns. It is Well with My Soul. And that first verse of the hymn captures the Contentment that Spafford could have in in spite of the turmoil of his life at the moment. The good times, and when sorrows like sea billows, Roll the bad times. Whatever my lot, thou hast taught me to know. It is well, it is well with my soul. How does one find? How do we find that kind of contentment? A contentment that transcends even the darkest, most difficult circumstances of life. It's so important for us to ask this question because we live in a very discontented age. And we know this because that's how all the advertisers and the politicians know they can get us. Playing to our discontent, right? You know, vote for me, and I will give you that thing you still lack. Buy me, and you can finally have content. Contented happiness. The question for you, the question for me, as we think about this idea of contentment, is: are we content? What could make you more content. What what is that one thing that you feel like if I just had that, then I could really truly be happy? Almost all Always something, isn't it? You can almost always answer that in some way. And that's why contentment, true contentment, is such a precious commodity. One Puritan theologian from the 18th century. He says it this way. He says, Contentment is a pearl of great price, and whoever procures it at the expense of ten thousand desires makes a wise and a happy Another early Puritan has a whole book called The Rare Jewel of Christian. Contentment. It's a rare thing. It's a rare thing, and yet it's worth pursuing. So how do we find it? How do we procure it? And the answer comes from Spafford as it comes from Paul here. So we can look at the hymn, It Is Well with My Soul, and see really in many ways the same truths reflected here in Philippians chapter 4, especially in verses 10 to 13, which is all about Christian contentment, the contentment that Paul himself has and can testify to, and so we can learn lessons from him on what it looks like and how we can attain it. And so as you look at these verses, what I want us to see is first of all the challenges to contentment. What is it that makes it so hard to be content? Or what what things are there that make it so hard? Second of all, the cause of contentment. Maybe we should say the cause of discontent, the true cause, and second of all, and third, uh the cultivation of contentment. How do we get it? How do we cultivate First of all, challenges. Challenges the cause and the cultivation. The challenges to contentment. And we see this in Paul's description of his own abiding contentment. He says, in whatever circumstances Because circumstances are often what are the great challenge to our contentment, aren't they? It's interesting As Paul lays out his argument here, he really kind of shows us the challenges to Christian contentment there in verse 12. And when we look at it, we basically see that he lays out two columns of circumstances. Circumstances, and he's able to say, in all of these I have found contentment. And so what he's doing is he's saying these are all challenges to contentment, and yet I found a way, in spite of the challenges, to be content. And if we break it down into two columns, what we find is that the first column is the set of challenges to contentment. That is due to want or to poverty or to lack. And this makes sense. This is what we normally think of when we think of lack of contentment: that we don't have something we need or that we want. Look at verse 12. I know how to be brought low, I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance, and Need. So brought low and abound, plenty, hunger, abundance, and need. And what's interesting is you look at these three lacks of Paul is that they basically cluster around three ideas. The first one he says is a lack or a want of status and recognition and honor before people. That's That's that word brought low in our translation. It has to do with status, honor, among others The second want or lack that can be a challenge to contentment is a lack of food or physical needs for life. And that he captures with the word hunger. It's kind of obvious. And then the third area of want or challenge to contentment is a lack of other kinds of supplies, material possessions, the thing that give our life the sense of wealth and security. And that's that term translated need in the ESV. And certainly a powerful testimony that Paul can say, I have I've endured the great challenge to contentment of want, of lack. And yet I can still say I am content. And it's profound because think about where Paul is. He is in prison at the moment. In prison, which at that time uh was not like our prisons. Not not That our prisons are great, uh, but in comparison they they're a little bit better. We get three meals a day in prison, a certain amount of activity. In uh the Roman period being imprisoned meant that you were utterly dependent on people outside. Outside the prison to bring you food and to make sure you stayed alive. There was no government care for the prisoners. You had to have outside help. So Paul here is utterly dependent on those outside, and we see Part of the whole point of writing this letter is he's grateful for the Philippians who have made it possible for him to survive in prison in Rome. But if we think of Paul's life and we think of him in prison, this is not the first time. He has a long list of experience in that area of want that he can go back to. 2 Corinthians gives us that list Where he is confronting those who are claiming, are sort of boasting in their prowess, claiming that they have the right to be great preachers. And he's saying, you know, really, I have more right. And then he lays out a list of of wants, of lacks that he has endured. He says, five times I received at the hands of the Jews Forty forty lashes less one, three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, a night and day I was adrift at sea on frequent journeys and danger from rivers, robbers, danger from my own people, from Gentiles, danger in the sea. City, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers. We get it, Paul. Danger, danger, danger. And then in toil and hardship through many sleepless nights, and then here it is in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure. Want, lack, poverty is a great challenge to contentment. Well we think we haven't achieved what we think we should have, and so we don't have the honor, when we are brought low, when we are lower than we feel we should be. When we lack basic needs. And that's not probably true for most of us in North America today, and yet those times when we do lack basic needs, it can It can be hard to be content. Material security when we don't have all the stuff of life that we feel a desire for or a need for. That can challenge our contentment. So the question for me and the question for you is, what is it? What sort of wants rob you of your contentment? One way to answer that is by filling in the blank if I only have a little more X. But there's a second challenge. Contentment. And that's in that second column of circumstances that Paul describes. And this is maybe a little more Counterintuitive because Paul also suggests that another challenge to contentment is not just want, but it's wealth. It's having plenty. We see that again in that list in verse 12. I know how to be brought low and I know how to abound. Again, this is a term of reputation. Really. Another translation translates that I know how to prosper. The idea is to prosper in wealth such that other people can recognize it and realize through your wealth that person's important. So it's a wealth of status, you could say. Then there's a wealth of food. He says, I've known how to be content in plenty. Or another way to translate that word is well-fed, as the NIV Does. Or with a full stomach, as the New Living Translation translates that word plenty in the ESV. And then the third area of wealth, wealth of stuff and abundance, more than I need, the New Century Version says. having too much. Interesting, once again, Paul is talking about this from a position of experience. He he's he's oddly writing from position of want and lack in prison, but also a position of wealth being well supplied by the gift of the Philippians to him. That's what he's saying. says throughout this passage. Verse 18, he says, I have received full payment and more, I am well supplied. I am well supplied, he says, having received from I think that's actually part of the reason Paul brings up the idea of contentment. Here because as he's writing this letter to the Philippians, he's thanking them for their support, their generous and sacrificial support. He he he recognizes that they are they are sacrificing out of their want in order that he can actually experience a sense of plenty. And we know that if we go over to second Corinthians 8, 1 to 4, where Paul speaks of the Macedonian church. That is, uh the Philippians are part of the Macedonian church. And over there, he's writing to the Corinthians. Who are not as poor a church. And he says, you know, I want you to make a collection for the work of the gospel. And here's my here's my encouragement. Look at the Macedonians. They Have given out of their great poverty to the work of the Lord. And so I want you to be motivated by that as well. And so here he's writing to the Philippians. And he's claiming, I can find contentment. What he realizes is they need to hear that it is not it is not just his transfer from want to wealth by their Gift that has made him content. But that both want and wealth, both lack and fullness, both poverty and plenty are all challenges to contentment. And so Paul is talking about contentment here to explain his joy that not simply was it because of what he had received, although something about what they gave him does make him rejoice. Says that in verse 10. I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity. Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation. He wants them to realize that there's something more going on. Paul is rejoicing at their gift, but it's not simply in change of his circumstance. This down later on, where he he says in verse 17, not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit. He's really excited about how their gift to him enables him to praise the Lord and thank him. God for it, and ought to give them joy as they know that his needs are well supplied. How is wealth? How is how is that sort of plenty a challenge to contentment. I think the first answer is because no matter how much we have, there's always a little more to have. Uh one of the earliest billionaires in the history of our country, uh JDF Rockefeller is said to have been asked, all right, you have so much money, how much is enough? And you know his answer. Just one more. Just one more. The more we have, the more we can look and say, but we still don't have X, Y, or Z. I went to seminary in Southern California, a place that in sort of as far as financially or economically is very similar. You have the two coasts and it was a fairly well-off area in Southern California. And I was a fairly not well off seminary student at the time. And so uh and yet I was I was longing to have more to build my book collection, right? Because I was on into books, that's what we were doing. So we would go uh on days off, Rachel and I would go uh and and you know find estate sales, and I would always run toward the books and say, what books Can I get for cheap here? Sadly, they did not have uh many like great old Puritan or theologians in those books. What I found really striking was how those books told a tale of discontentedness in wealth. You'd see the story of someone's life. And here we are, it's they're no longer here. It's their estate sale. They passed on. And you'd see a book with the title like How to Make Your First Million Dollars. And then How to Eat More and Tastier Food and Still Lose Weight. Enjoyed their wealth. How to get the most out of retiring early. How to live to a hundred. How to beat cancer. And that's the newest book. Wealth can be a great challenge to contentment. There's also a challenge in wealth to simply wish you had less. To to long for the simpler life, like celebrities who have all sorts of fame and recognition and honor and and and and most of us sort of dream of being able to walk out there and everyone be able to recognize you and yet they put on sunglasses, cover their hair and try to hide. Or wealthy people like Warren Buffett who have committed to giving a w most of their wealth away, recognizing that really uh wealth can be A great problem, something to run from. Or William Bud Post, a name that you probably don't know, despite the fact that in 1988 he won the Pennsylvania Lottery. William Bud Post. It was sixteen point two million dollars. And you say that's nothing. Nowadays it's like hundreds, or I don't you know, before I even consider playing notes. Yeah inflation, 16. 2 million is, you know what, uh, 40 billion, something like that. I don't know. I'm not a math guy, but it was a lot of money in 1988. And yet within one year of winning that, he was one million dollars in debt. His former girlfriend, it ruined his relationship with her, she Successfully sued him for a share of the winnings. His brother was arrested for hiring a hitman to try to kill Post, hoping to inherit a share of his winnings. His other siblings pestered him until he agreed to invest in their car business and restaurant in Sarasota, Florida. I don't know if they're still there. Uh I'm assuming not, because the two ventures didn't really do that well and didn't bring any money back to Bud. And so he uh ended his life after spending actually a time in jail for firing a gun over the head of a Bill Coll. He ended his life living on $450 a month of Social Security and food stamps. And at the end of his life, he's quoted as saying, I wish it had never happened. It was a total nightmare. William Bud Post went from rags to riches, and yet it didn't bring contentment. There's a reality for us here. This is probably more our problem in our modern day as Americans, not having too little, but having too much. What discontentment does wealth bring into your life, into my life? Those are the two challenges for discontentment or for contentment, the challenge of want and the challenge of wealth. Second point is the cause of discontentment. We'll move on to that because here's the point, here's the big question. If it's not really circumstances, I mean we attribute to circumstances. They're a challenge to contentment, but if it's not really lack or having That define true contentment, then there must be something more going on. Contentment must not be a circumstance issue as much as it must be Something like a heart issue. Something more must be going on. The Bible says that's true, that there is a heart issue, and the heart issue is one of sin, specifically the sin Sin of coveting. Discontent is due to the sinfulness of our hearts when we covet things we don't have or things that other people do have. Exodus twenty verse seventeen, the tenth commandment says it this way you shall not covet your neighbor's house, you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his male servant, or his female servant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that that is your neighbor's and our Westminster shorter catechism, as it unpacks, what is it that that tenth commandment about coveting really means? Like that's the sin. That's the hard issue. But what is it that it really means? It says this: it says that the tenth commandment requires full contentment. With our own condition, with a right and charitable frame of spirit toward our neighbor and all that is his. And then in contrast, our confession and catechism always Catechisms always go back and forth. What is what is forbidden or what is uh commanded and required and what is forbidden, what is forbidden is all discontentment with our own estate. Coveting is a heart sin that breeds discontent. It is the ultimate root cause of discontent. And it's it's such a dangerous root cause, it's such a dangerous sin, because Paul calls it in Ephesians 5, it is idolatry Ephesians 5. You may be sure of this that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, who is covetous, that is an idolater. There it is. Who is covetous, that is an idolater, has no inheritance. How is coveting idolatry? Well, it's because if we if all that we need in life, or all we think we need, is just one more thing, one more of this, or one more of that, one more thing that will That will make us truly content. That will be our focus, and we will ultimately worship that. What do I mean by worship? We'll think about it all the time. We'll long for it. We'll dream it. Of it, we'll give anything for it. Coveting is that great sin, and coveting, as Paul says, is a form of idolatry. And coveting is not just something that we we Is not just about wanting something we don't have. We think of it that way. I want something that I don't have, but it's actually specifically wanting something that others have. Right? This contented us with our status as we compare ourselves to others. Notice the biblical command: you shall not covet your neighbor's wife. Not assuming that you don't have a wife, assuming that you do. But it's your neighbors that you covet. You shall not covet your neighbor's house, not assuming that you don't have a house, but that you're coveting your neighbor's house, even though you have your own. Not uh coveting, don't cover your neighbor's donkey. Uh that's that's not hard for me. Uh that one that one's pretty easy, but uh maybe we could say car, whatever the case would be, the form of transportation. Not assuming that you don't have your own car, but specifically That you're discontent with yours and you want other. That's why contentment is so elusive. Because the deep cause of it is ultimately the sinfulness of our hearts. So that whenever, you know, whether we're in want or in wealth, we still covet, we still worship the circumstances of others. So, what is it for you? What do you see others have that breeds. That longing desire. If I only had that. If you're not sure, just go get on social media for a few minutes. Social media is built around cultivating, coveting, and discontent. That's the challenge. The two challenges. The twofold challenge to contentment. Wants and wealth, the cause, which is the deeper seated or heart-rootedness of covetous idolatry. How then do we conquer it? How do we conquer discontent and how do we Cultivate contentment. And that's the third and final point we want to consider. The reality is that this is not something we can find by turning inward. We can't muster this in ourselves. And Paul makes this clear here in verses 11 and 12, where he says, contentment is something that must Come from outside. It must be learned. Look what he says in verse 11. Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned, there it is, in whatever situation I am, To be content. I know how to be brought low and I know how to abound in any and every circumstance. I have learned, there it is again, the secret of facing plenty and hunger abundant. Abundance and need. It's interesting, this word translated, learned the secret. It's a specific term that was often used, it's the language of mystery religions. and and their their initiation process into the religion. And and those mystery religions were basically all built around this idea that you needed to learn some mystery and then you'd be initiated, you'd have the knowledge to then be part. of the religious community, the religious people who are in the know. Why would Paul use that that word? Well, I I think not because he is trying to present Christianity as a mystery religion. In fact, he often talks about uh uh in in contrast to that, like when we're looking at Ephesians, he talks about uh Christianity is not like the mystery religions where they secretly guard that mystery Because it gives them power and it keeps the in-group. Christianity is about the mystery that's been revealed. The good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that Jew and Gentile are brought together. It's not about having a secret that we Pass on. He says, but but there is a secret to be learned in Christianity. What is it? I think he's trying to show us the difference between Christian contentment and the claims of contentment that are taught by other philosophies. Stoics taught that you could be content by stiff upper lip. Just grin and bear it. Life is hard. Just be content. in the midst of it. Buddhism suggests that we can grow in contentment by by by loosening our grip on this world and oozing into nothingness. I'll say no. That it is a mystery that needs to be learned, Christian contentment. But the contentment that Paul has is not an initiation into some knowledge of some truth Or truth claim or statement of the truth. In contrast, Paul says here: true contentment is found in being initiated into a relationship of knowing a person. And that person is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. And he gets at this in verse 13. I've learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through him. Who strengthens me? Who is the hymn? Refers back to Lord in verse 10. I rejoice greatly in the Lord. That's the hymn that Paul is referring to there in verse 13. He says, I can do all things, and here he's not saying I am Superman. I can fly and stop bullets. No. What is the all things? The all things is referring to verse 12. I can deal with all these circumstances. I can do all those things through him, Christ Jesus the Lord, who strengthens me. And then we have to think about that verse just one more moment, because I think here the uh the the the the American Standard Version translates it a little bit more woodenly, but I like I like how it gets it what it Really is saying there. Their translation goes, I can do all things in him who strengthens me. See, the idea is being united to Christ by faith. That is how his strength is at work in us. How he empowers us by his resurrection glory and power that Paul's talked about earlier in Philippians chapter 2. chapter 3 that comes to us through faith, and that faith unites us to Christ in the power of his resurrection and gives us the promise of everlasting life. That's the strength That Christ uses. That's how Christ strengthens us by faith. And so Paul's showing here that Christian contentment is not stoic and Buddhist detachment from our circumstances, like a Letting go and letting God. It's not a stiff upper lip or becoming kind of complacent. We can think about, we can think like that, right? Oh, well, I'm content, so I'm not gonna worry about keeping my job and I'm just gonna relax. Or I'm not uh I'm content and so I'm not going to worry about the fact that my job doesn't pay for the needs of my family. No, that's not the idea of Christian contentment. We're called as Christians to work hardly as unto the Lord, Colossians 3. 23. We're called to be passionate people pursuing callings and goals, not static, not listless and lazy, but Active, longing for something more and more. So there is a godly longing for more, desiring more, but it's not more stuff It's not more attention on our circumstances per se, not more personal glory, not more personal wealth, not more even personal food, even when we're hungry, but instead the longing for More is for more of the glory of God and the knowledge of Him. pursuits as we do what we're called in the catechism to do, to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. That's not a saying I'm content, I'm just going to stay where I am. It's a pursuit. There's a directional directionality to it. And yet we try to satisfy our longing, our desire, not with passing perishable things. Not with a dependence on our circumstance, but by looking to the ultimate goal, which is the glory of God in the person and work of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Paul gets it, I mean uh sorry, John gets at this in 1 John chapter 2, where he specifically says, do not love the world or the things of the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him, for all that is in the world. And listen to this list, because it correlates with those lists of wants and wealth. All that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, hunger. The desires of the eyes, longing for material possessions and things, and the pride of life, the longing For status. All of that is not from the Father, but is from the world, and the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God Abides forever. See, if we base our contentment in somehow attending to these things, these circumstances They cannot truly satisfy or make a content because they are passing away ultimately, along with the world and its opposition to God. Only God and His glory. Can truly satisfy our desires. Only the wealth of heaven can truly satisfy our longings. Only Jesus Christ, who is the bread of life in the living water, can truly quench our spiritual thirst and satisfy our spiritual. Spiritual hunger, as I'm sure we heard about this morning, even though I haven't listened listened to the sermon yet, but I will, of course, don't worry. Right? So uh Augustine in his confessions says it this way: You Lord have made us for yourself and our hearts. Heart is restless until it rests in you. Sinclair Ferguson captures this whole idea of the sermon in this way. He says, Christians today live in a society which is permeated by a spirit of discontentment. Greed has destroyed gratitude. Getting has replaced giving But in the pursuit of self-sufficiency, we have lost our way. We have developed spirits driven forwards to gain more, incapable of slowing, stopping, and remembering that those who sow the wind reap. The whirlwind. That ethos can easily influence us too. It is time to pause and ask: am I content in Christ? If not, it is the first thing I need to begin To relearn. Learning contentment is not about passive disengagement with the world, but about a passionate pursuit of the knowledge of the glory of God. I think that's what Jesus may be getting at in Matthew 6, where he says, Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy. A worldly reputation, plenty of food, you save it, and moths destroy it. Worldly wealth, material possessions. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moths. And rust rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, for neither moth nor rust destroy where neither moth nor rust destroys, where neither thieves break in and steal, for where your treasure is there. Your heart will be also. How do we lay up treasures in heaven? I think it's by having our treasure be more and more found in the person Of Jesus Christ in his glory, and growing in our joy in him, and the great salvation that he has wronged, growing in our longing to see him, as as as Mark read for us from Psalm thirty-four uh earlier tonight. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will Give you the desires of your heart. As our hearts are bent more and more on Jesus Christ, He is our treasure in heaven, and we're laying up that longing there. That he might satisfy it one day. How can we do this? How can we have our whole orientation be moved from coveting stuff of this world? To true contentment in longing for, in living for, in loving Jesus. Like Paul here, we need outside help. We need to learn this. We need to be taught it. And we need strength to do it. We need the strength of the one who strengthened Paul. And that's where the gospel comes in, because isn't that what Jesus offers in the good news of the gospel? That he who was perfect in contentment, who is tempted to covet and yet did not. See, Jesus had everything that we could ever want. He was fully contented first in his wealth. God the Son, in the presence of the Father, with glory unimaginable. And yet out of love, out of love for his Father, and out of love for For you and me. He said, I'm going to go learn contentment and want. And that's what he does. He comes and we uh in Luke chapter 3. We hear John basically calling people to repent, and what repentance looks like is be content with what you have. And then the next passage, Luke chapter 4, the Spirit drives Jesus into the wilderness. And what happens there? Jesus is directly tempted by Satan, by the devil, to covet and be discontent. He says Prove that you have the status that you deserve as the Son of God. Jump off the temple and let's see the angels catch you. Covet the recognition that you aren't getting yet. You're hungry? There's some stones. Why don't you make them into bread? You could do it. Just act on your hunger. Be dis You you're here, you're in the wilderness, you don't have much stuff. I can give you the whole world. All you have to do is bow down. At every point, Jesus did not covet what he did not have claim to yet in his incarnation, waiting for the true claim that he had. Had on it that would be given to him from the Father. And then Jesus went on. He lived this perfect, sinless life without coveting. He lived in perfect contentment, though often it was not without trouble. That obviously came to a head at the end of his life, where he was treated as a base Roman criminal, nailed to a cross, dying a death that he did not deserve because he had no sin. deserve it. But he died the death for us because we couldn't die it, because we were already dead in our trespasses and sins. He was alive in righteousness but died for our transgressions, and then he also rose in power and glory on the third day with a resurrection. Resurrection, power, and glory, a body and soul fit for eternal life in the presence of God. And by that same resurrection power, He is able to transform His people from one degree of glory to another, as we're united to Him by faith. and re remade after his likeness, and we find true contentment in longing for him, in having our our hearts transplanted, if you will, from hearts of stone. That want nothing to do with God, to hearts that beat with a love for Christ, recognizing all that He has done for us, recognizing by faith that He is all that we need. Recognizing by faith that we have all riches of glory in Jesus Christ. That's what Paul says there, verse 9: My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Jesus and his gospel grace has transforming strength and power to change us. Isn't that what we see in Horatio Spafford? Later on in that song where he comes. To that verse, my sin. Oh, the bliss of that glorious thought. Here you are, you're looking at the waters that have swallowed all four of your daughters. And yet he recognizes: my sin, oh, the bliss of that glorious thought, my sin, not in part, but the whole, is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. The gospel shows that when faced with discontent and temptation, To covet when faced with the temptation to think, oh, just a little bit more of these circumstances that I want. That the gospel comes to us and shows us, you know, it's really not that you're not desiring enough. It's not that you're desiring this passing world too much, it's that you're not desiring Jesus and his glory enough. How do we cultivate the kind of contentment in being united to faith, united by faith to Jesus Christ. I think it's by learning, by leaning into his grace, by learning of and studying his glory and the good news of the gospel. By living day by day in gratitude for who He is as our Savior, Lord, and King. And I'll close with this quote by Tim Keller, the late Tim Keller, pastor of Redeemer President He says this as he's reflecting on uh Psalm 131, a great Psalm of contentment. You can read it later today or later. This week. Keller says: if grace has really changed our hearts, we don't ultimately care if life goes the way we want it as long as we have Him. Jesus. The joys of acclaim, of wealth, and power are nothing compared to the eternal claim the eternal acclaim, wealth and power And power we have in Jesus Christ. That is the true source of lasting contentment, Christian contentment. We know it more and more. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these words, these reminders of Paul, that even in prison, he, having been well supplied by the Philippians, can be so grateful. for his circumstance, knowing that their faith is growing, and knowing that you are calling him to continue to do the work of of ministry to which you called before you called Him home. May we have that same sense of purpose. May we be those who are not uh who are not content to stay where we are, but who who long to be more and more like Christ. We have our contentment satisfied as we grow in our knowledge of and our love for Jesus Christ. May we uh be that content Kind of people. And may we be, may you do the heart surgery we need to release our grip on this world, to release us from the captivity to our circumstances. That we so often have as we seek our contentment from them. Help us direct our goal, our purpose, our desire for contentment to the source where it can truly be met in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In His name we pray.