I invite you now to turn with me to our sermon text that comes from the book of Deuteronomy this morning, Deuteronomy chapter 10, that's on page 154 of the Pew Bibles provided for you. If you haven't been along with us for the ride through Deuteronomy so far, let me give you a little bit of context. Deuteronomy is a covenant treaty document. The Lord is through this. It was a really an ancient legal form. He is sh showing Israel and showing us uh who he is as their king. That he is the great king who is the lawmaker, the law giver. He is the king. who enters into covenant with his people and um calls them to walk in his ways. And we we saw that how this is all structured. And really what what most of Deuteronomy is, is uh what what most of covenant treaties. Which is stipulations, laws of the king, of what it means to be covenant people of that king, what it means to walk in his ways. And so chapter uh five of Deuteronomy introduces a summary of God's law and the Ten Commandments. You're probably familiar with those. And then the rest of Deuteronomy through chapter twenty-six is all unpacking what those ten commandments mean and will mean for Israel when they go across the Jordan. They're on the banks of the Jordan here. When they go across and they enter Into the land, what it means for them to follow God's Ten Commandments. Chapters 6 to 11 are specifically focused on the first commandment. You shall have no other gods before me, says the Lord. And so we're uh continuing to reflect on what that commandment looks like in the life of his And that brings us to chapter ten. We saw in chapter nine how Moses has been recounting uh when God gave this law, when he gave the Ten Commandments the first time, which was at Mount Sinai forty years before the events. Forty years before Moses is preaching this uh this sermon, if you will, here in Deuteronomy, when uh God had appeared to Israel at Mount Sinai. And he had delivered his law on tablets of stone. Moses had come down from the mountain. He saw that Israel was disobeying actually the very first commandment. They were had made an idol in the shape of a cast. And Moses had thrown these tablets of stone down on the ground. They'd shattered. He crushed the calf into dust, pulverized it, and then he interceded. For God's people. He prayed for them. And then that's where we pick up here in chapter 10. Hear now the word of the Lord, Deuteronomy chapter 10, starting in verse 1. At that time the Lord said to me, Cut for yourself two tablets of stone, like the first, and come up to me on the mountain, and make an ark of wood. And I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets that you broke, and you shall put them in the ark. So I made an ark of acacia wood, and I cut two tablets of stone like the first. And went up the mountain with the two tablets in my hand. And he wrote on the tablets, in the same writing as before, the ten commandments that the Lord had spoken to you on the mountain. Mountain, out of the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly. And the Lord gave them to me. Then I turned and came down from the mountain and put the tablets in the ark that I had made, and there they are. As the Lord commanded me. Now the people of Israel journeyed from Birroth Ben-Ajakon to Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was buried, and his son Eliezer ministered as priest in his place. From there they journeyed to Gudgada, and from Gudgada to Jatbatha, a land with brooks of water. At that time the Lord set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord and to stand before the Lord to minister to him and to bless in his name to this day. Therefore, Levi has no portion or inheritance with his brothers. The Lord is his inheritance, as the Lord your God said to him. I myself stayed on the mountain as at the first time, forty days and forty nights. And the Lord listened to me that time also. The Lord was unwilling to destroy you. And the Lord said to me, Arise, go on your journey at the head of the people, so that they may go in and possess the land which I swore to their fathers to give them. And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you? But to fear the Lord your God. To walk in all his ways, to love him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the commandments and the statutes of the Lord which I am commanding you today for your good. Behold, to the Lord your God belonged heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in it. Yet the Lord set his heart in love on your fathers and chose their offspring after them. You above all peoples as you are this day. Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart And be no longer stubborn. For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who is not partial and takes no bride. He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow and loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing. Love the sojourner, therefore, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. You shall fear the Lord your God. You shall serve him and hold fast to him. And by his name you shall swear, he is your praise, he is your God, who has done for you these great and terrifying things that your eyes have seen. Your fathers went down to Egypt 70 persons, and now the Lord your God has made you as numerous as the stars of heaven. Amen. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Let's go before him in prayer and ask him to do so. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that continues to speak. Speak to us by your spirit. We thank you for these words from Deuteronomy, and we pray that you would enable us to lay them to our hearts. That you enable them to hear us, not you'd enable us to hear them, not as uh Words of interest that tickle the ears, but as your words which change hearts. Lord, we pray this all in Jesus' name and for his glory. Amen. Well, this spring is a special graduation season for me, not only because My first child is graduating this year. But because it marks uh the graduation of the kids in this congregation who were born right when I got here. In 2007, when I first became one of the pastors here at Reformed Presbyterian Church of Bowie, and it's been such a joy, such a delight for me to watch these young men and women uh grow up before my eyes. And And to see how they've each become their own person, in many ways very unique, each individually. And yet what's also been fascinating is to see how each one of them These individuals still bears a family resemblance. That every one of them, you know, Chefu. It's Chefu, but he's an Abe. And Linia is Linnea, but she's a Ramsey, right? Linus is a solidae. Rock is a fix. For better or for worse, right, rock, right, Rock. Sorry, sorry. They're all unique. They're all their in they're all their own individuals, and yet they bear a s a family resemblance. A real part of who we are and how we live is shaped by our family, the name that we've been given at birth. And so also is true for us as the people of God in the family of God. To truly have no other God before the Lord means to bear the family resemblance of our Almighty Father. To conform our lives to his character. And that's what Deuteronomy 10 is all about, as it continues here, this exposition of the first commandment in Chapter 6 to 11. The first commandment is negatively speaking, you shall have no other gods before me, says the Lord. Positively speaking, as it's unpacked in Deuteronomy chapter 6, the first commandment is loving the Lord your God. With all your heart, with all your self, and with all your might, with all your stuff. And we see this here in Deuteronomy chapter 10. Explained as you know, we've had it sort of exposited for us. We've had it explained what it means to love the Lord our God with all our heart, what it means to love him with all our self and our stuff. Here in Deuteronomy, this commandment is presented to us as fulfilling this call to have no other gods before him also means being conformed. To being renewed in God's law to reflect who he is, because that's what his law is, a reflection. Of his character. And we see this so clearly in verses 18 and 19, where it says this: He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow. He loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing. So verse 19. Love the sojourn, therefore. For you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. You were loved as a sojourner, because that's who God is, so be conform to his Character and love the sojourner in response. Holistic devotion. Singular focused worship on God and God alone looks Like being conformed to the character of Almighty God. So what is God's character that He displays, that He reveals in this passage speech specifically. And that's where it's worth us recognizing that this passage shows us in striking beauty and wonder and glory, the utter grace and mercy. Of our God. And we see that here as God does three things. And these will be our three points this morning. God, first of all, restores his law. Second of all, he reiterates his love. Third, he redefines our law-keeping, and all of this shows us the glorious grace of our God. And his mercy to us. Restoring his law, reiterating his love, and redefining our law-keeping. First, he restores his law. Now, as I mentioned, Deuteronomy 10 comes It comes in the context of Deuteronomy 9. Deuteronomy 9 really isn't finished at the end of it. We kind of got to the end of it, but really it continues here into chapter 10. We've seen how Moses is recounting how after giving God's law, they immediately break the first commandment while Moses is up on Mount Sinai, receiving the law in written form. Now, this law in written form was going to be what would memorialize God's law for his people. What would be a la So the stones would have represented a way in which a way for them to convey and communicate God's law to the coming generations. But Moses comes down and he sees the people sinning. And look what happens. Verse 16 of chapter 9. I looked and behold you had sinned against the Lord your God. You had made yourself a golden calf. You had turned aside quickly from the way that the Lord had commanded you. So I took hold of the two tablets and threw them out of my two hands and broke them before. your eyes. Meredith Klein, a great Old Testament theologian from the past decades. Says that it Moses' treatment here of the treaty tablets was symbolic of the shattering of the covenant. Another commentator says it this way. Moses throwing these tablets down and breaking them constituted a legal declaration. Of a voided covenant. In other words, he is announcing that the covenant had been broken. It would be like a spouse who, upon finding That their spouse has been unfaithful removes their wedding band and throws it into the fire. The covenant lies shattered In dust and pieces at Moses' feet. Literally. What could God do with a people that caused such Anguish and anger in his mediator. What would you do if you were God in this moment? How can the people of God ever hope to follow God's law if they can't remember it for a moment and now have no written record? By which to pass it down. Well, the answer comes to us in Deuteronomy chapter 10, in verse 1. God responds to them in utter mercy and grace. By restoring his law, his broken law to them. And that's what we see in verse 1. At that time the Lord said to me, Cut for yourself two tablets of stone, like the first, and come up to me on the mountain. And make an ark of wood. And I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets that you broke, and you shall put them in the ark. So I made an ark of acacia wood and cut the two tablets of stone like the first, and went up the mountain with the two tablets in my hand. And he wrote on the tablets the same writing as before: the ten commandments, literally, the ten words. That the Lord had spoken to you on the mountain, out of the midst of the fire, on the day of the assembly, and the Lord gave them to me. This is a picture of God's glory. Grace, restoring his law to his people. But there's more. Because not only does he Give them a restored law in the two tablets, but he also secures them and keeps them safe. And that's the picture of the ark. Look at verse 5. Then I turned and came down from the mountain, and rather than throwing the tablets on the ground and breaking them, I put them in the ark that I had made, and there they are. This time God gives a means for the law to be protected and secure Cured in his very own presence. That's what the Ark of the Covenant is. The laws within, and then that Ark is kept in the Holy of Holies inside the temple, and it doesn't stop there. God's grace in restoring his law is shown even more as he gives priests and Levites to guard his law, to guard its law-keeping by teaching and instructing the Israelites, by guarding literally the tablets of the covenant. And by offering sacrifices to purify his people regularly and reconcile them to his law day by day. Look at verses six to nine. That's the point of the The people of Israel journeyed from Birah ben Ajakon to Moserah. There, Aaron died, and there he was buried. Aaron, this great high priest, who had was entrusted initially with keeping God's people in good reconciliation with him and he's died. And yet God provides another. And his son Eliezer ministered as priest in his place. And from there they journeyed to Gudgada and from Gudgada to Jotbatha, a land with brooks of water. And at that time the Lord set apart the tribe of Levi. To carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and to stand before the Lord, to minister to him and to bless his name. To this day, therefore, Levi has no portion or inheritance with his brothers. The Lord is his inheritance, as the Lord God said to him. This is that picture that we find in the Old Testament Israel, or in Old Testament Israel, where God says, Levi will not get land. They will not work the ground and provide for their needs on their own. Instead, I'm going to take your tithe, the other tribes, I'm going to take your tithe and give it to Levi, so that Levi can be freed. To simply minister my presence to you, to guard my law, and to keep the sacrament. sacrifices going, but it doesn't stop there. God restores his law, not just in renewing it in the tablets, not just in giving the ark to protect it, not just in giving priests and Levites to guard his law among his people, but God in his grace restores his law, providing a means for his people to keep uh to continue to walk in it by giving them a prophet to lead them. That's we see in verses ten eleven. I myself stayed on the mountain as the first as at the first time 40 days and 40 nights. This is Moses interceding for God's people. And the Lord listened to me that time also. The Lord was unwilling to destroy you. And the Lord said to me, Arise, go on your journey at the head of the people, so that they may go in and possess the land which I swore to their fathers to give them. He doesn't just leave his people with his law. He gives them a leader, a prophet, like Moses, to lead them through the wilderness, and then eventually you know that Moses will eventually not be able to lead them into the promised land, but he provides another. Joshua, the son of Nun. Who will fulfill what God intends and purposes here in verse 11. So God restores his law to his people because of his grace. What about us? What about you? What about me? We saw last week how we share with Israelite that propensity. Toward rebellion, to stubbornness, to stiff-neckedness. Is that the term? It's not, I just made it up. We we we share that propensity. We can identify with Israel as Moses describes their character here. How does God restore his law for us, to us? Well, friends, don't we see this grace of God in restoring His law even more clearly in Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ who restores and renews God's law first by becoming the very embodiment of God's law himself as the incarnate word. The perfect law keeper. If the first tablets represent us as lawbreakers, who despite having the law written on our hearts, as Romans 1 says, we continually break it in sin. Jesus is like the second tablet. Set of tablets, restoring God's law, becoming the living embodiment of it, not on cold tablets of stone, but as the incarnate word himself, who keeps it perfectly on Our behalf. Like the tablets guarded by the arch so they cannot be broken, Jesus not only shows us what law-keeping looks like, but he actually forges a record of obedience that we can't lift to ourselves. And then he sets that record of obedience before the Father, like those tablets in the ark set in the presence of God in the Holy of Holies. And Jesus says, This is my record keeping for them. For them. And the Father doesn't reject it. He accepts it. His law restored, his law fulfilled, not by us, but for us. Us in the person of Jesus Christ. And then he restores his law in us by writing it anew on our hearts by his Holy Spirit that He sends to transform hearts of stone into hearts of flesh. Not just disciplining us into obedience. But actually reshaping us from the inside, giving us new desires so that we begin to want to be able to do what pleases the Lord. That's how God restores his law in us through faith. In Jesus Christ. Friends, that is the good news of the gospel of grace, so clearly anticipated in this account here, as we see God's glorious grace on display in Deuteronomy chapter 10, as He first restores his law. But he doesn't just do that. The second point, he also reiterates his love. He reiterates. His love. Not only does God show mercy and compassion in restoring his law, he reiterates it. What does reiterate mean? It means to repeat, to say again. He repeats his love for his people. He does that in verses 14 and 15. Behold, to the Lord your God belong heaven and the highest, or the heaven of heavens, the earth and all that is in it. Now this is this ancient Sort of metaphor or picture of the universe. It's not necessarily a scientific view, but it's this idea that we have the earth, the heavens that we see, the sky. And then the heaven of heavens, which is some outside spiritual realm, the throne room of God with his angels. And the point is, he's Exalting the majesty, the greatness of God, to the Lord belong. Heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth and all that is in it. As he says in verse 17, the Lord your God is God of gods, and Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, the awesome God. And then look what he says in verse 15: yet the Lord has set his heart in love. On your fathers and chose their offspring after them, you above all peoples, as you are this And friends, this is simply a reiteration of his love because what did he say in Deuteronomy chapter 7 just a few chapters ago? He says in that famous verse, it was not because you, Israel, were more in number than any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you. For you are the fewest of all peoples, but it is because the Lord loves you and is keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers. Now we often talk of God's love here, but we often talk of it because it's often spoken of in his word in the Bible. We talk about God's love, but I wonder, do we really get it? Creator God, maker of heaven and earth, God of the universe, has chosen For himself. He could have chosen for himself anyone and anything, and yet he sets his love on Israel. And now he sets his love on us as true Israel, the people of God, through faith in Jesus Christ. First John 3:1. See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God. And so we are. We often talk of God's love. We also often talk of His law. But I wonder if we get how great it is and how it's related to his love. See, because God gives his law as an act of his love. Think about it for a second. We often think of God's law, I think. At least I know that this is often the way it's spoken of or responded to, reacted to. God's law is a bunch of do's and don'ts that are meant to ruin our fun. Does that ever feel like that? Yet, friends, God's love is reiterated here in the very fact of his restoring his law to his people because living according to God's law It's good for us. It's good for us. That's what he says in verses twelve and thirteen. And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in his ways, to love him? To serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the commandments and statutes of the Lord, which I am commanding you today. Why? For your good. How is God's law for our good? Well, kids, it's like those guardrails on those steep roads on the mountain, right? Have you ever been riding along? I remember this as a kid. I I'd be riding along, uh you sit in the backseat, so you can't look ahead because you just see, you know the person sitting in front of you. So you always have to look out to the side. As you're looking at the trees and things are whizzing by, and then every now and then you're on those mountain roads and you look out and there's nothing. Right? It's the great cliff falling off the side and and and you you you you look out the window and you see a little guardrail there. How often do you look at that guardrail and say, I just wish that wasn't there. That's ruining my fun. No! You look and you see the cliff out the window and you say, uh oh, we're about to we're about to fall off, and you look over and you see that guardrail and say Oh thank thank you Lord if we actually accidentally steer off the road it'll keep us from falling off the road Cliff. That's what God's law is. Guardrails for flourishing for our Good. And so God's glorious display, God's glorious grace is on display here, not only in reiterating his love for his people, Israel, on the banks of the Jordan, or not only restoring his law, but reiterating his love for his people on the banks of the Jordan. Of the Jordan. That's Israel. What about us? We see God's love for his people, Israel, reiterated throughout the Bible, throughout the Old Testament, over and over again, not just here, but elsewhere, over and over again. But friends, I would argue the most clear reiteration of God's love occurred when 2,000 years ago the Father sent his beloved only begotten Son. To enter into our sinful, miserable world, to take on human flesh in order to obey God's law perfectly in our place, including this law, the first commandment. He obeyed it perfectly for us to save us. John 3:16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. Jesus truly had no other gods before the Father, not once, not for a second. As Satan is tempting him in the wilderness, one of that those temptations is actually to break this command. He says Just bow down to me briefly, and I'll give you the whole world. You won't have to go to the cross. What does Jesus say? You shall have no other gods before God. Him only shall you serve. He loved the Father with his whole heart, with his whole self, with his whole might. And he loved him to the bitter end, willingly bearing the wrath of God for sin, taking the curse that we deserve for our covenant breaking. As it's pictured here, his body, like the first set of tablets, was broken, even as he had embodied God's law perfectly. And then kind of like the golden calf, that's the the the the the consequence for sin, that curse of sin, it's crushed, it's pulverized. Jesus at Galatians 3. 13 says Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, and so he was crushed. For our iniquity. Jesus obeyed not just for himself, but to save us, to conquer us for the Father To conquer us as a host of people, his sheep, who he at the last day will hand over to his, deliver to his father as a kingdom of people, a kingdom of people. priests, called by his love to repentance, to faith, and to redemption by his love. Question for you: Are you one of Christ's people? Are you one for whom God has restored his law, to whom he has reiterated his love? If you are outside of Christ, that does not apply to you. And yet I invite you this morning. To be one to whom it does apply. Recognize you're sinful like we all are, like Israel is, and yet recognize God's grace to you in offering you salvation through faith in. Jesus Christ alone. And isn't this reiteration of God's love in Jesus Christ what we encounter day by day, week by week, as we follow Christ by faith? We hear that good word of the gospel day by day. I have loved you with an everlasting love. Jeremiah 31. Jesus is described in Revelation 1:5 as the one who loved us, or I'm sorry, who loves us, present tense. and has freed us from our sins by his blood. And we have visible symbols, visible reiterations of his love week after week in the bread and the cup. The sacrament where we proclaim week by week our faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me, as Paul says in Galatians. Galatians 2. 20. So God's glorious grace here is seen in his restoring his law, in reiterating his love. But what does all this mean? That brings us to our third point. Because all of what we've been thinking on in God's restoring his law and his reiterating his love, all of this ultimately means that God has utterly redefined our law-keeping. Redefined our law-keeping, and that's the third point. He's redefined our law-keeping, our obedience, not as an effort to be in his good graces, to be in his love, but simply as a response. Of gratitude for his grace. That's what we see in verse 16. Circumcise, therefore, the foreskin of your heart, and be no longer. Stubborn. Whenever you see a therefore, you're supposed to ask what the therefore is therefore. Well, here it's there, because this command, this call to circumcise the foreskin of our heart Which means to repent of our rebellion and our inclination toward it, our stubbornness, to leave it behind. Repenting means turning around and going the other direction. That call to repentance in verse 16, that call to new obedience in verse 16 is there for Or in consequence to verse 15: Yet the Lord has set his love on you, your fathers, and chose their offspring after them, you above all peoples, as you are. This day. The point is, our law keeping has been redefined to now be, because of Christ, a response to God's grace. And notice again the the call to law-keeping is a call to be conform to the character of God. He's just. He loves the sojourner. He does justice for the fatherless and the widow. And so we are called to do the same. Look at verse 17. For the Lord your God is God of gods, Lord of Lords, the great, the mighty, the awesome God, who is not partial and takes no bribe. He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow and loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing. And here it is, as I said before, therefore you love the sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. James chapter 1, verse 27, puts it very similarly. He says, Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unstained. From the world. This is that call as Christians, as followers of Christ, to forgive as we've been forgiven, to show grace as we've seen grace in Jesus Christ. To show love even as we've first been loved. And this is why Christians throughout the ages have literally done this sort of thing. We're going to hear about uh this morning during discipleship about uh those uh uh a couple who has been called to care for literally for fatherless children in Africa. This is the motivation of the heart To be conformed to the character of our loving Heavenly Father. And friends, do you see how this gospel logic works? It's not a call to be good so God will love you, be good so God will bless you, be good so you can get from God all that you want. Instead. First of all, God deserves our full obedience and devotion and reverence and love simply because he made us. He is the God of gods. He is the King of Kings. He is the one who made heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth and all that is in it, as it says in verses 17 and 21. And though by nature born in sin, we are rebels, we're stubborn, and we continue to sin even after he's redeemed us. And yet we're called to regularly repent. And as we do, we have confidence of his grace, that he reiterates his love anew to us and then calls us to obey him. Not Just because he deserves it, though he does, to obey him and keep his law, not to make him love us more because we can't make him do that But to obey him because he's already fully loved us in his grace in Jesus Christ. And because he's already acted in might to redeem us, as we see in verse 19 and 21 and 22. For Israel, their redemption was from Egypt, and then from the wilderness, and then from the Canaanites in the land of Canaan. And yet, friends, these are all simply pictures of the greater redemption that we all need, which is a redemption from our bondage to sin, a redemption from the power of the Prince of the Air. And the Lord, friends, has done this, he's redeemed us once for all in Jesus Christ. So that all we must do is respond To his grace in repentance and faith, commit our lives to Jesus Christ in thanks, to rest, to walk in the spirit in which uh He has He which He has poured out on us, which He has given us. Notice the command here. He says, circumcise the foreskin of your heart and be no longer stubborn. But this comes right after Deuteronomy 9, where he's shown that they're continuously a stubborn, stiff-necked people. It's like saying, kids to the leopard, don't have spots. How can anyone ever possibly obey this? How can we obey such commands? To walk in newness of life, to keep in step with the Spirit. Friends, we can't In our own strength. We can't without his help. We can't without the work of Christ's Spirit, and yet that's who he gives, his spirit in our hearts, who transforms our hearts of stone to flesh, reworking and reorienting our desires. Toward Jesus Christ more and more, making us new creatures in Christ So that his calls to repentance and faith and following Jesus, as radical as they are, as impossible as they are in ourselves, are made possible by Jesus. When Jesus gives a command, he empowers its obedience. Like when he says to the leper, get up and walk. That leper can't get up and walk. But when Jesus says it, he can. He says to the blind man, see. And he does. He says to us, put off your old self, put on the new, Ephesians 4. We can't do that in our own strength, but in Christ we can. Keep in step with the Spirit, Galatians 5, 25. Circumcise the foreskin of your heart. As he says in Colossians 2, that we read a moment ago: be circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, the circumcision of Christ, putting off the body of death in the flesh. Putting on Jesus Christ as our righteousness. When Jesus commands, he empowers to obey. Do you hear the call to be to Do you hear this call to redefine lawkeeping? And how does it sound? Does it sound inviting? Does it sound compelling to be motivated not by guilt? To be motivated not by grit, but to be motivated to follow God's law by gratitude for God's grace. That besetting sin. It seems like you just need to get comfortable with it. Cut it off. That deep desire that you know that it competes for your love for the Lord, put it away. At our best times we long for this kind of obedience. But it's often hard. I know we often feel more like the broken tablets at Moses' feet, unable to be made whole. Kind of like Humpty Dumpty. Can't be put back together again. We feel that way. And yet, friends, the good news of the gospel is yes, we could not put those tablets of stone back together, but God Can and he does in his goodness and grace to us in Jesus' name. Christ. It's such radical change that he promises to us as we confess our sin and look to Jesus Christ and follow him. And what if, even after great success, and some of us have had that. You can look back on sins that you have left behind and you can say in gratitude to God, thank you, Lord, that I no longer struggle with that. Thank you that you set before me. The other sins that I hadn't noticed. when I was dealing with those big ones. Even after great successes, we will still struggle, we will fail, we will fall, and yet I love what James 4. 6 says. He gives more grace. My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness, friends, because ultimately salvation and sanctification Is all of grace, his grace guaranteed to all who belong to Jesus Christ by faith. So come to Him. Rest in Him. Him. Walk in his spirit, as he restores his law, inscribing his own character, his law of love on our hearts. As he reiterates his love for us in the gospel of Jesus Christ day by day, and as he redefines our law-keeping as gratitude for his love And to all uh and gratitude for all of uh his grace to us, all to the praise ultimately of his glorious grace in us Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these reminders from this passage in Deuteronomy. This passage that is focused very much on your law and yet is full of your grace. We thank you for this call that we have in Christ to be conformed to your character as a call, not just a call that is uh a demand that we can't fulfill, but one that comes with the power of your spirit to enable it to be true in us. Lord, we pray that you would do that in us, not so that we could go around and look down on others in self righteousness, but so that we could We can go forth as your salt, your light in the world, making a difference, showering uh those around us with your grace, showing your mercy. Extending your love to our friends, to our family, to our neighbors, to the world at large. In Jesus' name we pray.