Romans chapter 8, that's on page 944 of the Pew Bibles provided for you. I don't underneath the seats in front of you. It's a long passage, but it does hold together. And uh it is a good place for us to think about the work of the Spirit in uh confirming us in our faith. We've been doing this series in the evenings when I've been preaching on the Holy Spirit, who he is, and what he does. Talked originally about who the Spirit is, that he's one of the divine persons of the Godhead. Together with the Father and the Son, that He is one with them and yet distinct from them. Talked about how He is Our other advocate. And we've uh already introduced the work of the Spirit, what he does in what I've called five C's. The Spirit is creator. He enacts creation and sustains creation. He is convictor. Convictor of sin and of the good news of the gospel. He is the converter, the one who changes hearts. We talked about that last time. And then tonight we're thinking of the Spirit as confirmer. Or comforter, and we'll talk about why those are similar. And the next time we'll look at uh how he is the consummator of all things. So uh confirmation is what we're thinking of tonight, and for that we'll turn to Romans chapter 8. Let me begin with verse 1 and read through the chapter, Romans chapter 8. Hear now the word of the living God. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh. flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit Set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If in fact the spirit of God dwells in you, anyone who does not have the spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh, for if you live according to the flesh you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you do not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed in us. For the creation waits. with eager longing for the revel revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown inwardly as we wait eagerly For adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we are saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For Those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring a charge against God elect? God's elect. It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who is raised, who is at the right hand of God, who inter indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ till tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Our Lord. Amen. Let's go before God in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these words, your truth, and we ask that as we seek to think through how you've revealed your work of your spirit in this text to us, may we Grow in our understanding of it, our appreciation for it, our dependence on your spirit. May we walk in the spirit as we live out our lives of faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, we live in an anxious age. It's uh the title of a recent book published by John Haidt. It's called the anxious generation. Now there he's saying that he thinks what contributes primarily to this anxiety that is rampant is actually our use of technology and the smartphone in particular. But maybe that's just something that's thrown fuel on the fire. Our age tells us. That the world is just material, the things we see. That we are here because of some chance of some cells making A very conscious, intelligent decision to gather together and to evolve into higher forms of life. And that's what we are. But we just exist for a time and then we'll pass away. The way we can endure this terrible reality is by having courage and not living in fear. Not very helpful, is it? We have reasons to be afraid and be anxious, but you know, in the answer to just Not be afraid is not a good answer. The Bible says that often. In fact, one of the most common commands is fear not, don't be afraid, because it recognizes that we as God's people do tend to be afraid and to even have reasons to be afraid. There are great evils in the world. There are great dangers to us, both physically as well as spiritually. And Death, which is probably in our future for all of us, unless Christ returns soon, which we always hope and pray for. Death is a great enemy, a fearful enemy. We must all face it in faith. And that is a reason to Need to hear the call not to be afraid and to need source of comfort. That source of comfort, the Bible says, is actually given to us as a gift. That gift is the Holy Spirit. John 14, Jesus says in John 14, I will ask the Father. And he will give you another helper. The King James translates that, another comforter It's translating this word parakletos, from which we also get the English word paraklete, which is just taking the Greek and putting it in English, doesn't really help us. What is this? Paraclete, comforter. R. C. Sprohl, in trying to get at the idea of what this is, he describes the role of a comforter as like a family attorney. You know, that you have on retainer. Somebody, whenever you get into legal trouble, uh hardship, something where you need some legal advice, you can you can call and they're ready to give you counsel, to say to come advocate for you, to stand before a judge and plead your case. In R. C. Sproles' family they had one of these lawyers and they they called him Uncle. Not because he was actually related, because he was so close to the family because he offered constant comfort to them. That's the idea of a paraclete, a parakletos. A comfort. And comfort is a word that comes from the Latin meaning com, with starting with two words in Latin, com meaning with, and fortis meaning strength. Strength with you is comfort. Similar to the word in English where confirm, to to make firm along with us. And that is the revelation that we have of who the Holy Spirit is. elsewhere in Scripture. So in John, that's how Jesus introduces him. He's not necessarily called that here in chapter 8 of Romans, but I would argue that's what we see him doing. Throughout this chapter, being the comforter, the confirmer in our lives. Charles Spurgeon As he's preaching on this idea of the Spirit being a comforter, he says it well. He says, You will remember, my dear friends, that the Holy Spirit, during the present dispensation, this present evil age, is revealed to us as the comforter. It is the Spirit's business to console and cheer the hearts of God's people. He does convince us sin. He does illuminate and instruct, but still the main part of his business lies in making glad the hearts of the renewed, in confirming the weak. and lifting up all those that be bowed down. Whenever the Holy Ghost may not be, whatever the Holy Ghost may not be, Spurgeon says, He is evermore the comforter to the church, and this age is peculiarly the dispensation of the Holy Spirit in which Christ cheers us not by his personal presence, which he will in the age to come, but But by the indwelling and constant abiding of the Holy Spirit, the Comforter. That's who the Spirit is, That's his work that he does for us and with us now, this confirming, comforting work. But what is it that he comforts us in? And I would argue from this passage, we see that he comforts us in the three, what are called the three Christian virtues: in our faith, in our hope, and in our love. Specifically, he comforts us in the freedom we have as sons through faith. Second of all, he comforts us in the heritage of glory as our hope through faith. And third, he comforts us in the life we enjoy in God's love. Faith, hope, and love. Let's think about each one of those individually, briefly. First of all, he comforts us in the freedom we have as sons through faith. Verse 1. Begins with this powerful declaration. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And like I'm sure you've heard before, whenever you see a therefore in scripture, you should ask what the therefore is therefore. And maybe we can begin to understand, we answer that question by what Paul says. There is therefore now no condemnation. Why would we worry about condemnation? Well, if you've been reading through the book of Romans. You know, because Paul has taken great pains to tell us that we should worry about condemnation. Chapter 1 to 3 of Romans, Paul builds this argument where he says: the Gentiles, those who are not of faith, who are worshippers of false gods, by definition idolaters. Are committing great offense in their idolatry against God. And we get this, right? Maybe kids, have you ever done something and somebody has gone out of their way to give somebody else credit for it? That is so offensive. Maybe you've had a project at work that you've worked on and you know you've finished it and somebody who maybe helped you a little bit goes and tries to take full credit for it. You know how offensive that is. When we give worship and glory to anything else, when we treat other things as the centers of our significance and identity and meaning rather than God Himself, it is a great offense. To the God who created us and made us. Paul's making this argument. The Gentiles, those outside of the faith, are under condemnation for sin. But then he also says, even those Who are people of faith, religious types, the Jews, are also condemned by nature Because all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. He summarizes all of that in chapter three, verses twenty uh verses twenty-three to twenty-five. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received. by faith. And that's what Paul then goes on in the next chapters to talk about. Chapter 4, he talks about what faith is. It's faith like Abraham. Chapter 5. who the faith is in, Jesus Christ, the second Adam, the one who lived his life of perfect obedience and then died the death on the cross for sinners like us, who is raised on the third day, so that we can now no longer be slaves to To sin, Romans chapter 6, but now be slaves of righteousness. And what does that mean? Well, it means that now, chapter 7 of Romans, we struggle We struggle with the fact that we are both justified in Jesus Christ. We are forgiven. We are made new creatures, and yet we still struggle with sin. He ends chapter seven, basically saying, after bemoaning the wretchedness of sin, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. And he says, therefore there is now no condemnation in Christ Jesus. And what does he go on to say? He goes on to say why, right? For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. And this is what we heard about this morning. The good news of the gospel that we who could not save ourselves by living to the obediently to the law can be saved through faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. Verse 3, for God has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin he condemned sin in the flesh in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. Right? We can't fulfill the law in ourselves, but Jesus has fulfilled the law, and when that is credited to us, that law is fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. And then he goes on in verses five and following, for those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the spirit set their minds on the things of the flesh, for to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life. and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. And then he says, What? But you, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. I think here's what Paul is getting at there. He's saying we are new creatures in Christ. Yes, you have. This sin, sin that, as Hebrews 12 says, sin clings so closely. And it's tempting when we struggle with sin. To become fearful, to begin to doubt, right? To wonder: is there now no condemnation for me? Am I in Christ Jesus? And our assurance is challenged, our faith is doubted. And yet, what Paul is saying here is if you are in Christ Jesus, the Spirit is in you, this is a reality. Now we simply have to set our minds on the things that are above, right? We simply have to recognize who we are in Jesus Christ. And the new life will flow from us because it is ultimately the work of the Spirit. So interesting in Matthew chapter 25, where Jesus separates between the sheep and the goats on the last day. And you know that conversation. But when he turns to the sheep, he says, You are welcome into my presence because you have done all these great things. And they say, When do we do any great thing? What's striking to me there is that the sheep are are credited with good works that they are not aware of themselves. And what about the goats? The goats think they've been doing the good works, and yet Jesus says, you have not. The confirming work of the Spirit is therefore not showing us our good works and saying, see that? There you're in Christ. But instead, he is constantly turning our minds and our hearts to Jesus Christ to see our good works in and through him The Spirit's presence is that confirmation. Right? Verses 9 to 11, you are not of in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the spirit of God Christ dwell or spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, yes, there is this sin that clings so closely and this deadness But the Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. The idea here is we through faith are united to Jesus Christ by his Spirit. So we are in Christ, and we know that because the Spirit of Christ is in us. Isn't that fascinating? And just as that Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead is in us, we have the hope of everlasting life. That we too will be raised on that last last day. And this is the confirming work of the Spirit, confirming us in our faith. What does this look like? This looks like committing ourselves to walk with the Spirit and letting Him then work good works in us. Attending to the means of grace, feeding on his word, and letting the new life flow out of us, not forcing it, right? We we don't uh We're called to bear good fruit in the Spirit. We don't bear good fruit by kind of trying so hard. Yes, we attend to the things that are before us. We seek to love and we seek to serve. But ultimately, we know that we depend on Jesus Christ and his Spirit to bear that good fruit in us. But we can go further and say that the Spirit not only confirms us in our faith, but confirms us in our freedom from sin through faith by confirming us in the sonship that we have. in Jesus Christ. And the point is here that we don't, not that we don't ever sin, but the The difference is the way the Spirit confirms us in our sonship is by assuring us that as we sin, we can fearlessly run in repentance and faith. To our Heavenly Father and be assured of his love and forgiveness as we come to Him in Jesus Christ. That's what we see in verses 12 to 15. So then, brothers, we are debtors. Not to the flesh to live according to the flesh, for if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God, for you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba, Father. This idea of receiving the spirit of adoption as sons is not what some might suggest. Is a patriarchal, chauvinistic, why not sons and daughters? The idea here is that both men and women benefit from having full inheritance rights. In the Roman uh context, in the Roman Empire, only sons could inherit. And here we see Paul calling us men and women, sons, because we all bear the full rights of inheritance through faith in Jesus Christ. And we're given the opportunity to call Abba Father. Is this a cry of intimacy? Maybe, but I think more than that, it's a cry of access. We can run to our Father whenever we find ourselves in sin, seeking to put it to death, we can repent of it and we can be assured. And we can have the Spirit assure us through His Word that we are forgiven, that we are truly sons. Look at verses sixteen to seventeen. For I consider that the sufferings of I'm sorry, verses sixteen and seventeen, the Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. So striking here, the Spirit confirms to us by witnessing to the sonship we have in Jesus Christ, how? Seems like the answer here is not by mere feelings Not by simply giving us a sense of, oh, God loves me, but specifically through his church, through the gathered body of Christ where God ministers the gospel of his grace. As we are united by faith to the body of Christ, and together we approach the Father as adopted children in Jesus Christ. The Spirit, it's interesting here that the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit, not our spirits. Speaking here of the unity we have in the body of Christ. The same in verses 9 to 11, where over and over again Paul It says you, you, you, you, you, and those are all plural you's. The engagement, the confirming work of the Spirit is in us as the body of Christ, when when primarily and most obviously when we're gathered together. As that body, and God ministers to us by his Spirit. Charles Spurgeon again says: mark you this: the Holy Spirit is the comforter, Christ the Comforter. And where is Christ ministered? But when the church gathers in his name. The Holy Spirit consoles, but Christ is the consolation. If I may use the figure, the Holy Spirit is the physician, but Christ is the medicine. He heals the wound, the Holy Spirit does, but it is by applying the holy ointment of Christ's name and his grace. He takes not of his own things, but of the things of Christ. We are not consoled today by new revelations. But by the old revelation, explained, enforced, and lit up with new splendor by the presence and power of the Holy Spirit, the Comforter. Where is that? But where the word is preached and the word is heard by God's people gathered together. So be encouraged in your faith There's no fear in Christ of condemnation of sin and death because they have been defeated once for all when Christ took our condemnation. On himself going to the cross and defeated it and proving it by his resurrection from the dead. And that same resurrection power is now ours at work in us by the Spirit who dwells in us. If you're outside of Christ, be warned. You have everything to fear, and if you think you have the Spirit, you don't if you're apart from Christ and his body. That's both a warning for both the unbeliever, but even professing believers who think that they can go at the Christian life alone without being part of the visible truth. This is where the Spirit of God is at work, confirming us in our faith. Be encouraged, be warned, and be free as sons. Faith frees us. Not in in order that we might sin all the more, but in order that we might stop worrying about condemnation as we sin. But instead putting it to death, turning from it, repenting anew, running in faith again to our Father, loving him back even as he is first loved. The Spirit confirms us in the freedom we have as sons through faith. The Holy Spirit also confirms us in our heritage of glory that is our hope. The heritage of glory that is our hope. And we see this so clearly in this passage. The Spirit confirms us in our hope by being the down payment of eternal life. We see this back in Ephesians chapter 1. Where it says, in Christ we also, when we heard the well he said, Paul says to the Ephesians, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is The guarantee of our inheritance, the down payment. It's worth thinking about what that down payment is. When you get a down payment on a home, you put 20% down. We're sort of looking in terror at what 20 percent is of home prices these days, which is uh a small fortune, it seems, but You put 20% down, but the wonderful thing is you put it down and then you get the use of the whole house. Not just 20%, the whole thing, as you pay it off. The down payment is in a sense a way of showing that this whole thing is ours. And that's what the Spirit is for us. The Spirit is a little bit, he's the down payment of the age to come. There's a little taste of eternal life as the Spirit begins his work in our hearts through faith. He's called the down payment or the pledge, right? Down payment or the pledge to confirm to us the heritage of glory, our hope we have through faith. In Jesus. What's interesting is most of the time, right, when we give a down payment, we give a down payment to somebody else. That we are going to pay the rest of it, and then we get to enjoy the full thing here. In this situation, God gives the down payments. He's the one who's going to pay all the rest, and we just get to enjoy The full blessing of what He has promised us and confirmed in the Holy Spirit. The heritage of glory. The way this passage describes that is not only, you know, there's this certain sense in which there's a new life that we have in the Spirit. Paul has talked about how the Spirit is the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead. So there's that sense in which the resurrection power is at work in us by the Holy Spirit, bringing new life. And that new life is fruit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, general self-control that we can't muster in ourselves. It's part of the reason we need one another in the body of Christ, because so often, if you say, Am I joyful? It's hard to know. But often others can see our joy better than we. Others can see our growth in grace. I have that great privilege as a pastor here. to sort of regularly meet with various people in the congregation. And I know often there's great discouragement, right, as we go through life and we may have some measure of success that we can see ourselves and then Seems like, yeah, but then we fall back right back to where we were. But as a pastor, I get to sort of see these snapshots, and I often get to see that growth. It's such a privilege to say, no, I have seen. A growth in patience. I have seen a growth in joy. I have seen you bearing fruit. We need one another. To provide that sort of spirit reflection, that sort of observation of the spirit at work in us. But another way we see the spirit at work in us is by our groaning. It's actually by the chafing at this life that we we see that spirit confirming the hope, the heritage of glory. that we have in our hope. Look at verses 18 to 27. For I consider the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed in us, for the creation waits with eager longing. for the revel the revealing of the sons of God, for the creation was subjected to futility not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now, and not only the creation, and here it is, but we ourselves. Who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown inwardly as we await eagerly for the adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies, for in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we don't know to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. God. The Spirit is groaning in creation and in us as we groan, and he is groaning before the Father on our behalf. It's one of the ways he confirms the heritage of glory that is our hope. So Because of the Spirit, friends, we can be courageously confident of our hope of the heritage to come. The same Spirit who created all things, and the same Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead. Spirit who is recreating all things and who will recreate all things is ours already through faith in Jesus Christ. And that means that death is not the end. And that suffering is not the final word, as it says here. Suffering simply cultivates the groan, the groan for glory that is a confirmation. That the glory will be ours and is ours in Jesus Christ. And that confidence is shown in verses 28 to 30. We know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. The spirits groaning for glory will accomplish what God has set out to do in Jesus Christ. For those who are called according to his purpose, those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. If he has predestined you, he will call you. You've been called. If he has called you, which you've called you've heard the call and you've answered it, then he will justify you. You've been justified in Jesus Christ. If you've been justified, you will be justified. Glorified. The Spirit's work confirms us in the freedom that we have as sons through faith of our heritage. Of glory that is our hope, and third and finally, of the life we enjoy in God's love. What is the source of greatest courage in the face of fear? Isn't it love? Love of country that motivates people to go out and fight wars and face enemies. Love of a child that makes a mother bear attack something far stronger and more mighty than it. Love of spouse that makes on hold to the bitter end. Love of parent. One uh Chinese uh philosopher Leo Tzu who's The founder of Taoism expressed this. I mean, he's using worldly wisdom, but it expresses a great truth. He says, being deeply loved by someone gives you strength. While loving someone deeply gives you courage. How is it that we can be Strengthened, confirmed in our faith by the Spirit. It is by growing in our sense of the love of God for us and loving Him back. As a spouse, I know the strengthening of someone else's love for me. When I've dealt with difficult situations and conflicts, often what enables me to go on. And not give up is knowing that Rachel loves me. If nobody else does, if she is for me, who cares who's against me is the way it can work It's that kind of comfort and confirmation that we have here in the Spirit's work as he mediates the love of God for us in Jesus Christ that is ours now and will be ours forever. And that's what he says in verses 31 to 31. thirty four. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He's made the case throughout Romans. God is for us in Jesus Christ. So who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? We have no reason to fear because of the Father. Because look at how he's loved us in Jesus Christ. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. He's the one who's justified us The judge himself has justified who's going to bring a charge to the judge who's already pronounced, you are righteous in my sight through faith in Jesus Christ. Who is to condemn Christ Jesus? He's the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, and who indeed is interceding for. For us. So who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? That's a rhetorical question. The answer is clearly no. No. This is a powerful point in the context of Romans, which begins Talking about the judgment that is coming for unbelief and for those who are outside of Christ, the condemnation of God for sin. But in the gospel, Judge Jesus becomes our defense attorney. And if he does that, then who is left to condemn? So amazing in Acts chapter 7. I've mentioned this before, you've probably heard it, but Nas chapter 7 is Stephen is the first martyr recorded in Acts. He is about to be stoned. And it says that he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven You know what he saw there? He saw the glory of God. Wow. What a gracious gift of God by his Spirit to let him see the glory of God. But he saw something else. And he saw Jesus standing at the right hand of God. You say, wait a minute. What does it say here? He's sitting at the right hand of God. Why did Stephen see him standing? Because you know who stands before a judge? It's the advocate, it's the defense attorney. Jesus Christ, the righteous King, who has sat down on his throne at the Father's right hand, Stephen sees him getting up. To defend and to plead his case before the Father, saying, Look at my hands, look at my side, look at my feet. These are why Stephen should be welcomed. Into your glory. That's what Paul's getting at here. The ends of end of chapter 8 of Romans. So that's why he can say in verse 35: Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, shall any of these things distress, persecution, famine, or nakedness, danger? No. As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long, we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. Paul's indicating there, yes, there is great opposition to the Church of Jesus Christ. We will feel like sheep being slaughtered at times But in all these things he says we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. will be able to separate us from what? The love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God, and so we are Do you know this love? Have you been confirmed in this love now and forever by the Holy Spirit, whom Jesus promises to all who are his? If not, don't wait. There's no real reason in the world not to cower in fear and crumble because of it, not to be an anxious generation. But we in Christ Jesus have every reason for confidence and courage. Like God exhorted Joshua because the Spirit is Christ present with us. He's here, he's with us, he's in us. Come to Jesus. Find forgiveness, love, and mercy, and then be confirmed in faith, hope, and love as he pours out his Holy Spirit on you, which he has promised. If you know this love of God in Christ Jesus, then the call for you is to love him back. To grow in the courage that comes, not just from being loved, which gives strength, but by but in loving. As you love God back by loving your spouse, by loving your kids. By loving your parents, by loving your church, by loving your neighbor. Do you see the confirming work of the Holy Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead and who is already at work? Among and in us. Brothers and sisters, may we go into the coming week, living as sons with that freedom we have through faith. suffering as heirs, confident of the heritage of glory that we have as our hope in Jesus Christ by his Spirit. And confident of the love of God, that this life is to be lived in light of this love day by day, a love from which nothing can separate us in heaven. Or on earth. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these reminders of the gift of your Spirit who is at work in us. By your word, comforting us, confirming us in the truths of the gospel That comes to us by faith, that brings us hope, and that enables us to love even as we have been loved. May you confirm these things in us day by day as we walk by faith and walk in the Spirit. Of Jesus Christ your Son. In His name we pray. Amen.