Well, for our sermon text this evening, let's turn to First Corinthians chapter 15. This wonderful passage that is on the resurrection. We could read the whole chapter and I'll be reading from some of the sections that we aren't going to read, but we In the interest of time, I've selected verses 35 to 58. That's on page 961 of your Pew Bibles. So this is toward uh the latter half. Really, it's the second half of the chapter after uh talking about what resurrection is and how Christ has been raised from the dead. Paul goes on to begin to turn the attention of his hearers, the Corinthians, and our attention on the resurrection that comes on the last day when Christ returns in glory. So he's kind of built up to that point. And here he begins addressing the question of what is that resurrection reality like? So let's give attention to the reading of God's word from 1 Corinthians 15, verses 35 to 58. But someone will ask, how are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come? You foolish person What you sow does not come to life unless it dies. And when you sow it, and when you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or of some other grain. But God gives it a body as He has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own body. For not all flesh is the same, but there is one kind for humans, another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish. There are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is of one kind, and the glory of the earthly is of another. There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars, for stars Star differs from star in glory. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable. What is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor. It is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness. It is raised in power. It is sown a natural body. It is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. Thus it is written: the first man Adam became a living being. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. But it is not the spiritual that is first, but the natural, and then the spiritual. For the first man was from the earth, a man of dust. The second man is from heaven. As was the man of dust, so are those who are of the dust, and as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven. Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven. I tell you this, brothers. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. Behold, I tell you a mystery: we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God. Who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast. Immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. May God add this blessing to the reading of his word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask Him to do that. Heavenly Father, we we thank you for this word. Lord, it is A challenging word to understand, and yet it is one that we know we need to hear. It is one that sets our minds and our hearts on things to come. And we pray that as we reflect on the role that your Holy Spirit Has in accomplishing this ultimate end, that you might light up our hearts to love you, to serve you, to praise you, and to be prepared for that eternal weight of glory beyond comparison. That we can not even quite imagine, and yet that you have promised us in Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. But what is your problem? Good answer Good answer, you're getting ahead of me in the sermon, Luke. That's right. Uh if we're all honest, that's a problem. But it manifests itself in many other problems that we may face in the world, right? And yet if we if we if we're honest Like Lucas. And we reflect on all the problems of life that we face. We can really boil them down to a simple few. Sin is a big one. According to the Bible. But there are a couple others that the Bible says. It says not only is sin a problem, there's also a problem of death. Death is a problem for all of us. And in both of these, death and sin bring a shame. Because we know in our heart that we were made for much more. Much more than the sinful death as our future existence that we have. We were made to be as close to Godlike as any creature can be. And yet, here we are. But the good news of the gospel is that these problems, our major problems, our main problems of sin, death, and shame, have been overcome by Jesus' incarnation, his life, his death. It is resurrection and ascension. So we can all go home now. There's the gospel, right? But I want us to think about that because you may ask. Where? Where do we see those problems of ours overcome? The reality is we only have maybe tastes, four tastes of that now. But the promise of the gospel is that those foretastes are mere anticipations, mere tastes, foretastes of a fullness that is to come. And that fullness is what we call the consummation. Consummation. And I know Audrey, we've already done a bunch of big words today, but here's one more. Here's what consummation means. It means the ultimate end. Audrey was in New Members class this morning. We were talking about another word we'll talk about in a moment, sanctification. Consummation is the ultimate end. It's the fulfillment, it's the perfection. Here's, for those of you who may not have a grasp of what consummation is, it's like this. There's the Christmas season, right? The whole month of you know end of November, December, and that's a time of preparation and expectation. You're looking forward to Christmas Day, right? You're wrapping gifts, you're decorating, you're making food. Consummation is Christmas morning. It's when all of that finally gets to be enjoyed. And that is what the Bible says is the hope that we are called to, not Christmas morning, but consummation of all things. God has promised that at the end of time, the culmination of all history, when Christ returns, he will establish his eternal resurrection, kingdom of God From heaven it'll come to earth in the new heavens and the new earth when we will finally know the victory of Jesus. Jesus, and how he has once for all and for all time and forever fully vanquished sin, death, and the shame that those cause. Now, this is a work of God, Father, Son, and Spirit together. However, in Scripture, much of the work of consummation is attributed to the Holy Spirit. And that's why, as we've looked at this short series on who the Holy Spirit is and what he does, talked about him as the divine person of the Godhead, one with and yet distinct from the Father and the Son. We've talked about the five C's of the Holy Spirit's work. He is the creator. He is the convictor. He is the converter. He is the confirmer. And these are all terms that the scriptures use of the Holy Spirit's work. And really they follow that pattern of creation. The fall, he has to convict us of sin, conversion, he needs to bring us to faith, confirmation, he needs to assure us of the promises of God, and he also does the work of consummation. I want us to think about that tonight. And as we do, we want to ask the question What is the Holy Spirit's work of consummation, and how is it that it overcomes our greatest problems? And here's the answer: three points. All starting with P. Preparing, providing, and provisioning. Preparing, providing, and provisioning. The Holy Spirit overcomes our sin by preparing us for consummation He overcomes death by providing a body for our consummation, and he overcomes our shame by provisioning us with glory in the consummation. Let's think about each of those individually briefly. First, the Holy Spirit's work of consummation is that He prepares us for it by Overcoming our problem of sin in sanctification. Here's another big word. Now, this one Audrey already knows because we talked about it in New Members class this morning. Sanctification. Which means to be made holy. To be made holy. Maybe it'd be better if we use the same word. We have all these terms for holiness. You know, sacred, holy, and sanctified, right? Sanctification. Maybe we should call it holyfication. Might make it easier to understand. In some sense, this is the most common understanding of the Holy Spirit's work now in this life, right? That he's applying to us the redemption accomplished by Jesus Christ, specifically making us holy as Jesus is holy. And this shouldn't be too shocking. Because of his name. Who is he? He's the Holy Spirit, or literally the Spirit of Holiness, is the way you could translate that term. The spirit of holiness, because he sanctifies his people. And this sanctification is the purpose and goal for all God's people. It's interesting often when people come to know the Lord and they maybe reach adulthood or they're arriving at adulthood, they want to know what is God's will for my life. Actually, the Bible tells us the will of God, and it is this. 1 Thessalonians 4:2-8. For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus, for this is the will of God. Thank you. I should marry this person, I should take this job. No, no. This is the will of God, your sanctification. And he goes on to describe what that is in verses 3, 5, 3 to 8 there. Peter says something similar in 1 Peter 1, verses 13 to 16. He says in 1 Peter 1. Preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ as obedient children. Do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. But this then raises the question, what does it mean to be sanctified, to be made holy? And I think sometimes we kind of get it confused with justification. Justification is this This overcoming the guilt of our sin, right? We are unrighteous because of our sin, and so therefore we are guilty before a holy and righteous God. And what we need is for Jesus Christ, who was the only truly righteous one. To take his righteousness and impute it, credit it to our account. And normally we think of that as dealing with the problem of sin, and it does deal with the guilt of sin. But there is also a stain of sinfulness that holiness and sanctification are dealing with. It's interesting. Tim Keller, when he's reflecting on 1 Peter, he he notes that Peter cites there Leviticus, this call to be holy. And if you read the book of Leviticus in the Old Testament. The idea of holiness is unpacked for us throughout that book. And literally, holy in the Old Testament means separate, to be set apart. We often, I think, think of holiness as moral purity, but I would argue that's a secondary implication. And it's because of this Moral purity has to do with personal beings. People who do things immoral or impure need to be made moral and pure. But in the Old Testament, the idea of holiness is not just for people. It is for people. Israel is called to be holy. The priests and the Levites are called to be holy. But it's also used for stuff: utensils, altars, tables, clothes. How can a table be morally pure? But it can be holy. And it's because this idea of holiness was to be set apart. And not just set apart, but set apart for a specific purpose, and that is to be singularly and solely used by God for his worship. A table is just a table, but a holy table can be used for the worship of God. So there's the holy table in the tabernacle in the temple with the bread of the presence on it. So what does it mean to be holy? It means to be holy, play on words, H O L Y, W H O L L Y, Holy devoted to the Lord and set apart for his use. For worshiping him. So that just like the holy utensils of the temple and tabernacle, we can be holy utensils or instruments in his hand to bring him worship and praise. And sin. Really does the opposite of what holiness is. It doesn't separate us for God, it separates us from God. Sin is rebellion against God's holy law, and it makes us opposed to God in our guilt, like Adam, who hides himself from God after he sins in the garden. Right? You're not a very good useful tool and instrument in the presence of God to bring you worship and praise if you're running off and hiking. And yet sin is also not just a rebellion, it's a devotion to something or someone else. It's not just that it separates us from God so that we separates us from God rather than for God, but it also separates us for something else, for an unholy purpose. That is this idea of the sin of idolatry. Where in our unholiness we offer ourselves or we set ourselves apart for fill-in-the-blank, whatever idol you are struggling with at the moment. And that's where we get to this idea of moral purity and sinfulness being associated with unholiness, or moral purity and sinlessness being associated with being associated with holiness and sanctification. Because, friends, before anything can be set apart for God and for his worship, it must be devoid of sin. And so there's a necessary component of sin that has to be dealt with in order to be set apart for the worship of God. And be holy. And that's the Holy Spirit's work of preparing us for consummation by sanctification. Correcting and redeeming and saving us from our root problem that can keep us from consummation, glory, and eternal life, and that is sin. And Now that's not the primary focus of 1 Corinthians 15, but I would suggest to you that this idea of dealing with sin in order to sanctify us in holiness, it is there in verses 56. 57 where Paul says the sting of death is sin. The power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus. Christ. He's dealing throughout this passage with this idea of death and the resurrection to come, but he chose here at the end. Death itself is not our only problem. It's death as a consequence of sin. And that sin is empowered by the law. Thanks be to God. Who gives us the victories for our Lord Jesus Christ, who has fulfilled the law, who has died our death, and then risen in order to defeat death. So how are we sanctified by the Holy Spirit? If holiness is to be set apart to be used by God specifically to glorify God and worship, then holiness is a matter of the heart. Whom and what do we worship? Whom or what are we set apart for and devoted to? Being holy as the Lord is holy looks like loving God with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength. So the question for us is: are we sanctified? Are we being set apart for God and Him alone? And you ask, well, how do I do that? And the answer is, well, you actually can't by yourself. But the good news is the spirit of holiness can And does. And how does the Holy Spirit do it? And here we were thinking about this this morning when we were in New Members class when I was there with Audrey, right, Audrey? We were thinking about How to cultivate holiness. Do you remember that? You don't like me preaching from the front. Okay, okay. We'll work on this, right? Yeah, the reality is holiness can be cultivated. It can be cultivated, but it can't be caused by it. It it's like this: the Holy Spirit uses means. And we need to seek out and apply those meanings. If you take a little seed and you throw it on the sidewalk, what'll happen? Nothing. A bird will get it and it'll get eaten. It'll be stomped on and crushed. It may sit there for ages. It won't grow. Right? You have to put it in soil. The soil has nutrients that can feed it. You have to expose it to water. Interesting. Often the Holy Spirit is associated with water. Water, give you life. Water so that it can be nourished and fed by that. You have to expose it to the sun. The Holy Spirit is often associated with light. You have to expose it to the sun so that it can grow. And sanctification is a process of growth, spiritual growth that happens as We allow the Holy Spirit to cultivate it in us. So, where do we do that? Well, how do we do that? We do it by first of all being here. Being here where the spirit of holiness dwells. Romans 8. 9 to 11 says the whole Holy Spirit is in our midst, in the church of the as the people of God. This is where the Holy Spirit is at work, sanctifying us together. So being here is a great start. The other way we cultivate holiness is by being in the Word. The Holy Spirit is also called the Spirit of Truth. Jesus in John 17, as he's praying right before he goes to the cross, he's praying to his father and he says, Sanctify them, us. His disciples. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. The word is where the Spirit is at work, speaking, instructing, teaching. Training, sanctifying. We do it, we cultivate the sanctification of the Holy Spirit. by attending to the sacraments. Titus 3. 5 says that baptism represents a washing of regeneration and a renewal of the Holy Spirit. For the renewal of the Holy Spirit. The Lord's Supper is spiritual food where we feed on the body and blood of Jesus, and the Spirit sanctifies us. And how does this sanctify us? Well, friends, the reality is we become like what we eat. We become like what we feed on. We become like what we love. What do all these things do? What does the word do? What does gathering as the church do? What do the sacraments do? All of them hold up before our eyes and before our ears and before our hearts. And all of them hold up for us to feast on nothing less than Jesus. Christ, the righteous one, the crucified one, the risen one, the ascended one. He sanctified himself We can't do that. But he could. He sanctified himself, set himself apart as holy to the Lord, and he did so for us, so that he could give his Holy Spirit. In order to sanctify us. John 17, 19, in the same high-priestly prayer of Jesus, he says, and for their sake, our sake, He said, I consecrate myself. Consecrate is another word for making holy, right? I sanctify myself, we could translate that, that they also may be sanctified in truth. Hebrews 13, 12. So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood. So Salvation is not just repenting of sin and having faith in Jesus. It is that. It's not just forgiveness of sin, which it is, but it's also, as we're enthralled by Jesus' holy beauty. It is being sanctified by his Spirit as we're prepared for the consummation of all things. We can't enter into heaven with our sin. So the Spirit sanctifies. Number two, the Holy Spirit provides A body for our consummation through the resurrection. And this overcomes our problem with death. You have a problem with death? I do. I hate it. It is the great enemy of all joy and all the blessings it is to be human. We are blessed by loving family members. We are blessed by good friends. We are blessed by the comforts of this life, the joys of this life, and yet death. Robs us of all those things. Have you ever thought of it? Even if we if we could enter into heaven now Like we are, we could enjoy the presence of God in theory, but it will only last like 70, 80, 90, maybe 100 years. These bodies only last so long, and that's a problem for us to enjoy the consummation, which is supposed to be an eternal joy, an eternal blessing. Years ago, the saints of old were told lived 900 years. I wonder, I think sometimes we think of that and be like, well, death wouldn't have been that big a deal. If you could live 900 years, then you know you might be ready. I would say Think about it. Nine hundred years to make that many and that deep a friendship. That many years to do such great works. And then death leave it behind. Death is a greater enemy when you live 900 years. And that's why death is a problem and it's an enemy. And that's what it says here. Paul says this here. Where he is speaking about Christ's reign as the first one raised from the dead, and he says in verse 24, this isn't a passage we read, but right before it, he says, Then comes so Christ the first fruits, right, at his resurrection, and at his coming those who belong to Christ. Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom of God to the Father, the kingdom to God the Father. Father, after destroying every rule and every authority and power, for he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. And the great promise of the gospel is that Jesus has won for us a victory over death. So the Holy Spirit not only overcomes our problem of sin in sanctification, but he also corrects the consequence of sin and death in the resurrection. Maybe I didn't put it too well. If we couldn't be perfectly sanctified and yet have these perishable bodies, that would be no consummation glory. That's what I'm getting at here. And that's what 1 Corinthians 15 is all about. See, since consummation, since the goal and the purpose that God created us for is an everlasting life. As long as our bodies are mortal, there can be no consummation. And so the Holy Spirit is doing the work of consummation because he is the one who raises the dead. And he raises the dead in order to equip us, in order to provide for us the means and the power to enjoy true consummation, everlasting life. We see that in verses 45 to 49, right here in 1 Corinthians 15. Thus it is written: the first man, Adam, became a living being. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. First Adam, right? He was got breathed in his nostrils. He became a living being. Wow! Last Adam Jesus became a life-giving spirit. But it is not the spiritual that is first, but the natural and then the spiritual. The first man was from the earth, a man of dust. The second man is from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust. And as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven. Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven. And again, this work of the Holy Spirit in consummation is earned for us. By Jesus Christ. His life. His death. His resurrection. That's the whole point of this passage. His resurrection ensures and enables and allows us to be raised as well. And the key here is that we need this. We need resurrected spiritual bodies Because if we don't have them, we can't inherit the kingdom of God. That's what Paul says right here in verse 50. I tell you this, brothers, flesh and blood. Cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. Behold, I tell you a mystery: we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. For Paul to sleep is a Christian's death, because it is never a sleep that ends forever or goes on forever, but it is one that awaits an awakening. So Paul's point in verse 51 is we may not all die, but even those that don't die will need to be resurrected. will need to be transformed. First and Second Thessalonians talk about this as well. And so he says, we will all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, the dead will be raised imperishable. And we shall be changed, for this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on imperishable and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written, quoting Isaiah again, O death, where is your victory, O death? Where is your sting? So the Holy Spirit works consummation by providing us the means to actually receive and enjoy the consummation that Jesus has promised us through faith. Philippians 3 gets at this where Paul says, Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lonely body to be like his glorious body. How is it that that body gets transformed? By the Holy Spirit, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. So, what is the resurrection body like? It's hard to imagine. You get the sense that Paul here is, it's like he's trying to describe that resurrection reality that is like 10,000 senses, and he's trying to describe it in like five. Have you ever tried to describe one sense in terms of the other? Like um I love the smell of coffee. It's like brown. But but it is kind of like brown, right? It coffee smells brown. It's a good brown. But that's what Paul's trying to do here as he's trying to describe the glory, the wonder of the resurrection. Look at verse 35 to 41. Someone will ask, how are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come? See, he's asking the question, what is the resurrection body like? And what is the answer, you foolish person? Oof, okay. That's a rough start, Paul. Come on. What you sow does not come to life unless it dies. And what you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare kernel. So he is using the analogy here of a plant, perhaps a kernel of wheat or of some other grain, but God gives it a body as he has chosen and to each kind of seed its own body. For not all flesh is the same, but there is one kind for humans, and another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish. There are heavenly bodies and there are earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly one is of one kind and the glory of an earth the earthly is of another. There is one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, another glory of the stars, for the stars differ from star in glory. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown perishable is raised. imperishable. And what is sown in uh it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. He Here's what he's doing. First of all, he compares one glory to another, and I think the idea here is that he's saying, we were made with a certain measure of glory As God's creatures, his image-bearers, but in comparison to the glory that we will have, this is like dishonor. Right? Sown in dishonored is raised in glory. Sown in weakness, raised in power. Now, I don't think here Paul is specifically getting at the dishonor that we have because of sin. We'll talk about that in a moment. Here it's saying in comparison, right? Sown a natural body, verse 44, is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there's also a spiritual body Thus it is written, the first man Adam became a living being, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. Here, the difference between natural and spiritual, don't think physical and non-physical. Because they're both bodies. One is natural or earthly of the dust. One is spiritual, heavenly, of the spirit. It's the Spirit who gives, who creates, who fashions this resurrection body for us. We feel our perishableness, don't we? Susceptible to death and decay, the Holy Spirit raises to imperishable. We feel the dishonor and the shame that comes with the frailty of these bodies. The Holy Spirit raises a body glorious. Philippians 3:21. We feel the weakness of this mortality, this mortal life that we have. The Holy Spirit raises to power. I love how Paul contrasts it in 2 Corinthians 4, where he talks about our outer self wasting away and yet our inner self being renewed day by day. And then he contrasts it, a light momentary affliction. is giving way to an eternal weight of glory beyond comparison. He says really the ultimate contrast is between the seed and a plant, a tree. You know, you can take a redwood seed. A redwood seed is smaller than a grain of rice and you plant it in the ground. And as it's cultivated, It can grow up to 300 feet, 30 feet wide. That's the kind of contrast between these bodies that are planted. The glory of the resurrection body that the Spirit fashions for us. Is this your hope Is this your hope? A body that is imperishable? A body that is immortal? A body that is fit and fashioned, prepared and By the Holy Spirit to provide us a body fit for consummation, fit for eternal life. If that is not your hope, well, it's not your hope if you're not in relationship with God through faith in Jesus Christ. Here's the terrifying truth. We will all be raised. We will all be raised with resurrection bodies, some to life everlasting and blessedness. Some to an everlasting death and judgment. And the difference is: are you right with Jesus Christ? Have you repented of sin? Have you bowed the knee to him as your king? Have you given your life to follow him? But if you have, Jesus' resurrection is the promised reality for his people. Look at verses 21 to 23. As by a man came death, by a man has also come the resurrection of the dead. As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive, but each in his own order. Christ the first fruits, then at his coming. those who belong to him. Like Paul says in Philippians 3, we will have a body like his glorious body. A body that was recognizable, but oh so different in power and in glory. The question for us is this: here's the application of this second point. Do you let every bodily failure, sickness, injury Do you let it derail your faith, or do you let it stoke your hope for the heavenly and spiritual body that God has promised you in Jesus Christ? The Spirit deals with the problem of our sin by preparing us for consummation through sanctification. The Holy Spirit deals with the problem of death by promising to provide a body for our consummation in the resurrection. Third and finally, the Holy Spirit provisions us with glory. for consummation. And this deals with the problem of our shame, the weakness and dishonor that we are so keenly aware of in our more honest moments. It's interesting, we've talked about this. Different names that the Holy Spirit has. The Holy Spirit is called the Spirit of God, the Spirit of truth, the Spirit of Holiness. That's where we get the term Holy Spirit. He's also called the Spirit of Glory in 1 Peter 4. 14. If we see the Spirit's work of consummation, as correcting and completing our problems, right? Correcting our problem of sin by sanctification, correcting the problem of sin's effect of death through resurrection, then he corrects The shame that sin brings, the shame of falling short by taking us from shame into glory. By glorifying us and all the rest of creation on the last day. Paul talks about this in Romans 8, 29 and 30. Where he says this. This is him here in Romans chapter 8. He's talking about our consummation hope, the hope of glory, and he says this. This is good news. For those whom he, God, foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. In order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers, and those whom he predestined, he also called. Those whom he called, he also justified. Those whom he justified, he also glorified. Glorified. See, the Bible indicates that when Adam sinned, he didn't just mess up creation, and he did, right? Creation is a mess because of sin. But he derailed his purpose. He was designed, he was created to go from one degree of glory to another. If he had obeyed God's command, you know, there are two commands of God in the garden. We read them and it sounds like one. You shall not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. That is one of the commands. But before that he says this, you shall eat of every tree. And if Adam had obeyed, guess what? He would have hit eventually the tree of life. God didn't tell him which one it was. He had eaten of it, he would have been confirmed in righteousness and would have been transformed into imperishableness. That seems to be what Scripture teaches. And yet he derailed us, he went from glory into shame. One degree of glory, not to another, but to a shame in sin, to being confirmed or in his dustiness. in his perishability, in his mortality. Rather than going from the glory that we have made out of the dust into a glory made Transformed by the Spirit instead, God says to him in Genesis 3, out of dust you are, and to dust you shall return. And so there's a sense of shame in that derailment of glory. Verse 48: As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust. Many of you know this because you may have visited our house in the last year or years, but. There's a shame to an unfinished project. You get the floors done And you cut the trim and you nail it and there are all these nail spots and then you don't caulk it and paint it. And everyone walks in and they're like, oh, it's looking It's almost there. It's almost worse than if you hadn't begun, because everyone knows what it's supposed to look like, right? It's almost there, and yet it's not. So also with us. We have a certain glory that was an anticipation of the glory to come, and yet the fall has derailed that whole thing. We've been condemned to be stuck. In a not-yetness. As Romans 3. 23 says, all have sinned and fall short. Of the glory of God. And so we need not just to be made holy and to be raised to everlasting life, we need to be transformed to a fullness of power and glory that fits our purpose as reflecting God in Jesus Christ. And the glory is described when we're told that on the last day we will not just be raised to new life, but we will reign with Christ. Glory. We think of angels and we think of them as, man, they are glorious creatures, and they are. People see them and they're terrified. And we're told in the Bible that one day we will judge angels. That's why C. S. is so right in his essay, The Weight of Glory, where he says, if you I'm paraphrasing here, but he basically says, if you saw yourself in your consummated glory, you would be tempted to worship. Not just because you're raised to new life, because you're raised in glory. All the imagery of the last day and the consummation And heaven, the new heavens, and the new earth is full of imagery of glory associated with the Holy Spirit. The glory that the Spirit brings and imbues and gives Jesus comes with the clouds and throughout the Old Testament the clouds are a picture of the glory of the Holy Spirit when he comes to earth. The presence of God in the spirit of light and power and glory and holiness, who is light and beauty and wisdom, and these are all images that are picked up in Revelation 21 to 22, full of these images of the Spirit. So so much so that one theologian could say that the Holy Spirit is the atmosphere of the age to come, who imbues life and light and glory in full measure, like this world can only sense as foretaste. as he unites us to God in communion with Christ. And this is what we see, just a picture of in Isaiah 32 we read a moment ago, right? Where it's wasteland turned to fruitfulness. Zechariah 2, Joel 2, all these passages of the Old Testament talk about the Spirit being poured out and new, unfathomable life and glory and fullness as a result. And all of this consummation glory, friends. Is earned for us by the work and the person of Jesus Christ. His victory over death and sin and Satan when he went to the cross as the only righteous man. The only truly holy man who ever lived, the most glorious man to walk this earth, and what did he suffer? He suffered greater shame than we can imagine. As he, the creator God, who is taken on flesh, was stripped naked by his creatures, beaten, mocked, spit upon, crucified. And yet rose as well by the power of the Holy Spirit, ascended to the Father's right hand, and then he sent his Spirit As our advocate, as our comforter, as our helper, as his presence with us now, the Spirit who created all things, the Spirit who convicts Sinners and who converts sinners into saints, who confirms saints in their sainthood, and who ultimately will consummate all things. See, if your future Your future if you have this spirit through faith in Jesus Christ is a future where death is defeated Where sin is no more, where you are free for a life of purpose, and where you are clothed with glory Look at verses 54 to 57. When the perishable puts on the imperishable and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written. Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. One commentator put it this way. There is a victory of sin and death right now, isn't there? But he says this: the victory of sin and death is only temporary. God will defeat the last enemy, which is death. And then he says this: I love this line. While graveyards may remind one of the brevity of life, the resurrection ensures the brevity of death. Graveyards remind us of the brevity of life. The resurrection ensures the brevity of death. So, friends, let's apply this point and wrap it up. Don't settle for less than glory, than holiness, than resurrection, life. That ought to give us great confidence. The Spirit, as the one who brings about consummation in us, through us, and for us, that ought to give us great confidence, great confidence as we bear witness to Christ. What an amazing goodness and glory he has called us to and granted us a taste of in the little ways in which we taste the promises of God even here and now. And that's what we're calling others to. This ought to fire faithful obedience as we learn to love Jesus as He first loved us. And this ought to enable endurance through the difficulties. Even as we see our own death approach. Paul says it's simply a falling asleep in Jesus Christ. It's a falling asleep to wake up to glory. So how Paul ends this passage. Therefore, my beloved brothers, verse 58. Be steadfast. Be immovable. Always abounding in the work of the Lord Knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. So what is your problem? Sin? The Spirit is making you holy. Death, the Spirit will raise your body. Shame, the Spirit will clothe you with glory. So therefore, in Christ, your labor is not in vain. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this good news and we thank you for the gift of your Spirit We thank you that we see the work of the Spirit around us at all times in creation. That we see and sense the work of the Spirit in conviction of sin as we go through our lives, and you don't leave us as orphans. but you discipline us and you chastise us and you correct us and convict us by your Holy Spirit. We thank you for your Holy Spirit who also does that work of conversion. Softening our hearts, giving us hearts of flesh where there were hearts of stone. We thank you that your Holy Spirit confirms us in Our faith confirms us in our childhood, our sonhood, you as our Heavenly Father, and how the Holy Spirit consummates all things We thank you for that promise in him. In his name we pray. In Christ's name we pray. Amen