Let's turn in our Bibles to John chapter 16. That's on page 902 of the Pew Bibles. We're continuing a series that I began a number of weeks ago now on The Holy Spirit, who he is, what he does. And today we get to serve from John chapter 16. As I'll mention in a moment in the sermon, this is part of Jesus' upper room discourse. Obviously we've Worked through the book of John just recently and Chris was preaching. We're not going to necessarily focus on the whole passage, but really de lean into what this passage teaches us about the Holy Spirit and his work. specifically his work of conviction. So let's uh look together at John chapter 16, reading verses 1 to 15. This is Jesus speaking. I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away. They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. And they will do these things because they have not known the Father nor me. But I have said these things to you that when their hour comes, you may remember that I told them to you. I did not say these things to you from the beginning because I was with you. But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, where are you going? But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth that it is cheerful, the helper will not come to you But if I go, I will speak to you. And when he comes, he will convict. The world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. Concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer. Concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me. For he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. Here ends the reading of God's word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing on our time as we think on it further. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, that it is living and active. That it is the means by which you speak to us even today, that it is a living word, and we thank you for your Holy Spirit that applies it to our hearts and to our lives. And we pray that as we think tonight about the Holy Spirit's work in conviction that you might um that you might use this word to bring to us our recognition anew of our need for salvation and of the answer to that need we have in Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Do you know the Holy Spirit? Do you have the Holy Spirit? Is the Holy Spirit at work in you? And if so, how do you know? Why would you even want to have the Holy Spirit at work in you or know that He is at work? And the answer to that is very simple. It's in our Nicene Creed that we confess on regular occasion. It's worth knowing the Spirit's work in our life because the Spirit is the Lord and giver of life. And if we boil down what we are all seeking at some level, at the deepest level, it is life, the abundant life. The good life, life eternal. And that's what the Spirit, who the Spirit is, Lord and giver of life But the answer to those other questions: do you know the Spirit? Do you have the Holy Spirit? Is he at work in you? The answer is: if you are Christ by faith, then you do have the Holy Spirit. He is at work in you. But how do you know? What is the experience of the Holy Spirit's work? Now, a lot of people will claim that the Holy Spirit is the focus of charismatic or Pentecostal churches. But uh in Reformed and Presbyterian churches we neglect or ignore the Holy Spirit and his work. Now that I don't think that's quite accurate. John Calvin, one of our great uh Reformed theologians. He is called the theologian of the Holy Spirit. And he spoke regularly of the rich and deep doctrines of the Holy Spirit, his work, how he's revealed to us in Scripture. But the reality is what's often ascribed to the Holy Spirit in contexts where they claim to know the Holy Spirit very well and to to to to be those who are people of the Holy Spirit. What's often claimed to be the work of the Spirit or ascribed to the Spirit are feelings. Certain experiences, often certain miraculous, extraordinary events, and of course some of these can be from the Spirit. But unfortunately, many of these can be manufactured as well. Often the feelings and the experience that are ascribed to the Holy Spirit are the kinds of feelings that can be elicited by great music. By a charismatic and powerful speaker. When we turn to Scripture, however, and we ask, what does the Bible tell us? about the Spirit and His work, and what that work of the Spirit is like in our lives. We find We find him at work in powerful and yet often seemingly ordinary ways, specifically in what we're focusing on tonight, and that is in the work of conviction. Now, what is conviction? Well, biblically speaking, conviction is that sense of guilt for sin. When we do something that we we know is wrong and we feel bad about it, or when we don't do something that we know is right. And we feel bad for neglecting to do what we should. That's conviction. A recognition that we are those who are born in sin and that we need a savior, and that the only savior we have is Jesus Christ. So the Bible is clear. Where can we see the Spirit at work? Where can we expect Him to be at work? It's not based on certain feelings necessarily, but on His fruit. Where Where he ha brings effects. John chapter 3. Jesus says the wind, you could translate that spirit, blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. We've talked about so far in this series how the Spirit is the divine person, the third person of the Triune Godhead Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. He's one with, and yet he's distinct from the Father and the Son. He indwells us as his people with the presence of Jesus Christ. He speaks truth to us through the Word, and He is, we talked about this last time. He is our other advocate before the Father, along with Jesus Christ, who's also called our advocate. We've talked about who the Spirit is, right? As the divine third person of the triune God, head. But then we've also begun to think about the work of the Holy Spirit. We talked a number of weeks ago about the work of the Spirit in creation. We're also going to look at in the future the work of the Spirit in conversion, in consolation, or in comfort, and then in consummation. Tonight, however, we're looking at this idea of the Spirit and his work in conviction. Conviction. As we look at this passage and we think about the Spirit's work of conviction, I want us to see three things about the Spirit's convicting work. First of all, the function of his conviction, what it does. How it works, the focus of his conviction, and the form of his conviction, how it comes. The function, the focus and form of the Holy Spirit's conviction are the three points we'll consider. First, the function of his conviction. Now, John 16, as I said a moment ago, is part of Jesus' upper room discourse. These are the last words of Jesus before he goes to the cross. And this is where Jesus gives us some of the clearest and most extensive teaching on the Holy Spirit. He's already described the Spirit as an advocate or helper. We saw that all the way back in chapter 14, verse 26, if we've been reading through the book of John. And he describes them that way here as well in chapter 16, verse 7, the helper will come to you. Here in verses 7 and 8, Jesus describes the helper's work, the Spirit's work. And he describes it specifically as conviction. Look at verse 8. When he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. This helper, whom Jesus sends or will send when he goes away, that's what he says in verse 7, will convict. the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. Now this term for convict, we've already begun to speak about what conviction means. But this word is really a legal term for the work of a prosecutor. Now I trust that most of us probably haven't experienced this, but if you have commit If you're charged with committing a crime, you're not guilty yet. You're just charged with it. We we know of this in in the world when uh police officers think they've found the person. They have to be very careful how they speak. They can't Speak as though the person is the guilty party. They're charged with this crime. The work of the prosecutor is to bring evidence, to lay it out before the court, and to convict. To bring that guilty verdict if the person who's charged is truly guilty. That's the work of conviction that this term here in verse 8 is getting it. The prosecuting attorney, the convictor, is one who examines the evidence and brings it to light, exposes things that are hidden and investigates The evidence. The idea is that the Spirit is the one who raises questions, and vet investigates, brings evidence, bring evidence, brings truth to light and then convicts of wrongdoing. So this convicting function of the Holy Spirit is like the work of a prosecuting attorney. He will convict the world of sin, of righteousness. and judgment, working on the heart to expose the sin and guilt that is there and to bring a sense Of the need sinners have for salvation. Notice who it says he convicts. The world. Now, this is a loaded technical term in the book of John. It's usually used for those outside the church who are often hostile, not always, but who are often hostile to Jesus and his church. In fact, in the upper room discourse earlier in chapter 15, verses 18 and 19, Jesus talks about the world. He says, if the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own, but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. So the world is this lost place full of lost sinners out of where, out of which Jesus has to call his people, and when he calls them into his body, his church, they're no longer of the world. But they're called out of the world. And yet, what does he say here? The Holy Spirit's work is to convict the world Of sin, of righteousness, and judgment. And then chapter sixteen, the part we just read a moment ago, verses one to three, Jesus says, I've said all these things to you to keep you from falling away. They will put you, and here presumably the world which he's just referenced. Back even chapter nineteen uh fifteen verse nineteen, they will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed the hour is coming whenever when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God, and they will do these things because they have not known me or known the Father. This world is often a hostile place to Jesus, to his church, and yet the world is also, and this is the profound truth of the Gospel of John. The world is also the beneficiary of God's love, of his mercy, of his grace in salvation. Isn't that what Jesus says in John chapter 3? For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. That's how Jesus' promise of this Holy Spirit's convicting function offers assurance and comfort and confidence to his disciples and to us. Why would Jesus need to tell them that the Spirit will convict the world. Well, isn't it because as they were called to go out, and and as we are called to go out with the love of Christ, as we as the church are called to hold up Christ to the world, For Christ to be preached and taught, we need to know that we aren't going alone. That it is not ultimately up to us and our persuasiveness. But that it is the Holy Spirit who through the Word will convict the world of sin and their need for a Savior That along with the Word, the Holy Spirit, through the preaching of the Word, will convict of sin, of righteousness, and judgment, so that the world can find grace and forgiveness and salvation. to all who recognize this convicting work of the Spirit. And that's how the conviction of the Spirit is such a work of God's grace. We talked about what conviction feels like. It often feels like guilt, shame for sin, keenly aware of our failure. How is this a good thing? Well, it is a good thing. Because if we don't know just how bad our situation is, we're never going to be willing to deal with it. Like the addict who needs his or her family members and friends to sit them down and say, you have a problem, you need help. Unless they face that reality, unless they're convicted of their need, they won't actually ever say, yes, you're right, and accept the help that is offered. Or like the doctor who prescribes surgery to remove a cancerous tumor. Oh no, you don't get near me with that knife. Right? He has to first convict convict you, convince you that there's a tumor in there that is going to kill you. I need to cut it out And then you recognize you're convicted of the need for that solution and you know it as grace and mercy. Conviction is how we understand the depth of the mercy and grace that we have when we're forgiven. You think about it, if a a criminal goes along and they go to court and they're convinced that they have done nothing wrong and The verdict is you're free to go, they'll just think that justice was done. And yet if they've been convicted, then they know, oh, I'm free to go. But that's a gift of mercy and grace. What a picture that is. for us in the gospel. The good news of the gospel is to be that we need to understand is First, that we are sinners who need God's grace. We first need this conviction of the bad news, and that is the function of the Holy Spirit's work of conviction. But it's interesting when you think of this convicting work of the Spirit, this is not the first time it's introduced to us in the Bible. It's not Jesus who sort of discovers or first reveals this convicting work of the Spirit. This convicting function of this Holy Spirit as the powerful presence of God in the world is a regular theme throughout the Old Testament We often meet the Holy Spirit in the Bible as the convictor, the prosecuting judge, all the way back in Genesis chapter 3, right after the fall, even though our translations sort of hide it, but in Genesis 3. 8. It says, right after Adam and Eve have eaten had eaten, recognized they were naked, sewed fig leaves together and hid themselves It says, they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And if you look at your little footnotes in the ESV, it says, walking in the garden in the spirit. of the day. Literally that's what it is. How do we get to cool? Well the cool is thought to be wind and it's thought that this is referencing a certain time of day when a war a cool breeze would have blown through an ancient Near Eastern garden. Maybe. I think Meredith Klein, who is an Old Testament scholar, is more correct that we should translate this something like they heard the voice or the sound of the Lord moving about in the garden. As or for the spirit of the day. What is the spirit of the day? Well, the day often in Scripture is the day of judgment. And that the spirit, that God is coming in the spirit of the day, which is the spirit of judgment. This is how we meet the Holy Spirit at Mount Sinai. Another one of the images of the Holy Spirit that Meredith Klein talks about is the image of the smoke, cloud, and a pillar of fire, right? that these are these images of God by His Spirit being presence with His people. And they we we meet these we meet the Spirit in these forms in at Sinai and what has happened there. Mount Sinai is wrapped in smoke because the Lord God had descended on in fire, smoke, and fire. The smoke of it went up like the smoke of a kiln. And the whole mountain trembled greatly. These are images of the Spirit being present in the Old Testament. And as the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him in thunder. And then what does the Spirit do? He gives God's law. Why? To convict, as Paul says, to convict his people of their sin and their need for a Savior. And then the last Old Testament prophet, John the Baptist, comes and he speaks of the convicting, per prosecuting power of the Holy Spirit. He says, I baptize you with water, but there's one who's mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with The Holy Spirit and fire. And the image of the Spirit in the cloud and at Sinai and the promise of the Spirit convicting gives new meaning when Jesus says that he will come back to judge. As the Son of Man coming in a cloud with great power and glory. Maybe in the spirit of the day, we could think is the sort of idea there. So we see this theme throughout the Bible, the spirits. function as the powerful presence of God to prosecute judgment, to bring conviction, like a prosecuting attorney for Almighty God, for the all-knowing God, to convict the world of sin and righteousness and judgment. So Let's apply this first point. What is it to experience this personally? It's more than just knowing that you're wrong. And sometimes we do need to be told that we're wrong. Sometimes we're just unaware, and we need to be just simply told you are wrong. But it's more than just that, right? Conviction that the Spirit brings is getting a sense of the depth and gravity of our guilt before a holy and righteous God. Of feeling like Like Adam and Eve, naked, exposed, before the righteousness and holiness of God. Our Westminster Larger Catechism, Question and Answer 79, which speaks of repentance unto life. Convicting work of the Spirit like this. It says, repentance unto life is a saving grace wrought in the heart of a sinner by the Spirit and Word of God. There it is. The Spirit r uh is r mr how do you say wrought in present tense, right? He accomplishes this this uh in the heart of the sinner and the The the Spirit does this by the word, whereby, and here it is, out of a sight and sense not only of the danger of his sins, but also of the filthiness and odiousness of his sins, and upon the apprehension of God's mercy in Christ to such as are penitent. He so grieves for and hates his sins that he turns from them all to God. Grief for sin, hating sin, is not natural to us after the fall. It is. The almighty supernatural work of the Holy Spirit convicting. So do you want to feel the Holy Spirit's presence? Well, one way to find it, to see it, is in deep conviction of sin. When you bend the truth even a little, when you take a bribe and distort justice, when you Steal from your employer when you lust after someone not your spouse, when you cheat on a test, when you disobey mom or dad, when you don't love your wife as Christ loved the church, or don't honor your husband because of Christ. And when you do these things and you feel bad, you feel guilt, you feel shame, friends, don't ignore that. Don't minimize it. Don't move on. Stop. Repent, confess, and then renew your following of Jesus Christ. Or perhaps for you it's not the obvious stuff. Maybe it's More subtle. The envy that you mask with sarcasm. The bitterness that you've you've baptized as boundaries. The indifference to injustice that you dismiss as political neutrality, whatever it is, when the Spirit convicts, don't run. That sense of guilt is a gift. It's not God pushing you away, but Him drawing you near. Recognize that work, that function of Almighty God by the Holy Spirit, bringing conviction, and repent. And turn anew to Jesus Christ. Maybe you're one who's outside of Christ. Maybe you've never, maybe you've never recognized. That sense of guilt that you felt is is the Spirit's work. Don't let the day go by, right? Hear that as from the Lord and respond in repentance and faith. So the second point, the focus of the Holy Spirit's conviction, and I think this is so interesting. If conviction is good, if it's the beginning of repentance and faith and conversion of salvation, which it is. How do we get it? And we might expect that the answer is we focus on sin. Or we focus on God's law. So it's sort of surprising and maybe even shocking is how Jesus clarifies the focus of the Holy Spirit's work here of convicting. He says, he will convict the world. concerning sin, righteousness, and judgment. And so you think, oh, okay, so yeah, so he's going to convict me, he's going to show me my sin or show us our sin. and show us uh uh righteousness, how we fall short, and and then convict us of the judgment that we deserve. Well there's truth in that, right? But notice how he elaborates as he goes on, as John goes on here, or as Jesus goes on here in John. Concerning sin, verse 9, not because they have broken God's law. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. See, the focus of the Spirit's conviction is on Jesus Christ. He convicts us of sin by showing us Jesus Christ, not as a sinner. But as the one and only truly righteous man. See, friends, the Bible says all sin can be forgiven, even the most vile if we simply are convicted by the Spirit and put our faith in Jesus Christ, his life, death, and resurrection. But that has a flip side, and that is this, that in some sense, the only reason people will be lost forever, condemned to hell, is is because they have refused to run to Jesus Christ for his saving grace. And the Bible speaks about one unforgivable sin. And it seems like that must be it. The one sin of rejecting Jesus Christ. So John Calvin can say, unbelief here is here mentioned. Unbelief is what he says the Spirit is convicting of. Unbelief is here mentioned because it separates us from Christ, in consequence of which nothing is left to us but sin. So the focus of the Spirit's convicting work as he convicts of sin is on Jesus Christ. Because he defines what sin is, not by committing it himself, but by being perfectly sinless. Then look at verse 10. Concerning righteousness, again, not because they have the law of Moses. Or they have a description of righteousness in my word, but because I go to the Father and you will see me no longer. What's the point? Well, the only way to see true righteousness is not looking at the Pharisees, not looking at Mother Teresa, but looking at Jesus Christ, who John, 1 John 2:1 says Jesus Christ is the righteous one. But as Jesus is saying here, he's leaving. He's going to ascend to the Father's right hand after his resurrection, where he is now praying for his people, as it says in Romans 8:34. So where can we find a demonstration of righteousness in a man? Well, it's only as the Spirit convicts by showing us Jesus, his righteousness. By bringing to mind what Jesus has done and who Jesus is, and by enabling his the record of Jesus Christ to be written down, which is what Jesus promises the Spirit will do. Seeing Jesus shows us what righteousness really looks like so that we can get a clear sense of how far we fall short. And then verse 11. Concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. And you say, well, here's the focus is on the ruler of this world, not on Jesus, right? I would say wrong. Right? It says the ruler of this world is condemned, is judged. Of course it's true that Jesus will one day return to judge the living and the dead. But in the meantime, the evidence for Christ's defeat, his great defeat of the ruler of this world, is when we look to him and his work on the cross, being himself crucified. He was crucified in order to condemn the ruler of this world. That's the great good news of the gospel. It's mind-blowing. It's mind-blowing and it's sort of counterintuitive. How do we see conviction of judgment? It's not just in a warning of The ruler of this world, who is that? Well, in in John, it's John 12, verse 31, it's Satan, the prince of the power of the air, as Ephesians 2. 2 says. And yet with Satan comes sin, this oppressive ruler that enslaves God's people. uh before they come to the freedom that we have in Jesus Christ through faith. Death itself is called sort of a dominating ruler or an enemy of God. And this is what Jesus does. He condemns the ruler of this world, sin, Satan, and death. So ever since the work of Jesus Christ, there's been a fundamental change in the Spirit's convicting work. In the Old Testament, the Spirit convicted through the tights and shadows, convicting of sin and righteousness and judgment through the law, through the giving of the law. But now by the light of the crucified and risen Jesus Christ, he is convicting us, the world. of sin and righteousness and judgment by pointing us, focusing us on Jesus Christ Chapter 15, verse 26, Jesus says, When the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, and what is it that he says his focus will be? He will bear witness about me. Then chapter 16, verses 13 to 15, the end of the passage we read tonight for our sermon text, when the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak of his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will Glorify me. That's his focus. For he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. So here's the point. The focus of the Spirit's convicting work is to point us to, to show us Jesus Christ. He is the one by whom we see what sin is. We compare it to his perfect righteousness. He is the one who convicts us of what righteousness is, because he is the only truly ever righteous man, and he is the one who convicts us of righteousness. Of the judgment of the ruler of this world, as we see him living out the perfect holy life, and then being lifted to be crucified on the cross, only to rise in glory from the dead on the third day. So Michael Horton The theologian out of Westminster Seminary in California can say it this way. He says, you can be absolutely certain where the Holy Spirit is present in power today, wherever Christ is clearly preached in his saving office. And you can be absolutely clear where the Holy Spirit is not present. Even if there are apparent signs and wonders, He is not present present where He Himself is central. The Holy Spirit delights to be present to make Christ known. Jesus Christ is the focus of the Holy Spirit's conviction. Not just how we fall short of His righteousness, but how we can have Jesus' righteousness credited to us by faith. Again, think that listen to Westminster Larger Catechism 79. It says, Repentance unto life is a saving grace wrought in the heart of the sinner by the Spirit and the Word of God, whereby, out of sight and sense, not only of the danger of our sin. But also of the filthiness and odiousness of our sins. And then there's this little line at the end. And upon the apprehension of God's mercy in Christ to such as are penitent. That's what enables us, as we're convicted not only of how bad our sin is, but of how great Christ is as our Savior. That is what brings repentance and conversion as we turn from our sin to God. So let the Spirit's conviction of sin Not just make you feel bad or fear God's judgment, but let it drive you to respond to repentance and faith. If you're one who has not yet done that, do that today. If you're one who has done that, learn the true righteousness that we have in Jesus Christ. And guess what? As we follow him by faith, he not only credits it to us, but he also begins to work it in us by his spirit as he remakes us. after the image of Jesus Christ. So come to Jesus. Bask in the freedom and power you can have in him. Freedom and Freedom from the most powerful ruling forces on earth, sin, Satan, and death. In Jesus Christ. You're no longer a slave to these, but you belong to Jesus. And you're not going to end in death, but you're going to die simply to begin eternal life. Maybe you're here tonight and the weight of past sin feels unbearable. You wonder if your tears and your fears are a sign of weakness. But as I'm saying here, friend, that very ache is evidence of the Spirit's presence. He never convicts without also pointing to the cross. And so your guilt is real, but God's grace is greater. And his grace is a free gift to you through faith in Jesus Christ. So the Holy Spirit The function of his conviction is that he drives us to see our need for a savior. The focus of his conviction is on Jesus Christ, third, and finally the form of the Holy Spirit's conviction. And here I'm asking the question: how does the Spirit do this work, this function of conviction? How does he show us Jesus Christ, who he is, and what he's done? And the answer is through nothing other than the Word of God. First inspiring that word through the prophets in the Old Testament and the Apostles in the New, writing that word down. That's how Jesus was revealed. He was first revealed in types and shadows in the Old Testament and then in the glory the glory of his incarnation and resurrection. And that's what we have in the Bible, right? Jesus says When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. And he says elsewhere that he will bring to mind all that he has said and that he has done. And that is how we have the New Testament record of who Jesus is. And this record of who Jesus is is what the Spirit uses, the form of his conviction, as he not only has the word written for us. by which he's going to work to convict us. But then as he calls ordinary men, ordinary fishermen like Peter, scholars like Paul, people, men, like you and me and me to preach this good news about Jesus. As we see in Acts chapter 2, this is how the Spirit convicts Through the proclamation of the Word of God. In Acts chapter 2, this is the account of Pentecost. Where the Holy Spirit comes down in flames of fire. And what happens when the Holy Spirit comes down in flames of fire? Again, that idea of conviction, of purification, of even judgment. they start speaking in all sorts of languages that they didn't know how to speak before. And other people can understand these languages and hear. The people then listen to a sermon and And they're convicted. Acts chapter 2. Paul or Peter is preaching. He says, Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by By God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through Him in your midst, as you yourselves know, this Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed. By the hands of lawless men. How did they crucify and kill him? They didn't participate it physically, participate in it physically, but their sins caused it. Just like yours and mine Then he says, God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it. And then you read down further in verse 36, and it says, Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord in Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified, and what happens after the preaching of this word, the Holy Spirit convicts. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart. And they said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. And friends, the form of the Holy Spirit's conviction through the Word, when it's read and preached, brings fruit. Brings fruit in hearers and believers. The goal ultimately of the Holy Spirit's convicting work is not ultimately humiliation, but healing. The Spirit's conviction is to bring the sweet fruit of renewal, of reassurance of God's grace to those who are penitent. Of joy in Christ's righteousness, of growth in holiness. What is the Spirit's fruit? It's not ultimately to leave us in our guilt and shame, in conviction. But it's to bring about the fruit of love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, self-control. Freedom from sin's enslaving power. Yes, the Spirit, through conviction, wounds our pride, but he does so in order to heal. As God says in Job chapter 5, verse 17 and 18. So we can apply this third final point. How do we enjoy this work of the Spirit in conviction? Let's study the Bible. Let us seek to understand the biblical truth. Let us read on it, reflect on it, meditate upon it, let us listen to it preached and prayed and served up for us week after week Here in worship and at the Lord's table. Let us listen for how it focuses us on Jesus Christ and then be quick to follow the Spirit's lead, to repent, to believe in God's promises. Let us not only engage the word here, let us do it in our private lives, in private devotion, but especially when we gather as a church where the word is preached, the sacraments are administered. Where there's a community of accountability that is fostered to bring conviction by the Spirit in order to bring new repentance and faith. See, the Spirit's conviction as prosecuting attorney and judge is not an especially fun experience. It can be painful, it can bring tears, but it is good and necessary. And the reality is that so often the depth of our faith and our our delight in the gospel of Jesus Is related to, sometimes in direct proportion to, our conviction of sin, of righteousness, and judgment in Jesus Christ. So may this function of the Holy Spirit's convicting work be alive In us as he focuses us on Jesus Christ, through careful attention to the form of his convicting work through the living and abiding word of God, as he bears fruit, the fruit of repentance and faith in our lives. All to the glory of his generous grace. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, how we do thank you for the Spirit Who proceeds from you, whom our risen Savior Jesus Christ has sent from your right hand. How we thank you for this work that He does in our lives, of convicting us of sin, of righteousness, of judgment, of focusing us on the way in which we see sin so clearly in the sinless one, Jesus Christ. How we see righteousness truly in the one righteous one, Jesus Christ, and how we see the ruler of this world judged, condemned in the judgment that fell on Jesus in our place. How we pray that you'd be at work in us, not only convicting us of sin, but enabling us to repent of it, to turn to you, and to grow in grace and godliness as we walk by faith, not by sight. By faith in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen.