Let's take a few moments to turn open God's word here as we conclude the Lord's Day together. I think I'm going to keep changing things a bit and read a shorter Old Testament reading, but we will read all the ten verses from Ephesians chapter 2. As we're going to be thinking about conversion and in many ways it's sort of twin truth of regeneration. I think that's well described here in Ephesians chapter 2 and these wonderful verses. verses 1 to 10. That's on page 976 of the few Bibles if you're using those. Hear now the word of the Lord. And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit. That is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived, in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses. Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us. in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast, for we are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. And as you flip over with me to 724 in the Pew Bibles, Ezekiel chapter 36, I think I'll read verses 22 to 27 and then jump over to chapter 37 and read verses 1 to 14. Therefore, say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name. Which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them, And the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart. And a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you. And cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. Then verse 1 of chapter 37, the hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord, God, you know. Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones, behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. And I will lay sinews upon you, and you will and will cause flesh to come upon you and cover you with skin and put Breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, There was a sound, and behold, a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to its bone, and I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them, but there was no breath in them. Then he said to me, Prophesy to the breath. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these flame that they may live. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet an exceedingly great army. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones are dried up and our hope is lost. We are indeed cut off. Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves. And raise you up from your graves, O my people, and I will bring you into the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. Here ends the reading of God's word. Let's pray and ask him to bless our time as we think on further. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that is living and active, sharper than a two-edged sword, that it is the The means, even though your word is the sword of the Spirit, it is a sword that gives life to dry bones. And so we pray that tonight as we come to hear that you might Might open our eyes to our need, open our ears to hear the provision of your need for us in Christ Jesus by your Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, in my late high school years, uh, a friend of mine introduced me to some of her friends, a group of her friends, who were all connected or knew each other from AA, Alcoholics Anonymous. And in many ways, they were very sweet people who knew deeply their own brokenness, had been brought low, uh, and they really cared for each other. They were there as a group of people to try to support one another in Living their new life, right? Living a life that was freed from the addiction to alcohol that they all had suffered with. But as I spent some time with them, I noticed That they all had something in common, and that was that every one of them was doing something still to the max. And maybe it was Coffeeholics. They would drink coffee all day and all night and stay up really late or chain smoking. Many of them were chain smokers. It's like Oof, you know, go from alcohol abuse to chain smoking, probably not a good uh choice for your health. Some of them were sex addicts, some of them were into music to the max. And what I what I began to realize is Their issue may not have simply been that they drank too much, which they did, but was that they were at heart a people who were very passionate Loving and devoted to the things they were passionate so much so that they truly were addicts to something And so for them to no longer drink alcohol, they had to have their passion, their love, their addiction redirected or converted to something that was hopefully not as destructive, although many of them found that they landed it on something else that was was destructive in its own way. And I think that is so instructive for us because in many ways that actually begins to Tell us a story that that is a picture of who we are spiritually. That at heart we are those who are born To be addicts of sorts, those who love deeply and so deeply that we worship the things that we love. We are oriented somewhere. We are striving for something. We are in love with someone or something. Often this is a person. You've just started dating someone. You are so devoted to that person. You can't get them off your mind. Or maybe if you have kids that you're just totally in love with, they occupy your mind. You have a passion for them. You want to be around them. Maybe it's more of an activity that you are in love with, a sport, shopping, doing something else, playing music as some of my friends back then. Maybe it's a goal, your retirement, your future, something that you're planning for. And the reality is that what we most love, what we most desire becomes what we worship. It becomes our addiction of sorts. And the problem is, like these Alcoholics Anonymous friends that I had in my youth, some loves destroy. Some loves destroy. And my friends who are alcoholics recognize this. Their love for alcohol was destroying them. They recognized that, and so they turned it to something else. But what they didn't always recognize That some of the other loves they chose were equally as destructive, although not in the same obvious way. The Bible says: anything we worship that is earthly, that is created, Anything that we long for and love in that capacity becomes a God. It becomes what Ezekiel here in Ezekiel 36 describes as Israel's idols. Something that we love and worship other than the triune God. And the reality is the Bible says any of these options that we choose will ultimately not satisfy, but it will eventually destroy our And so we need redirection. We need reorientation from the sinful bent ways that we turn away from God. We need to be turned back to Him. to love him, to adore him, to worship him as he ought to be worshipped. And the theological term For this redirection, the redirecting of our love and our affection and our pursuit from other things to have it directed to God the Father in Jesus Christ. That is the word conversion. Conversion. In a sense, it's like those plugs you take on trips, right? You go to overseas, you you try to plug your uh your appliance in the outlet, it doesn't actually fit. It doesn't fit in the outlet. And the reason for that is because if you plugged it in it would often destroy your appliance because the the currency is not the right one. It needs to be converted before it can be used right. In a very real sense, for us, the problem is not the plug, it's us. Us as appliances. We need to be converted to actually properly feed on and worship God as we ought because it's a good idea. We uh in the evenings I've been doing, uh in the opportunities I've had to preach in the evenings, I've been doing a sort of series, a short miniseries on the Holy Spirit. Who he is and what he does, what his work is. We've talked already about the Holy Spirit, who is a divine person of the Godhead. Equal in power and glory with the Father and the Son, but distinct as a person of the Trinity Who indwells us as God's people with the presence of Jesus Christ. And as we talked about a few weeks ago, he is our other advocate. Jesus is our advocate in heaven at the Father's right hand. The Spirit is our advocate here on earth. persuading us of God's love for us in Christ. And we've talked about the Spirit's work as five C's: creation, conviction, conversion, confirmation, and consummation. And we've been working our way through these. We talked about creation, we talked about conviction. Tonight, we're going to think about this word conversion. The Holy Spirit. One key aspect of his work is to convert. And to understand this and to unpack this a bit, I want us to think about conversion's context. what it is and why we need it. It's cause. How do we get it? And it's, and here's the stretch one, it's cornucopia. What comes with conversion and why is it such a great thing? So, context, cause, and cornucopia, and we'll talk about why. I think that is an appropriate word when we get there. First of all, conversion is context. What is it and why do we need it? Conversion literally is a turning around, a complete upending of life, a change of pursuit, of direction. It's nothing less than utter transformation. Maybe a little, one way to maybe begin to think of it is uh imagine a pool deck. With a small toddler running around, playing with a ball, and the ball goes off and it gets, it lands in the pool Far enough out that you know that if that child tries to reach it, they're gonna fall in the pool and they are not able to swim and they are gonna drown. And so the toddler starts running. In the direction of that ball, and you just see the whole thing unfold. And and and so before they can do it, you call out to them and you get their attention and you wave another ball and you say, no, no, no, don't do that one. Come get this one. All of a sudden, that child's attention is redirected. And they're no longer running to the pool and their immediate death, but they are now running to their parent, their friend, their loved one who is holding a better ball. That's a little picture maybe of what conversion is, redirection, reorientation. Now you may think I'm not sure I need that. I'm not sure I want a different orientation of life. I think I've got things pretty figured out. I kind of like my life. Seems like it's going in a good direction. Well, the problem comes as we begin to project that into the future. I kind of like my life, you say. Well, how long? Well, you kind of like your life. Maybe you say, oh, I've got a five-year plan, a 10-year plan, a 15-year plan, a 20-year plan, I've got a 25-year plan. But what What about when the economy takes a severe and sudden downturn? Are you ready for that? What about when your 20-year plan, after two years, you are have a heart attack, you're diagnosed with cancer? Or maybe you're in really good health, you have a great plan. What's it going to look like in 200 years? The Bible calls us to be brutally honest and to press ourselves into the reality. That if we are directing our loves, our attention, our affection, our worship for anything in this world, it has an expiration date Right? Death is the great enemy. And we we know that. Bodily death is all of our future unless Christ Returns, but that's not the worst of it. The Bible says spiritual death that turns hearts and lives away from God, who is the great creator and giver of life. Spiritual death comes as we turn away from God, the giver of life, to other things, and we die, our hearts become hearts of stone, as Ezekiel describes it in Ezekiel chapter 36, and we become enemies of stone. Of God. We become deserving of judgment and eternal punishment for having rebelled against God and his rules and laws and commands for us. It's worth asking, okay, well, where does all this death come from then? This bodily death, this spiritual death, and you know the answer, right? Death is not our primary problem. It's actually the consequence of our primary problem. Our primary problem is what death is the wages of, which is sin, rebellion against God. Sin that is one of the ways it manifests itself, is in worshiping all manner of things. Rather than God, as well as disobeying his commands for us and his good design for his creation, for us as his creatures, and how he has called us, he has made us to image him. And yet we fall often so short of that. We're introduced to this spiritual death in Genesis 2. 17. God says to Adam, Genesis 2, 17, The day you eat of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you will surely die. Have you ever thought about that? It's like, whoa, they they didn't really die Didn't they? Not bodily. But didn't they die spiritually? Right And it's interesting if you look at the Hebrew, we don't have time to get into a big long verbal uh semantics lesson here, but if you actually translate the verb very specifically, It probably is better to translate it on the day you eat of it, you will well one way you could translate it is on the day you eat of it, you will be be dying. You will actually be in a state of going toward death. And that is certainly true. It's interesting what the serpent says to the woman says, you will not actually become dead, as though he's saying, like, you won't be dead that moment. It's like, well But they do die spiritually. And we see that because of the effects. All of a sudden they become cold-hearted To God, having hearts of deadstone toward God and each other. We see that as they flee from God's presence. God, the giver of life God, the great Creator in majesty, God who would who would drive you to bow to your knees in worship if you ever could behold him, and we can't in our sin. And they flee from him. And then they start accusing each other. She did it. He did it. But it's not just them It's us too. We are born dead in sin. And that's what we see here in Ephesians, in our Ephesians passage two, verses one to three. Paul addressing the Ephesians, this church made up of probably Jews and Gentiles, though mostly Gentiles, he says, you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you once walked, following the course of this world. following the Prince of the Power of the Earth, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. You're supposed to read that and not think, oh, they must have really intentionally chosen to die, to be children of wrath, to be following the Prince of the Power there. No, no, no. That's just by nature how we are in our sin. That's the default. And that's the picture we also have here in Ezekiel, and that's a powerful one. The nation of Israel in their sin and disobedience to God is like a valley of dry bones. Dry, fleshless, scattered around, uh unassemblable. Have you ever thought of that? If you got a whole valley strewn with dead bones How do you know which ones go together? You don't. I don't. We could not bring life in that context. The hand of the Lord was upon me, verse one. He brought me out in the spirit of the Lord, set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of dry bones. He led me among them. Behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley. Behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, get these bones lived. And Ezekiel gives the most diplomatic answer. Oh Lord, you know. No, they can't live, but you don't say the Almighty God God n know they can't live in his presence because with God all things are possible. That is the human predicament though we are in. We're made for life, we long for it. Ecclesiastes 3 11 says that there's eternity in our hearts and yet we are walking deadness. Walking dead women, dead in our trespasses and sins, and headed for death and judgment to follow. That's the context of conversion. That's why We need redirections because we are on a path, the walking dead, headed toward death and judgment. It's interesting thinking about this context of conversion. Because it's not just the bad things that we've done that we need to be turned away from, right? The lying, the lusting, the hating, the stealing. It's also the good things that we've done that make us think that we somehow deserve. Right? That we deserve life from God, that we deserve heaven in some sense. Most accounts of conversion in the Bible, if you think about it, are not really wicked people. They're not the worst of the worst sinners. Most accounts of conversion in the Bible are religious, pious people. Who still need to be converted. Ezekiel 37, 11, he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones are dried up and our hope is lost. We are indeed cut off. It's easy for us. We know the story of the Bible. It's easy for us to think, oh yeah, that was sinful Israel. They were idolaters. They were all But step back for a moment and say, this is Israel in comparison with all the other nations. This is Israel in contrast to Babylon. This is Israel in contrast to Assyria. Who were the more pious-looking people of the day? Not Assyria, not Babylon, Israel. It's the most pious nation on earth. And yet they're the ones that God says they're dry bones. Ezekiel 36, God says, their hearts are dead stone before. The Holy Spirit regenerates them and gives them new hearts and converts them. But think of the other examples of conversion we have in the Bible, Paul. And we think of him as, oh, Paul the bad guy, and he was, in relation to the church, right, a persecutor of the church. But he says in Philippians 3. 6 that as to righteousness under the law, I was blameless. He was a good, pious man, as a Pharisee. In fact, even his zeal against the church was, I mean, you have to put it in in our sort of context, it was like being zealous against radical Islam. Right? That's how he thought of it. This was a cult. It was leading people astray. So even that would have, in some sense, seemed to the Pharisees like piety. He was a pious man. Yet he needed conversion. Acts chapter nine. Or I love this one, Cornelius, in Acts chapter ten. Let me let me inter He's one who needs conversion, right? But it says this in Acts chapter ten, verses one and two. At Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius. It says a centurion Of what was known as the Italian cohort. So you know, from the place that birthed the mob, that's the kind of soldier. I don't know if it had any relation to that. But listen to what it says about him. A devout man. A devout man who feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed continually to God. Well, there's a man that doesn't need to be converted. And what does God say? He sends an angel to him. And the angel comes to him, and does the angel say to him, Cornelius, you are a devout man? Praying continually. You've got it. You're good. You're on your way to heaven. No, he comes and says, go find Peter. And what does Peter do? Peter comes and preaches the gospel. And Cornelius is converted. Right? Same with Lydia in Acts chapter 16. Acts chapter 16, verses 13 to 14. And on the Sabbath day we, this is Paul, Luke writing about he and Paul, right? On the Sabbath day we went outside to the gate. to the riverside, where there's uh where we supposed there was a place of prayer, and we sat down and spoke to the women who had come together. One who heard us was a woman named Lydia from the city of Phaatera. A seller of purple goods, listen to this, who was a worshiper of God. And then the next verse: the Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul. Lydia, a pious godly woman, on the surface, she needed conversion. Nicodemus in chapter 3 of John. Now, you know, it doesn't seem, you know, Jesus has to teach him, but On the outside, a Pharisee, and he was interested, coming to Jesus. And Jesus doesn't say, now you of all people, you've got your act together. You don't need conversion. Jesus says, you must be born again. Again, friends, Christianity is not just another religion, but it is utterly unique. It is a change of life A transformation. What does religion say? Religion says sin is the bad stuff you do, so just stop doing that bad stuff and start doing good stuff and you'll be saved. If that's what you think Christianity is, Listen, because it's not. Christianity says sin is the dead stuff you are, or I'm sorry, the dead stuff you are. The dead stuff you are, from which seeps out of our heart the bad stuff we do. Dead in our sin, hearts of stone, that leads to the bad stuff we do. We can't just change what we're doing. We need transformation from the inside out. And the better we are at hiding. That deadness of our heart, the more danger we're in, because we'll be tempted to think that we're maybe okay, that we don't need conversion. The wages of sin is death, Romans 6 says. And Romans 3 says, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. We all need this conversion. That's the context of conversion, that we are utterly helpless. dead in our trasgr uh in transgressions and sins, that even our righteous deeds flowing from a heart of stone are then as filthy rags as Isaiah 64 Do you see that? Have you recognized this in yourself? Do you are you a pretty good person? Do you think that you you may deserve something from God because you're not as bad as X, Y, or Z? It always seems like we can always find someone much worse than us. Someone that might persuade us that maybe well, but we don't need conversion like they do. I feel like the whipping boy for the whole 20th century after World War II was Hitler, and it seems like he's still out there, right? You can always say, well, at least I'm not as bad as as him, although I don't know that how how far that really could get you. Do you recognize how bad your situation is, how deep your sin goes, in the pictures we have here in Ephesians 2 and Ezekiel 36 and 37? And these pictures show us that our context is so bad that we're not able to do anything to please God, let alone to save ourselves, because we're dead, spiritually speaking. And physical death that we all face is the proof of the spiritual death that already exists. John 3:3, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. So the context of our conversion is our dire need that we have for God to act and save our lives, to convert our lives from serving and worshiping other things, all the things that tempt us, all the things that seem good on the surface, all the things that seem to give value and meaning in this life, and yet ultimately will leave us empty at our death. To have our hearts converted to loving and following Jesus, and this is what He does by the Holy Spirit. But how How does this happen? How does conversion happen? And that's the second point. Conversion's cause. How do we get there? Well, the good news is that if we think of our context as a valley of dry bones, A heart of stone, being dead in our transgressions, in our sins and transgressions in which we walk. The good news is that the Holy Spirit, who a few weeks ago we talked about it, was there at creation. Who created all things of nothing when the Father spoke and the Spirit brought life? That same Spirit is the one who converts today. The same spirit who created is the spirit who recreates. Not just giving life in this life. But giving new life, new spiritual, eternal life. He is the spirit of the age to come who brings resurrection and everlasting life out of death We talked, I think I used this quote when we were looking at Genesis 1. 2. Genesis 1-2 is where it says God first of all created heavens and the earth, and then it says the earth was without form and void. And the spirit, Genesis 1-2, was hovering over the face of the deep. And one theologian, I think it might be Calvin, I don't remember exactly, and I don't have it in my notes, but one theologian said, I love how he describes the spirit hovering. The hovering is like a mother hen or like an eagle hovering over its young, and it says the Holy Spirit was there hovering. hovering over the formlessness and voidness of the world, cherishing the confused mass. Then God speaks, let there be light, and there's light. Let there be life and there's life by the Spirit who hovered, who cherished the confused mass And in a similar way, the Holy Spirit comes and hovers over the formless void of spiritually stony hearts. Of dry bones of our sinfulness, dead in sin, the sinfulness of our hearts and our lives in our sin and misery. The Spirit comes and hovers over that and He cherishes. That confused mass. He stands ready for the Father to speak in the Son and bring life out of death So just as the first cause of creation in all things is God Almighty Himself who spoke, so also He is the first cause. Of conversion, of recreation, regeneration, God by His Holy Spirit. And what that means, friends, is if you are a Christian here today, you have no reason to be proud. You didn't do it. It also means that you have no reason to doubt and to be afraid of failing in persevering to the end. Philippians 1, 6, He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. Just as the formlessness and voidness of the earth could not in itself Bear the good fruit of creatures and living things and man and woman created in God's image. No, the formless mass there was simply there, but that the Spirit cherishing it brought life. And used it and shaped it. And so it is with us. But the question can be asked further. Okay, that's conversion's primary cause. God the Father by His Spirit. So God is the ultimate cause of conversion. But what is the proximate cause? How does it happen? And here the answer is a little different. How our hearts change from being stony and dead in sin to being new and living spiritually speaking. And the short answer is by the Holy Spirit. That's the main ultimate cause. But here's the proximate cause. Through the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. See, the Spirit loves to use means. He loves to use things in his creation to accomplish his supernatural works. Like creation itself, right? First God speaks, let there be light. Then he says, let the earth be separated, let there be lights in the heavens. And then he says, let the earth bring forth. He loves to use means to accomplish his will, to accomplish his almighty works. And so also the gospel that is proclaimed in human words by a human preacher, by human people, does heavenly, spiritual, eternal work. It accomplishes things. That are only the work of God, bringing death to new life in Jesus Christ. And friends, how encouraging is that to us? Maybe you are being called To be a pastor. Maybe you are being called to be a missionary. Maybe you're being called to share the good news with a friend, family member, loved one. And you think, how can I? How can I change their stony hearts How can I bring life to dead, dry bones? And the answer is you can't. But God can. And He loves to use you In the process. Me in the process. That's so clear throughout Acts. In Acts chapter 2, it says that the people were cut to the heart. That's conversion, right? Regeneration. How? Were they cut to the heart? Peter, preaching Jesus Christ, crucified, dead, risen, and ascended. It's the same in Acts chapter 10. They respond, they're cut to the heart, and they respond how? Because Peter preaches. And here in Ezekiel 37. You know, God doesn't wave a wand. Give Peter some incantation that he can mumble under his breath. No, he says, go preach. It's translated prophesy. He says, go preach to the dry bones. Go preach to the lifeless, dead, dry bones, wife, dry, to show how lifeless and dead they are and what happens. Ezekiel 34, 37, verse 4. He said to me, Prophesy or preach over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. How can dry bones hear? Thus says the Lord God to these bodes, behold, I will cause breath, literally spirit, to enter you, and you shall live, and I will lay sinnings upon you. And you will c I will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, or spirit in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord. So I preached, or I prophesied, as I was commanded, and as I prophesied, there was a sound, and behold, a rattling. and the bones came together bone to its bone. And let's let's bring out the ESV translation doesn't bring out as overtly and clearly the work of the Spirit that happens through the preaching of the Word. Let's try to do that here. Verse 8, And I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, on the bones. All of a sudden, right? He's prophesied, he's preached. And flesh came up upon or come up upon them, and skin had covered them, but there was no breath in them. Them. These are corpses. These aren't any more alive than those dry bones. Then he said to me, Preach again. Prophesy to the Spirit. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the Spirit, thus says the Lord God, come from the four spirits. winds, O Spirit, and breathe on these slain that they may live. So I prophesied or preached as he commanded me. And the Spirit came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great army. Friends, before we can ever be converted from sin and rebellion to be God's people. to be saved by his grace as disciples of Jesus. The Holy Spirit calls people to that by humans preaching this gospel good news. And then as Jesus has preached, his word goes forth, and like in Genesis 1, where God said, Let there be light, and there was light, the preaching of the gospel is the word that goes out from God Almighty Himself by His Spirit, let there be faith. And there is faith. Let there be life, and there is new life. This is what Paul says in Romans. I won't go there and read all those verses, but he says that faith comes from hearing and and hearing through the word of Christ, and he says that word is preached by those who are called to go forth bearing the gospel. First John 5. 1, everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of the gospel. That's why conversion and faith are called a gift of God in Ephesians 2, verse 8. Because he has to do this work. He is the ultimate cause, and he raises up the proximate cause. The preachers who go forth, proclaiming the word of the Lord, that we can then hear and have new life created in us 1 Peter 1 23, you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding Word of God. That's how we're converted. James 1. 18. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth. that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creation. And the same thing in Ephesians 2, verses 4 to 10 that we read a moment ago. God working. to convert, to change hearts through the preaching of the word. 2 Corinthians 5. 17, therefore if in if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away, behold the new has come, and all this is From God who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. And what is it about preaching, the preaching of Christ in his gospel that the Spirit uses to convert us to repentance and faith? I like how R. C. Sprohl talks about it. He says, you know, regeneration and regeneration and conversion, they're really two sides of the same coin. Regeneration is God actually giving us by His Spirit new life in our hearts to believe, and conversion is that active belief. in our parts, that that actual experience in a real way of turning from not believing, not knowing, not loving God to knowing Him, loving Him, trusting in Jesus Christ as our Savior. So they go hand in hand. We can't be converted if we're not regenerated, and when we are regenerated, we're always converted. But R. C. Stroll says regeneration, and therefore also the new life, being born again, conversion, is not an information problem. The demons know the gospel. The demons know Jesus. But they're not converted. Conversion, regeneration is a heart problem It's a question of who our faith is in, who our hope is in, who our love is for. And like acquired tastes. Coffee, the great acquired taste. I'd recommend it to you. I love coffee. But a lot of kids, the first taste, some even adults, don't love the taste. It's acquired. Often wine is an acquired taste. Fish, seafood can be an acquired taste. I'm told Ludafisk is an acquired taste. I have not acquired that yet, but I think uh wasn't it Tom Schoenfeller? I think he actually kind of liked it because he it was his background, right? So also, friends, one way to think of conversion is having the acquired taste for Jesus. Having a taste for Jesus. As a lovely, beloved Savior, Lord, King. Only when we see Jesus as the righteous one who took on flesh and humbled himself to become a man, was obedient like we aren't, even to the point of death. Where the Spirit convicted him for our sin, he suffered and died, and then he rose. And when we see Jesus risen in power and glory, ascended to the Father's right hand, who wants to share his glory, his honor, his inheritance. of everlasting life, of an everlasting kingdom of righteousness. He wants to share that with us. Only when we see the beauty and wonder and majesty and glory of this gospel are we drawn away from the loves of this world. From all the things we can set our affections and hearts on, only when we see that can we be truly converted by the Spirit to know and love Him above all things. And that's why it has to be a work of God. The cause of conversion is God Himself by His Holy Spirit working in and through the Word. Have you seen Jesus? In and through the Word. Have you been enthralled by Jesus and by His love? Have you heard Him speak in the gospel as He speaks? Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. If anyone thirsts spiritually for God for righteousness, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as Scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now this he said about the Spirit. Have you heard this good news of the gospel? Has it captured your heart? Maybe you're not sure. Maybe you're not sure if it has, but you want it to. That's a great sign. That means probably that the Holy Spirit is at work in you. Wanting to want is often evidence that conversion is happening. That there's something going on in your heart, that you're developing a hunger and thirst for the Lord, where the Spirit hasn't worked yet. There can be confidence, there can be pride, there can be disinterest. But friends, the good news is those stony, dry, bony places are exactly the places the Spirit loves to breathe newly. Don't give up praying for your hard-hearted, stony-hearted friends and family. Maybe for your own heart when it is stony and hard. So that's the context for conversion. That's the cause of conversion. Third and finally, the stretched word, cornucopia, right? What comes with conversion? What is a cornucopia? Well, it is literally a goat's horn symbolizing abundance. An inexhaustible store. I know back in the day, I don't see it as often anymore, but it was the picture of Thanksgiving. You had this basket shaped like a horn and out it was spilling all these. harvest foods, right? And a pumpkin pie. No, I I don't think that was ever spilling out of a corner. Usually it's fruits and vegetables and stuff. An abundance of blessings, right? And I think therefore this word cornucopia is so fitting for all the Holy Spirit's work, including conversion. Because see, when the Holy Spirit breathes life into things, especially in people, he never just leaves. He breathes life and then he loves to stay. To empower, to use, to continue breathing and building that life. Often the work of the Spirit in theology is sort of confined to what we say the application of redemption. The Spirit takes salvation wrought by Jesus Christ, by his Spirit, and then applies it to believers and Christ's people. But as we've been thinking about in this series, the Spirit's work is a little bit bigger than that. Right? Maybe not a little bit, maybe a lot bigger than that. The Spirit's work started back in creation before the fall. So it's not just about applying redemption, not just about applying salvation, it is about applying life. Where there is none or where there's death. And so as the Holy Spirit's work goes beyond mere application of redemption, how does he apply our redemption? That still is what we were talking about when we were talking about conversion. And that is he brings all the benefits of Jesus Christ to us and applies them through his word and sacrament. And so what what I mean by this is we think of, okay, the Holy Spirit works conversion along just as we talked about, right? Regeneration doesn't happen without conversion. And by conversation. Vice versa, so also all of the benefits of Christ flow to us in our conversion. It's you know it starts with regeneration. We already talked about that, new hearts, new lives, able to believe. It brings repentance and faith. That's a gift of God by his Spirit enabling us to hear the gospel of Jesus, to be convicted of sin, to put our faith and trust in Jesus. One of the many blessings that comes with conversion is justification. God's graciously crediting our sin to Jesus and his righteousness to us. Adoption, God's welcoming us into his divine family as his sons and daughters with full inheritance rights of his eternal kingdom. Sanctification. God not just giving us life so that we don't have the future of death and judgment to follow, but now we have we're justified by faith and we have a a future of eternal life. But he actually already begins to bring new life in and through us by his sanctifying work. God making us more and more like Jesus, and then finally glorifying us on the last day. The promise of heavenly, glorious bodies like Jesus' body when He returns to raise the living and the dead. Friends, what a cornucopia of gifts. And that's just salvation. We think of sanctification as the Spirit also bears fruit in us. Rather, um What a remarkable What a remarkable work that rather than uh what comes out of hearts of sin and stone where once came Flowing evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. That's what Jesus says flows out of the natural, sinful heart. Now by the Spirit, he makes rivers of living water. flow. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. You know, if we want to talk about the the blessings of the Spirit in his converting work, recreating us. We could go on and on and on. On and on and on. And as the Spirit sanctifies us, he gives gifts. to our church, gifts to build up the body, the work of ministry in his kingdom, the cornucopia of the Spirit's conversion. So the question for us, are we converted? Well, maybe we don't need to start with that. Maybe do you want to be? If so, you're at least probably well on your way. But the key here is you can't convert yourself. The Holy Spirit must do that. But he does do it. He does through means, the preaching of the word, celebrating the sacraments together, where Jesus is central and proclaimed and praised And so you're in the good place. You're in a good place to experience this wonderful, transforming work of the Holy Spirit in conversion. Listen, watch, learn, wonder. Keep studying the word to hear Jesus, to feed on him, to have that life of the Spirit through the good news of the gospel through the Word be in fused in us and and and uh worked in us day by day as we grow to have that taste for Christ and his wonder and his beauty, as we read of him in a word, as we walk with him by faith, as we and and And if we're struggling, ask the Holy Spirit, ask him to help us grow in this. I'll close with these words from the Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter eleven, verses nine to thirteen And I tell you, this is Jesus speaking. Ask and it will be given you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and the one who knocks, it will be open. What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead give a f instead of a fish, give him a serpent, or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion. If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly father give The Holy Spirit to those who ask. Ask, seek, and knock And enjoy this great work of the Holy Spirit, the work of conversion, who comes to us in that context of our sinned death. who is the ultimate cause of this. We can't do it in ourselves, but he promises to bring with him the cornucopia of blessings as we ask, seek, and knock and look. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these reminders from our text. We thank you for this good work that you do, this transforming work, this work that is impossible with man but not impossible for you. you of raising new life in us through your Holy Spirit. How we thank you for Him. How we thank you that He is your gift to us, that He is with us. That he mediates to us the presence of our dear Savior Jesus Christ, that he cultivates in us a desire, a love for, a taste for Jesus Christ and his beauty. That he converts us, that he turns us from the loves of this world to have a new affection. And we pray, Lord, that you would cultivate in us a new and growing affection for Jesus Christ. May your spirit do that in us day by day, from now until all eternity. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen