Before we take some time to meditate on this word, further, let's go before God in prayer and ask him by his spirit to enable us to hear and to heed his word. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that your word is living and active, sharper than a two-edged sword, that it is able to discern between bone and marrow, that you can cut deep. We ask you to do that this morning. But by your spirit, may you lay these words to our hearts. May you show us how they speak to us. us, how they call forth to us to repent anew of sin, to receive and rest anew upon Christ alone for our salvation. His name we pray. Well, the future is a bit uncertain, isn't it? And by definition, the future is uncertain, it seems obvious. But if you stop and think about that for a moment. It begins to be a bit terrifying. I mean, it's so uncertain that tomorrow morning I could walk out of my house and be hit by a bus Have a heart attack and be dead in a moment. The future is uncertain, and so we often try to plan for it and control it By taking account or setting up contingencies. Kids, this is what you do when you pinky swear. You sort of say, no, I I will do the X, Y, or Z, and if I don't, then you can Call me a pinky swear breaker. Or whatever the penalty is that you decide upon. And it's not just kids that do this, it's adults, right? This is the basis of contracts. Where we try to control the future by setting up contingencies. I will deliver X to you, and you will pay me when I do, or else. If I don't, then you can consume me and whatever. Our mortgages are like this. I will pay for the future. I'll enjoy my house now, but if ever I don't pay you can forecl close upon me. These are business contracts and the way they're a way for us to try to reach into the future and and develop some certainty. In many ways, these business contracts that we are very used to in our life, even Pinky Square. Is much like ancient Near Eastern covenant treaties, which we've been talking about as we've been going through the book of Deuteronomy. That's what Deuteronomy is. It's presented to us as an ancient Near Eastern covenant treaty. that was full of a host of contingencies, what we would call, or what scholars call the stipulations or the laws. And blessings or curses that attend obedience and disobedience or law-breaking Now we're in the stipulation section of Deuteronomy. This is the largest section, chapters 5 to 26, and we're looking specifically about that first stipulation, the first commandment, you shall have no other gods before me. And you shall love the Lord your God with your whole heart or mind, soul or self, might or stuff And here we're wrapping up that first commandment. And so far as we've been reflecting on what this first commandment means for Israel and for us, it It's had a lot of mutual application. A lot of the points that Moses makes about what does it mean to truly love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, to have no other gods before us. In many ways, what it looked like for Israel as they were entering into the land and what it would look like for them in the land is much like it looks like for us. There were these timeless implications of this law, and it's not surprising. Because this is the first law of God's moral law that is binding on all people at all time. It simply is a description of God's character that He's given to us as His image-bearers to live out in reflection of Him. But here in Deuteronomy 11, it takes what I would call a covenantal turn And what the Lord does here through Moses is he adds, now, all of Deuteronomy we call it part of the covenant of grace. And this is clear that it's all of grace because where does it begin? God's saying, I'm the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt. I have chosen you, he says. I've not chosen you because you're so great. I've chosen you because I chose you. And I love you. That's grace. So this is a covenant of grace. But here in Deuteronomy 11, Moses begins to do something he's going to do throughout the book of Deuteronomy, and that is that the Lord, through Moses, adds a layer of conditionality. Almost a covenant of works type conditionality that is not how people will be saved. He's not offering salvation by works And in that way, this is actually, this conditional layer is more specific to Israel than it is to us and applies more directly to them than it does to us. But this conditional layer is specifically given to the people of Israel as a nation, and their tenure in the land, remaining in the land, will be conditioned on it. It's sort of the contingency of stain in the promised land with its milk and honey that flows. And we see this uh at the very end actually in verses twenty-six to twenty-eight where God where Moses basically summarizes what he's been doing in this chapter. And he says, see, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse. The blessing? If you obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you today, and the curse, if you do not obey the commandments of the Lord your God, but turn aside from the way that I am commanding you. So he's focusing now, taking that first commandment and saying, obeying it. Will be tied conditionally, the blessing and the curse will be tied to obedience to this command in the land. So what Moses does, and what the Lord does through Moses here in Deuteronomy 11 is he shows that God's gracious covenant blessings are maintained by perfect perpetual obedience. And we see this as Moses offers here what I would call covenantal cautions for Israel as they're about to enter into the Promised land. And these are the three points we want to consider this morning. First, the warnings against disobedience, the wonder of blessings offered, and the way of ultimate. Obedience. Warnings, wonder, and way are the three points we want to consider. First, the warnings against disobedience. Ultimately, if covenant keeping and covenant breaking is all and the blessing and the curse, if it's all boiled down to one thing, it's this: life versus death. Life versus death. Actually, this is what what what it's summarized as all the way back at the end of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy 30, 19, as actually Moses has concluded the whole covenant Treaty, he says, chapter 30, verse 19, Moses says, I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse. Therefore, choose life. So if it's all about life or death, how can we boil down the idea of life to its bare essential? Well, what is essential for life in a land? Water, food, and shelter. Right? Sort of obvious to us. They're common throughout the world. We recognize that. But that becomes the focus throughout this chapter. The blessing will be water, food, and shelter, and the curse will be a removal of water. or drought, a removal of food or hunger, and a removal of shelter or lack of safety And we see that first. So let's think about first the warnings against disobedience, because that's where Moses actually begins. And he begins, he says, All right, I'm going to give you these warnings against disobedience. showing you how your very water, food, and shelter will be threatened. And I'm going to do it in two ways. First I'm going to look to the past and see how we've seen God's judgment like that in the past. And then second of all, I'm going to look to the future. And see how God has done that then. In the past, he says, you've already seen this before. Covenant curse. And specifically the curse of Water not actually as a lack, but a lack of drinking water instead of flood water. We saw that in Egypt Look at verses 1 to 4. You shall therefore love the Lord your God and keep his charge, his statutes, his rules, and his commandments always, and consider today, since I'm not speaking to your children who have not known it, known or seen it. Consider the discipline of the Lord your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, and his outstretched arm, and his signs and his deeds that he did in Egypt to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and to all his land, and what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses. into their chariots, and here it is, how he made the water of the Red Sea flow over them as they pursued after you, and how the Lord has destroyed them to this day. And we should notice how striking it is that the water is their judgment. Because Egypt was known as a proud place because they had a continual source of water. Water, the Nile. It ran all year round and always watered their crops. But here the water becomes a curse. In a flood. He made the water of the Red Sea flow over them. Water, which is essential for human life and living. You can't live somewhere if there is no water. That's why we're looking for water on Mars. Because people are hoping that we can live there someday. You need water to live, and having too much water is a flood of death and destruction. And judgment. Then Moses goes on and says, the wilderness. Look at the wilderness, the wilderness, which in the minds of Israel would have obviously been a place that is a picture of the curse of no food to nourish life. Look at verse 15. And what he did to you in the wilderness until you came to this place. Now, in that one little verse, Moses doesn't elaborate on it, but that's all of numbers. Lots of Exodus as well. And what is it that the wilderness offers God's people? It was this challenge. There's no food. That's why God has to provide miraculous manna from heaven throughout their time in the wilderness, because the wilderness, by definition, is a place that looks a lot like covenant curse of no food, because there is nothing that grows in the wilderness to eat. And how did God use the wilderness? He actually used it as a place of covenant curse for disobedience, as the whole first generation had to die in the wilderness. as a little picture of what wilderness truly is. And then third and finally, Dathan and Ebiram. Verse 6. And what he did to Bathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben, how the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up with their household, and it's interesting he notes, and their tents shelter. And every living thing that followed them in the midst of all Israel. Now, why would Moses focus in on that? And I would argue maybe it's because what is the basis of all shelter? It's firm, solid ground. Right, kids, we sing. The wise man built his house upon the rock. You need rock. You need ground. What a picture of a removal of that covenant blessing by the very ground splitting open. All of one's belongings, all of one's life, one's very tent that was a place of shelter is swallowed up. Up hole. That's Dathan and Nabirah, a powerful, terrifying scene in Numbers chapter 16. So I think Moses is bringing all of these reminders as As illustrations of look, this is what God's covenant curse looks like: a removal of water or using water as destruction instead of blessing. A removal of food, or using hunger as. destruction instead of blessing, and a removal of shelter. And he says in verse 7, for your eyes have seen all the great work of the Lord that he did. But he doesn't just look past. Is that past for you all? I I always forget, right? Is that past? Yeah, because we read this way. Yeah. Not just past. I've gotten s so used to that that I now I I get confused. I try to flip it back and forth. Look to the past. Now he says the same thing will be the case in the future. Look at the Verses 16 to 17. Take care, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them. So lest you break this first commandment. Then the anger of the Lord will be kindled against you, and he will shut up the heavens, no water, so that there will be no rain, no water, and the land will yield no fruit, no fruit. And you will perish quickly off the good land that the Lord has given you. No shelter. Not just shelter from weather, but shelter from enemy invading armies. So breaking God's law, specifically the first commandment, leads to covenant curse, and that looks like death, the opposite of life. This is the message for Israel here, but it's also for us. Not in a wooden literal way. And sadly, some people will take this passage and they'll preach what is called often a health and wealth gospel or a prosperity gospel. And they will say literally, like, look, you want blessings? Just Do what God has said. And you know, and then maybe they'll spirit, you know, they'll sort of like translate these things. He'll give you a nice car and a big house, and he'll give you lots of food. That's not the way we apply this to us. Instead, the message here for Israel was very literal for them. But it had a deeper significance. significance for them that we also can recognize for us. Because if God is the source of all life and flourishing, which the Bible makes so clear he's He is the creator God who sustains all things. He causes the rain to fall, and he does so on the just even and the unjust. He is the source of all life and health and flourishing. If he withdraws his providential, empowering, life-giving spirit, we die and vanish. into dust. He is the source of all life, and so to be at odds with God, to be re rebelling against him, to be turning away from him, is to Pursue a path that leads to ultimate and eternal death and destruction. And friends, this is exactly what Jesus himself said. In Matthew chapter 7. It's interesting. Jesus in Matthew chapter five to seven, it's a sermon on the mount, he is the new Moses. He goes up the mountain, and what does he do? He expounds upon the law, much like Moses is doing here in Deuteronomy. Me. And there in Matthew chapter 7, Jesus says, Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction. Warning. Against the curse of disobedience. And those who enter by it are many, for the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life. Blessing of obedience. And those who find it are few. Friends, we live. Twenty-first Century, Bowie, Crofton, Maryland. We live in a place of abundance. Well-watered lawns Stocked grocery stores so we never need go hungry, stable homes that withstand lots of storms. But, friends, these realities can numb us. The spiritual realities that are being presented before us here, we can have water and be withering spiritually. We can be well fed, fat, and happy, and yet spiritually be starving We can be those who have a grand house of strength and power, but lack true spiritual Shelter. And so here Moses' warning: take care lest your heart be deceived. Verse 16. For us, disobedience doesn't look like it did for Israel, like building a golden calf. For us, it often looks more like slow spiritual drift, neglecting the word, chasing Other loves, forgetting who gives the rain, who gives the sun, and every good and perfect gift where it comes from From. But the Lord, through Moses, not only offers us just these warnings against disobedience, but he calls Israel and us to wonder at the blessings that would come. Through obedience. And friends, let's face it, this is so much more motivating to most of us. This is why it's so hard to stay at or under 30 miles per hour on church road. I mean that road was made for at least thirty-five. You know that. And you're driving along and now that you've even put those cameras out there, I know some of us have have picked Paid 40 or 80 or who knows how many times we've drove driven by there, just a little over 40. Really? Is that so bad, right? But it's just a fine. We can pay It and move on. Now, if somebody offered to give everyone who drove on church road once, or whenever you ride, drive there, every time you do, if you stay under 30, you get a million bucks. It wouldn't just be Trisha, right? All of us would be staying under that 30 miles per hour. The promise of reward is so much more powerful to motivate behavior. And so Moses lays that out for Israel and for us. And not surprisingly, if the curse is death through losing water, losing food and shelter. Then the blessing is life through a land as a place that generously pours out water, food, and shelter. First, it's a land that's described here for us to wonder at as a land abounding in fresh water. Look at verses 8 to 12. You shall therefore keep the whole commandment that I command you today, that you may be strong and go in and take possession of the land that you are going over to possess, and that you may live long in the land that the Lord swore to your fathers to give them. to their offspring, a land flowing with milk and honey, for the land that you are entering to take possession of it is not like the land of Egypt. And here it describes it, right? A land that had water, but it had to be irrigated. From which you have come, where you sowed your seed and irrigated it like a garden of vegetables, but the land that you are going over to possess is a land of hills and valleys. Which drinks water by the rain from heaven, a land of the Lord your God cares for. The eyes of the Lord are your God are always upon it from the beginning of the year to the end of the year. Now the climate in Israel today doesn't seem so verdant, so so well watered. Probably it's not. Probably back then it truly was a a better watered land, a rich and Fertile land, green, covered in forests. We see that in uh in, for instance, Samuel, where there are these forests everywhere that we're not sure where they are anymore, because they're not there anymore. They were there then. The point is: simply obey the Lord. Simply keep this command, and he will make water flow. And food. Look at verses 13 to 40. And if you will indeed obey my commandments that I command you today to love the Lord your God and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul, he, and it's interesting, it actually is I, it it he Moses here quotes the promise from I will give the rain for your land and its season, the early rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain and your wine and your oil. He will give food, and he will give grass to your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be full. You could just imagine Israel here. Now they've been eating manna for so long, which at times they're tired of, thinking of all the food that they'll eat. in the land, the fresh fig off the tree, the olives that'll be rich and full of oil, the grapes the size of fists It's why the land is always described as a land flowing with milk and honey. And it's interesting, when Israel actually enters into the land, the manna stops once for all because We don't need it anymore. The land truly is this full of food. Obey, and the Lord will bless you with water and with food and livestock. And finally, shelter, verses twenty-two. For if you will be careful to do all this commandment that I command you to do, loving the Lord your God, walking in his ways, holding fast to him. Then the Lord will drive out all these nations before you. You will dispossess nations greater and mightier than you. Every place on which the sole of your foot treads shall be yours. Your territory shall be from the wilderness. To the Lebanon and from the river, the river Euphrates, to the Western Sea. This is a vast territory, one that Israel did have for a very short time, but it was it was really even broader even in their imagination than they were expecting. No one shall be able to stand against you. The Lord your God will lay the fear of you and the dread of you on all the land that you shall tread as he has promised. What's the point of all this for Israel to hear it's called to wonder, to awe at the rich blessings promised for their obedience Simply for having no other gods before the Lord. They would be a well-watered nation. They would be a well-fed nation. They would be a sheltered nation, a secure nation against the enemies all around. And friends, we lose the sense of wonder that this would have generated in the original hearers because we're not an agricultural society. At men's study just yesterday, we were talking about how hard it is to live off the land. If you've ever tried, just even if you're growing a little vegetable garden, right? Much more like Egypt, right? You have to go around watering when it doesn't rain. You know, first you realize you're utterly dependent on water, on rain for irrigation. And it's so much nicer when God does it than when you have to go out there and stand with the hose, you know. Nothing grows without water. But then even if you can get a plant to grow, what happens? The bugs and the pests come in and eat it. Before you get it. The drought comes and it stops growing. The cold comes and it freezes and dies. So many things can go wrong with crops. And then, say, you actually get a crop to grow in the ancient world. And then the enemy tears in and harvests it and takes it away from you in the end. Here the image is of a perfectly A protected, abundant place. It's almost like getting back to Eden, the rich, lush land uniquely equipped for life to thrive. And Israel would have wondered at these promises, especially after forty years in the wilderness. and seeing something utterly different. But again, the promises here for Israel are quite literal for their time in the land, but they are meant to illustrate something deeper. A deeper spiritual reality that God is the giver of every good and perfect gift that falls from the Father of life. He's the creator, he's the giver of life, and he made us to live in communion with him as his image-bearers. And this is actually what the land of Israel was supposed to be. It was supposed to provide all these blessings so that they could enjoy the presence of God in their midst as he dwelt, let his name dwell in their midst in the temple. Because this is who God is, no wonder. Following his law is the path to peace. To life, to flourishing. Every other God that we set up for ourselves, every idol we make, will fail us, ultimately can't sustain our worship and can't give us life. For Israel, the temptation was to worship gods who claimed to be the source of water, food. And shelter. Baal, the god of Canaan, was the storm god who claimed to water the earth. So tempting. For Israel. To just say a little prayer to him as well, just in case. He really did. Dagon, the god of grain. How tempting. When that crop is threatened. Just give a little offering to Dagon as well. For us, it's not these ancient Near Eastern gods. For us, what are the idols that can pull at our hearts? Our career? We'll sacrifice everything for our family. Our personal glory, status, our wealth, bank accounts, the art we produce, the culture We enjoy. These are all good things. These are all good gifts from God. But as gods, they're horrible gods. They'll destroy us from the inside out. Only pursuing the Lord, loving Him, walking in His way is the path to life and blessing, fruitfulness, lasting glory. And that's why those who take this text and try to make it all about health and wealth in this life are so distorting what it says, because, friends, material blessings. Moth and rust destroy them. And they can't be enjoyed forever. But true spiritual blessings, things like God's peace through the storm. Godly joy even in the midst of sorrow. The hope of a true, literal, promised land in which we will have risen bodies and glorified bodies that can enjoy the presence of God forever. These are the true ultimate spiritual blessings, and some of us have tasted of these a bit, often as we actually seek to walk with Christ. To live according to his commands. He often does bring a measure of joy and blessing, peace, though it's always imperfect along the way. And yet, blessing. Obedience leads to blessing. And that's the two points. First, the warning for disobedience, it leads to the curse of death. The blessing for obedience, it leads to blessing. So how can we choose blessing? How can we choose life? And that's the third point we want to consider. The way of obedience. Because Moses doesn't just say here, do this. He tells Israel how They can be faithful to this tall order. And simply put, he says: the way you do this is simply soak yourself in, come to embody the very law of God, his word. Look at verse 18. You shall therefore lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. Now, later Jews, after the time, uh after the return from exile, were so committed to trying to really obey all this law that they took that command and made it utterly literal. They would tie phylacteries they called As one commentator says, these verses are figurative. It's meant To say, so imbibe and embody the Word of God that everything you do with your hands and everything you think and see with your eyes and your mind Is seen through, worked through, done in light of God's law. Verse 19: You shall teach them to your children, talking of them when you are sitting in your house, and when you are walking by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. all the time. Have the word before you and teach it to your children. Again, maybe a little hyperbole here, but the point is be self And then verses twenty to twenty-one. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, everywhere where you're going to walk by every day. Make sure. There's a reminder there for you that your days and the days of your children may be multiplied in the land of the Lord swore to your fathers to give them, as long as the heavens are above the earth. And then not only does Moses give them instructions, the way of obedience, but he he gives God God through Moses gives them a little instructions In a sense, it's almost a sacramental sign. Something that's visible, tangible, and that's this picture of the two mountains when they enter into the land. And when the Lord your God brings you into the land that you are entering to take possession of it, you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim. And commentators say: this is a mountain that is known for being lush and green. Picture of the blessing. And you shall put the curse on Mount Ebal, a mountain known to be rocky, craggy, desolate. Picture of the curse. And then he tells them where to find these. Are they not beyond the Jordan, west of the road, toward the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites who live in the Arabah, opposite Gilgal, beside the oak of Moray. That's specific. You'll know them when you get there. And Israel does this in Joshua chapter 8 when they enter into the land. They receive this sort of sacramental sign. They can actually visualize and see the blessing and the curse to motivate. The way of obedience. So how did Israel do? Well, Joshua 8 started off pretty well. With the blessing and the curse. They recommitted themselves to this covenant. It said, We will do all that the Lord has said. Did they? The whole rest of the history of Israel is one of covenantal failure. Disobedience, neglect of God's law, and it ultimately ends in the very curses laid out here A loss of water in drought, a loss of food in famines, and ultimately a loss of the shelter of the land as the Assyrians and then the Babylonians come in and remove them. And when they came back into the land, which again was by grace, after exile, God calls his pe uh a remnant of his people back into the land. And it's very clear from the history, and very clear when we get to the New Testament that they tried a lot harder and they did a lot better. But even then, Jesus comes along, and what is he doing over and over again? He's saying, as well as you're doing, it's not good enough. He rebukes the religious leaders. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you're hypocrites. You've fixed the outside. Okay, good. But there's still a matter of the heart. The Pharisees of Jesus' day could say, I am blameless according to the law. Why do we know this? Because Paul said it in Philippians chapter 3. But what does Jesus say? Again, the Sermon on the Mount. You must be perfect as my Heavenly Father So how can there be any hope for Israel? Or for us. Because, friends, if we're honest, we don't just fail to obey once in a while. We don't just occasionally forget to put God first. We build lives on other love. We drift. We chase success, security, approval, likes We remember and love the gifts, but forget the giver. And like Israel, we've we've seen God's goodness, we've tasted his provision, and still we wander. Still we disobey. And so where does that leave us? If God's blessings require perfect, perpetual obedience, that means, friends, we're no longer standing at the edge of Canaan. With that promised, luscious land before us, we're literally standing, left to ourselves, under the shadow of Mount Ebal, looking across to Gerizim, a mountain that is inaccessible. To us. We are under curse. The curse of sin. The curse of covenantal disobedience to our God. We are without hope. Unless. Unless. Unless someone can take our place Unless someone can stand in our stead, unless there is one who obeys fully, who loves perfectly and perpetually, who walks the law's path without ever drifting off it, not just for himself. But can do it for us. And that's who we have in Jesus Christ. Perfect, perpetual obedience Fulfilling God's law. Not just the first commandment, but all of them, but especially the first commandment, loving the Lord, his God, his father, fully, all his life. But even these exhortations for how to obey by embodying God's Word, Jesus fulfills them. He is the very embodiment of God's Word, the incarnate word. And although He didn't have biological children to teach, He teaches all his spiritual children, his disciples, us. His whole life is full of teaching God's word. And he is the very door of the sheepfold, he calls it, on which God's law is written for everyone to see every time. We go in and out. He obeyed God's law throughout Deuteronomy, not just this law, but all the laws of Deuteronomy perfectly. And he deserved all the blessings of life. And yet, what did he experience as he came to the end of his life? Not the blessing, but the curse. He deserved water from heaven, and yet on the cross he cried out, I thirst. He deserved food all his life and yet in the wilderness he goes hungry so that the stones look tempting to eat. He deserved shelter all his life, and yet as an infant he had to flee. King Herod pursuing him for his life, we're told that he had to throughout his life nowhere to lay Lay his head. And eventually he was arrested, flogged, hung naked on the cross to die. Why? Not because he deserved this curse, he deserved the blessing, but because you and I and Israel, his People are sinners who deserve this curse, who don't obey God's law, don't fulfill his covenant, and so could never have the hope of blessing unless it comes to us by grace. Thanks be to God that He brings it just that way. Deuteronomy 11 shows God's gracious covenantal blessings are maintained by perfect, perpetual obedience to his law in the land, and that friends is exactly what Jesus Did and does and will do. Israel and we, as God's people, don't. We can't obey like this perfectly. And so we're always Deserve the curse, not blessing left to ourselves. But Jesus did and does and will obey God's law like this and took our curse to win for us the blessing. And the blessing is not just a place. The blessing is his very own person. He comes and he says in John chapter 7: if anyone is thirsty, he should come to me. And drink. I am the bread of life, he says in John 6. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. I am the door of the sheep, he says in John 10, the good shepherd who leads you into everlasting shelter in my kingdom of righteousness and peace and life. And these blessings, these blessings are so far beyond what even Deuteronomy is offering to Israel. And we ought to wonder at them even more. These aren't just the kinds of things that health and wealth gospel offer you that ultimately moth and rust will destroy. These are eternal, everlasting blessings. spiritual, a new heart to love him back, his Holy Spirit who will be like streams of living water from deep within flowing out into the fruitfulness of a life pleasing to God. The promise of shelter, a home, an eternal home, a place that He's been preparing for us. And in this way, Jesus makes for us who are his people a certain future by taking the Contingencies of our covenant breaking, this curse of Deuteronomy 11. He takes that and lays it on himself and erases it once for all. And then he fulfills the contingencies leading to blessing and ensuring that the blessing will fall on us, not because of our perfect obedience, but because of his. Credited to us by faith, and in so doing, he makes for us a certain future. In a place like Bowie, we're surrounded by choices Where to live, where to shop, where to send our kids to school. But friends, the most important choice is the one offered right here in Deuteronomy 11. Life or death, blessing or curse. And that choice is not just a one-time prayer, it's a daily, ordinary, ongoing call to walk by faith, not by sight, to follow Jesus Christ. Christ our Savior. To ask ourselves, will I trust Christ today? Will I obey Him when it's costly? Will I teach my kids his ways even when it's in Convenient. Kids, will I learn from my parents his ways as they teach? Will I come back when I've strayed? Will I repent when I've fallen? See, we have set before us today life and death, blessing and curse, not in the land of Canaan, but in the person Of Christ. So choose life. Choose Christ. The rock who gives water in the wilderness. The bread of heaven who truly satisfies The only shelter that will never fail, who is leading us to a land that can never be shaken. Thanks be to God. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these truths from this text. How we thank you for our Savior Jesus Christ, who turns the curse we deserve into a blessing we don't, but that we have. As a free gift by your grace through faith in Christ alone. Strengthen our faith, renew our repentance And enable us this day to step forth anew in the walk of obedience as we follow Christ our Lord. In his name we pray. Amen.