As many of you know, I don't mind talking and talking a lot. Uh uh this last week I've talked a lot. So my voice is I'm I'm hoping and praying it'll hold out for at least uh another few minutes here. As we uh consider God's word from Psalm uh 104, we're going to turn to our Bibles to consider this Psalm. That's on page 502 of the Pew Bibles. As we're going to be reflecting on the Holy Spirit and how he relates to the created world that we see around us, it seems like an appropriate place to go is Psalm 104. Where we see how God relates to the world, both as the one who created it and the one who sustains it by his powerful hand of sovereign providence. Let's give attention now to the reading. Of God's word from Psalm 104. Bless the Lord, O my soul, O Lord my God, you are very great. You're clothed with splendor and majesty, covering yourself with light. as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent. He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters, he makes the clouds his chariot, he rides on the wings of the wind He makes his messengers, winds, his ministers a flaming fire. He set the earth on its foundation so that it should never be moved. You covered it with the deep As with a garment. The waters stood above the mountains. At your rebuke they fled. At the sound of your thunder, they took flight. The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place that you appointed. You set a boundary that they may not pass, so that they might not again cover the earth. You make springs gush forth, in the valleys they flow between the hills. From your lofty abode you water the mountains. The earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work You cause the grass to grow for the livestock, and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth, and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread to strengthen. The trees of the Lord are watered abundantly, the cedars of Lebanon that He planted, in them the birds build their nests, the stork has her home. It is night, when all the beasts of the forest creep about, the young lions roar for their prey, seeking their food from God. When the sun rises, they steal away and lie down in their dead Ends. Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening. O Lord, how manifold are your works? In wisdom you have made them all. The earth is full of your creatures. Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with creatures, innumerable, living things, both small and great. There go the ships and Leviathan which you formed to play in it. These all look to you. To give them their food in due season. When you give it to them, they gather it up. When you open your hand, they are filled with good things. When you open Hide your face. They are dismayed. When you take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. When you send forth your spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the May the glory of the Lord endure forever. May the Lord rejoice in his works, who looks on the earth and it trembles, who touches the mountain. And they smoke. I will sing to the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I Rejoice in the Lord. Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Praise the Lord. Let's take a moment and ask God's blessing on our time as we reflect on this passage and the two passages that we just read. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that is living and active. We thank you that it is living because not not because the words or the pages somehow are not simply pages in a book, but because they were inspired by you through your Holy Spirit, because they speak words of life to us. That we, as Jesus said, might live not by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from your mouth. And we thank you that you have had your words written. Could attend to them, and so that we could hear. You speak to us by your Holy Spirit through them. May you do so tonight. Help us, instruct us, enable us to understand the truths we're going to be referring to. Reflecting on, and may they redound to your glory. That the doctrines that we study and learn might lead to doxology. Praise to your name. Well, as I mentioned, uh having finished the book of Philippians on our Sunday evenings, we're going to go to a series, uh more topical series, on the Holy Spirit. Spirit, who he is and what he does. And when we ask that question, who is the Holy Spirit? The reality is when we go to God's Word, the Holy Spirit doesn't talk much about himself in the Bible. In fact, He's much more, as some theologians suggest, much more like a floodlight that doesn't isn't so much something to look at, but by which to look and see in God's Word what the Spirit shines or who the Spirit shines on. And that is that he shines and focuses our attention on Jesus Christ. We'll look next week at uh or next time we're we're in this series, we'll we'll look a little bit more about who at who this The Holy Spirit is that He's a divine person of the Godhead, one with, but yet distinct from the Father and the Son, who indwells us as God's people with the presence of Jesus Christ, who speaks to us truth through God's word, as the Bible calls him, the other advocate along with Jesus Christ. Tonight, however, we're going to think a little bit more about the Spirit's work. Because in many ways, to understand who the Spirit is, we must see the effect. He has. Like Jesus said in John chapter 3 that we read a moment ago, the wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, its effect, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes, and so it is. With everyone who is born of the Spirit. As we think of the Holy Spirit and we think of what He does, by which we learn who He is I would suggest there are five C's of the Holy Spirit's work. First, he is creator Second of all, he is convictor. Third, he is converter. Fourth, he is confirmer, and fifth, he is consummator. And we're going to look at all those over the course of time. Tonight, though, we're going to Focus on that first one. The Holy Spirit and his work of creation, that he is creator. Or as our Nicene Creed says, He is the Lord and giver of life. life. And to see this, we're going to look at the Holy Spirit's CPR, which I know stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitance. I think it actually works for what the spirit does in giving life, but it's because I don't have three points that start with the same letter. So CPR, creation, preservation, and recreation. are the three points we'll consider. The Holy Spirit creates, preserves, and recreates. Let's think about the first one then. The Holy Spirit Often when the Holy Spirit is taught on or described, people actually start somewhere in the New Testament. Often it's maybe with Acts 2. Where the Spirit is poured out at Pentecost and the tongues of fire. And so then the studies of the Spirit go on and start talking about the Spirit's role in redemption. In the church. And he is the one who applies the redemption of Christ to us. But to start there misses half the story. Because the very first mention of the Holy Spirit is all the way at the very front of our Bible. Right after in Genesis chapter 1, it says that God created the heavens and the earth, which is a statement of ex niolo creation, the from nothing creation, that all things were created from nothing by God Himself. One single act at the first. And this is in contrast to all the ancient Near Eastern myths of the day that all had the gods starting with something that was there. Our God starts with nothing. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And then what does it tell us? Genesis chapter 1, verse 2: the earth was without form. And void, and darkness was over the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. What do we find here? Right at the beginning. Of Scripture, right at the outset of creation, the Spirit is there, the Holy Spirit as God's presence and power, in a sense, in creation, being the one who touches it. Who forms it and fills it and accomplishes all that the Father will speak in the Son. That word for the spirit hovering here is a description, a description that elsewhere is used of a brooding bird, like a mother bird brooding over its beloved. Eggs, chicks, to protect them, to create that and to to to bring about their fullness as they grow into maturity So John Calvin, in commenting on Genesis chapter 1, verse 2, and Spirit's presence there says, this shows not only that the beauty of the universe which we now perceive. Owes its strength and preservation to the power of the Spirit. But that before this adornment of creation was added, the beauty. And the strength. Even then, the spirit was occupied with cherishing the confused mass. Isn't that cool? The confused mass, the formlessness and void, and yet the spirit knows that there is something that is coming. He broods over it. Like a loving mother hand. And in chapter one, verse two of Genesis, this description of the Holy Spirit Holy Spirit being present, tending to this chaos of formlessness and emptiness, is a pregnant description of what the Holy Spirit does As creator, because Sinclair Ferguson, in his book on the Holy Spirit, says the Holy Spirit brings about form and fullness. He organizes chaos and brings light. Of course, creation is the work not just of the Holy Spirit. It's a work of the triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And so Michael Horton, the theologian out of Westminster, Seminary in California says even the unique act of ex niolo creation, even in that act, the Father speaks his powerful word, in the Son, who will himself become incarnate as an incarnate creature, and the Spirit works. within creation to bring completion uh to bring completion to I'm sorry to bring to completion that creative Word of God. And that's what we see in Genesis chapter 1, verse 3. So the Holy Spirit is there, right there in verse 2. And then it says, And God said, Let there be light. And then the Spirit Spirit does what the Father has spoken in and through the Son, who is the light. And what happens, and there was. And that's not a statement of some magical, nameless, faceless, invisible force or power making God's word happen. It's a statement of the person of the Holy Spirit himself, as builder, as architect, as engineer, as almighty God Himself, who makes happen what the Father So Sinclair Ferguson will say the Holy Spirit is the executive in ordering creation and executive of the powerful presence of God in the governing of the creation. Order, the executive. And here I think Ferguson is getting at this term that we use all the time. Right? We have chief executive officer in a company. And we often think of him as, well, he's the boss. He runs the whole show. But he actually doesn't. He executes the will of someone. And that is the board. He's supposed to execute the will of the board. And so also we have our executive office in the office of the president. Our presidents in the US are not to be kings, not to be tyrants, there can be executives executing the the laws of the land that are voted on by the legislature, that are voted on then by the people. Executing ultimately the will of the people and within the consent of the governed, the executive. In similar ways, the Holy Spirit is the executive accomplishing what God has spoken. in the sun. In this sense, when you think about the Spirit's role in accomplishing this work of creation, Of bringing order into the or out of the chaos, it's not shocking that if we fast forward and say, okay, who is the first human being who is described as being filled with the Spirit? And the answer is in Exodus 31, verse 5, where verses 1 to 5, where it says, The Lord said to Moses, so he He's given Moses instructions for how to build the tabernacle, and then he says, This, see, I have called by name Bezalel, the son of Uri, and the son of Hur of the tribe of Judah, and I have filled him with the Spirit. of God with ability and intelligence, with knowledge and all craftsmanship to devise artistic designs, to work in gold, silver, and bronze, in cutting stones for setting, and in carving wood, to work in everything. Craft. So the Holy Spirit is intimately involved as God's presence and power, his energy at work, if you will, in creation. And we see that here in our Psalm, in Psalm 104, in verse 30. When you send forth your spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground. Holy Spirit and the Creator who at the very beginning accomplishes God's work of creation spoken. In the Son. The Holy Spirit also takes a front seat in the creation of human beings. In Genesis 2, 7, it says, Then the Lord God formed the man of the dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath. Of life. And the man became a living creature. And it said it's the breath of God, as though it's the Spirit, is the one who unites body and soul and makes us into living creatures. That's imagery that actually seems to be clarified for us in Job 33. 4, where it says, Job is speaking here, I believe, for one of his wise friends, the Spirit of God has made me and the breath of the Almighty gives me life. Or in Job 27, 3, as long as my breath is in me and the Spirit of God is in my nostrils. Note that the Spirit entering us doesn't give us some of Him Himself in some way so we have a divine spark. In our souls, that we're somehow part of God, or that we have sort of deity within us. But the spirit is kind of like an oxygen mask. That is the one who takes credit for breathing life into our very bodies, uniting us, body and soul, into living, breathing beings. Because the Holy Spirit Spirit is the creator. The one who has created all things is the person of the Godhead who kind of quote unquote gets his hands dirty. As God's power and presence in the world brings form and fullness to the chaos of the created order in its formlessness. And voidness. And he does so according to the command, the commanding word of the Father and the Son. So there's the doctrine. What do we do with that? Well, the doctrine is never for us to sit and say. Okay, now I know it, check the box. The doctrine was always to lead to doxology, to praise. And that's what you see in this song, right? We're to marvel at the wisdom and power of God in the Spirit's work of creation. We're to see him and prov in his profound, unquenchable force of life at work in this world. You know, don't we see that? I I was I was gone for one week here in Kenya and in that time my garden did not become formless and void. It became full, and but there's a ton of rain, right? It became full of all sorts and forms of life. Yes, it's chaotic, but what what might have looked like dead dirt and wood chips? Have borne incredible order and form and living cells shaping themselves into uh living plants, fullness of life. We had a we used to have a maple tree in our yard, and I'm grateful we don't anymore because Every spring it would send out bajillions of these seeds. And all of a sudden, one big tree, and we've got thousands of little baby trees. There's this power Force of life at work in the world, filling it constantly. Why? Because the Holy Spirit is creator. He is the very powerful force of life in his ongoing creative power. That's why we confess in the Nicene Christ. He is the Lord and giver of life. That began at creation, bringing about form and fullness out of the creative, the chaotic mess. And it continues to And so as we see, as this psalm unpacks it for us, the life force that is just exploding all around us in living beings, living trees, and in the supplying of that life to the earth. Continue. This is a work of God the Holy Spirit as creator. May we praise him day after day. May we bless his name, as it says in the Psalm 2. do. But second, the Spirit also preserves. And this is that doctrine of divine providence. Often in Reformed theology and Reformed churches, we are accused of not really believing in the Holy Spirit, right? Not really having a doctrine of the Holy Spirit. It's like the joke. I think goes something like this. Yeah, the the it's maybe somewhat a little bit uh irreverent, but uh I think it it it displayed it it it's irreverent in mocking us as Presbyterians, so let's bear with it. A vacation. And the father says, let's go to the Rockies and enjoy the grandeur of the things that I've made. And the son says, No, no, no, let's go to Bethlehem. That's where I was born. I haven't been back in a while. And then the Spirit says, no, no, no, let's go visit a Presbyterian church because I've never seen one. I've never been there. I would argue, however, that That actually most other parts of the church that talk a lot about the Holy Spirit have a weaker doctrine of the Holy Spirit. They confine him simply to the work of redemption or to the supernatural things that the Spirit does do, things like miracles, speaking in tongues, which the Bible seems to understand as just Being able to speak languages that you didn't study. Healings, miraculous healings, these are things that the Spirit does. Some confine him to those things alone, and in some ways, then they actually Reflect a little bit more of what we see in secular materialism that doesn't see God at work anywhere. Carl Sagan. At the beginning of his series on the cosmos says the cosmos is all there is, all there ever was, and all there will ever be. Because Carl Sagan can't see. Creating and sustaining, preserving work, ongoing work of the Holy Spirit in every second of every Every hour of every day of every year back to Genesis 1, 2. The spirits hovering over the face of the waters. Instead, we're we and uh those of us who who study God's word and uh in our our understanding as reform Christians, we are to see the Spirit at work everywhere. Not only in the evidence of original creation that exists all around us, but in God's ongoing creative work of preserving and sustaining life in His providence. And we see this right actually right in Genesis 1:11, where after God speaks and it happens, the Spirit affecting what he has said, then it says, Let the earth sprout vegetation. Well, who accomplishes that? The same spirit that did, and there was light. Now, this is the more ordinary work of the Spirit: preserving things by using means. There's already the created stuff, the earth and the dry land and water, uh and then the spirit, in his preserving ordinary work, brings form and fullness to it. This is the creational preserving work of the Spirit that we get to observe all around us, every moment of every day. Things like gravity. That when you drop something it falls. The laws of nature, carefully preserved and maintained. Who does that? It's the Holy Spirit. Spirit, the Lord and giver of life. And why does he do it? He does it to bring glory to God, as Psalm 19 calls us to recognize when it says the heavens declare the glory of God. The sky above proclaims his hand. Day to day pours out speech, night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the earth, end of the world. In them he has set a Tent for the sun, which comes out like a bridegroom leaving its chambers, like a strong man running its course with joy, and it goes on and on and says all of these things, these works of creation, are there to declare God's glory. Why? Because he is continually at work preserving and governing all his creatures and all their actions as our Westminster Shorter Catechism question and answer. 11 says, This is the creational work of the Spirit in Providence. Which is Psalm 104 about creation or providence? The answer is yes. It's the same spirit at work in both. God did not create the world, like the deists suggest, kind of wind it up like a clock and then just walk away. And let it go so that it works, like Carl Sagan said, being like all there is. No. God is intimately involved by his Holy Spirit as the powerful presence. Of his hand in preserving and governing all his creatures and all their actions. And this becomes so clear in Psalm 104. Look at verse 10. You make springs gush forth in the valleys, they flow between the hills, they give drink to every beast of the field, the wild donkeys quench their thirst. Thirst. Beside them the birds of the heavens dwell, they sing among the branches. From your lofty abode you water the mountains, the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work. God's hand is intimately and detailed involved in the simple act of the grass growing. You cause it for the livestock, plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth, and wine to gladden the heart of man. And and and the winemaker says, no, no, no, no. God didn't make the wine. He made the grapes. I make the wine. Here it says God takes credit. Because he gives the breath to the winemaker and he gives the growth to the wine. And then bread to strengthen man's heart. And then you read on, verse 24, O Lord, how manifold are your works. In wisdom you have made them all. The earth is full of your creatures. There's creation. And then look at verse 27. These all look to you to give them their food in due season. When you give it to them, they gather it up. When you open your hand, they are filled with good things. When you hide your face, they are Dismayed, when you take away their breath, they die and return to dust. When you send forth your spirit, they are created, and you renew the Instead, I would argue good biblical doctrine of the Holy Spirit sees every seed that falls to the ground Seemingly lifeless, lifeless and dead, and it falls into seemingly lifeless and dead dirt. And yet into that chaos, the sun shines with life Light and warmth, and rain waters the plants, the the the seeds, so that roots sprout and roots sprout down, leaves go up. What makes all that happen? Well, it's God by his Holy Spirit. Yes, we can speak of it scientifically. Well, there's gravity and combustion and water cycle and photosynthesis. Who does those things? Who makes the water cycle continue? Who made the laws of photosynthesis and all these other things and then keeps them working? Is all due to the powerful touch of life, the intimate working day by day of the Holy Spirit, as the powerful preserving presence of God in the ongoing work, not only of creation. But also of providence. Abraham Kuyper is a uh famous Dutch Reform theologian, and he captures this so well. It's a little of a bit of a long quote, but bear with me because it's so good. He says, however weak and impalpable, the visible and tangible has an invisible background. So it's It's hard to get our hands on, but the visible and tangible does have an invisible background. How intangible are the forces of nature. How full of majesty the forces of magnetism. But life underlies all. Even through the apparently dead trunk, like trunk of a tree, sigh An imperceptible breath. From the unfathomable depths of all, an inward hidden principle works upward and outward. And what is this quickening and animating principle? But The Holy Spirit. You send forth your spirit, they are created. You take away your breath, they die. This inward, invisible something is God's direct touch. For nothing exists without being upheld by Almighty God from moment to moment, says Abraham Kuyper, and he says it so well. And yet here, it's important here to realize that there is an important distinction that we should grasp in the Spirit's work. And I want to correct. Often we talk about the Spirit at work naturally and supernaturally. And I think that is a problem because natural assumes a sort of godless working, like Carl Sagan would understand and would believe. And then supernatural is when God steps in and messes with the natural. So it's much better to speak differently, right? Nature is the work of the Holy Spirit as Lord and giver of life, ensuring every moment that gravity works and keeps operating. Ensuring that seeds respond to light and water and grow, that eggs can be fertilized and grow into new life. And so it's better to speak of ordinary and extraordinary works of the Holy Spirit. Spirit, both in creation and providence. Extraordinary works, his initial creation and miracles, and then the ordinary works, that ongoing providence of sustaining life. So that the world is full of life and abounding in life day by day. I love C. S. Lewis in his essay on miracles. Gets at this idea of ordinary and extraordinary in this way, and I love this. He says, the miracles done by God incarnate. Who is God incarnate? Jesus, right? So the miracles done by Jesus, living as a man in Palestine, perform the very same things as God does in creation, but at a different speed and on a smaller scale. God creates the vine and teaches it to draw up water by its roots, and with the aid of the sun to turn that water into a juice which will ferment and take on certain qualities. Thus, every year from Noah's time till ours, God turns water into wine. That men fail to see. Either, like the pagans, they refer to the process, they refer to the process as some infinite spirit, like Bacchus or Dionysus Or else, like the moderns, they attribute real and ultimate causality to the chemical and other material phenomena which are all that our senses can discover in it. But when Christ at Cana makes water into wine, the masculine The miracle has only half its effect if it only convinces us that Christ is God. It will have its full effect if whenever we see a vineyard. Or drink a glass of wine, we remember that here works he who sat at the wedding party in Cana. Here works God Almighty in the sun. The point is if we want to see the Spirit's work, don't wait to see something extraordinary or what some people call supernatural. See his power and presence in order Things all around us, every flower that blooms, every ball that drops when you let go of it because of gravity, every baby born, when new life is created, a new soul is brought out of nothingness in us. Sense. Every cell phone that works because of energy and uh radio signals and radio frequency, all of this is the Spirit's presence and power preserving creation, making it all hold together and making it all This is not pantheism, where God is in creation, that his sort of breath is in all the things created so that we can discover God there. It is Creation, the work of God by and through the Holy Spirit, so that every tree declares the glory of his handiwork as it shows the effect of the Holy Spirit who prepares prepared the soil with the right mixture of ingredients who formed the plant that made the seeds that and then filled it with seeds and uh they dropped in the soil the the same This is the Holy Spirit who empowers the water cycle to bring rain, who keeps gravity pulling seed to soil, who keeps the chemical reactions going uh when the sun that he creates he continues to keep shining, gives its warmth and then makes the seed. to sprout, sending its roots down, its leaves up, preserving the processes of photosynthesis, producing life moment by moment, day by day, year by year, until it becomes A full-grown tree. And so the application for us, and maybe a little closer to home, friend, every moment of your life, you depend on billions of processes. Do you think to make your heart pump and beat? No. Do you even think about taking a breath? We don't. And there are billions of processes you could add to it where as cells convert oxygen. And food and water into life. Every one of those processes is empowered and affected by the Holy Spirit. Spirit. When he withdraws life, it will disappear. Do you see that every single moment of life, every breath you take, is a Mighty work of God the Holy Spirit as a gift from the Lord and giver of life. If you're not yet a follower of Jesus Christ, this is what we call a common grace that you don't none of us deserves a moment more of life after we have fallen into sin which happened back right after creation with Adam and Eve. And God has poured out blessings on all of us in creating the world and in preserving and protecting as long as we breathe. So you and I owe a debt of gratitude and praise. Like the psalm says, it begins and ends with what? Bless the Lord, O my soul. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Praise the Lord. Every breath, this doxology, this praise should be on our lips. Do we realize that, as verse 29 says, when you hide your face, They, your creatures, all of us, are dismayed. When you take away their breath, they die and return to dust. What does it mean for God to hide his face? Deuteronomy 31, 18. God says, I will surely hide my face in that day because of all the evil that they have done, because they have turned on the church. To other gods. Or like here in verse 35: let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be No more. Who are the sinners? Who are the wicked? They're those who are opposed to God and His Spirit. 1 Thessalonians 5:19, Paul warns the church: do not quite quench the spirit. Now that's in the context of new life we have in Christ. So it certainly has implications for how we seek to walk in the spirit. We seek to grow in our love for Christ through the Spirit, how we seek for the Spirit to grow, the fruit of the Spirit in us. But it also has implications even for creation. How do we quench the spirit? It's by siding with death. Everywhere where we see death and disorder is in opposition to the spirit, the Lord and giver of life. He's called the Spirit of life and truth and justice and grace and holiness, the spirit of Christ. And so, friends, quenching the spirit, grieving the spirit in his work of creation is anything that attacks the very things that he is the spirit of. Murder, untruth, injustice, hatred, unbelief Any disordering of creation, trying to pull apart the wonderful order that the Spirit creates. Anything that brings form without fullness or fullness. Without form. How can you be assured of the Spirit's presence forever? That's the question. How can we be assured that God won't hide his face So that we are dismayed. How can we be sure that we are not one who will be consumed from the earth? That that we will be like the wicked who are no more? And that brings us to our third and final point. Not only does the the Spirit create. He also preserves. And third and finally, and here's the good news, he recreates. Because the Bible says that all of us are the wicked. All of us are, by definition, born in sin and sinners, as described in verse 35, as we are born into this. World, that all of us deserve for God to withdraw his hand, to hide his face, to take away our breath, so that we die in return The dust, the wages of sin is death. And spiritually speaking, the Bible says, actually, we already are the walking dead. We are those who are dead in our trespasses and sins. And so the good news is The spirit also recreates. Rather than leave us In our sin and our death sentence, the Spirit also works recreation, redemption, and new birth. That's what Jesus is speaking about in John chapter 3. That all of this almighty, life-giving, forming and filling power of the Holy Spirit is turned toward the task, not just of preserving creation for a time, but of saving and recreating all those who repent. of their sin, turn from it, turn in faith and trust to follow Jesus. And then it says the Holy Spirit gives everlasting life. And we see just as the pinnacle of creation is human beings made in God's image, right? The whole creation story leads to that, right? God first creates the world, he he forms, he sh he forms it, he starts filling with his creature. And then at the very end of creation, God sets human beings in his image. Similarly, the pinnacle of human beings, of humanity itself, is none other than the man, Jesus Christ, the God-man. who the Spirit brings to earth, incarnating God the Son in the womb of the Virgin Mary in language much like creation. This is the beginning of recreation. The Spirit flutters or hovers over the chaos and unfruitfulness of the Virgin's womb in Luke chapter 2. 135. It says, This is the angel speaking to Mary. The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. And in the Son. Rather than uniting like he does with us, soul and body, he unites the divine and human natures in the one person, Jesus. Christ. And then Jesus goes. By the power of the Spirit He eats and grows. And he grows up to fullness of life and all through it by the power of the Holy Spirit, depending on the Holy Spirit perfectly as we don't, he obeyed to To the very end. And every miracle Jesus did was a work of the Spirit through the man Jesus Christ. Actually, uh Bruce Ware in his book The Man Christ Jesus does such a great job of unpacking this. We often think of Jesus. Jesus is sort of tapping into his divineness, his divine nature to do the miracles. But Bruce Ware points out that when we see it, actually, Jesus Is just acting like the prophets of old. In many ways, he is just the best man at depending on the work of the Spirit to accomplish these mighty acts that he does. And it's the Spirit who is at work leading Jesus first into the wilderness to be tested, leading him through life, a life of obedience, leading him to the cross to bear the curse for our us. And our sin, to bear in his very body and soul the punishment we deserve for our sin and disobedience, as we have grieved the Spirit by all too often siding with death. And at the end of his life, what happened to Jesus? Father hid his face. His breath was taken away. He died. As though one this psalm thinks of as receiving the curse of God. God and having him withdraw his spirit. Why? Not for Christ's sin, but for Ours, because that's what we deserve. Jesus took it in our place. And then at the end of Jesus' life, how did he rise from the dead? By the power, the recreating power. of the Holy Spirit in re recreation, in resurrection. First Peter three eighteen says, For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, you and me, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive. In the Spirit. And friends, as we hear this word of good news, this word of the gospel of Jesus Christ, his sacrifice for our sin preached from his word, that same Holy Spirit. Hovers over the formless voidness and emptiness of our dead hearts of stone. What does he do? He breathes New resurrection life into us so that we can be cut to the heart for our sin and have that new heart placed within us, a heart that is able to repent, a heart that is able to hate the sin. That often still clings to us so closely and resides there. And a heart that can turn in faith to Jesus Christ, a heart that Jesus describes as one of a person who is born again. Re-created. created. And it's the same Holy Spirit who then comes and dwells in and with us as Christ's people now and who will raise us just as he raised Jesus to new resurrection, recreation, life on the last day. Abraham Kuyper, another great quote, he says, sin having once entered, a factor which must be taken into account. The Holy Spirit's work shines most gloriously in gathering and saving Christ's people. In recreation, the Spirit's work shines most gloriously. according to Kyper. The same spirit who in the beginning moved upon the waters has in recreation given us the Holy Scripture. The person of Christ, and the Christian church. And it is He who, in connection with the original creation and by these means of grace now, regenerates and sanctifies us. As the children of God. Have you been born again? Have you heard the good news of Jesus And repented of your sin and trusted in him. Are you pursuing ongoing repentance and faith, listening to God's word, both in creation and in the Bible, and responding in gratitude and Praise to God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. If not, don't wait. If you have, be encouraged That this the spirit, this creator spirit, is in you, working through you, accomplishing his work of I love these verses from 2 Corinthians 4 that get at this reality. Verse 13, since we have the same spirit of faith, Down to verse 14. We know that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence. Presence, so we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed Day by day. Maybe you're here and you've said, yes, I've responded. Yes, I've I've gotten that new life of the Spirit, but right now my life feels more Like formlessness, maybe a little emptiness. Maybe my life feels a little bit more like the chaos of those weeds in the garden after a week of neglect. Friends, the good news is that the Holy Spirit is the one who gave us the gardener. Jesus is Thought that's what he's thought to be when he's raised into new life and he's in the garden and he's mistaken for a gardener. Why? Because he's the one that he's The one, the true second Adam, who comes into the garden of his church and cultivates it and shapes it and brings order out of the chaos. Look to Jesus. Walk with Jesus. Talk to Jesus. Ask for him by the power of the Holy Spirit that he has poured out on us as the church to sanctify you from one degree of glory to the next. Until that day when we will all when he will withdraw the breath from this life, only to give us his recreating breath for everlasting. May that be our hope. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, how we thank you for the gift of your holy Spirit. How we thank you that by your spirit you have created all things, that you sustain all things. Lord, forgive us For not seeing him. Forgive us for often siding with the opposite, quenching the spirit as we succumb to many Sins and temptations, and the many ways in which we can side with death, and the opposite of the life that the Spirit gives. Lord, we thank you that you have not left us in the deadness of our sins, but that you have sent us. The good news of your salvation, that you've not only given us that word proclaimed to us, but you've given us the Spirit who enables our hearts to be alive and hear and believe, who opens ears and makes them work, who opens our spiritual eyes and enables us to see Jesus Christ as our Lord, as our Savior, as The one who has not only lived the perfect life, died in our place, and risen in glory, but that he is the one at your right hand, waiting for that day when he will return to raise. The living and the dead. Lord, may that hope be in our minds and in our hearts, and may we see your spirit at work in the world around us, and may we give you praise for Even as the psalm calls us to bless the Lord, oh my soul, myself, my whole being, may we be those who respond in gratitude. Giving you glory day by day, all in the name of Jesus.