Don't worry about a thing. Every little thing is gonna be alright. Famous words from Bob Marley, right? Words we recognize. Well I don't think Mr. Marley was attempting to exegete scripture in that sometimes we can treat that phrase like it is what God expects of us. Sometimes we think that the expectation is there will be no dark days. Sometimes we treat worry, sorrow, pain, despair, like they should be foreign to us, foreign to the Christian experience at least. Aren't we supposed to see the brighter side? The silver lining always? And then we reach a psalm like this one before us and it's a little unsettling. A little might be understating it The psalms are filled with what we call laments. And by some counts, there are more laments in the Psalms than just pure Psalms of praise. We know there are Psalms of praise. Our call to worship was one. It was pretty clear. Plenty of psalms focus on elements that we feel comfortable with. God's goodness, his graciousness, his love, his power. But there are certainly plenty of sad songs. Songs where we see the author pouring out their heart to God. Songs where the psalmist lets loose their emotion. Songs filled with accounts of fear, confusion, sorrow, despair. What is distinct about this psalm, Psalm 88, is that we never get that turn to joy. We never get relief in this psalm Everywhere else a lament closes with some semblance of reminder of God's faithfulness A reminder of God's work in the past, something that we can praise him for, something that we can remember him by, some kind of answer from God. Here though we get no resolution, no bright and happy ending, no dawning light. Rather, we are left in the dark. The very last word of this psalm in Hebrew is darkness. You could render that line, darkness is my only friend. Do you hear the Simon and Garfunkel line ring out there a little? God never seems to visit here in Psalm 88. He won't come by. He won't answer. Obliak depiction, no? It begs the question from us, why Why, God? Why does God allow this psalm in this book? In his book Oh, why would God leave such an unanswered cry of despair and sorrow in his songbook? Why is this a song that He gives us to sing? If we allow ourselves to get a little existential here, we can extend the question, why does God allow this kind of experience at all? Oh, why does God allow such pain and suffering? Why would God leave the psalm singer in the dark? Why would God leave me in the dark? Have you asked that question before? Why, God? Why would you let this happen Why would you allow this kind of tragedy, this suffering, this loneliness, this death? This is the question which this psalm is leading us to, which the psalmist himself asks A question which has been pondered by nearly every philosopher you could find. How could a good God let this happen? It's a great mystery in life. A mystery which many have sought to find a satisfying answer to and yet is a little ungraspable. Wouldn't it be amazing if I had the answer for you here today? I finally figured it out. Almost every person who said I finally have the perfect answer is a heretic. So I'm not going to say that Wouldn't it be amazing if this psalm left us satisfied? I can't promise that satisfaction, that perfect clean-cut answer. But what I can offer here this evening is God's response. And it's this, God's response to the mystery of suffering is the mystery of the cross. God's response to the mystery of suffering is the mystery of the cross. And we're going to explore that idea. We're going to see that as we look through Psalm 88 by looking at these two points. First, the psalmist in the darkness. And second, the sun in the darkness. The psalmist in the darkness. Let's step into the dark. One of the things that we learned from the psalmist out the gate is that he knows God. He knows God. Verse 1, he says, O Lord God of my salvation, I cry out day and night before you. The author calls God the God of his salvation. First and foremost, we see he knows that there is a God. A common response to the problem of evil and suffering is God can't exist if that's the case. Right? This is often used as evidence to disprove God's existence. Oh, what better excuse for God out of to get out of this problem than to not exist at all? But the psalmist knows better. He knows God intimately and truly, and he speaks to him. He knows God as my Savior. The one who has saved me in the past. The one who belongs to me. And so the psalmist praise. He speaks here directly to God. He recognizes him as sovereign. He speaks to God and recognizes God is the one who has the power to change these circumstances. He knows God is one who is all powerful, and along with that, then he knows that God is one who has permitted this to happen. The author's theology is good, it's true. And that really just makes the pain a little more difficult, a little deeper, a little more unsettling. He goes on in verse 3. My soul is full of troubles. My life draws near to Sheol. I am counted among those who go down to the pit. I am a man who has no strength, like one set loose among the dead. And the psalmist sees his position in life at the moment as one headed towards the grave, headed towards death. He feels condemned to death, drawing nearer to Sheol, nearer to the pit, close to the edge of what any human has ever experienced. People don't get beyond this step and come back. People don't get beyond this step and come back and talk about it. He recognizes in his speech that he is nearing the place where speech goes unheard. The dead don't say too much from the grave, do they? How easily are the dead forgotten? But are you forgetting me? Have you already? Am I dead to you? As we approach verse 6, we see the psalmist's perspective that this is all a part of God's plan. God, you have put me in the depths of the pit In the regions dark and deep, your wrath lies heavy upon me, and you overwhelm me with your waves. The psalmist knows God is in control, orchestrating all things together, and so he sees that God has placed him in this pit. God, you ordain this to happen? You are causing my troubles to be? Well, the common response to this is God must not truly be sovereign. He must not really be in control. If he was, then he certainly would not be good. Not good to me, at least. This is in essence the response of the influential German theologian Jürgen Moltmann. It's a response which makes sense, especially for someone like him who watched the horrors of World War II very closely, very nearly. God must not be everything he's chopped up to be. He's just becoming something like me. He's learning like me. He's not quite there yet. But our psalmist isn't going to bend his theology. He knows God is almighty and all-knowing. And so he sees this experience as God's wrath against him. God, the weight of your hand is so heavy. He likens it to the waves of the sea. Have you ever been out in the ocean when the waves are rough? When the sets are heavy, I grew up around the beach, for I had no understanding of the power of the ocean till I was out in Hawaii in a really heavy swell. a heavy set of waves. And when you see big waves coming, oftentimes your impulse is to try and climb over them, to swim up over them. Bad idea. Terrible idea. When you do that and the wave comes cresting over, it will pull you back and smash you into the ground. And not only that, the weight of that wave will hold you there under the water. And so what do you need to do? You need to dive under. You need to swim under it. But when the waves are fast, When they keep coming, the amount of time you have to pop up and just catch a sip of air is shortened. So you are worried, am I going to have any air left? Sipping before I have to dive again. The psalmist is telling us that's my life. God, that is my life. And God, it hurts even more because the waves belong to you. These are your ways. You are holding me down. You won't relent. One pastor described the next part. Not only does God act horribly too Our psalmist, but he causes him to be a horror. That's verse 8. You have caused my companions to shun me. You have made me a horror to them. I'm shut in so that I cannot escape. Every day I call upon you, O Lord. I spread out my hands to you. Does it remind you a little bit of the image of Job? When his friends arrive after what's happened to him and they stand silent for seven days and seven nights At least Job's friend stuck around. Our psalmist has no one. He is isolated, alone, abandoned. Nobody answers him. Seems not even God answers him. You would think this experience is supposed to drive him towards God You would think this experience should lead him to embrace God. If he would just cry out, God should answer, right? But God never seem to answer here. Verse 10, God, do you work wonders for the dead? Do the departed rise up to praise you? Is your steadfast love declared from the grave? God, I know you're interested in your glory, in your praise. How is a dead voice going to praise you? Where is the glory there? What could possibly be in this for you, God? What could it be? And verse 14 brings us to the height of his pain. Lord, why do you cast away my soul? Why do you hide your face from me? God, why are you hiding from me? It's not just that I can't see you. No, it it seems that you are running away from me. You are rejecting me. You are hiding from me. Isn't this a little backwards if we go back to the garden? What is the scene there when Adam is in his sin? He runs and he hides from God. And when God calls out to him, at least Adam answers. God, a little role reversal here. Would you not answer? No, you continue to hide from me How does he conclude, God, you have attacked me, you have shunned me, you have led everyone else to shun me, and what is left? You can hear Simon Garfunkel in verse 18 as the loneliness creeps in and the existential despair comes out. Hello, darkness. You are my only friend. It's a little distressing, is it not? How is it that God could be silent, distant in the midst of this pain? Does it feel a little blasphemous? This isn't quite the Christian prayer that one hopes for and looks towards. This might feel a little more like some Nietzsche fanfiction, more than Christianity at least. But if it seems unchristian, I encourage you to take your debate up with the psalmist and not me. Here is our psalmist in the darkness. He is crying out to God, crying for an answer, but God doesn't seem to be giving it. Why? God, will you ever respond? Are you just distant? Are you just uncaring? What is your response? You may have noticed this is the end of the psalm. We don't get a lot of clarity here. We don't get a clear response. Sometimes that's our experience. We don't Get the clear response, or at least the response we were hoping for. Sometimes we are left puzzling at the mystery. Puzzling at the mystery. But God does have an answer. God provides an answer, and it's seen through the sun in the darkness Our second point, the sun in the darkness. God provides an answer, but it is also a mystery. When you hear that point, if you've been around Christianity for a while, you probably jump to the scene at Calvary. The scene at Calvary where Jesus Christ is hanging on the cross, and what happens in Matthew 27? Verse 45, it says, darkness spreads all across the land. Jesus, the very Son of God, lets out his own cry of sorrow and despair. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And like the psalmist, there's no comforting response. There's no Answer. Nobody says every little thing is going to be alright. Instead, Jesus hangs there in three hours of darkness. The sun hangs in the darkness. We know from the gospel accounts that Jesus suffered the torments of hell. Christ experienced on the cross All of the torments of hell. And for us with eyes, we tend to envision the physicality of that. We see the physical sufferings that one would experience. hanging, crucified, on a cross. But what Christ endured was not merely physical. As he hung, he also endured the spiritual pain of hell. God's wrath poured out on the sun. Christ experiences both bodily and spiritually. That wrath, that horror, pain, darkness, sorrow, let me make this clear. They are not native to God. They are not natural to him. The Apostle John tells us, 1 John 1:5, God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. The darkness is totally foreign to him. alien to him. So why is this happening? It is because of the covenant of redemption. Because of the covenant of redemption, because God loves you, because God is just and caring, He unites Himself to humanity. He becomes human. And because of that, he is united. Because he is united to us. He bears that darkness. Therefore, he bears the sorrow that our sin wrought. He bears upon himself the pain that our plight incurs. Therefore, Jesus enters into the darkness. He chooses to bear this darkness which is totally foreign to him. Things that are foreign to us, things that we don't understand, we tend to fear. tend to be a little more scary to us. At least for you and I, fear and pain, they're a little more natural. We experience them once in a while, and sometimes we have that little bit of security going, well, there's a piece of this, certainly not always, but there's a piece of this that I deserved. And as twisted as that may sound, it can often bring us a little bit of comfort. I understand how this is happening. I understand a piece of why. Jesus deserved none of it. Not a single piece. He is totally foreign to it. And yet he bears the weight of the waves. On the cross, he is abandoned by all. He is left in the darkness, all in orders of magnitude far greater than you or I have experienced or even possibly could experience. Jesus plunges himself into the darkness, and in doing so, he shows that he is not far from those in the darkness. He is not far from the psalmist. He is not far from you. You may not be able to see him. It is dark. But he is near to you. He is near. It is the God who we put on trial again and again, to whom we challenge when we are in the darkness. God, are you really good? Are you really good? How could you let this happen? Why have you forsaken me? It is that God who answers by jumping into the darkness. It's not the neatest, most understandable or clear answer to the mystery of our suffering. But it is an answer. His answer is the mystery of the cross. I don't want to shy away here. I'm not saying this is easy or clear or the cleanest answer that we kind of hope for. Instead, we get Christ on a cross, God dying for sinners. And as mysterious as it may be, it is a comfort It is a comfort. God is not far from you in your suffering, though you may feel it. The psalmist certainly felt that way. But God is there for you. He is a high priest who can sympathize with us. He is united to you. He has united himself to humanity, and he's done it in such a way that the scars and stripes you bear now will be washed away, though his he will bear forever. Thomas has shown, touch the wounds in my hands and my side. His he shall wear forever. God's response to the mystery of the suffering. Is the mystery of the cross. It may not be the most satisfying answer in our minds, but it is an answer. And it's an answer which is rooted in God's promise that He He loves you. That he loves you. As we wrap up a little bit of closing application, God gives us this psalm Psalm 88. So use it. Use these words. This psalm describes a suffering which is not all too foreign to some of us in this room. And this song is a part of God's word. Never feel like you are letting God down by turning to his word. By using his word. These are words which God gives us to express this kind of pain, this kind of sorrow. You have permission to speak them, to use them. Use this psalm in moments when you are left in the darkness and speechless. Secondly, God lets us call the darkness what it is. He lets us call it what it is. Don't feel the burden to qualify every experience of your pain. Do you feel the urge to qualify all the time, to jump ahead to, but I know God is good. But I know let me just jump ahead because I know I need to get over this pain. I need to get over it. This is a Christian prayer offered to us, and the psalmist sits in the darkness. He calls things how he sees them. Don't be burdened. At least don't be overburdened by the seemingly Christian need to turn everything into rainbows and butterflies. Wait on God's answer. Here is the third piece. Hope in the work of the Son. Hope in the work of the Son. Christianity can oftentimes make life a lot harder, not necessarily easier. Ignorance could be bliss. Would it be easier if I knew maybe God can't hear me in this silence? How difficult is it to accept God's silence when you know he could speak? Would it be easier maybe if Nietzsche was right and God was dead, and so I shouldn't expect some kind of answer or response. But Christian, like the psalmist, you know better. You know better. You know that God lives. And you know, like the psalmist that he is the God of salvation. He is the God of your salvation. And though it may be a mystery, that's what Paul says to the Corinthians, right? It is a stumbling block to the Jews, foolishness to the Greeks. But Jesus Christ, through his life, death, and resurrection, is our hope and he is our salvation. So as you are in the darkness, find your hope and comfort in the answer that He has given, in the mystery of the cross. Would you pray with me?