Pressure, pressure, pushing down on me, pushing down on you. No man asks for. Under pressure. Maybe you know that song that was a number one hit in 1981, so lest you think that I'm doing something uh very modern, that's 45 years ago now That was a song by uh David Bowie in Queen, right? It's uh actually uh popped up on the charts a little bit lately because it's a part of an ad campaign by Adidas that's called the You Got This Campaign. It's a series of commercials which are emphasizing the incredible pressure that athletes are under. the pressure to score that goal, to get that first down, to win that race. You can think about what it is right now to be an Olympic athlete. With the Winter Olympics are going on right now. We're in the midst of that and those athletes are under incredible Incredible pressure. They have been working for four years to get to this point. You have the weight of your coaches, the weight of your family, your country all on your back, hoping for, expecting. absolute perfection from your performance. Think about that kind of pressure bearing down upon you. So then finally when the routine, the race, the event is over, that we think, you know, finally that pressure is relieved. That's what you see sometimes on the faces of athletes, right? As soon as the routine is over, it feels like a giant weight has been lifted off of them. I picture the figure skater in the midst of that scene, relieved that finally they've done all that they can do. The pressure is finally off. Well, sorta, because they still have to hear what the results of their routine are, right? They have to hear what will be judged of them Whether they are worthy of the gold, whether they've failed, what's the judgment going to be? We are continuing in the book of Galatians here this evening, and in this section, Paul brings to light a kind of pressure that bears down upon each and every one of us. It's a pressure that bears down on us throughout life. It's a pressure with a very specific voice that speaks to us. It's a pressure with a very particular kind of power. It's a pressure which makes a certain kind of life or death judgment about us. It's the pressure of the law. The pressure of the law. Have you ever felt the law's pressure upon you? And maybe you feel its pressure every single day telling you what you must do to succeed. What you must do to be declared worthy. What you must do to live. If you're like me, you probably feel buried by that pressure at times. A Paul this evening in this text is going to help relieve that pressure. Apol is going to show us how we can get out from underneath that voice that is constantly telling you. that you are not yet enough. How can we get out from under that pressure? How can we be relieved of it? Particularly, we're going to see this this evening. The voice of the law is shut at the cross. The voice of the law is shut at the cross We're going to see three points through that. First, we're going to look at the law's limits. Then we're going to look at the law's leverage. Then after that, the law's legacy. We didn't have Pastor Fix to give us our alliteration this morning, so I've brought it for you. Point number one, the law's limits. Paul is continuing on here, we said from his story about how he confronted the Apostle Peter. Peter had been living in freedom from the law. Peter had been sitting with the Gentiles. Peter had been feasting on bacon and laughing with the uncircumcised before suddenly Peter got up from the table, right? And he went to go sit with his Jewish brothers like he used to. And what was it that Paul said at the end of that story? I'll read it for us, verse 14. But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel. Said the Cephas, Peter, before them all, if you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews? What Paul is saying there is that what Peter has done by his actions is he said something. By getting up from the table, Peter has essentially said to the Gentiles around him. The Gentiles actually aren't quite right with us because they need to follow the law. Peter, by his deeds, has said, for the Gentiles to have fellowship with us, to sit with us, they need to live as the Jews did under the Mosaic Law. Well, is that right? Is it possible for the Gentiles to be right by following the law? Was it actually even possible for the Jews to be found right by following the law? Here's how Paul then follows that up, verse 15. We ourselves, speaking Peter and Paul, we are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners. Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believe in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. Because By the works of the law, no one will be justified. Paul says first, Peter, we know we were Jews. We were people to whom God had given his law. We were people who had the privilege of growing up in a place where we had received the very oracles of God. We belonged to those people whom God gave his covenants. The ones to whom God gave his word. Paul here is describing a particular kind of blessing that he and Peter had growing up with this. But it's a blessing that also came with a particular kind of burden. It's what he says there at the end of verse 16. By the works of the law, no one will be justified. The term justified, it means what? Comes from the Greek word dikyasune. That's a very important word in the New Testament. It's a Greek word, and it's a legal term that describes the process of being declared, being made, being shown to be righteous. You can imagine at the end of a court trial, the judge proclaims what the results of the trial are. Here is the truth. Here is what is declared. Either you are guilty or you are not guilty. Either you are in the right or you are in the wrong. Either you are righteous or you are condemned When that word is used here, it's talking about the possibility of being declared judicially, it being stated, it being true of you, that you are righteous. Think about that in the context now. Paul says, Peter and I were Jews by birth, those who had been given God's law, those whose identity sat in trying to fulfill God's law. And Peter, what was it that we found out? Guess what we learned? Verse 16. Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law. You know, we had been trying to prove and show that we were righteous by works of the law. Guess what we both found out? It's not possible. Turns out we just can't do it. Now you can do the law or at least try to, but there's limits to what it can do to you. And the law just cannot quite make you righteous. Maybe able to show you what righteousness looks like. But it cannot actually make you righteous. It cannot declare you righteous. Here at the beginning of verse 16, Paul is quoting from our Old Testament reading. It's Psalm 143. What was happening in that psalm? In the context, David is fleeing his enemies and he needs God's help. How did David come to ask God for his help? Did he say, God, come help me because I am faithful and I am righteous? No. It was, God, come help me because you are faithful and you are righteous. What David does is acknowledge then what would happen if God actually came and enacted full justice. Psalm 143, verse 2, God enter not into your judgment with your servant me. With David. For no one living is righteous before you. David knows something. David knows the same thing that Paul is saying, Peter and Paul know. That no one is actually righteous. We tend to think if God decided to enact his justice right now Uh you know, I'm a pretty good person. I would be fine and in the clear. It's my enemies who are going to face all the judgment and be destroyed. But what David knows is actually Based upon my own works, my own righteousness, my own faithfulness, what would the judgment be made about me? I would be crushed too. I would be destroyed. And he's right. I mean, sure, David was the king, and he had the law, and he worked to follow it. But we know the story of David's life. The law just couldn't quite make him righteous, could it? Oh, he failed again and again. Paul borrows from that psalm to make his case here about how we cannot be justified by the law. But how we can be justified, made righteous by faith. No person, Jew or Gentile, will be justified by doing the law. Now, what is doing the law? What are the works of the law? What the law requires from you is that you obey it. It has its long list of commands. We've been looking at a detailed amount of them with Pastor Fix as we've worked through Deuteronomy. There's lots of laws. There's laws that feel like the checkoff list of do this ceremony, do this ritual. There's laws like love the Lord your God with all your heart and soul and strength. Laws that we see Jesus tell us mean things like not just don't murder, don't hate your brother. Love others. Strive to live in holiness. The law has all these demands from it. And it calls you to do them that you may live. What's the other side of that? Fail them and be cursed and die. Here's the tricky part about that do them. It isn't just do them one time. It isn't just do them the best that you can. It isn't just do them until you eventually get them right. No, the law says you need to do it all. You need to do it yourself. You need to do it perfectly. And once you're done doing it, what's next? Start over and do it again. The law is there first thing in the morning and it gives you its long list of tasks that are going to run through your whole entire day and it expects you to get it all done and not miss a spot. When the day is over and let's say you have done all that it says, what's the law going to say back to you? Great job. See you again first thing in the morning. See the thing with the law is it has its limits as to what it can do for you. But its expectations feel endless. That's actually in part why what it can do for you is so limited. The law will not. It cannot be satisfied by your work. The law will never say to you, that's enough, you're done. Now when you live under the law, that burden Never gets relieved in this life. You just do it and you do it and you do it again. You live to the end of your life buried underneath that pressure What is Paul saying here? Peter and I realized that with the law, we just couldn't meet its demands. There's no way that a Gentile sinner could do it. They don't even know what the law is, especially if we couldn't even do it. What did Peter and I do? We tapped out. We said, we're done. We need to try something different. We realized the law cannot get us. to the place where we are declared justified, where we are righteous. We need something different. Paul says we found something different. Maybe it would be better to say we were found by something different. Faith in Jesus Christ. Peter, why would we sell the Gentiles on the law, tell them to climb back under that burden when you and I already realized the law just cannot do it? No, we found something better. We discovered what it is to be justified by faith in Jesus. The law has its limits. It could show us what we should do. It could teach us what righteousness looks like. But it can't quite make us righteous. It cannot justify us. Because by works of the law, no man will be justified. Well, what good is the law then? What can the law do? The question is: what does the law do? Point number two: the law is leverage. What is it that the law does do? I mean, in a sense, it holds this threat over you. It holds this leverage against you. And what is that? It's death. Paul takes caution to counter what he realizes may be the question that comes back around to him in verse seventeen. He says, But if in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not. Paul already knows what some of us are thinking here. Paul, are you saying that Jesus Just says lawlessness and sin are all good and fine. Jesus accepts them. Jesus likes sin now. He's good with it? Of course not. And Jesus does not just accept sin. God doesn't suddenly say that lawlessness is good or that unrighteousness is good. Of course not. How does Paul then follow it up? Verse 18. For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. Kind of an odd response to that, right? What Paul is saying is not that Jesus is a sinner. He's saying that the problem is Once I start trying to do the law, what is it that I actually show? What is proven about me? All it does is prove that I am the sinner. That seems a little mixed up, but think about it. Remember, the law doesn't just give you a one-and-done checklist. The law isn't just get circumcised and avoid pork today and be kind to that one neighbor and everything will be good forever and all eternity. Now the law says, do all of it, do all of its commands, and keep doing them and never slip up and do them perfectly and never stop. And in coming to Jesus, what Paul is saying, we've realized, what we've recognized, is that we just cannot actually do that. We tried and we failed. And if we go back to it and try to rebuild ourselves by the law, try to build it back up and live under it again, we already know what will happen. We already know. If we sign the Gentiles up for that, we already know what's going to happen to them You do that, you live that way. We already know the words that will be declared about us at judgment. We already got the verge from the judge. It's transgressor, it's sinner. So that you are guilty. We are not trying to be declared righteous under the law again. Paul, in a sense, says, we're done with the law. We're done trying to live under the burden of the law. Some of us are wondering here. I mean, Paul, how can you say that? It's not like suddenly you can just say, I'm never doing the law again, and the law disappears, right? How can you say we're not going to try the law again? The law is still there, isn't it? One pastor used the illustration of the child who has been caught. in the midst of uh maybe being up when they're supposed to be in their bed or with their hand in the cookie jar and they know their parent has seen them in the midst of their transgression. And that little child looks at them and then shuts their eyes. What's the thought? You know, maybe if I can't see them, they're not really there. Then the child opens her eyes, nope, try again And it's ridiculous, right? You can't just act like something isn't there and that means it's not there. Well, what are you thinking? The law's just gonna disappear? You know, there is a way that Paul can be done with the law, and that the law can be done with Paul. How is it that one can be freed from the law? How can one relieve the pressure that the law has over you? How can someone legitimately undo all that leverage that the law holds against you? What does the law have? Why does the law hold its leverage against you? It says to you, do all this so that you can live. Or there's another side to that, right? Or fail and be cursed and die. Paul does is he says, okay, deal. Verse 19, for through the law, I died to the law. Paul has figured out how the law is applying all this pressure against him. It's with the threat of death. Paul says, okay, then kill me. Through the law, I'm dead to the law. Think about it. When you're alive, what does the law do? Keeps pressing all its commands upon you. Stays right there in your ear saying, do more. Keep trying. Run a little harder. I mean, not just that, the law knows that we've already failed it. And so along with that, it's also reminding us, you're too weak. You've lost. You will never actually be enough. Have you heard those words before? That kind of voice in your head telling you those things. Constantly running through you, constantly applying that pressure upon you day after day, just a little more Keep trying a little harder. You aren't worthy yet. You are not enough yet. You haven't done it yet. Keep going. Try again. And it's miserable. It's miserable to hear because you know in a sense it's right. My works are not enough. I cannot quite satisfy its demands. What does that voice of the law say to you? What does it tell you you need to do in order to be accepted? How loudly does it bang that gong in your head and remind you you haven't done enough? To be loved by your God. Yet we, like Peter, actually here in the story, for some reason keep getting drawn in by it, right? Keep believing it. We have a kind of twisted, sadistic infatuation with the law where we come back to it again and again thinking maybe this time if I try to live under it, it will say something different to me. Sure, it's berated me and it's beaten me down, but maybe this time I'll be good enough for it. So we wake up and we say, I'll do whatever you ask. I'll do the whole list, I'll go above and beyond, because maybe then the law, that voice will finally be satisfied with me. You know, imagine a fantasy land where you actually did it all. Where you did it all that day. Then you go to sleep and you wake up the next morning. Is it satisfied? Of course not. The law will just tell you exactly all that it can tell you. Do it again It will tell you to do it again and again, and it will never be satisfied with you. It will keep pressing down upon you. It will keep with that pressure until what? Until it's killed you. Maybe you followed this month the story of Olympic figure skater Ilya Malinin. He went into this Olympics heavily favored. favored by the largest margin in recent history to win the gold medal in his event. There was no question. The expectation was that he would obliterate the competition. When expectations are that high, imagine the pressure. During his free skate, I'm sure a number of you know, uh he fell not just once, but twice during his routine. And he did not end up with the gold. He didn't podium. He ended up in eighth place. Later on, uh, Ilya talked about the immense pressure that he was under and uh the events, those falls, those crashes, and he says that as he lifted off the ground to try and do those large jumps that it takes to spin four times in the air before landing down again. that he felt all the pressure upon him holding him down on the ground. That's why he couldn't lift. That's why he couldn't jump. So of course the crashes were inevitable. Because when you have that kind of pressure upon you, this is your whole life, this is you. What can you do but crash and burn? Christian, that's what the law does to us. It brings all that pressure upon us until it kills us. It condemns you according to your failures, and then it executes you, and then thankfully, I guess, it's done. Paul says, I died to the law. How? Through the law. Paul, when he says that, he says that not just about himself, but about the Christian experience. So you could say, Paul has said that about you, Christian. You have died. Christian, the law has killed you. Point number three, the law's legacy. Probably feels kind of awkward for me to stand up here and say to you all, you're dead. Uh you probably don't feel very dead, right? You feel pretty alive. I think about Paul writing this right now. In a sense, he writes his own obituary of sorts in the text here. Verse 19 I died to the law. Verse 20, I have been crucified with Christ. And that's awkward in part because of the timing. You don't write your own obituary. Because when it's time to write your obituary, you're already dead. Then Paul in verse 20 says, the life I now live. Okay, Paul, pick one. Which are you dead or alive? It's one or the other. It's all very awkward. Have you felt the awkwardness of this text as you've read it before? It's very strange to us. But it's strange for a reason. It's awkward for a reason. It is because the gospel and what it does for us is very awkward and strange. Especially because we are so in love with and so used to the law. There's something about this confusing mess that teaches us something very important about the gospel. What Paul is talking about here in the text is not his own physical experience of death. That will happen. Hasn't happened yet. Paul isn't physically dead yet when he writes this. Paul hasn't been crucified yet. But Paul does see, looking to the cross, the answer to his dilemma that the law has put us in. Well see, at the cross, the law really did speak its final word, its very last word about Paul. It spoke of all Paul's deeds, and it proclaimed and made the judgment death. But the law didn't make that proclamation about Paul to Paul. No. Who did it speak those words to? Spoke them to Jesus Christ. The judgment of the law was you are cursed, cursed to die. Cursed is any man who hangs upon a tree, and there on the cross, Christ is handed that sentence. He was condemned to die Jesus did the law perfectly. He lived a perfect, righteous life, the only person who could do such And yet Jesus is the one who physically did die. He is the one who was crucified, the one who was hung upon the cross in agony. and pain and misery with the weight of all our sins upon his shoulders until we hear what words It is finished. It is finished. What's finished? Well, in a sense, the law is. There at the cross, as it concerns you, Christian, the law is finished. The law is finally satisfied. When Jesus Christ died on that cross, the law finally got what it was looking for. The law had been eyeing us down for years, not because it's evil, not because it was malicious, rather because we were. And the law is not evil or malicious, but it is meticulous. It doesn't know what you've done. It doesn't know your failures. Allah is perfect righteousness. And our works are not that. Our sin must be punished. So at the cross, the law does all that it must do to our sin. All that it must do because of our sin. At the cross It finally collects its pound of flesh. At the cross of the law is finally satisfied. It says there, you deserve to die. And then the law leaves that scene at Calvary that Good Friday satisfied. Because what did it leave behind? A dead man. The God man, Jesus Christ, crucified. Martin Luther said it this way, what the gospel does What the death of Christ does is it puts an end to the voice of the law. Here the law has had this long legacy. of telling you again and again, you are not yet enough. More. And the long's right. But what the gospel does is it takes that long legacy and puts an end to it. And not that the law, not that the law ceases to exist, but it ceases to hold that power and leverage over you because the work that it set out to do is finished. It was finished in the person and work of Jesus Christ. And that's why, Galatians 2. 20, Paul can say, it is no longer I who live. But Christ who lives in me. And the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Krishna, the law no longer speaks to you. Your condemnation. What does the law do? We've seen as we've walked through Deuteronomy, right? Allah teaches you about Jesus. Teaches you about who He is. About what he has done. And it shows you how in gratitude you can live as he lived How you can express your thankfulness to God by walking the way that Christ has walked. Not from guilt, not under the pressure of the law. But in joy and in gratitude to your Savior. Now, I realize the experience of this life does not necessarily accord with everything that I've said here this evening. Because we still walk this earth with sinful flesh. We do still sin. We still often feel burdened by that sin. And burdened by the law. That's why Paul presses into this truth that we must apprehend what he has said here, not simply by looking to our own lives. But by faith. We do not see all of this perfectly here and now. But we can know that what is said here is true of us by faith. We can know that the law no longer has the right to condemn us, even though we still hear it do that. You may still feel its pressure upon you. That voice may remind you again and again of all your inadequacies and sin. It shows you, it tries to show you this idea that you are not quite right before God. Shows you maybe that you've ruined it and need to do something more to rectify it. Christian, do not listen to that voice. That voice has been shut by Jesus. Verse 21. I do not nullify the grace of God For if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. Paul says, I can't ruin it. I can't ruin the grace that Jesus has shown to me. It's none of my own righteousness. It's none of me doing the law. Christian, there's no more, in a sense, law left for you to fulfill. Because Jesus Christ did fulfill it. Christian, what you know by faith in Christ Jesus, what you know by looking to the cross is that you are right with God. That you have been justified, that God's verdict for you is righteous. And that is not of your own doing. Is the work of Jesus Christ for you? Now you may still hear that voice. Try harder. Don't listen to it Don't. It has no right to tell you you are still condemned. Because Jesus has shut that voice. Because of what Jesus has done, the law has reached its limits. Because of what Jesus has done in his debt, the law has lost its leverage. Its legacy of persecuting you is undone. And what then is left for you? The way the Heidelberg Catechism puts it is so helpful. to us. Question and answer number two asks us about how we live in faith, how we walk by faith in Christ Jesus. And what it communicates to us is faith. There are these threefold reality. There's a sense in which we still see the law, and it reminds us of how great our sins and misery were. And then we look to the gospel and we know we are delivered from our sins. We are delivered from our misery. And then what is left for us but to live in gratitude? If the Lord has something for you today, it should not be condemn you. It should be show you how to live gratefully the life that Jesus has lived. Let's pray.