Let's turn in our Bibles now to Deuteronomy chapter 2, where we'll continue our series through the book of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter 2 is on page 145 of your Pew Bibles. We uh started looking at Deuteronomy, looked at the first chapter, we're introduced to the covenantal form, that this is a book that is written in uh the manner, the style of a covenant treaty. Between a great king, which in this case is God Almighty Himself, and a subject people, which are the people of Israel. who in some ways reflect who we are as God's people today, with some a lot of continuities as well as some discontinuities along the way, which we'll look at more as we go through. Through this book. We looked last week at how God had recounted the way in which he had led his people, raising up human leaders for them as an important reminder that He would do so and continue to do so as they go into the promised land. And now we get to Deuteronomy chapter 2, where he recounts some of the wilderness years, their time in the desert, and how he disciples them. Through it. Let's uh give attention now to the reading of God's holy word from Deuteronomy chapter two. Then we turned and journeyed into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea, as the Lord told me, and for many days we traveled around Mount. Then the Lord said to me, You have been traveling around this mountain country long enough. Turn northward and command the people. You are about to pass through the territory of your brothers, the people of Esau, who live in Seir. And they will be afraid of you, so be very careful. Do not contend with them, for I will not give you any of their land not No, not so much as for the sole of the foot to tread on, because I have given Mount Seir to Esau. As a possession. You shall purchase food from them with money that you may eat, and you shall also buy water from them with money that you may drink. For the Lord your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. He knows you're going through this great wilderness. These forty years the Lord your God has been with you. You have lacked nothing. So we went on, away from our brothers, the people of Esau, who live in Seir, away from the Arabah Road, from Elath and Ezion Giber. And we turned and went in the direction of the wilderness of Moab. And the Lord said to me, Do not harass Moab or contend with them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land for a possession, because I have given R to the people of Lot for possession. A possession. The Imim formerly lived there, a people great and many and tall as the Anakim. Like the Anakim, they are also counted as Rephaim. But the Moabites called them Emam. The Horites also live in Seyir formerly, or lived in Seir formerly, but the people of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them from before them and settled in their place, as Israel did to the land of their possession. Which the Lord gave to them. Now rise and go over the Brook Zerod. So we went over the Brook Zerud. And the time from our leaving Kadesh Barnia until we crossed the Brook Zered was thirty-eight years. Years, until the entire generation, that is, the men of war, had perished from the camp, as the Lord had sworn to them. For indeed the hand of the Lord was against them to destroy them from the camp until they perished. So, as soon as all the men of war had perished and were dead from among the people, the Lord said to me, Today you are to cross the border of Moab at Ar. And when you approach the territory of the people of Ammon, do not harass them or contend with them, for I will not give you any of the land of the people of Ammon as an ap as a possession, because I have given it to the sons of Lot for a possession. It is also counted as a land of Rephaim. Rephaim formerly lived there, but the Ammonites called them Zamzamim, and a people great and might many and tall as the Anakim, but the Lord destroyed them before the Ammonites. And they dispossessed them and settled in their place, as he did for the people of Esau who live in Sair when he destroyed the Horites before them and dispossessed them and settled in their place even to this day. As for the Avim who live in the villages as far as Gaza, the Kaftorim who came from Kaftor destroyed them and settled in their place. Rise, set out on your journey, and go over the valley of the Arnan. Behold, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, the king of Heshbon, and his land, beginning Begin to take possession and contend with him in battle. This day I will begin to put the dread and fear of you on the peoples who are under the whole heaven, who shall hear the report of you and shall tremble and be in anguish because of you. So I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedamath to Sihon, the king of Heshbon, with words of peace, saying, Let me pass through your land that I will go only by the road. I will turn aside neither to the right nor to the left. You shall sell me food for money that I may eat, and give me water for money, that I may drink. Only let me pass through on foot, as the sons of Esau who live in Seir and the Moabites who live in Ar did for me until I go over the Jordan into the land that the Lord our God is giving us. But Sion, the king of Heshbon, would not let us pass by him. For the Lord your God hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate, that he might give him into your hand, as he is this day. And the Lord said to me, Behold, I have begun to give Sion and his land over to you. Begin to take possession that you may occupy his land. And Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Jahaz. And the Lord our God gave him over to us, and we defeated him and his sons and all his people, and we captured all his cities. at that time and devoted to destruction, every city, men, women, and children. We left no survivors, only the livestock we took as spoil for ourselves with the plunder of the cities that we captured. From Auror, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and from the city that is in the valley, as far as Gilead, there was not a city too high for us. The Lord our God gave all into our hands. Only the land of the sons of Ammon you did not draw near. I'm sorry, only to the land of the sons of Ammon you did not draw near. That is, to all the banks of the river Jabbok, in the cities of the hill country, whatever the Lord our God had for. Bidden us. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that is living and active. We pray that you'd open it to us this morning. Help us to understand the messages, the truths for us. May they uh be convicting, uh edifying, comforting, uh, as we see in this word um truths that we need as your people today. In Jesus' name we pray. Pray. Amen. Well, one of my favorite inventions, one of my favorite inventions of the modern internet age is Google Map Reviews. Uh if you've ever traveled with me, you know that when we pick a restaurant, it must have at least four point five stars. cars or I won't I don't want to go there. No. Four point four it's it's just it's not gonna be so great. Four point three sorry It's gotta be 4. 5. And I like to actually look at the re reviews and read a few of them, both good and negative, to just get a little bit of sense of how people have had experience there and what it is that they like or dislike about the place. It's nice to know that going in, and I think it par beats the way we used to have to do it, is sort of pick a place randomly and see what our experience would be. Maybe you're not so picky about food. But maybe you have to do hiring. And so you the first thing you do when you're hiring someone, what do you do? You gather resumes. And you look at them, and you're trying to get a sense as you read them of how a person's past performance may be indicative of a future. results. That's not a way to invest, right? That's not true for investments. But with people it often is. Past performance maybe likely is indicative of future results. Here in this uh part of Deuteronomy, this is the historical prologue, as we mentioned before. Chapters 1 to 3 basically are this historical prologue of the covenant. God is showing his people his five-star reviews. He's basically communicating to them his jam-packed resume. As his people Israel stand on the banks of the Jordan, as they're being called by him to enter into a dangerous and difficult task of entering into the promised land. He's promised to give it to them, but they face formidable foes. And they're going to have to fight them. And that reality is actually why their parents' generation never entered. They heard the reports of the spies of these great Anakim, these giants, these Rephaim, the different words for giant-like peoples, and they were too afraid to enter because they lacked faith to believe that God could and would lead them into victory. And so here God graciously, patiently, is recounting to his people their history with him. And he's specifically highlighting aspects of it that are meant to bolster their faith. To give them confidence that they can trust God to lead them well into success and victory And here in Deuteronomy 2, specifically, the Lord recounts how he has discipled them in the desert. You know, often isn't it true that it's the tough times that strength And faith. The difficult times where we're driven beyond ourselves, and we know and we recognize our need to trust the Lord that we actually grow specifically in this area. Of doubt and unbelief into faith. Yeah, that's the last passage. We didn't focus on it as much, but one of the themes in the last passage in chapter 1 of Deuteronomy is doubt. Lack of faith. That characterized the people as they're led out of Egypt, as they're led through the wilderness, and yet here as they're discipled in the desert, we see God recounting the different ways in which he He had led them through hard times and challenges and had built up their faith because of it. It's important for us. Because we too stand at the banks of difficult journeys, journeys through the wilderness of this life. Uncertainty, difficulties ahead, and these can all lead to doubt and lead us to lose faith. Maybe you're facing the decision of where to go to college, or just the transition itself and all the uncertainties that abound around that. Maybe you're facing the possibility of grave illness. Maybe you're dealing with ongoing illness. Maybe you're facing the possibility of a loss of job, big transitions, changes in life. And friends, as we face these things, we too need reminders about who God is, about how He can be trusted. As much as Israel needed those reminders here. And so this passage is not just for them, it's for us. And what is it that God lays out for his people as his grand Five-star review, S His resume. It is specifically this. God reminds Israel and us of his sovereignty in the past, his strength in the present, and his surety for the future. Sovereignty, strength, and surety are the three points God seems to emphasize in this passage. Those are the three points we'll consider as we move on. First of all, God's sovereignty in the past, and we see this as God leads Israel through the territories of Edom, Moab, and Ammon. And these are territories God's not giving to his people. And basically these are territories that go from south to north. So if you have the map of it's it's a lot of these uh place names It's it's worth looking them up when you come across them. You have a map of Israel, here's the coastline, you have Sea of Galilee here, River Jordan, Dead Sea, Edom is way down here, and Kadesh Barnia is over here in the wilderness. That's where they've been wandering around. Now they're going to come up over here through through uh sort of around Edom. And then above Edom is Moab and then Ammon, up north of that. First, God leads them through the territory of Moab. We see this in verse Verses 1 to 5. Then we turned and journeyed into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea. Well, that was the consequence for Israel's disobedience, right? As the Lord told me, and for many days we traveled around Mount Zair. Many days is a bit of an understatement, right? As we we look ahead we see that it's actually thirty-eight years that they were wandering around. Presumably the first two years they were wandering around and then they head in, the spies head in about two years later. 38 more years before that generation, that first forty years of the wilderness. Then the Lord said to me, You have been traveling around this mountain country long enough, turn northward. And command the people, you are about to pass through the territory of your brothers, the people of Esau who live in Seir, and they will be afraid of you, so be very careful. Note, uh Edom is the people that are descendants of Esau, who is called here uh brothers of Israel, because Esau is the brother of Jacob, who is the father of Israel. He goes on and says, Do not contend with them, for I will not give you any of their land, not so much as for the sole of your foot to tread on, because I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession. Now, what's the point? Why does God lay all this out? I think what he's doing here is he's saying, Yes, I am your God. I am the God of Israel. But I'm also more. I'm the God of all nations. You want to see my sovereignty in the past? Look at how I gave a territory to Edom. And I am not going back on that work of mine. I gave it to them, and look at my commitment to them. I am not going to supplant it for you. And so instead of plundering Edom, they must respect Edom and offer to purchase food with money, purchase water from them. And God reminds them, look, I will provide for you no matter what. You shall purchase food from them, verse 6, with money that you may eat. You shall also buy water from them with money that you may drink. For the Lord your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. He knows you're going through this great wilderness. These forty years, the Lord your God has been with you. You have lacked nothing. So we went on away from our brothers, the people of Esau, who live in Seir, away from the Erabah, rode from Elath and Ezion Giber, and we turned and went in the direction of the wilderness. Now if you go back and look at Numbers chapter 20, you know that there's a lot more to this story. Uh Moses reaches out to the busin people of Edom and he says, Can we go through your land? What that would mean is they're over here in the wilderness, you know, here's here's uh Edom and they're gonna go around like this and if they could just cut through the land that would be nice. If Edom says no, comes out to fight them and they're not allowed to fight. So they say, Okay, instead I'll go around So they have to go around a lot further and go around the the the land of Edom. But the the point is God is saying, Don't touch them. I put them there, I'm sovereign over them, and so you need to leave them alone. And then through the territory of Moab. Now Moab are descendants of Lot, Abraham's nephew. So again, there's some distant relation. And look what he says here in verse 9. And the Lord said to me, Do not harass Moab or contend with them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land for a possession, because I have given our to the people. Again, I have sovereignly given to this people this land, and just as I am going to give you sovereignly a land, I am a showing that I don't. go back on my gifts and my promises, right? You need to honor their gifts even as I will honor and give you And then there's this side note in verse 10. The Emim formerly lived there, a people great and many, and as tall as the Anakim. Like the Anakim, they are also counted as Refame. It's not exactly fair. There seems to be a kind of class of mighty m mighty people, mighty warriors. people. But the Moabites called them Emen. The Horites also lived in Seir formerly, but the people of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them from before them and settled in their place. And listen to this This is the point. God's saying, as you see my sovereignty in the past for them, be assured that I will be sovereign over you. Now this seems to be a a little almost a footnote That is added at some point after Israel is in the land, which is probably when the book of Deuteronomy was finalized. But it's this little side note to just basically, again, reassure God's people of the sovereignty of God in The past. And in some ways, it also maybe gives us some length of time to let the narrative feel like the long travel of Israel, if you will. What's so striking here is the Lord recounts Moab's victory and takes full credit for it, as if saying, look, all the powers of the world, all the claims of other gods, they're not not their mind. You know, every one of these nations had their own God that they claimed had brought them into their land, but God says, no, I did it. I did it. I'm silent Third, we see him doing the same thing with Ammon, who are also descendants of Lot, another nation group that are descended from Lot. Look at verses 17 to 23. The Lord said to me, Today you are to cross The border of Moab at Ar, that's the northern border of Moab. Today you're about to cross the border of Ar, of Moab. of It are and when you approach the territory of the people of Ammon, do not harass them or contend with them, for I will not give you any of their land, of the land of the people of Ammon as a possession, because I have given it to the sons of Lot for a possession. And then again, this little side note, it is also counted as the land of Rephaiim. Rephaiim formerly lived there, but the Ammonites called them Zamzamim. A people great and many, and tall as the Anakim, but the Lord destroyed them before the Ammonites, and Napa dispossessed them and settled in their place, as he did for the people of Esau who live in Seir when he destroyed the Horites. before them and they dispossessed them and settled in their place even to this day. As for the Avi Avim who lived in villages as far as Gaza, the Kaftorim who came from Kaftor destroyed them and settled in their place. that those are people over over toward the coastlands. It's not exactly clear what that verse 23 is doing there, except maybe to say that you know the Lord doesn't claim to have given them that land. That is the land of the Philistines who will end up being Israel's nemesis in the land, sort of saying, No, the Lord uh has not granted them, the Philistines, their land, and therefore uh that's going to be uh a place of Finally, God doesn't just take sovereign credit for the victories of other nations, but He also takes sovereign credit for Israel's own experience. Of discipline and discipleship for 38 years. And that's in verses 13 to 16 that I skipped over. Where the Lord says, Now rise up and go over the brook Zered. So that's the brook Leading into uh Moab. At the time of our leaving Kadesh Varnia until we crossed the brook Zered was thirty-eight years, until the entire generation, that is the men of war, had perished from the camp, as the Lord had sworn to them. Them. For indeed the hand of the Lord was against them to destroy them from the camp until they had perished. So as soon as all the men of war had perished and were dead from among the people, the Lord said to me, Today you are to cross the border of Moab et R. What's the point? The point is this: God is impressing upon Israel his sovereignty in the past as proof that they can trust him to sovereignly care for them and bring them into the land. Land in victory. And friends, doesn't God make the same point to us? He makes it through this passage as He recounts his sovereign history in times, ancient times past. In how he's enabled these nations to receive their land. And he does it through so much scripture where he recounts his sovereign power over all creation, ruling and defeating Pharaoh. controlling and defeating Assyria and Babylon and Persia, these great grand world empires, ultimately working all things for his glory and the good of his Proverbs 21:1, that great verse that reminds us of God's sovereignty even over those who claim to be sovereigns in our world. Kings. That's what they call themselves. I am sovereign. And God says, the king's heart. Is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he will. Friends, this is true, not just of these ancient nations. That God is sovereign over them. It's true of nations and peoples and powers today. It's true of America in the 21st century, Russia, China, Iran. It's true that God is sovereign over your boss, over your teacher, over your spouse, over your opponent at work Psalm 115, verse 3 says, Our God is in the heavens, he does all that he pleases. Isaiah 46, 9 to 10, I am God, there is no other, I am God, and there is none like me. Declaring the end for the The beginning and from ancient times, things not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose. Here's the question from this point. Sovereignty of God in times past, which assures us of true being being true for times eternal What might happen? How might our thinking, feeling, and acting change if we really believed this at the deepest? Most fundamental level. God is sovereign. He does as he pleases. Yes, the events of the last week that just seem out of our control. He's sovereign even over those Why do we struggle with this? Why do we struggle to believe this? Isn't that in part because of the implication? That if we really recognize God's sovereignty, we have to recognize we are not. And in our sinful rebelliousness, we we don't like that. We we want to be God. Like the serpent suggests to Adam and Eve in the garden. You'll be Like God. We want that. So we need regular reminders that God is God and we are not. And so God first shows his sovereignty in the past, second of all, and this is the second point, he shows his strength in the past. present. Israel doesn't need to just look back centuries before them, let alone 40 years till to the time when God led them in mighty power and strength out of Egypt. They don't need to look back far to see God's victorious power and strength to save his people. They were all eyewitnesses of it. This generation were all eyewitnesses of it when he had just What weeks, months before, defeated Sihon the king of Heshbon before their very eyes. And as the Lord recounts their victory over Sihon, notice the emphasis throughout is that this victory is due to the Lord's strength as he fought with them and fought for them. Look at verse 24. Rise up, set out on your journey, and go over the valley of the Arnan. Behold, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon and his land, begin to take possession and contend with you. in battle. Interesting choice of tents. I have given him even before they'd even entered into the land and encountered Sion and I like to tell my uh Hebrew students. Grammar is theology. It's so sure when God promises it that He can speak of it in the past tense. This day, verse 25, I will begin to put the dread and fear of you on all the peoples who are under the whole heaven, who shall hear the report of you and shall tremble and be in anguish because of you. Why would fear and dread of Israel be on all the nations? It's not because of anything in that. It's because the Lord's strength was with them in battle. His strength in the present would be what in strength. Invoked this fear and trepidation on their enemies. He goes on in verse 26. So I sent messengers From the wilderness of Kedamoth to Sihon, the king of Heshbon, with words of peace, saying, Let me pass through your land. I will go only by the road, I will turn aside neither to the right nor to the left. You shall sell me food for money, that I may eat, or give me and give me water for money, that I may drink, only let me pass through. Through on foot. As the sons of Esau who live in Seir, the Moabites who live in Ar did for me, until I go over of the Jordan into the land of the Lord our God is given. giving us. It seems a little odd, doesn't it? The Lord has said, look, you shall contend with Sion, and I will give him into your hand. And Moses says, hey, why don't you let us pass through in peace? Why would he do that? Well, it seems that Moses is simply following God's instructions for how Israel was to engage in warfare outside of the land of Canaan. We read about this in Deuteronomy 20, and that is that war was never the first option for God with his people outside of his land. His land needed to be cleansed. But outside of the land, he never chose war as the first option, and so he called Israel to always offer terms of peace. That seems to be what Moses is doing here. But look, it it goes on, and like Pharaoh before him, the Lord hardens Sion's heart. But verse 30, but Sion the king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him, for the Lord your God had spoken hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate that he might give him into your hand, as he is this day. And the Lord said to me, Behold, I have begun to give Sihon and his land over to you, begin to take possession of it, that you may occupy. his land. Then Sion came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Jehaz. Now again, as with those hit that history of Israel in Exodus with Pharaoh, the Lord is said to harden Sion's heart here, and this raises the question of human free will. will and how it relates to divine sovereignty. And guess what? If we spent time working our way through that, it would be the next few hours. So I'll leave us to do some of that work during sermon discussion if you'd like. I think it reiterates, in some sense, God's sovereignty, which we talked about in the last point, though here it's not as much focused on the fact that He is sovereign and in in control of all things, but it's specifically highlighting God's strength to fight for his people, and that's what we notice as we read on. Look how quick and easy the victory is. Verse 33. And the Lord our God gave him over to us. And we defeated him and his sons and all his people. I mean, you can imagine that was a battle. It must have been significant. It must have taken some time. Must have been somewhat hard, and yet it it's recounted in a short little verse saying, Yep, the Lord did it. And we captured all his cities at that time, and devoted to destruction every city, men, women, and children. and left no survivors. Only the livestock we took as our s as spoil for ourselves with the plunder of the cities we captured. And again, this raises that whole question of uh div devoting to destruction, all men, women, and children. And this is something we see throughout the Old Testament. Again, if we wanted to discuss how this is just and right for God, we would spend A lot of time here, I guess just simply. The reality is, friends, that the only reason we have any moment of life to live as sinners is because of God's common grace, allowing us to live one more breath that we might use it to. repent. Trust in him and follow him. And so for God to lift that common grace for a moment, as he does for the people of Sihon the king of Bashan here, is it Bashan? I forget, no. Heschbon. Uh certainly not unjust. Uh but we can talk more about that during certain discussion if you'd like as well. Well the point that God is trying to make here, you know, I know that those are the questions that distract us, but the point God is trying to make is what he had said in Deuteronomy 130. I The Lord your God who goes before you will himself Fight for you, just as he did for you in Egypt before your eyes. It's so important for Israel to be reminded of this. As they're about to enter into a hostile land, the first Exodus generation Face the hostility of the Promised Land, the people who seemed like giants, the spies feeling like grasshoppers in comparison, the first generation faced that and they were too scared to face the future. Here, the second generation, God knows, needs reminders of God's strength and his power in the present as he fights with and for them. It reminds me a little bit of of uh The Lord of the Rings. It's been years since I read read it, so forgive me if I don't get this totally right. What I recall reading it though is that for so much of this dangerous journey that Sam and Frodo are on, it's it's kind of just them, like they're alone, and and you're always sort of fearful for them, right? These are these two little hobbits with hairy feet, and you know, there are big, dangerous bad guys all around them, and and you feel like there's no way they can get through. But for portions of the journey, get through Randolph is there. And I remember reading those portions, and you just kind of are confident. Not anything too bad will happen as long as he is there. The great wizard, with all his power and might and strength, he can make sure that these poor short little hobbits can make it through Through to safety. Israel needed reminders of God's strength. And don't we as well? Isn't that true for us as well? As we look ahead to the coming year, to the next decade, to the next generation of RPCB. We face formidable foes, we face significant challenges, decisions that will demand great wisdom, conflicts that will require great grace. Dangers, suffering, loss, death, let alone the world, the flesh, and the devil. These are formidable foes. These are real dangers that face us as we move forward. And if we're honest and reflective, we should be terrified if we try to face these things alone. But we don't have to. We can face them with the Lord, in the Lord's strength, which ought to give us every reason for confidence and hope. I love what Paul says in Ephesians chapter six. Throughout Ephesians, Paul is very clear about the great cosmic powers that work in the world. And then he says in Ephesians 6, finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. How? By putting on the full armor. And what is the full armor of God? And we looked at Ephesians, we looked at it, it's the armor that God Himself wears. Because God is showing them He is with them, and He is granting them the same armor Heads. And in a very real sense, the armor of God, in a sense, is like putting on Christ. And that's what we're called to do by faith. Why do we struggle to believe, let alone rest in God's strength? Isn't it because in our sin We don't want to be dependent on him or anyone. Again, it takes real humility to acknowledge our weakness, and that doesn't come naturally, yet it's necessary to own it. So that we can lean on God's strength rather than our own. And this is the call of the gospel, isn't it? To follow our suffering Savior, who humbled himself, who became weak to the point uh and obeyed to the point of death, even death on the cross. And why did he do it? He did it to put to death our unbelief and our hardness of heart. You know, Heshman here is said to have his heart hardened into stone that makes him an enemy of God. Friends, the Bible tells us that's who we all are by nature. Dead in our trespasses and sins with hearts of stone. And what does God do through the gospel of Jesus Christ? He says, I call you to faith and I give you, put a new heart of flesh in the place of the one of stone. That is the good news, the call of the gospel to repent, to let God give us a heart transplant. to accept the redemption purchased by the very body and blood of Jesus as he took the penalty for our sin and then sends his spirit to shower his blessings and his strength Strength and his power on us in the present, that he might walk with us in our walk of faith. So that the cry of faith is simply a cry of weakness. Be merciful to me, O God, a sinner. And in that weakness, friends, we begin to experience God's strength. Paul says in 2 Corinthians, he's He talks about that thorn in his flesh. He says, you know, the thorn in my flesh is really to remind me to keep me constantly aware of my weakness, because in my weakness, the power and strength of God. is on full display. So we see the sovereignty of God in the past. We see the strength of God in the present. Third and finally we see the surety of God in the future. And if you really want to push the alliteration, you can spell future pH U T U R E. Right? No, you don't have to, but if you really want to, I did in my notes, so uh I'll allow you this morning. The surety of God in the future. It's phonetic. It's not correct spelling, but it works. We see this point hinted at in the final verses in 36 and 37. From Aurora, we, which is on the edge of the Valley of Arnan. And from the city that is in the valley as far as Gilead. So Aurora is down in the southern part of Amon, Ammon, or Ammon is over to the uh off a little bit to the east. So this is from the top border of Moab, that's a r the uh valley of Arnon, and from the city that is in the valley, as far as Gilead, so that's far farther north. There was not a city too high for us. The Lord our God gave All into our hands, only the land of the sons of Ammon, that's over off to the east, you did not draw near, that is, to all the banks of the river Jabuk and the city. Now I know that this is sort of difficult to imagine what's going on here. It really helps when you see all these place names to pull out a Bible map, maybe you have one, to turn, clip to it, and In your Bible and just kind of see the area. And when you do that, what you notice is that the land that's described here in these verses, that God is now giving Israel as a possession, was not part of the promised land. He had never promised this to his people, and yet here he's giving it as an inheritance. What's the point? What's the significance? Well, I think the idea here is that if God gives them this land that was not promised, you can be sure the surety of his promises will come in the future. He will fulfill his promises to give them the promised land. And that's so important for us to see. For them, they needed this reminder because they're facing going into the promised land, the great challenge of taking it. For us it's important because, friends, the future promises of God to us in Jesus Christ are far grander and far more glorious. Not just some parcel of land in the Middle East, but the whole of creation. The new heavens and the new earth, new resurrection bodies that will last forever. The point is, all of God's sovereignty, all of his unmatched strength, can be such good news to assure us to be the surety as we look ahead. But that's only if we're on the right side of his sovereignty and his strength. Right? Is he God for us or against us? Here you have Sihon, the king of Hesheim. And you have Israel. And they both experience the sovereignty of God and the strength in a very different way. And so the question for you, the question for me is: how will we engage with that? Will the gospel good news, or will the truth of God's sovereignty and his strength be gospel good news for us? Or will it be a promise of judgment? The gospel is such good news because though by nature we are enemies of God like Sion here, in Jesus Christ, by his death and resurrection, as we are convicted of our sin, as we come to convict confess it and to follow Jesus by faith. We are reconciled to God through that faith in the saving person and work of Jesus Christ. So that all of God's sovereignty and And his strength is simply a sign of his favor to us and is assured to us to lead us forward. And all of his past displays of sovereign power and almighty strength are signs of his power to bring us to what he has promised for us as his beloved adopted sons and daughters. In Christ, as He prepares for us an everlasting homeland of truth, beauty, of righteousness, and love. So, how can we believe in the grand hope of the gospel? How can we actually be confident? Of the surety of God's promises of new heavens and new earth. How can we hold fast to that? We're called, friends, like Israel here, to look at the foretastes of it, in the little gifts that he gives that aren't it? See, this land of Amon, this was not promised, and yet God gives it. A little way of him saying, look, see how I've blessed you in the present with something that I didn't even promise you? How much more. Can you be sure that I'll give what I did promise? And that's true for us too. God doesn't promise us a life of Ease and comfort. He doesn't promise us a loving family. He doesn't promise us good friends. He doesn't promise us that we won't be go hungry at times. He doesn't promise us our daily bread. He says, pray for it. And yet, all of these are good blessings, good foretastes of the goodness of God that drive home to us the surety. of our future as we follow him. Lots of people I've talked to through the years struggle to look forward to the age to come I know some of the descriptions are sort of weird. I'm not sure I need Streets that are paved with gold. Asphalt seems to work okay. This is the physics are a little different in the age to come. We don't have marriage anymore. That's kind of weird. How will I feel about my spouse? You know, there are these weird things. And so a lot of people I think struggle. We struggle to look forward to this. And part of the reason we struggle is because so many blessings of this world we love. We love our family. We love our friends. We like our jobs sometimes. We love our hobbies. But I like to I like to say to myself, to others, when we begin to think like this: if God can make this world that He made in seven days, that is now under the curse of sin, so good that we're not sure if we want to leave. Can't we trust him that the place he's been preparing for 2,000 years, a place that he promises, has no tears, no sadness, no sin, will not be far better? See, based on God's goodness and blessings to us, we can be sure of the future. That we have a good future for those of us who have the promises of God in Jesus Christ. I love how Paul says in Romans 8: What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who could be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? The greatest gift we have is the gift of our Lord. Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That God was willing to give us. And how can we not expect that with that He might bless us in all the other So friends like Israel on the edge of the promised land, we stand at the threshold of an unknown future, full of challenges and full of opportunities. But the same God who sovereignly led his people in the past. Who strengthened them in the present and who guaranteed their future inheritance is the God who leads us today. And so as we face uncertainty, whether it's in our job, our health, our family, Our relationships, the state of the world. Remember. Remember, God is sovereign. God is strong. And God is His sure. So we can press on, not in fear, but in confidence, because our Lord Jesus Christ has gone before us and is with us to the end of the age and fights with and for us until he ushers us safe and secure. Into the glory of his everlasting kingdom, which he has promised those of us who are his people following him by faith. Let's close in a word of Heavenly Father, we thank you for these reminders, and we uh pray that you might uh help us to grow in our faith in you, our faith that you are sovereign, our faith that you are strong, our faith that you are sure and that we can trust you. And that you are disposed to us in love because of the work of Jesus Christ. Grow us in faith more and more. May we follow you through times of difficulty as well as times of blessing and joy. And may all of these grow in us more and more Christ-likeness, that we might be prepared more and more for that kingdom that you have prepared for us and that you're calling us to. In Jesus' name we pray.