Our New Testament reading or sermon text today is John chapter 14. The whole thing. We will make it. Uh we've been looking at the book of John mostly in the evenings, and we've arrived to Jesus' farewell discourse, where he He's giving his last few words to his disciples before he departs. And Judas has just left the room. He's exited the scene. And Jesus Jesus continues on his discussion. Beginning this way in our passage here in John chapter 14, verse 1, he says, Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? If I go and prepare a place for you I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may also be, and you know the way to where I am going. And then Thomas said to him, Well, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him. Then Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us And Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, Show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me. Or else believe on account of the works themselves. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, and greater works than these will he do. Because I am going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. Commandments, and I will ask the Father, and He will give you another helper to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive. Because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans, I will come to you yet a little while, and the world will see me no more. more, but you will still see me because I live, you also will live. In that day you will know that I am in the Father You in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. Then Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world? And Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words, and the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. So peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. You heard me say to you, I am going away, and I will come to you. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced because I am going to the Father. For the Father is greater than I, and now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe, I will no longer talk much with you The ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me, but I do as the Father commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here. Let's approach these words together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that Jesus did come in the flesh. And that people saw him in the flesh, that he walked and ministered among people here on this earth. Yet we know he is not physically here on this earth anymore. And so Jesus recognizes that here in this text. And yet it is true that Jesus can say, He is with us. Father, we pray as we approach your word, as we see what you have to say to us this morning. We would understand that truth and how good it is to us, and how even though there may be great fears in this world, we do not need to fear because Jesus is So it's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. One of the concerns or problems to work through if you get a new puppy, a new dog. is the idea of separation anxiety. Now you have to work with that with kids too, but we've already gotten through it with our dogs, so it's funnier to talk about that one right now. When Ashani and I got Iroh, that was something we had to work through, that idea of separation anxiety. When we wanted or needed to leave the home, our dog would get upset or anxious. And he would let us know that by howling away in in the home. Uh if you think about the context and situation of a new puppy, uh that kind of anxiousness makes sense. a little bit. We are the only people who Iroh really knew and had developed any comfort with. We're the people who feed him, who let him out, we're the people who play with him and we love him. And if we suddenly disappeared and left forever, I mean, in his eyes, who is possibly going to do those things for him, right? Who would take care of him? Uh we know we worked on this with Ira over time. We would uh you know, sneak out of the house for five minutes or so and then come back and then leave for ten minutes and then come back. And uh we were trying to teach him, uh s little dog, we are not gonna abandon you. see and know and one of our favorite videos to this day is of him just up in this upstairs room howling away he'd go oh oh And then just settle down and then let it go let it go off again. Just just wailing 'cause he missed us. One of the reasons that this is a hard thing to work through with a puppy is because you can't Can't just sit down and have a conversation explaining that you don't need to worry. I am coming back. Puppies just don't understand those words. They don't get them. Iroh is kind of a scared puppy. Uh that's part of his nature. But thankfully we've been able to work with this work through this to some extent. We've try been trying to instill some bravery in him and it's not so much the problem anymore. Now Isaiah is the next case and we'll we'll try to get that. Chapter 14 of John's Gospel, it is filled with well-known, impactful truth statements Things like Jesus saying, I am going away to prepare a place for you. Phrases like, I am the way, the truth, and the life. He says, I and the Father are one. He says, whatever you ask in my name, I will do. Peace, my peace, I leave with you. And while we could and uh I think oftentimes do spend maybe a whole sermon focusing in on those little pieces of this chapter, uh what I want to do here is work to see how all of those important pieces Work together. How they fit together because there is something that runs through the whole line of this chapter. through this whole conversation in John chapter 14. These aren't random little phrases that are just smashed together and happen to be in the same chapter with one another There's something that connects all of what's going on in John 14. Jesus actually bookends this chapter for us in verse 1 and then in verse 27 with the same kind of idea. He tells the disciples. Do not let your hearts be troubled, even though I am going away. Well, bookends is that reality. Disciples, you do not need to be worried. I am leaving, but I will still be with you. I will come back for you, and I will be with you. We call this after all the farewell discourse. It's reminiscent in how it looks here of our Old Testament reading with Moses, when Moses knows that he is departing. And what does Moses do in that chapter? He gathered everyone together and he calls them to walk, how he has shown them to walk, to heed his words that he leaves with them, to understand that he's established someone to lead in his place. That's Joshua. And he leaves them with this charge. Do not fear, but be strong and courageous. Jesus follows in this pattern here with his own followers. He says, Do not fear. I am going away. Yes, but I am going away for you. And I will still be with you in some way. And I will even come back for you. And Jesus expresses the need to explain all of this to his disciples, who are going to be Jesus' emissaries while Jesus is away. Christians, it is important for you and I to hear because we are in the same position as those disciples. Jesus is still not physically here with us. That's why we hear Jesus say these things to the disciples. He says them to us as well. You who are seeking to go where Jesus has gone, you who are seeking to see and know the Father, is that you hear that? here today. You are who are hoping for the world to see and understand the truth of Jesus and his gospel. And that's the disciples' position. Is that not us as well? Hoping to see these things, seeking these things? It's in putting all of these powerful phrases together, these ideas together, that we begin to understand what it is that Jesus is outlining here. It's in this that we begin to realize the incredible comfort that Jesus has spoken to us, that though the tasks before us are great, and certainly there are things to fear in this world. world. We do not need to worry here in this life. Because he has and is and will come for us. What John is showing us in the text today is this those who believe in Jesus need not fear, for he is Near. Those who believe in Jesus need not fear, for he is near. We're going to break up this text into three points, and they're going to kind of follow the three different questions that Jesus asked. gets asked in the text here. There's three different questions from Thomas and Philip, and then Judas, not Iscariot, bad Judas left. This is different Judas. Gotta imagine he probably doesn't love having his name at this point. Our points are this. The first point, the way that is charted. A second, the truth that is revealed. Finally, this, the life that is offered Join me in that first point, the way that is charted. And Jesus starts here reminding his disciples that he is going away. He says, I'm going away and I'm going to prepare a place for you. And eventually I will come back and I will bring you to that place. He says in verse 4, you know the way to where I am going. And right away, Thomas, who we'll call doubting Thomas in a couple of chapters, he jumps in and goes, uh, Jesus, we have no idea where you are going, let alone how to get there. It's actually a good reminder for us as we look at what is said, to not jump straight into spiritualizing the metaphor here, but to recognize that there's a real physical element to what's being said. When Jesus says he is going away, he does mean he is physically leaving his disciples. He's going to be departing them and going to heaven. When Jesus says that he will one day bring them to be with him, that's a promise to them that he will physically get them and bring them to his Father's heavenly home. So when Thomas here says we don't know the way, you know what that word for way is there? It's the same exact word that we use for road. Thomas is saying we don't know the path, the road, the way. And when we look at what Jesus says in a moment here, we immediately often tend towards just looking at the spiritualized element of this. We might say the way, oh, like the Christian lifestyle, right? That would be a good name for a church or something. Not this church. How this is presented and framed to us shows us where we are in the context of thinking here. What road, Jesus, do we need to take to get to where you are physically going? You can imagine the position of these disciples. They've been Going along with Jesus, following him these three years, learning about and hearing his promise of salvation, and they're expecting that they're just going to march into his kingdom with him. You're telling us you're you're going ahead of us and you're going to abandon us and leave us here? Jesus, you say you're going to have to go on a journey for a bit Oh, you're not going to be physically here with us? Jesus says, that's okay because you know the road to where I am going. Thomas says, No, we don't, Jesus. Come on. Jesus follows up, and let me tell you, verse 6. Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Here's where we start to see the import of what's metaphorical. There's not a dismantling of what's literal here. But there is both this spiritual and physical element. We remember in these words what Jesus has said many times in John. That he is going to be with the Father. That's actually what he said back at the very start of this multi-chapter dinner party we're in. Jesus is going to the place where he will be enthroned as king. He's going to his heavenly home. And he's going to walk a path to get there, right? He is going to die and then rise and then ascend to where he is crowned as king. And the emphasis Jesus brings here, as he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life, is a striking one because what follows that? Nobody comes to the Father Except through me. The contrast Jesus is bringing here, he's saying there's something precise and different about the capital of my kingdom. about the place that I, the king, am going to dwell. You know, in that day, all roads lead to Rome. That's how the phrase goes, right? Jesus says that is not how it is with my father's home. That's not how it is with my kingdom. Jesus claims that he exclusively is the road to the Father That idea we know is going to be declared narrow-minded, bigoted, you name it. Jesus makes plain that this is true. That he alone is the way that people can reach God, can get to God. And yes, that is to the exclusion of every other road and religion and philosophy, guru, you name it We can hear the jests of the wise of this world, right? Well, that's pretty narrow-minded of you Christians to think Jesus is really the only way. Adds up with what Jesus has told us. He has told us the way is narrow. The intention of this exclusivity isn't merely to be narrow for the sake of being narrow or exclusive. Is because of what Jesus is teaching. Is because Jesus is the best and true way by which God can be known. Now you don't come to God by just going up on the mountain or doing the right meditation or emptying your mind of all other realities. We know who God is by Jesus. That's why we know where Jesus is going, what he is up to. That's why he follows up in verse 7. You know, Thomas, if you had known me, you would have known my father also. From now on you do know him and have That saying it on its own feels a little awkward. He tells Thomas, if you had known me. And the way he says that kind of implies, clearly, you don't really know me. And Jesus will pick up on that somewhat in the next section with Philip. But he does say here that there's some kind of change. You had not known me. But from now on, you do know him, the Father, and you have seen him. And Jesus is saying there's a change here. There's an event occurring which somehow totally transforming the ability of these disciples to move along that path to the Father. There is something transformative that is happening that changes these people from not knowing where they're going to knowing where they're going, to be able to reach their heavenly home. And Jesus has mentioned it in the same exact conversation earlier. It's his hour that is coming. We are in that hour. We are on the move. Judas is on his way to go sell out Jesus. Judas Iscariot, not the Judas in this exact chapter. We've been hearing all through this section of Scripture about Jesus' adolescent. That's on its way. That there is something that is happening here where the wheels are in motion, that Jesus is on the path, on the road, to the cross and to the grave, and then the resurrection. That's the path that Jesus is on here. Jesus says, Where am I going? I'm going to the Father. What is the path that I am walking? It's this hour's path, the cross, the grace. My resurrection. Now you don't need to be afraid, disciple. Jesus is the road. He is the way there. I've told you where I'm going. I've told you the way. That's point number two, the truth that is revealed. As the conversation continues, we see that Jesus doesn't just bring us to the Father He's also the one who shows and reveals the Father to us. How is that going to happen if Jesus is physically going away? How are people going to continue to To then see the Father. Philip hears what Jesus has said, and now it's Philip's turn to fire off a question. Verse 8. Philip said to him, Well, Lord, just show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus, you have the ability to show us God? Okay, great. Just do that. That would be great. We would love that. That's all we need. And Jesus actually does what in response? He kind of rebukes. Philip here. Verse 9, Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still don't know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. So how can you say, Show us the Father? Here it seems Jesus is kind of disappointed with Philip. Because Jesus has explained in great detail throughout his ministry. We've seen it in this gospel, these exact truths. Well, what is it that Jesus went on to say back in John chapter 5? We're going to get an abbreviated version of it here in a second. It's actually almost exactly the argument that Jesus made in John 5. In John 5, Jesus Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders who don't believe in him, and he tells them, you know, if you would just believe my words, why should you believe my words? Because they're my father's words. They look and sound just like his words. Well, if you're not going to believe that, then won't you just believe my works? Because they're my father's works. It's these works that prove to you. But I've come from the Father, that all that I say and do reveal who the Father is. That's exactly the case that Jesus makes in John 5. And then here in John 14, what happens? Jesus' closest followers apparently still don't understand that message and they say, would would you just show us the Father? Jesus says Show you the Father. Have you not heard my words? Have you not seen my works? Verse 10. Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority. But the Father who dwells in me, he does his works. Believe me that I'm in the Father, and the Father is in me Or else believe on account of the works themselves. It's the same exact thing Jesus has said in the past. He's just saying it in two verses instead of 25. Jesus' own followers just can't quite get their brains around this. It's because they need help. We'll see, as they need the helper. What Jesus is saying here explicitly is that all he does and says reveals to us exactly who the Father is. You want to know what God says? What does Jesus say? You want to know what God does? What does Jesus do? And Jesus then proceeds to bring what may feel like an odd follow-up to this, but it's important. Because Jesus is going away, so how will people then continue to see the truth of God? Verse 12, Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, and greater works than these will he do. do because I'm going to the Father. It's because I am going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do. That the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. And Jesus, like Moses, saying, I'm leaving someone behind here in my place. I'm leaving behind people who will continue on the work that I started. Here, namely, that's the disciples. He's speaking to his disciples, right? I am going away. You're going to have to pick up the slack. You're going to have to do the work here. Jesus then builds this kind of chain there, right? It's originally the Father's works. Who's doing the Father's works? It's the Son. The Son's works are the Father's works. Well then who's next in the chain here? It's these believers, these disciples' works. The father's works, into the son's works, into these believers' works. He's telling his disciples, you are the next link on the screen. chain. You are how people will continue to see God here on this earth even when I am gone. What's incredibly striking about how he says that is that he says, your works will be even greater than mine. That that doesn't necessarily add up with our expectations or our experiences on the surface of it. Our expectations, we tend to think the further that you get away from the source of something the weaker and less clear it's going to be. That's just the telephone game, right? You start, someone says something. Someone said, I cooked crispy bacon. They whisper it to the next person and somehow all the way down the chain that ends up like high look hippie faking. It's totally distorted, it's totally unclear who how did we get that from This. This makes absolutely no sense. And the original message that there's crispy bacon has lost all its power. So what's happening? Jesus says your works are going to be greater than mine. The way you communicate who God is, it's going to be clearer in some way. Now, I don't know about you, that doesn't necessarily add up with my expectations or typically my experience. I haven't seen many people who are blind begin to see. Uh I haven't exactly seen the lame begin to walk, let alone dead men rise from the grave. And when I think about the works of Jesus, aren't those the works that I think of and I mean, uh certainly my ministry hasn't affected those things to happen. So how is it that greater works are happening, Jesus? And Jesus is not saying here, you all are going to go and do more spectacular spectacles. And Jesus is saying that those who will believe will continue on Jesus' work. And what is the emphasis of that work here? It is proclaiming and revealing the truth of who God is. That's what Jesus is talking to us about, right? Leading people to see the Father. And what is the reason that the works of the believers then are even greater than Jesus's? He gives us a reason here. He says it's because I am going away to the Father. Father. Because you're leaving, these works are going to be greater? Jesus, that doesn't make sense. Jesus says there's something about his departure which enables these greater works. What is it? What does Jesus immediately go on to talk to in verse 15? If you love me, you will keep my commandments. That's following what Jesus has charged us with here. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper to be re With you forever, even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. Jesus has to leave so that he can send this helper. Another way you could translate that is so that he could send the advocate. So that he can send, he says, his spirit of truth, the very spirit of Christ who can dwell not just in one localized place at a time. But with all his saints everywhere throughout all of time, one who will never leave them. Who is the Spirit? He's one who will call them People and regenerate them to life. That's what we saw back in John 3. He's one who imparts faith and repentance to people. He's one who leads in sanctification and preserves them. What is going to happen through this helper? We're talking about the Holy Spirit. Jesus has to go away so that his Holy Spirit can come. And what's going to happen through that Spirit? This is going to sound a touch blasphemous on the surface. It's not, I promise you. Otherwise, we can throw the stunts. Think about this. Jesus' earthly ministry, those three years, uh, the effect of his ministry is incredible. But the immediate appearance of success in that work Isn't actually all that great. In Acts chapter 2, the beginning of the day of Pentecost, after Jesus has ascended and gone away, you know how many followers there are? How many Jesus followers there are in the crowd? The 120. Okay, that's something. That's not actually that many people. What then happens on the day of Pentecost? The Holy Spirit shows up. After the Holy Spirit's first day of working great works, how many people are there in the church? 3,000 more. These are the greater works. This is what is happening. By the very end of the book of Acts, the truth of God has gone out to the far reach of the world. These are these greater works. These are the greater works that the disciples, empowered by the Spirit, are going off to do. Proclaiming the same words that Jesus did, revealing who the Father is throughout the world, equipped with the very gifts that Jesus did Is giving them. That's what verse 13 is talking about. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do that the Father may be glorified in the Son. This is not just some blank check from Jesus for anything you want, whenever. What is Jesus talking about? He's talking about going forth and proclaiming what he has done, completing the work that he has started. And Jesus is promising to equip us with all that we need to fulfill this work of revealing the truth of the gospel. We know, Christian, that we go forward empowered by the Spirit, who is moving throughout the world to reveal this truth. Who is Himself, Jesus said, the very Spirit of Truth, who is Christ's representative with you even today. Jesus says in verse 18, I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. There's a future sense of that, and when Jesus returns, there's also a present sense of that, and how we, in a way that the world cannot, see Jesus today, because his Spirit is with us. Because I live, you also will live. And in that day, you will know I am in the Father, and you are in me, and I in you. How is Jesus in you? You Christian? Because of his spirit. Note that this truth is grounded for whom? Verse 15: If you love me, then you will keep my commandment. That's where we can start to get a little less confident about this all, right? Because what has my week really looked like in the end? Think about the context here for a moment. You know what happened just before this part of the conversation, just before chapter 14 actually immediately before? It's that conversation that Jesus has with Peter where he tells Peter, guess what, you're going to deny me three times, Peter. Does that sound like loving Jesus? Does that sound like keeping his commandments? Doesn't to me, it sounds exactly like the opposite. And yet, what is true here? But it's true even for Peter. The truth is that we have the Spirit of Truth, this advocate. And Peter, yes, he does deny and fail. He will go on to be unloving. But how does Jesus respond to that? Responds in mercy and in grace. That's how Jesus will respond to Peter. So much so that when Jesus comes back in a few chapters, he's going to say, Peter, do you love me? Peter can genuinely say, I do love you. Why is that? Oh why can we find confidence in that It's because the Spirit is not just testifying to the world about who Jesus is through you. Spirit, he is in you. And he is testifying that same truth to you every day about who Jesus is and Jesus' love for you. you and his forgiveness for you and his mercy, the same mercy that he's going to show to Peter in a second. That is what the Spirit seals to and shows and reveals to you. You, Christian, day after day, so that you might repent. Turn to him in love. All of this is showing us in truth, Christian, you do not need to be afraid. Because the truth is revealed to you and even through you. Yes, by Jesus in his person. Yes through his word. Especially Finally here, point three, the life that is offered. There's one last question that comes here in verse 22. It's from Judas, not Isariot. He says this in verse 22. Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world? You can imagine this Judas' position. He's saying, you know, Jesus, you're talking, you're saying in all of this that in God's glory, something is going to be revealed to us. And what is revealed seems to be God's glory. Jesus, you're saying that this leads us to do even greater works than you did. Well then, how is it possible that the whole world doesn't immediately see? Why is it us who see? And Jesus responds saying, Yes, for those people who believe and love, the Father and I are not going to Here and now make some glorious house right next door to you. Jesus is, yes, working on the Father's house up in heaven. What he says is that the Father and I are going to make Our home in you. How? It's by that third representative. It's by the Holy Spirit, the one he has mentioned that advocate for us, that helper. Verse 25, these things I have spoken to you while I am with you But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring you to remembrance, bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. When Jesus leaves, he says he is sending forth this person. This person is going to do work. He's going to continually remind you. He will defend you. He will dwell within you. He can do that because he isn't a body person like Jesus. It's because he is the Spirit. So much so that verse twenty-seven Jesus can say, Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. So let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. And what Jesus is explaining here is that he is offering someone who will change these people's lives. He's going to change their lives by bringing real peace. He says, you don't need to worry because I will bring peace. I am sending someone. I'm sending one who will seal and guarantee that I'm coming back to you. I'm sending one who will defend you from the evils of this world and this life from the devil. I'm sending one who will repeatedly proclaim to you the truth that your life no longer belongs to this world. World, it is hid with me. All of that is provided for you who live on this earth. How? It's because Jesus is going away. We said it before, we'll say it again here. Jesus' departure, him going away is what? Yes, he is going to his heavenly. Home, but what is the road that he must take there? It is his cross. How is it that people who have denied Jesus, who have not loved him, who have not obeyed, how How could they expect to find peace in this life? It's because Christ has offered up his own life for us. Because he has Faced the dark ruler of this world because he has taken the punishment of sin upon himself because he has gone to the cross. Because he gives up his own life. might offer it to us. So then it's here as these truths are coming out and being thought about. Mood turns a little grim at the end of this chapter, no? Peace I leave with you. My peace, Jesus says. Verse 30: I will no longer talk much with you. The ruler of this world, he is coming. Reference to Satan and death. He has no claim on me But I do as the Father commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let's go up from here. And what is it for Christ to obey in the text? What is it for Christ to do all that the Father has commanded of him? We know what God has told him to do, what God expects of the Good Shepherd. So he lays down his own life for these sheep, so that they might have life, so that you, Christian, might have life Life, so that the Spirit might bring you to life, so that He might dwell in you and lead you, not on the road to destruction. But on the road back to Christ. That's what the Spirit does, right? He is the Spirit of life. He is the one who takes all the work that Jesus has done in offering life. And then applies it to us. Think about baptism. What do we call it? The washing of regeneration. It's the Spirit's work regenerating you, bringing you back to life. Jesus acknowledges here. Yes, the road ahead, it is a scary one. But you do not need to worry, Christian, because This life has been offered to and sealed to you by my spirit. My spirit is going to be right there with you. It's actually going to be in you. Jesus here speaks to his disciples, his friends, and to us, and he can say, Do not let your heart be troubled. My peace I am leaving it with you. At the same time, what is true? Jesus has left this world, and this world is still filled with danger and peril. If you walk around and you see sin, you know that. As you walk around and you see evil, you know that. Jesus isn't here asking us to just walk around oblivious with blinders on. Now Jesus can genuinely call us to not be troubled. Because he has prepared us for this time without him. Because he has shown us the way in himself. Because he has and is revealing his truth to us. Because his spirit is here testifying to us daily of this truth and sealing to us the life that Christ has granted to us. Us. So Christian, what that means for us is, though there may be things to fear, we need not fear. Not because there's nothing in this world to be afraid of. Because trap Christ has truly brought us and given us his peace by going to the cross, by facing the evil one And by resurrecting from the grave, and by the Father and the Son sending his Spirit to us. And so now, always Christian, you need not fear. He is near. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the truth that we have a helper, we have an advocate here with us now. Though there are still things to fear in this world, you have shown us in such a personal and clear way that we need not fear That we can go forward strong and courageous, proclaiming the truth of who Jesus is, revealing to people who the Father is, empowered by the Spirit through the Word of God. We can be strong and courageous in that because Jesus is at work in that work. We no longer have to fear permanent destruction. It's Jesus Has taken that for us. And we know that because of the Spirit who is alive in us, telling us of that truth day by day. May we walk forward and not in Fear, but in hope, in courage, looking forward towards our resurrection life when we will also physically be with you, Jesus. It's in Jesus' name in which we pray.