Jonah chapter 1, verses 17 through chapter 2, verse 10. That's our text for this evening. Previously, last week, in the morning, we did see Jonah fleeing from God and cast overboard into the sea. Here we read the account of what God does in response to that. Verse seventeen begins this way And the Lord appointed a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from the belly of the fish, saying, I called out to the Lord out of my distress, and he answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried and you heard my voice, for you cast me into the deep, into the heart of the sea And the flood surrounded me. All your waves and your billows passed over me. Then I said, I am driven away from your sight, yet I shall again look upon your holy temple. The waters closed in over me to take my life. The deep surrounded me. Weeds were wrapped about my head. At the root of the mountains I went down to the land, whose bars closed upon me for ever. Yet you brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. When my life was fainting away, I remembered the Lord, and my prayer came to you. Into your holy temple. Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love. But I, with the voice of thanksgiving, will sacrifice to you what I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs to the Lord. And the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we rejoice that we have your word before us. This song that is given to us from the belly of the fish by Jonah. This song which teaches us how to respond in thanksgiving to who you are, for you are a God who saves. You are a God of mercy. You are one whom we can turn to, who has within yourself steadfast kindness. A steadfast love, even to the rebels. Father, may we see here as we approach this word together what you have to communicate to us May we learn and know the truth of your love and your mercy, Father. It's in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen. Well if you've ever used a fancy camera, uh you know a camera with uh numerous configurations and buttons and such to it, uh you probably like me are very confused about what everything on that fancy camera does. I am an iPhone photographer. I will pull out my phone and press a single button. That is good enough for me. But good photographers know how to use fancy cameras, right? They know what all the knobs and and different settings do. And one of the settings, one of the features, uh one of the things they know how to do Is adjust what's called the depth of field. Here's how you know what depth of field is. When you look at a great landscape photo a maybe a great scenery of something, a phot a photograph of that. Almost everything in that photograph is Clear. It's in focus. Now think about this. That grand uh landscape scene could look out over hundreds of feet. And yet, so much of it is in focus. That's a large depth of field. Now, when you look at a really nice portrait, what's different about the portrait compared to the landscape? Well, a photographer, when they're taking a a good photographer, when they're taking a nice portrait of something, they adjust that depth of field. Suddenly, still the subject of the photograph is clear and in focus, but the background is often blurry. You can't necessarily make out what's in the background, even if it's just five feet behind the person. Here's how you might experience this. If you take out your iPhone like me and change it to portrait mode, what does that do? It blurs everything around the person. It changes that depth of field. Well, why do we do that? Why does a nice photographer do that? Why do they change the depth of field? And the purpose behind that is to make sure that the subject is the clear subject, that we know what in the photograph we're supposed to look at and see. And doing that lets the background be what? Well the background, what it is. We do the same kind of thing in storytelling sometimes. You realize that Where there are things within while there may be things within a whole frame or a portrait that would seem interesting to us. When they are not the point in the story, often those things are still kind of fuzzy. By letting those things be fuzzy, It should draw our attention to what the main point is, to what the subject of the text is. You may have joined us last week in the morning where I mentioned some ambiguity in the text of Jonah. That's what I'm talking about here. Ambiguity can be a tool of the storyteller. Last week we addressed some of the ambiguities of the text of Jonah 1 This week we're going to see more of that. There are going to be questions which you might have as you want to try and peer through the blurriness to get a good understanding. What was Jonah really thinking? Sometimes we don't know. But there's purpose behind that. Because certain things are made very clear. And what's clear is what our attention should be on. We need to recognize what the subject is. Saying that things are ambiguous at times is not saying that Scripture is unclear No, Scripture is exceedingly clear about what it intends to communicate. We just need to recognize what that is sometimes. What's exceedingly clear so far in the story of Jonah is that Jonah has acted in stark rebellion to God's call. God said, go this way. And Jonah went the opposite way. Jonah even expresses that he's attempting to flee from God. And what is clear at the same time with that is we look at the story, that God is still present. Though Jonah may try to run away, God is still there and he is in control. Jonah is attempting to flee God, and God throws a storm at Jonah. God calls Jonah to wake up, even through the voice of the captain in the ship. God even is in control, rescuing the sailors who were there with Jonah. Alongside of that, it's still clear that Jonah continues to descend. See attempts to flee God. At that very end of chapter one, we're left with a picture which should leave us with the impression that Jonah is dead. He's cast overboard into the sea. That should be Jonah's end. But even here in the depths of the sea, what do we see in Jonah chapter 2? God is Yahweh. Part of what we've seen with Jonas so far is this clear picture of what we often look like in sin, right? We know what we are to do so often. We know the call that God has put upon our lives and our hearts, and yet so often we run the opposite way into sin. The question, as we then approach this text, is what hope is there for such sinners? What hope can there possibly be for those who have walked intentionally into the path of destruction? What hope could be for those who seem abandoned? sinking away into the depths of the sea. In chapter one of Jonah it would seem at the close, maybe not. But the story continues, and what we'll see here in chapter 2 will be exceedingly clear is this, Christian. God is the one hope for those who feel forsaken by Him. God is the one hope for those who feel forsaken by Him. We're going to explore that idea here in the text in three points. There, this first, a prophet in descent. And then second, a father in mercy. And finally, this, a Messiah in exchange. Join me together in that first point, a prophet in descent Jonah in the narrative, where we are in the story, he's been cast overboard into the sea. But the Lord is still present and he is still in control. So chapter 1, verse 17. The Lord appointed a great fish to swallow up Jonah. Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. You can imagine that scene almost uh like what you would see in a movie of this. Jonah goes overboard and he begins to sink into the water. And there was before a storm and chaos. But as he sinks, that begins to dissipate because God quelled the storm. But from Jonah's perspective, what happens? He's sinking, and like any movie, as you the film begins to transition underwater, suddenly things become quiet. As he sinks, that storm dissipates, he goes under the water, and it certainly feels like the end. But God still is God. And he appoints this fish to come and swallow up Jonah here in the scene. This narrative has to it fantastic Hebraic storytelling. If we read it in Hebrew, we're not going to. There are actually puns everywhere. And one of the things that Hebraic storytelling loves is irony. There is irony all over this text. And just think about what you know of this story. Virtually every character in the story obeys God. What did we see in chapter one? Suddenly the pagan sailors are making sacrifices to Yahweh and shouting out to him, calling out to him. And we'll meet the Ninevites who are the wicked people of Assyria. Guess what they're going to do? Even here in our own text, the great fish, one who could swallow a man and he'll stay in that belly for three days and three nights, that great fish obeys God. By the time we get to the end of the story, even the tiny worm obeys God. They all obey God. Jonah, God's prophet, though. What does he do? Well, he's our rebellious prophet. He seemingly won't obey God. And the fish comes at God's command and it swallows up Jonah Chapter 2, verse 1. Then Jonah prayed to the Lord, his God, from the belly of the fish. So it's in the belly of this fish that Jonah writes and says this prayer. Here he sings. This song of thanksgiving to God. What is Jonah realizing? Well, by sending this fish, God has rescued Jonah from death in the sea. He sings this thanksgiving for salvation, a salvation that God has brought to him by sending this fish. And he says, verse 2. Jonah is saying this, saying, I called out to the Lord out of my distress, and he answered me. What we get here from the onset is truly a very standard opening, a standard framing for a psalm or a song of thanksgiving. Think about some of the Psalms that maybe you know. We see this kind of thing, this introduction in Psalm chapter 3. We see it in Psalm 118. We see it in Psalm 120, the same kind of framing. Lord, I called out to you out of my distress. And you answered. That's just a standard Hebraic formula for a song of thanksgiving. God, I was in need, and you answered I remember who we have here as our prophet. If we think about that, think about how Jonah would have been raised, the things that he certainly knows. Jonah's gonna write a psalm or a song of Thanksgiving, how's he gonna start it? This very same way. Uh we say that to dissuade there is some academic scholarship out there which would say this song must be an afterthought, something that's imposed upon the text by other people, because it just copies some of the other psalms that we know. Well, what did Jonah sing growing up? What kinds of songs does Jonah know He was an Israelite boy. This is how he was taught to sing. These are the kinds of words that are already on his heart from the time of his youth. And so Judah knows how to go about and write a Hebraic psalm of thanksgiving. He knows. So he introduces his psalm this way. Then we get another Hebraic construction here Part of the construction of this psalm is a device which, because we all have a Hebrew scholar as our pastor, we know this word. It's a chiasm. What is a chiasm? It's that structure we see so often in Hebrew that almost moves like an arrow as you move down through the text. A leads to B. leads to C, back to B, back to A. Now all the way to the right then is that central climactic point But on the way to and out of there, we get those parallel ideas together. What's that going to look like in this song as we examine it? For Jonah's song in verses 1 through 6, that's going to look like this. A, that first part, the beginning and the end, we go to Sheol. And then we go to the sea. Then we go to that claim: I have been driven away from God. Back to the sea, back to Sheol. Let's follow that pattern together. I'm going to read verses two and six together. Listen. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice. Verse 6: At the roots of the mountain I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me forever. Jonah begins and ends here this chiasm with that imagery of Sheol, the imagery of the grave This is that place where the dead dwell. This is the darkest and deepest place in the created order. The idea of this place is that of a prison where the dead are locked up. And the dead, once they're there, once they're locked behind the bars, they should never be able to get out. They can never get out. Sheol is that bottomless pit, the deepest of the deeps. You fall in and you will never stop falling. Well we have to think sometimes as we approach these texts a little more like the ancient Near Eastern people would than how we're necessarily inclined to do. Death for us is often thought of in terms of being very binary. Either you are dead or alive Either you are breathing and so you're alive, or you're not breathing, and therefore you're dead. Life and death for the ancients often seem as a little more of a continuum. Blessing, healing, prosperity, that is moving up in life. That is moving towards life, and therefore towards God. Poverty, misery, terror, those are seen as movements towards death, moving deeper into death and away from God. Those are downward movements. Do you remember what we saw again and again from Jonah in chapter one? He went down, and he went down, and he went down. He is cast overboard here. He is sinking down into the sea. The prophet is still going down here into that death. The prophet goes so deep that he finds that place what's described here is where the cliff has gone underwater and meets the ocean floor, and there is that opening down into the pit of Sheol itself. That place which will swallow you up. It will swallow up anything and never be satisfied. That pit whose prison bars will close it down upon you as you sink in. Jonah here believes that he's entering into that place. He's already most of the way there, that he's actually somehow inside that pit of Sheol What's then closer to the center in this kiasm? What's the sea? Look at verse 3. For you cast me into the deep. into the heart of the seas, and the floods surrounded me, all your waves and your billows passed over me. And verse five The waters closed in over me to take my life. The deep surrounded me, weeds were wrapped about my head. Here, Jonah brings us to the sea. Hopefully, this triggered your memory of what we saw earlier in Psalm 69. Much of this song is actually taken right out of Psalm 69. The waves have come up to my neck. The floodwaters engulf me. The depths swallow me up. For the psalmist, if we take it as David for David, this is beautiful metaphor. The flood waters or deep waters are imagery of chaos and death. You know the scenes in the Bible where these waters show up. It's in Noah's story, right? The flood waters are what rain down. As they come down, God uses them to destroy, to wipe out the sinfulness of the earth. We see these again in the Exodus scene, as the Israelites are leaving Egypt. They pass through the Red Sea as it's parted. But as soon as Pharaoh and the Egyptians set foot on it, what happens? The flood waters collapse upon them, crushes them in death. We actually even see these waters in Genesis 1. Before God brings order and life to this world, what was in the beginning was the dark void of the chaos, chaos waters. Then God brings life. You could even consider this. What do we think of when we think of baptism? You are plunged into the waters in death. Death of the old life, and brought out, cleansed in new life. Going into these waters is a sign of death. That which is without life. Now, for Jonah, this is not pure metaphor, is it? You can imagine as he is actually trying to wade in the water, in the sea, suddenly this imagery, this kind of metaphor, he's probably remembering. It's probably why he starts to sing it, because It's no longer just metaphor. This is real life to him. This is his actual experience. He has been cast into the sea and is sinking into the deep. This kind of psalm is probably flooding into his mind. It's beginning to see this actually happening to him. Jonah says here that God has cast him into the seas. In one sense, we may go, ah, wait a second, didn't you ask the sailors to cast you in, Jonah? And yes. But Jonah, as we've seen, even in chapter 1, as he's running from God, he has the theological wherewithal to know that this is all according to God's plan. This is all according to God's work. And Jonah is here with the waters closing in over him. He says the seaweed is wrapped around him and is dragging him even further down. Jonah has been fleeing down, running down himself, and now he is being dragged down to the depths of the sea. And what rests at the center of this chiasm for the sinking prophet? This statement, verse four. Then I said, I am driven away from your sight, yet I shall again look upon your holy temple. The heart of this, at the center of this, is this recognition of where Jonah is. Jonah has, in a sense, been given exactly what he wanted, right? To get as far away from God as he possibly could. He ran from God. And here he is, says, driven from his sight, says there's nothing left for me. Nothing left but to look upon the Holy Temple. He knows in all of this that there is no earthly hope left. That the God whom He's run from, He alone is the one who could rescue him from this misery. Brings us to point number two: a father in mercy. Jonah now acknowledges that God is one who takes action. He says, I was in the pit, I was without hope. Verse 6. Yet you brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. Think about the imagery there, the whole story, even through this song so far. Jonah has been going down. Jonah has been sinking, and God here reaches down into the pit to do what? Suddenly, finally, a shift in direction in this story. You brought up my life from the pit. Verse 7, when my life was fainting away. I remember the Lord, and my prayer came to you into your holy temple. The idiom that we get here, my life was fainting away. It's this picture. Uh one person says of the soul curling in upon itself. That picture of Jonah losing hope. It's almost that idea of giving in to those circles that you see as you begin to lose consciousness, giving away to them. He is drowning, isn't he? He remembers the Lord. He realizes in the midst of this, there is actually a place to find hope, to find mercy. And it is in the one who is seated in the Holy Temple. There is a Heavenly Father who is able to save. There is a Heavenly Father who does show mercy. And so from all the way down at the bottom, Jonah's prayer rises up to God. Then what we get is this odd verse next, verse 8. Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love. There's a couple of different ways to take this. This is actually, admittedly, a really difficult passage to translate in Hebrew. What's Jonah thinking about? Is he thinking about those sailors up there who were praying to false gods before, to false idols? Maybe. It doesn't necessarily track then with what he saw of their response. Is he thinking about the Ninevehes who sacrificed to their false gods? Possibly. We know he has them on his mind in some sense. What is clear is the plain truth of this statement. Those who turn to idols instead of Yahweh, they are left hopeless. If we remember where Jonah is from and who this story is originally being told to, then I think we start to recognize what he is saying. Israel at this time is doing what? They are marked by turning to false idols instead of to Yahweh. We saw this probably a year and a half ago when we were studying together the book of Hosea. Hosea is in some sense a contemporary of Jonah. He's preaching to the same kind of people. We saw over and over in Hosea those words from the prophet to the people. You know who Yahweh is. You know Yahweh, and yet you beg for life from Baal. You beg for life from the idols. There is no hope of steadfast love with an idol like Baal. There is none. And that's that's true for all of our vain, powerless things that we turn to in our moments of need. Whether it's satisfying the lust of our hearts, whether it's as simple as turning to the cookie jar, the idols that we turn to in our need. We may think that they will quell us for a moment, but they certainly are not the kinds of things which have the capacity to really save They're certainly not the kinds of things that promise to us loving kindness, steadfast mercy. Have any of your idols ever promised that to you? Maybe they've promised you uh fleeting hope, uh temp temporary, momentary satisfaction, a brief reprieve from drowning in the misery of life, but It's never lasting. It's never steadfast. Where is there hope for mercy? Hope for salvation Verse 9, but I, with the voice of thanksgiving, will sacrifice to you what I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs to the Lord. That, in a sense, is the message of this whole story of Jonah. The Lord is the one who saves. He brings salvation, we said last week, at his own will. And the sailors said it in a sense last week, right? Yahweh does as he pleases. We see, even here, he is pleased to save his children. So then Jonah here, just as those sailors up on the shore are sacrificing and vowing, we get this kind of reflection of that down at the bottom of the sea and the belly of the fish. Jonah sacrificing and vowing. What I know lingers in the background here, for those of you who have questions about this story, are those questions like, yeah, but is this Jonah actually repenting? You know, I I don't think we can really know. I don't think that we're necessarily supposed to know In the midst of a very clear statement, though, in the midst of this all, what is exceedingly clear is this statement about who God is and what God does. The answer about Jonah may feel somewhat unclear, but it is exceedingly clear to us that the message of this song that he sings is exceedingly true. God's mercy is there. God's mercy is there for those who look to Him. Now, this here is a story of salvation. Hear it immediately for Jonah as a great fish swallows him up. It's also a reminder of Jonah's whole problem with God in the first place, though, too, right? Think about what we know Jonah doesn't want. He certainly doesn't want Nineveh to turn to God for mercy. Jonah knows that God is a God of mercy. What if God really showed that to the Ninevites while Israel continues on flirting with Baal, looking to those vain idols Our scene then ends here almost the same way that it started. Verse 10: And the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land. The Lord again commands the fish. Guess what? The fish will listen. It vomits Jonah on to the land, and here our scene ends. The story of Jonah suddenly starting up again. Salvation belongs to the Lord. That's what Jonah says. That's what Jonah knows. How though is it that God could be so merciful to Jonah? We have seen that all of this calamity, and it's essentially what Jonah asked for. He acted and told us that he was running from God. Jonah, in a sense, wanted to be forsaken by God, left alone, getting away from him. Then when Jonah seems to end up in that place at the bottom of the sea, why is he rescued? It's not like Jonah earned mercy, right? He earned the exact opposite of it here. How is it that God can even fathom in his holiness, in his justice, to look upon Jonah, respond in mercy? And why not just leave a rebel to be forsaken as he wished? Point number three, a Messiah in exchange. The answer quite simply, the only hope for those forsaken in the pit is the one who was forsaken for them. Here in Jonah 2, we get this account of Jonah and the belly of the fish for three days and three nights. And Jesus told us exactly what that meant, didn't he? We looked at it for a moment last week in Matthew twelve. I'll reread just one verse of it. Matthew 12, 40. For just as Jonah, Jesus says, was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish. So will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Jesus is making clear in that statement that the story of Jonah is not merely a fanciful story for us to tell kids. Jonah is a sign of a clear recapitulation of the story of the gospel, the story of Jesus' death and resurrection. Jona and Jesus here mirror each other in very specific and intentional ways. Jesus too went to the place that Jonah describes here. And Jesus too went to the deep waters as those surrounded him. And Jesus too descended into that pit at the base of the mountain. Jesus too sunk into the depths of Sheol. Have you ever wondered when we confess the Apostles' Creed why we say he descended into hell? That's what we're talking about. I think about the psalm from earlier this evening that Jonah borrows from, Psalm 69. You know, that is not just a song that happens to describe Jonah's experience. It's one of those psalms that we identify as a messianic psalm. It describes Christ's experience. Think about it, remember it. The psalmist says things like, I am a stranger to my brothers. They've left me. Is that not exactly the scene of Christ as his own brothers disregarded him? As those who he'd count as his brothers, his disciples, abandoned him. You reflect upon people like Judas and even Peter. The psalmist says, I am filled with zeal for your house. You know, these are words that Jesus uses explicitly to describe how he cleanses his father's temple. He declares in that moment, and we heard the people remember, he declared, that that temple will be torn down and rebuilt in how many days? The psalmist says, they gave me poison, sour wine, gall to drink. What did they give Jesus as he hung upon the cross? The psalmist says, save me, O God. Can you not help but think of Jesus in the garden? Father, is there any other way? Can this cup pass from before me? Could you save me from this? The psalmist describes being abandoned into the waters, being plunged into the depths of the sea, sinking down into the pit of death itself, that place which says to you, You're here, you are forsaken. Forsaken by God. We reflect upon Jesus' life. Jesus knew in his life this is what he was going to do. That he was walking towards that kind of death, that he would be forced to drink down that cup of God's wrath, the cup which sinners have earned. The cup of judgment which we have filled, which Jonah has filled with his own rebellion, that cup which should bring us down to the bottom of the sea. So Jesus here is swallowed by that pit. And that's precisely what happens, isn't it, in the crucifixion? And yet, while this too mirrors Jonah, we also know that it's so different from Jonah's story, isn't it? Because Jesus came, and what did his life look like? Jonah is a rebellious prophet who hears what God calls him to do and runs in the opposite direction. Jesus came and obeyed his heavenly father's call. And Jesus said things like, Not my will, but your will be done. Jesus was the perfectly faithful prophet who spoke God's very words. Jesus did all that the Father willed. But what was Jesus' end? That's where it mirrors Jonah, right? Almost. Jesus' end, he was plunged into that death. Death on a cross. And what are the words we heard from Jesus upon that cross? My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And then after that, Jesus was rescued from death at the last second, right? Oh no. Oh no. Then he gave up his spirit. He died. Why is Jesus forsaken? Why does Jesus drink the cup of wrath that people like Jonah and you and I have earned? Why does Jesus go down into the chaos waters of death? Why is Jesus dragged into the pit of Sheol? That's what Jonah deserved. Not Jesus. Why does Jesus do this? To be that Messiah, to be that one who is offered in exchange for those who deserve the death. Jesus does this to save, to show mercy to sinners like Jonah, sinners like you and me. Jesus faces the very judgment, that same fate which sinners should receive, which sinners often ask for, sometimes by their actions, sometimes verbally, get me away from you, God. Jesus does this so that sinners might be rescued, might be redeemed from that judgment. From that faith that they've asked for upon themselves, so that sinners who run away from God and down towards death, so that they might be lifted back up. by God into life. How is it that a sinner like Jonah can be saved by God's mercy? It's because Christ has earned it. It's because the Messiah came and he was the greater Jonah. He said, oh, you're Jonah. I will step into that spot, Jonah. I will exchange my life for yours. I will be the greater Jonah. Now, as the greater Jonah, what does that mean for Christ in the end? Death did swallow him, yes. But it could not hold him, right? Here's where we start to mirror Jonah again. So after three days and three nights, what does death do? It too spits out Jesus. That's what we call the resurrection. That Jesus descended into Sheol, but he rose again from the grave. And the promise there, Christian, to you who have faith, to those of you who turn in repentance, you who look up to the temple of God, Jesus Himself. That your end is not in that death, not stuck in the pit forever, though you deserve it. For you who have faith in him, who look to Jesus, you have that resurrection that Jesus has to And for you who look to him in faith, when you should be forsaken, God comes and he saves you. Amen. The story of Jonah will be fraught with questions and things which feel unclear. Is it a whale? Is it a fish? Is this a repentant Jonah? Is this a Jonah who knows the theology and songs of God who saves? You know See the the Jonah who knows all those things but has not actually turned in repentance. This the Jonah who, like me, is so often striving to be repentant, but still in the depravity of my sin doesn't quite get it all. Much of that so far is unclear. But what is undeniably clear, Christian, is that we like Jonah. We cannot save ourselves. We deserve to be drawn into the pit, to sink to the bottom of the sea. But even there, we too can find salvation in the work of our Lord, in the gift of our Messiah. We too are those whom only God can save. For you who turn to Him for mercy, what does He do? He's the God who saves. He'll command a fish to come get you. He will send his son to die for you. He too will surely resurrect you. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice that we see here even those who are so incredibly undeserving to find life in your Son. That we who deserve death, we whose soul should be trapped in shale, we might see the light of Jesus We might see your salvation, that which comes to break the power of death, to unchain us from its power. Father, so often we like Jonah are those who respond in rebellion again and again. Sometimes that looks like mere foolishness. Sometimes that looks like sin that maybe even wasn't intentional. Sometimes it looks like the dark rebellion which says, God, I want nothing to do with you. And yet you are a God of mercy. And may you lead us to see this song as our song of thanksgiving, the kind of song which we can sing out of thanks because we know who you are and what you have done for us. Through your Son. May we rejoice in the wonder that it is that you are a God of mercy and grace, even for wretched sinners like us. You have such incredible love that you would even die for us. Rejoice in this truth. Truth of Jesus Christ for us. May we trust in it as we move forward. It's in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen.