Well, for our sermon text, let's turn in our Bibles to Philippians chapter 4. We're going to read verses 14 to 20 of this chapter. This is on page 982 of the Pew Bibles provided for you. I know we've uh it's been a while since we've been in Philippians. We're sort of continuing a series we've occasionally come back to. This is in many ways is what we would call a missionary report letter. Paul is The Apostle Paul is sent out to take the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ into the world, and for that he depended often on the support of churches. And so he's writing this letter to the church at Philippi, which is in Macedonia, to thank them for his gift. In fact, that's really the focus of these verses toward the end, as he has uh talked a lot about the the wonder of the gospel that he gets to proclaim. He's talked about how it's moving forward and he's shared how even even his opponents are uh out of jealousy preaching that truth and he's happy that at least the truth is getting out there and being preached. And then here at the end of the letter he concludes with recognizing, acknowledging their gift. And I think there are some important lessons in this for us as we So let's look at verses 14 to 20 and let's give attention again to the reading of God's holy word from the pen of the Apostle Paul Yet it was kind of you to share my trouble, and you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only. Even in Thessalonica, you sent me help for my needs once and again. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit. I have received full payment and more. I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent, a fragrant offering. A sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God, and my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus To our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Let's go before God in prayer and ask his blessing on our time as we think on this passage further. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that you have spoken to us through men that you've carried along in the Spirit to uh to write down words that are their words, but they're also your words to us, your truth to us. We thank you for these verses that are before us, and we pray that you'd open them up to us tonight, that you'd help us to understand their truths, help them show us The need we have for a Savior for salvation, help them to convict us anew of the great salvation we have in Christ. And rejoice in that even. May these verses cultivate in us a hearty generosity as you have shown your generous grace to us in Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, as many of you know, I uh did not study to be a pastor in uh college. I studied international business and finance. And And one of the components of studying international business, which I liked, was studying foreign cultures. If you're going to do business in other cultures, you need to know a little actually you you pretty much just need to know that cultures are different. And so when you go to different places, you need to learn how to interact in those places well so that you don't end up making all the embarrassing faux pas that often attend working across cultures. One component of that that I I I was sort of surprised by was that whenever we would study a different culture, we would always attend to Gift giving, rules for gift giving in various cultures, because there are a lot of rules that are common among cultures, but every culture does it a little differently. We don't really have to look at a foreign culture to recognize that there are rules surrounding gift-given in even in our own culture. For instance, When you were young, you were taught at your birthday party, you got a gift. What are you supposed to say? Thank you. Say thank you. Either do it in person or send a thank you in the mail. We're supposed to show thanks for gifts we receive. Using the gift, maybe using it in front of us. the person who gave it to us, hanging up the picture in our house, wearing the tie your kids bought you, whether whether you love it or not, you wear the gift and you show that you uh you're grateful. And often, if you receive a gift, you're expected, when that event comes around, you're kind of expected to give a gift in return. Maybe you've thought to yourself sometime, you've received a lovely gift. Wow, I I love this gift. I never never would have expected such an expensive gift from uh oh Uh-oh, I guess I have to return that favor now and give a gift of roughly similar value. Our culture, like many cultures. There's a reality that in some ways a gift creates a bit of an obligation. That if you can, you're supposed to give a gift in a return. And it's supposed to be somewhat equivalent in value. Now that's not a new idea for us in America today. This actually was true of Paul's culture. This Greco-Roman culture of the first century of Paul's day, the gift, a gift given, obliges the receiver to the giver in some way. Either you would reciprocate by giving a gift of similar value, or, and as actually probably was a lot more common, uh, wealthy people would give lavish gifts And when they couldn't be returned, instead you were supposed to return a similar value in honor in Thanksgiving. In recognition to the giver for their gift. And this often created a power dynamic, if you will. The greater the gift, the greater the leverage that you could expect to have with the person who received. Now, as I mentioned, this occasion of Paul's writing this book of Philippians, this letter to the Philippians, was a gift that he had received. This is something we've noticed throughout the letter, and we especially see it there in verse 18, where he says, I have received full payment, and more I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus. Is the guy that the Philippians sent to carry the gift to Paul. Having received from Epaphroditus the gifts, you sent a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing. to God. So Paul's received this gift. And so it's worth us thinking about how Paul responds in life Of the Greco-Roman culture in which Paul is, because what's actually interesting is that Paul does some things very unexpected here. For instance, he actually does not thank the Philippians. Did you notice that? Throughout the passage, he thanks a lot. In fact, if you go all the way back to chapter 1, it says, I thank God. In all my remembrance of you. And here in verse 6, what does he say? A little ahead of our passage. Not 6. Is it verse 6? No, it's not. I think it's verse 6 Well, I don't know. There's oh I I I think uh verse verse 10, I rejoice greatly in the Lord that now at length you have uh revived your concern for me. Um But he doesn't thank the Philippians. And so commentators, people who've studied this passage, wonder why. Maybe Paul's not that grateful. Seems like he's pretty happy about the gift. Maybe he's frustrated with the timing. I mean, you read verse 10. He says, I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. And so commentators say, yeah, maybe Paul is kind of subtly rebuking the Philippians. The gift came, but it's a little late. I don't think that's right. I mean, there he says, I rejoiced in the Lord. That's the emphasis in that verse. Instead, I think the reason Paul does not thank them is because Paul is using this occasion of their gift to him. To teach, to show the Philippians and to show us a greater truth, and that is that there is a uniqueness to Christian giving and receiving gifts. That Christian giving and receiving gifts is fundamentally different from ordinary philanthropy that we do out in the world. And this is important and it's practical because, friends, we are called at week by week to to give a gift. We have an offering that we take to support the ministry of the church, to support the poor that are um among us in the ministry. the deacons fund. And so as we do that, we're called to do it in a different way from a lot of the gifts we give. And Paul shows us that way here. So as Paul reports to the Philippians about having received their gift in verses 10 to 20 or 14 to 20, What we see is that Christian giving, Christian charity, is not ultimately about obligation and power, like often gift-giving is. But instead, it it does three very unique things. And these are the three points I want us to consider. It expresses communion It evidences faith and it evokes doxology. So it expresses communion, it evidences faith and it evokes doxology. And we'll talk about each one of those briefly here. this evening. First of all, it expresses communion. Usually when we think of giving to the ministry of the church, putting our offering in the in the offering basket on Sunday morning. I think we tend to think of it as we're giving to something. to the ministry of the church, help pay our pastors, help provide for the materials we need for the Lord's Supper, to pay for the building that's around us. I'm giving to the missionaries that we support. I'm giving to the spread of the gospel. I'm giving to the deacons to care for the poor of the church. But it's interesting, that's not exactly how Paul talks about it here. Rather than calling it support or giving to his gospel ministry, He calls their gift fellowship, a sharing in what he is working on, his suffering and his ministry of the gospel. We see that in verses 14. The sixteen. Yet it was kind of you to share my trouble. And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church entered into partnership. There it is, that word, partnership with me. in giving and receiving, except you only, even in Cecilonica, you sent me help for my needs once and again. So they've given a gift to support Paul in his needs as he takes the gospel into the world and proclaims Jesus Christ and him crucified. But Paul says when they are doing that, they're not giving to him, or they're not giving to his ministry. They're sharing in it. They're part of it. Partnering in it. The word there that's translated share in verse 14 is actually from the same root as the word partnership in verse 15, and that Greek word that is at the heart of these two words is. Koinonia. For some of you, that's a familiar term. It means fellowship. It means communion. It's why actually the older King James Version Translates both of those uh words there as communicate, because it captures that idea of communion, sharing in. And this is the same word all the way back in Philippians chapter 1, verse 5, where Paul says, I thank God because of your partnership in the gospel, your koinonia, your fellowship, your sharing in. So when we give to the ministry of the church, When we give to support and care for the poor among us within our midst at the Deacons Fund, we are not just giving to something. We're sharing in something. Communing with our brothers and sisters in Christ, fellowshipping with them. In a sense, we're taking their burden and we're taking a little of it on ourselves. We're taking the burden of the ministry of the word and worship, and we're taking a little bit on it. We're taking a little bit of it on our ourselves. We're not just giving to someone or something, trying to help them. We're sharing in. We're taking part in the life and work of Christ. So it's interesting, Mart Martin Butzer, who is a Reformation, a German Reformation uh theologian, so from the you know uh 1500 He taught that there are four parts of apostolic worship from Acts 2. 42. And he listed the four parts as these: preaching and teaching. Giving of alms, celebration of communion or the Lord's Supper, and then the service of prayer. So listen to Acts 2. 42 and see if you can hear those in that verse. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching. And the fellowship to the breaking of bread and the prayers. Oh, I remember Butzer said giving of alms. Which one is those? It's specifically the fellowship that he's capitalizing on. What does it mean to fellowship? What does it mean to share in our life together as the body of Christ? It actually literally means to give alms. It means to give a portion of our income to bear the burdens of the gospel and of the troubles of this life with one another. Butsu seems to have recognized that Christian almsgiving, Christian generosity is a fellowshipping in, a communing in, uh a way of our expressing communion with each other. other. This is the understanding of Christian giving as expressing communion. It's also recognized, it was recognized by the early church. Often they would take the the offering as part of the Lord's Supper celebration. And the Lord's Supper is communion, we call it communion, a sharing in the one loaf, sharing in the one cup, as representing the body and blood of Jesus Christ. And that communion is to be expressed. By generosity as well. Bringing a portion of what we have. Because it's yeah, it and here's often old uh in his uh he's a a right an author or a theologian who Has written on worship, and he says this: true koinonia, fellowship, was at the same time communion with God and sharing with the poor. That marvelous Greek word meant both at the same time. Our Westminster Confession of Faith, it's a summary of what we believe the Bible teaches. It has a whole chapter on the communion of saints. And listen to how this idea is captured there. It says saints By profession, are bound to maintain a holy fellowship and communion in the worship of God, as also in relieving each other in outward things. According to their several abilities and necessities. Which communion, as God offers, opportunity is to be extended unto all those who at every place call upon the name of the Lord. Jesus. The Christian giving expresses communion, expresses our fellowship as members of the body of Christ with each other and in the mutual ministry of the gospel. And because it is an expression of communion of saints, it is not to be it's not to be according to supply, asking, how much extra do I have? It's meant to be according to need, asking what is the need in the church before me that I can help to meet. Now, this is hard in economic downturns, often Christian organizations. And churches feel the economic downturn first, right, as giving decreases. But often it's in those times that the need increases as well, as brothers and sisters in Christ lose their job and need a little extra help along the way. On the one hand, there's nothing wrong with giving more if you have more or basing our giving at some level on our income. We always encourage, you know, give start with ten percent. That's a good option. There's no law for that. It's not a requirement, but that's not necessarily a bad place to start. But what's interesting about the Philippians is Paul talks about their giving as not just giving what extra they had lying around. But as giving even out of their own need, giving sacrificially because of his need. To share in his trouble and affliction, as he says in verse 14, or to give help for his needs, as he says in verse 16. They gave even to the point of sacrifice. And we learn about this not here in Philippians, but in 2 Corinthians 8, where Paul is writing to the Corinthian church And there he talks about the Philippians. He talks about the Macedonian church, and he kind of brags on them. And here's what he says there. He says in 2 Corinthians 8, verse 1. We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia. That's Philippi, the Philippians. For in a severe test of affliction, their abundance, not of wealth and money, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty Have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. We don't think of people being in extreme poverty as joyful, first of all. That's true of the Philippians. But then he says, in their extreme poverty and joy, they have overflowed any wealth of generosity on their part, for they gave according to their means As I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own accord, begging us earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of I believe this is why Paul calls their gift a sacrifice, as he uh as he does in chapter four, verse eighteen of Philippians, where he he calls it a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. God. Well, sacrifice is giving up something precious, giving up something that's not easy to give up, something valuable or costly, even though it's valuable to you, but giving it. And so that's Christian giving. It expresses the communion of the saints as we partner together for the gospel, as we support the ministry of the church, as we bear one another's burdens and ease each other's suffering as financial. Needs arise and the church is able to meet those. So it's worth us asking: do we put our offerings in the basket every Sunday morning with this mindset? Do we recognize that it's not giv me giving to so that I can sort of get God off my back? But I'm actually sharing in. I'm taking up the burdens and the needs of my fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. I'm taking up the need for the gospel to be proclaimed. And I'm and I'm coming along to bear, to share in that work of the church. Do we recognize that when we give, we are partnering in ministry, sharing in suffering? Not surprisingly, sharing in suffering won't always be comfortable. It may require sacrifice. I love the illustration here of Jesus in the temple. He sees the widow, the widow giving a very small amount and bringing that offering, but he says, she gave so much more. Than all the wealthy people. And so those of you who are getting ready to go off to college, you may not have a lot to give. You may not be earning much while you're in college. In fact, you're probably paying a lot of money for college rather than earning. But It's always important to take a portion of your income, to take some, as a sign that, hey, this is this is all from the Lord anyway. And um And that there are always people in greater need, always those who need help. So, Christian giving is a it is uh an expression of communion It's worth uh noting here that uh there is no specific amount required, but we're called to give generously. Now, if you're not a follower of Christ here this evening, or maybe even as a follower of Christ, at this point you may be wondering, why should I give sacrificially if it's not commanded? Right? Paul uh shows uh talks about the Philippians having given uh even to their own hurt, even beyond their means in some level. Why why would we be Why would we give sacrificially if it's not commanded? Why live on less than we can if we're not required? And that brings us to our second point. A little more briefly, Christian giving not only expresses communion, it also evidences faith. We see that in 1 Chronicles 29, where over and over again David keeps saying that the first time. You know, all that we're giving here, we're we're giving all this stuff and we're happy about giving it to you. We're giving it out of thanks to you. We're giving it out of gratitude. We we want to build a a temple where you can be worshipped. But but but then he acknowledges that all of this is really yours, right? You've given all this and so there's sort of this expression uh of faith in giving a portion of our income to just say we I recognize Lord that it's all yours. All that I have is yours. Here's a portion back to show that. And it's to be the first I always encourage our kids, don't uh wait and tithe until you've spent all your money and you have a little left over. You you you you give a portion right from uh the outset, right before you spend uh the other. But as we go on to read, we see that this this idea of evidencing faith is is something that Paul elaborates on. So Christian giving is utterly different from ordinary philanthropy, not only in what it is, that it's a fellowshipping, it's a Communion with one another, but also in why it is. It's motivation. See, when Christians give to the ministry of the church, to the needy among us, our motivation is not what do I get in return? How can I purchase for myself recognition or ingratiate myself to somebody else? This tends to be the motivation of philanthropy. And in Paul's world, that was very evident. If you walked around Philippians' time or any other Greco-Roman city, every city would have these grand buildings, and at the base, right about eye level, would be a plaque. And on that flag would be in big bold letters, and we've dug these up, they still exist, saying this building was paid for for the citizens of Philippi by Justus Aurelius, you know, whatever the name of the donor, the benefactor was. They realized that no one would pay them back for their building, but people would pay them back in a sense by giving thanks. By honoring them when they walked around town. Oh, he's the one who built the library downtown. And that's true of many philanthropists even today. You give a gift, and uh you don't expect a gift in return, but you do expect some recognition. Maybe a name on the plaque. Maybe a note of thanks, a ceremony where you're acknowledged and you can be honored and you can receive recognition and thanks. Some things haven't changed much in that regard. But Christian giving has a different motivation. We don't give thinking about what we stand to gain from giving. We give because of what we know we've already gained in Jesus Christ. In Jesus Christ, we've been given a free gift of grace. Grace, forgiveness of sins, the promise of eternal life, that we will be raised on the last day, and that we will have new bodies that are like Christ. There will be gifts that will last forever. And that's what we see in 2 Corinthians 8 again, where Paul is discussing this exhortation to the Corinthians to be generous, like the Macedonians, the Philippians are, and he bases it, he grounds the motivation in this, verse. Eight, I say this to you not as a command. He's encouraging them to give generously. I say it not as a command, but to prove by the earnestness of others that your love also is genuine. We evidence by our generosity the faith that we have is the idea. And then he goes on and says, why is it that our faith would motivate a generous heart? Verse 9, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might be. Become rich. The motivation for Christian giving is gratitude for Jesus Christ. Christ, his becoming poor, him being Almighty God, who took on human flesh, humbling himself to be considered just a man. And then to be considered even a wicked man, one so bad that they would crucify him on a criminal's cross, even though he had done nothing to deserve it. He had not sinned like we do, and yet because we have, he became poor that he might make us rich. Rich by taking our sin on himself on the cross, dying for it, and then giving to us the promise of forgiveness of sins if we simply confess that we're sinners and follow Now, we read that verse that we through Christ's poverty have been made rich, and we might wonder, well, why aren't all Christians rich? Don't don't worry, they are not. We are not. And it's because the riches of Christ are not dollars and cents, but they're far, far better. It's an everlasting inheritance. The wealth of heaven, the whole world will be inherited by Christ and His people. And so Christians recognize that while we have needs in this life, we do still need our daily bread, which we're called to pray for. We need food, we need water, we need the things to sustain life. None of these can compare to the greatest need we have. In life and in death, namely something to cover the debt we have before God. The debt for our sin, our rebellion against God. The sinfulness that we we see there, we recognize when we're honest, the way in which we fall short of our own standard, let alone God's. And all of this sin is uh what uh God has declared it very clearly will be judged on the last day. For it we deserve judgment and death So our greatest need is a Savior, someone to pay the penalty for our sins, for what they deserve, and by his righteousness merit or earn for us. eternal life. This is our greatest need because without a savior, all of our other needs eventually go away, and all we're left with is this one need of a Savior. And yet that Savior is the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God who, as Paul says earlier in Philippians, he left the glories of heaven. humbled himself, took on human form as the second person of the Godhead. He became man, he suffered, he died for our sin, and after and he did all this after living a righteous life. He did it to win the glories of heaven for his And that's why Paul will say here in verse 19, and my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Paul's not saying he will supply all of the food we need forever. He's not saying he will supply all the water we need, all the clothing he Not saying he'll supply us the nicest car uh in the world, though we do trust God to meet these temporal needs as we ask for them day by day. But sometimes Christians Starve to death, thirst to death. Right? This is not a promise that we won't suffer, that we won't have needs, but the promise in verse nineteen of God supplying every need of your ours is with his riches in Glory, that He has promised to give us eternal life, all that we need for an everlasting life in the age to come. And it's in grateful response to that promise that we as Christians live and give generously. What does this mean? This means that giving, Christian giving, is evidence. It's the result of or fruit of faith. And that's what Paul calls it there in verse 17. He says, not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit. The fruit of your faith is the idea. And then he says this that increases to your credit Or, as it says in the footnote, you could translate that, or I seek the profit that accrues to your account. What is Paul talking about there? What is the the credit? What is the fruit that increases to our credit, the profit that accrues to our account when we Give. And the answer to that is in the final point. So we've seen that Christian giving expresses communion with one another in the gospel. Christian giving evidences our faith And third and finally, Christian giving evokes doxology. It elicits, it evokes doxology. What is doxology? Doxology is an expression of praise to God, thanks to God. We sing the doxology in our worship service, singing, Praise God, from whom all blessings flow. And now remember, the motivation for ordinary philanthropy is that the giver expects some sort of recognition or honor, especially with really generous philanthropy. You don't expect a gift of the same size in return. You expect recognition. Honor, thanks, praise for you having given that gift. The reality is that in Christian giving, we expect that sort of response We expect recognition of the gift. We expect honor for that gift, thanks and praise, but not directed to us. But instead directed to God from whom that gift originally came when it came to us, that we could steward it and give it. As our gifts are given out of gratitude for all the riches we have in Christ through faith, they evoke praise and honor and glory for God. Doxology. Not honor and glory for ourselves. That's what Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 9, right after chapter 8. He says, The motivation is the riches we've received. And then in chapter 9, verses 10 and 11, listen to these. He who supplies the seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and will multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in every way to be generous in every way, and here it is, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God. Will produce, will produce thanksgiving to God And so, in a sense, as Christians, we give generously. We give sacrificially out of gratitude for the abounding grace we have in Jesus Christ. And when we do this, we purchase praise and thanks for God. Isn't that amazing? We can do that. When we give money to the work of missionaries, what happens? They thank God for giving them their daily bread. And then they go forth with the gospel. And somebody hears about Christ and they thank God for bringing that word to them. And then they go through life thanking God for the gift of His grace. You see how that gift engenders, evokes all of this doxology for the Lord. That's why Paul doesn't thank the Philippians for the gift. I think. What does he say in chapter 1, verse 3? I thank my God always in every prayer for you because of your partnership in the God. Paul is saying, you've partnered with me in the gospel. I'm not going to thank you because you don't want that. You wanted your gift to evoke praise and doxology to God, and so I'll give it. I thank my God. Verse 10 of chapter 4, I rejoice in the Lord greatly. Verse 20, to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. You see that? Paul, as he's In the place where he would normally thank the Philippians for the gift, instead directs his thanks and praise to God. If Paul had given thanks to the Philippians, in a sense it would have taken away from the fragrance of their offering. Jesus kind of says that in Matthew chapter 6, too. He says, When you give to the needy, Sound no trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. And then what do you say? What does he say? Truly I say to you, they've received direct Reward. We give to bring praise and thanks to the Lord. That's our reward. So that at the end of the days, when we stand before Him Having been forgiven of our sin because of Jesus Christ, he can look to us and say, You have done well, my good and faithful. Servant, I received much thanks and praise from your generosity. So Paul shows the Philippians, he shows us how they have expressed the communion with him as saints. How they have evidenced a fruit of their faith in giving generously to him, how they have evoked doxology and praise and thanks to God, to their God and Father. And so it's worth us asking. Do we know this kind of giving? Do we know why we would even want to evoke doxology to God as our Father because He has loved us in Jesus Christ? Christ. If not, it's time to take stock that God either will be our Father or He will be our judge on the last day. Don't let Him be your judge. Repent of your sin, turn in faith to him through trusting in Jesus Christ, his forgiveness of sins, and then following him by faith If not, the sad news is that no matter how much we we have or give, however generously we give, The sad reality is if it's not given in Christ, not given as a follower of Christ in this manner, we could spend all of our life meeting the needs of others and never have our greatest need met. Your need, my need, the greatest need we all have is for forgiveness of sins and the riches of eternal life through faith in Jesus Christ. If you're a follower of Christ here tonight, how has your faith affected your pocketbook? Have you shared in the trouble of fellow believers? Have you ever given to the point where it's a little uncomfortable? Not just for the sake of discomfort, but out of gratitude for Christ, recognizing The needs that are out there so that God may be praised and thanked. There's a cost to discipleship. Have you felt that cost? Have you uh lived uh a life uh of avoiding discomfort, or have you engaged uh life generously having received such a generous gift from God? We can not only give of money, we can give of our time. There are many ways in which we can give generously, and they all function in this one. Same way. Finally, for all of us, I love how our worship service here at Reform Presbyterian Church of Bowie is ordered. That we we we first come and we first revel in the gifts of God's grace. We hear the word preached, we celebrate the Lord's Supper, and it's only then that we bring our offerings to show that these are responsive gifts Gifts that we give not to earn something for God, not to ingratiate, not to require from Him something, but because of the gratitude that we have because we have all of our spiritual needs met in Jesus' name. Jesus Christ. So let us all remember, week by week, as we write the checks, we as we put the money in the basket, that these things are more than simply giving to Something, more than just checking off the box, more than doing a good deed for the week. No, Christian giving is an opportunity for us to express our communion. Communing and partnering, sharing together in the suffering and life of the church. It evidences our faith. We don't give to pay a debt. We give because our debts have been forgiven. Through faith in Jesus Christ. And our giving evokes doxology. We're not giving to evoke other people's thanks to us, but we're giving to evoke other people's thanksgiving. Praise to God for our gift. So that to God our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Let's close in a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you for these uh challenging words. We thank you for the example of the Philippian Church, of generosity, even uh through hard circumstances. Lord, give us generous hearts to the to support the work of the church, to support the missionaries that you've called us to support, to take the gospel into the world. We thank you that we can be partners With them, as we bear part of the burdens of this ministry to which we give. We thank you that we get to share in the burdens of one another, those of us who fall on hard times. And need that help from the Deacon's Fund that we get to give generously to these things and care for one another in these ways. And Lord, ultimately we thank you that when we give, We get to give in a way that brings praise and glory to you as we give through the work of your church. And so we do pray that you would enable us. To give sacrifices pleasing in your sight, sacrifices which redound to your praise, sacrifices which evoke doxology, praise and thanks to you you at every level uh at which they affect, at which they bring uh the gospel to bear and proclaim Christ and Him crucified. It's in his name we pray. Amen