He's probably nearing the end of his life, and yet he's reflecting on the hope he has in Christ and the fact that he hasn't faced the end of his life with fear, but he sees the fact that he's And I said, Chat GPT, uh, how many wars are currently going on? I can see that, uh how I could apply that in my life in the church in Philippi. If you say something to try to argue your case, it's like, oh, now you're escalating. Verse 15 of chapter 1, who are preaching Christ now, well, he says, some are going out, uh, out of love, verse 16 of chapter 1. We talked about in Genesis 3 that enmity between the serpent's seed and the woman's seed. And then you hear your name. That's it. That's kind of how it is when we're in these conflicts. This is the third point. Verses 2 to 7. He's left on earth now as an opportunity from the Lord to serve the Lord. manner that Christ does for us. Together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life. And interact with those around us, our neighbors, our loved ones, our friends, our family. Conflict or active conflict in the world. And this enmity and conflict is the summary of the rest of history. in many ways of who we are. peace. Known unto God. with you in the gospel, the wonderful, exalted hymn of Christ and Christ's humility and what he calls us to in the body of Christ. They're committed to Christ and his service. Both Yodi and Sintsechi and all these fellow workers who are at some level equal to Paul in value, in the ministry of the gospel, as co-laborers, how is it he describes these two women? They're in conflict. Uh they're all there and they're trying to decide this m great matter that's before the church and they come together in great unity and deliver this uh resolution to the problem at the time of how to include the Gentiles. Scenario for yourself is think on a recent conflict in your life. is a useful endeavor because once we begin laying it out, maybe we think about what our desires are, and obviously they're always right and good and pure. w uh to to to lead us to wars without, outside of us. to them because it's really the passage shows them by actually correcting them. hard on you. It takes for Christ's return. Remembered, the Lord our Savior is near. My neighbor's Nintendo Switch. win. so that both people have their needs met. submission to God who alone is to be worshipped when our desires are put in the place of being of seeking to serve to glorify him rather than serve serving to glorify ourselves. Direct application to the church at Philippi in our verses, and that's what we're going to look at tonight in verses 1 to 9, really 2 to 7, but we'll read verses 1 to 9. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus even within our own hearts. Rejoice in the Lord always. Been the more striking verses to the original hearers. them by name right there in public in the reading of this letter. Together with other men who had been working in the gospel, Clement, other fellow workers? We see this in Paul. And take the gospel into the world. Something that conflict with your parent, maybe with your spouse, with your friend, with your brother or sister, with your with another member of the body of Christ. That's a joke. Ours. From that conflict. Be resolved. In conflict. Knowing that Paul is put in jail for the defense of the gospel, they're going out and preaching Christ out of good hearts. instead of somehow doing it to afflict Paul. The Lord is near. When Rachel and I uh were first married, we had a great conflict in our marriage. You know what I mean? Nintendo Switch. Request of God and bring their desires to God that they might agree in the Lord. be so important in resolving serious conflict, providing perspective, helping, praying with the parties, keeping things reasonable, reminding them of the joy they have in Christ. And yet, Paul seems to think that his words can have an effect, and he gives some tools here. something that begins with two people. And this is where even good desires, good desires can lose one of the O's and become God. Bring true peace because he brought peace on the vertical dimension. being led as uh part of the armies of darkness and have to be converted into being part of God's kingdom through the work of Jesus Christ. And then there's this hinge verse in chap in verse 1 of chapter 4 where he's possibly reflecting back, and if in the ESV you see that the heading comes after verse 1. century and already we've had many. The church in Philippi, and as Paul addresses it, he gives us tools for how to make peace. We want to consider from this passage. seems to be saying in those very famous, very quoted verses, and how they fit together in his broader argument of what he is doing in the context. Uh and you can imagine maybe other people a little bit more self-conscious are just looking looking down. Side by side with me in the gospel together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers. Whose names are in the book of life. It's striking how exactly repetitive it is in as you're reading along. What causes quarrels? You desire and do not have. In the history of the church. With many branches and bears fruit. It can lead to poor health, literal poor physical health. We worry that our concerns won't be properly addressed. In his exhortations to Yodi and Sintiki and to us. Lord. Of rejoicing in the Lord even in times of severe conflict. And yet, even though that's a hard providence to work through in Paul, he had felt this mission to go to the Gentiles, and now he's stuck in jail. And in that I rejoice. Affirmed or recognized or met, but he says what in verse 5: Be reasonable. Rather than fretting about the battle over desires and getting all wrapped up in the worry and the anxiety and the fear, Paul says, pray. Request, you don't ask. And we see this in Paul's request of his true companion, as he calls him in verse 3. third party. Gives us overconfidence when maybe our desires are pretty good or are pretty righteous. In the Lord. Make your request known to God, and the peace of God, verse 7, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds. The peace of God can only be known by those who have peace with God. You. Transform our hearts, that it might move us to apply this practical text well in our daily lives as a church together, as your people, and as your light and salt in the world as we go forth and But the Bible doesn't just explain that there's conflict and show us why there is it, gives us an analysis of it and a plan for peace. And that's what we find here in, especially in verses two to seven, but all of chapter four, verses two to nine, is, I think, addressing a conflict that is going on in And so this is worth us looking at. And third, the capacity for resolving conflict or making peace. About Yodia and Syntichi and Clements, names that sound very unfamiliar to you and to me. Desires. begins to get at the root of why this conflict is happening. Fruit, three fruits of unresolved conflict. And at the end, Paul says, what you have learned and received in verse 9, what you've learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. And it was over that great perennial question, and some of you newlyweds might have had to work through this: should the toilet paper roll be rolled over or under? This morning or this evening we're going to see Kristen? How we're all to live in the body of Christ as those who see others as more significant than ourselves and seek to love and serve them in the manner So they think that this is reflecting on what came before. Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. And it gives us explanations for why this is. Here in this passage, Paul shows us, first of all, the character of conflict, its root and its fruit. Yeah. They would be read aloud in the context of the church at Philippi. Or if you're in a heated conflict maybe with your spouse, it's like oftentimes you you feel that tension of if I say something trying to be nice, it'd be like, oh, don't make it, don't dismiss the argument. Rejoice in the Lord always. But he's reflecting on how I see God's providence, I see what God's doing, that I see that God has used this to take the gospel out. And he says later they do it out of selfish ambition, not sincerely, but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. What an awful conflict. The Lord is at hand. when he arrives. Request help. Isn't that part of the problem? Doesn't prayer remind us that God is sovereign, that He's working things out, and He's able to work things out that we can. So the cures for conflict and peacemaking are rejoice, be reasonable, request from God. Have you ever been told in a conflict, agree in the Lord? That you make a lowercase G God, and then you hold that at the expense of your love for others, the unity of the body, and the peace. That ultimately the conflict is between the one man Jesus Christ and sin and death and Satan reigning in the world, us who are at enmity with God, who are uh The church as the people who know the triune God and worship him by his grace. To agree in the Lord. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. It was elusive. And that it's it starts all the way back, not at the very beginning, but right after the very beginning in Genesis chapter 3. Because that's who we're called to be, as followers of Christ in the church. Individually for their meaning. Ah, the Apostle Paul imprisoned. Paul's waxing eloquent on the wonderful, glorious doctrine of justification and the hope we have in Christ and the resurrection on the last day. You have the Apostle Paul, the great Apostle Paul, setting himself as an equal to these women. They have some sort of conflict, but neither one of them is right or wrong, according to Paul. Notice that? To agree in the Lord. And so Paul is basically giving Euodian Syndechy tools, cures for the conflict. In conflict, it's so easy to become absorbed with our desires, obsessed with ourselves, mired into frustration. In the Lord. For me, if I say soon, it's not going to be two thousand years later. It's over, just in case, right? It seems like he he leaves his name out. It's interesting. Remember, the root of conflict is warring desires. As we encounter conflict on the horizontal plane, in order that it might spill over, the peace with God might spill over into peace with one another We've seen in Philippians, it's been a few weeks, Paul has talked about his own ministry, a ministry that uh currently is in out of prison. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there's any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. So who are these women and what was their disagreement? We aren't sure. Stirring up fear and anxiety. The cures, the path forward, a sort of how-to for resolving conflict. the reasons to rejoice that I have in the Lord, and I see his hand at work. He could mean near in time. If we're thinking about a method of ministry, a program, an event that the church should have, and we pray about it rather than pushing against one another. As we who are saved by God's grace and are made new creatures in Christ also still have a sinful flesh that clings to us so closely and makes all of our desires mixed. In the Spirit. Maybe these are verses that you've memorized. No wonder that they breed conflict. We're motivating the two parties to act. There'll be much more important things on our mind. Uh that's just a transliteration of the Greek. Conflict is even something that we can see within ourselves, something that's at the very heart in the And the Bible talks about this. And can come alongside these women and help them work through the conflict, help them to rejoice, help them to be reasonable, help them to re After they have been conformed to God's redeeming image in His Son. Death and taxes, absolutely. He addresses Yodia in Sinteki, and what is it? Could be tomorrow? Patient, kind, merciful, God is always a third party near Pray, request. Where we see the entrance of sin into the world and this enmity, this space of conflict, enmity between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. But conflict is not only something that we see in groups of people in the world, nations that battle against each other, people who war against one another. The ruined hearts, the corrupted hearts, the sin and its curse that is a blight on all of creation. But it seems that each must have had some conflicting desires. Differing desires that don't seem to fit together. Differing desires, but both good desires to do the ministry well. Maybe if we can start thinking about what are the desires that are motivating the other person in the conflict, maybe we can begin to see, oh, it's not just that they're all bad and a meanie and wrong. Steals our joy, skews our judgment, and it stirs up fear and anxiety. Second way he addresses the fruit. Doesn't that help us be reasonable? Why can't good desires coexist in peace? We're looking at Philippians chapter 4. Well, a few things are very clear. And it drives them apart. And don't lose sight of that. That's hypothetical for some of you younger people. In some ways we have an example of this in in the in the world around us, in a judge who mediates between two parties, but then there's usually one that has to Here ends the reading of God's word. Every century of known human history has been marred by some conflict, some war. Unfortunately, it's something that's reflective of our very own hearts. We skip over those and we jump to verses four to seven, which is all this great content, these great mini verses that we love to memorize and and to meditate on. So what's the disagreement? And at its root isn't every conflict at some level a difference and a conflict of desires. Maybe there's just a difference here. Think of the little child who whose desires are at odds with their parent and they're butting heads and there's a conflict. Charles is like, no, I'm not gonna take that lollipop. He's not saying rejoice in your desires being met because they may not be being in conflict. Like it it doesn't it it's helpful because as our heart our heart and the sinful desires m move us we be we we get them checked. Because peace only comes after our desires have found their proper place, not as idols themselves to be worshipped, but in submission. We'll wrap it up with this capacity for peace. That's why that's printed for you. So remember, Paul's letters are always written to churches to be read aloud. They both get the same verb. Many companies now are requiring in contracts that you agree to mediation so that it doesn't have to be a win-lose situation, but maybe it can be worked out so that it's more win-win. We get a reminder of this every year when we uh sing those uh carols at Christmas and read Luke 2 where it talks about glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace. And that's not too surprising when we turn to the Bible, we see there's a reason for it. Now, these desires may be perfectly pure and good. In Paul's life in Acts 15. His return is the next great act of redemptive history. I need my neighbor's Nintendo Switch. Rejoice in the Lord. And so it's not surprising that that inner conflict spills out into the grand, larger conflicts that we see in the world. The church gathers as one, as the first general assembly, and you got the apostles, and you got the church leaders and the elders and I mean just imagine everyone turning. Did you see any of this fruit in that conflict? So that's the motivation he's giving us to be reasonable. We're taking our desires to people and we're demanding that they be met there. And it's so interesting how Paul reorients this whole situation of conflict in a Godward way, in a Godward dimension. That's a good desire. Maybe the other person is going to make some power play to win even though they don't deserve it. Then in chapter three he's talked about justification by grace alone through faith alone and the wonder of that and what it is that distinguishes It's very honest about this reality of conflict, of warfare in our world. Again I will say rejoice. When coming up against differing desires, would we lash out with angry words? First of all, the character of conflict, its root and its fruit. It's not so much what they were in conflict about, but it's how they are to address it. Is it just a matter of following Paul's four steps, like a 12-step program? I entreat Yodi, I entreat Sindiki, for example, to agree in the Lord. Paul says this in verse 3. And that's an important added phrase. Well, depending on how you define it, maybe up to 60 current active conflicts going on in the world today. That's in many ways it's an echoing of what we've talked about from Ephesians chapter 3 or 2, sorry, chip chapter 2 last week, last Sunday morning, but with a little different angle, maybe a little more practically. And so often I think in the world we think, oh peace. It was did not want to answer. What causes fights among you? And this is why peace with other people, this horizontal peace, can really only truly come after we've made vertical peace with God, after our hearts have been renewed. Literally, to have the same mind in the Lord. Doesn't that put our desires and our goals in some perspective? Rachel says it doesn't matter. I say to myself, I really want my neighbors Nintendo Switch. And in many ways, they stand alone and are wonderful in the truth that they convey. But I what I want us to do tonight is actually take those verses instead of just treasuring the little truth that's encapsulated in the verse itself, put them into their wider context and see what Paul Everyone here knows who it is, and we don't really need to. Uh but we usually think they are, right? We can't we we lose our joy, our i the conflict itself can lead to bitterness and that can affect our whole life. It's very clear that these two women are deeply committed to Christ Could be today? Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing as we think on it further. The point is, the character of conflict at its root is warring or differing desires. I should have corrected that. And so we could guess, and I think there are some implications from this passage, but I think the bigger point is it doesn't really matter that much And the fruit of conflict is all the variety of problems that come when our desires are at war both within us and lead us to desire So that's the character of conflict, its root and its fruit. Yes, warring desires between two people, but the reality is there's a warring desire in our own lives, in our own hearts. Well, Benjamin Franklin is quoted as having said in a famous line, we all probably have heard it at some point in life, in this world nothing is certain except To base our joy in the Lord, in his desires, in his purposes. So important because if our desires are sinful, praying helps make us aware of that. We don't know. Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel. But what does he go on and say in verse 18? Pray. I'm going to read verses 1 to 9, but then we're going to really focus in on He sent us a letter. Maybe there are differing desires. It begins in our hearts. So I said, give me a number. Now, it's interesting, it doesn't mean that necessarily one of them was wrong or the other and the other was right. These gospel preachers who should be all about bringing the hope and the message of reconciliation I hope there are. That's the way Genesis presents history, the conflict of the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. I entreat Euodia and I entreat Sintici. Now their desires are different, but both are good. You know, you you can't you begin to be unreasonable in an argument. See, I think verses 2 and 3 lead right into verses 4 to 7, and they go together. You could translate that very literally. Um but on judgment day, won't we have bigger fish to fry? Do not be anxious for anything. And here we're getting at the question: how do we even begin reaching peace, an agreement in the Lord, as Paul says it here, when we're in conflict? I did that. It could also be introducing what comes next. They just differ about how is best to do it. Maybe this is his name because he's addressing him personally, but I think the uh ESV is right in saying true companion. In fact, I I went uh to the Arbiter of All Knowledge Chat GPT He says, resolve your conflict, agree in the Lord, have the same mind. I rejoice. Jesus says at the end of Revelation, behold, I am coming soon. He's writing to a different church at the time. We can be have our judgment skewed by conflict when it's unresolved, when our desires aren't being He's almost right, but we might be able to add a third. I ask you also, true companion, help these women, and here's how he describes them. Kind of striking. That's what he says in verse 6. The great explanation that starts in Genesis 3 is that this is a reflection of sin and its manifestation in our lives. And we'll just run through these really quickly. There's still time today. Again, think about that conflict that I asked you to remember. I'm going to steal my neighbor's Nintendo Switch request. The church is to be a a body of believers marked by peace, peacemakers living together in peace. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made And Paul shows us elsewhere that the true seed of the woman is actually one man, and that is Jesus Christ Himself. Conflict, unresolved conflict, steals our joy and it skews our judgment. It's often easier for us to see this in others, but what about us? I did that too. But those are the sermon text verses, but we're read starting in verse 1 all the way through verse 9. But but conflict is never as simple as just noticing the different desires and recognizing their root. First of all, unresolved conflict steals our joy or it robs us of joy. Again, I will say, rejoice This is where we get that cartoon image of the two little guys on your shoulder, you know, pulling you one way and another. Lollipop, come on! Could we be so unreasonable in arguments if we remembered that a holy, righteous, loving Why can't we agree to disagree? For our New Testament reading and sermon text, let's turn to Philippians chapter 4 on page 982 of the few Bibles provided for you. It'll be sometime within my lifetime. Those are the cures that Paul offers here for conflict. Well, probably, and here we have to go at it a little bit on the limb, it's probably something like every disagreement. And this passage I think shows us three, and I want to walk through these uh these fruits, you probably could find other ones, but the passage is going to address uh three um The peace announced by the angels goes back to that ancient conflict The Lord is at hand. And Chat GPT, I don't know if it's uh he or a she, but I just realized that as I was reflecting on this. Let your reasonableness be known to all. I can rejoice in the Lord always. Where are you? And maybe when we understand those desires better, that So he he speaks of Christ in Philippians chapter 2. And I was told between 20 and 25. But if our desires are good and pure and right, prayer puts them in perspective as well, doesn't it? In some ways, I think we skip over the big surprise of this passage when it was first Two women are included in that. He says, Yes, I also ask you, my true companion, and you see this little note down there in the ESV, or my loyal syzyus. And you've been hearing as he's talking about his ministry and the troubles he's going through and how you can pray for him, his partnership. And then finally, get a reconciler's help. So, how do we get peace with God? That would be so irritating, I think, to most of us. It's very interesting how he treats them both exactly the same. That's how the letter begins in chapter 1. Yeah. Rejoice in the Lord always. So the character, the cure, and the capacity are the three points. That's why we pursue them and we push for them so hard. And what we'll do is we'll think about how these are true, and then later on we'll come back and see how the passage speaks in. What does he mean by the Lord is near? There's nothing left. He's saying not just rejoice in conflict. What then, only, that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. It begins as a worship problem. We pray all these things that you might get glory in and through us. You know, it's interesting. And he he's reading along and he's encouraging them in their unity and humility, following Christ's example. Would we try to manipulate the situation? And it's not in a complimentary way But even two sets of great desires, if they don't quite fit together, can cause conflict. Will it matter so much? And he's talked about the hope that we're straining toward at the end of chapter three. The Lord is near. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, make your requests known to God And so, and yet, how is it that we can have the motivation? Yes, finally. And he wrote them to be read. The point is, this this is someone who has some wisdom, who's trustworthy, who Paul knows, who he knows is a reconciled. Now that's what James says very overtly in James chapter 4. Who wouldn't take the but Let your reasonableness be clear to everyone. Bringing the end of war. The root of conflict is differing We begin to worry that the other person's desires might win out over us. Be reasonable. And then he says, I want both of you, I entreat both of you the same to do the same thing. Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? And so what I want you to do for a moment here, a little test case Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. Second of all, the cure for conflict, how we go about addressing it. It's because our desires become idols This is the way these things would be done. Maybe one that's going on right now, maybe one that occurred at some time in the past, but maybe is memorable. But for God, this is soon. I know it does. It's not exactly clear, but certainly the two hold together. But Paul didn't just write this passage to tell us about conflict. We don't I do know a Clement. The Lord is near in time. They have two. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word and the truths that features. Philippians 4 has some of the most quoted verses in the Bible. We don't really know. So we do. But he says in verse 15, some preach Christ from envy and rivalry. The last thing that's going to happen is Christ's return. And one thinks they should take Mark, Barnabas, and one thinks they should, Paul. Undermine our position, manipulate things so that our desires get lost and overwhelmed. Right? You Odia, Sintiki. This happens to all of us. So rejoice And this is what James says in James chapter 4, too. Well, did wars end? They're both deeply committed to Christ. And in contrast, Paul exhorts the Philippians, these two women in Philippi, and he exhorts us in our conflicts to rejoice. Doesn't that put our conflict in context? I'd say we can't start there because ultimately conflict, as we talked about in the opening, conflict is not Paul addresses He says we always have reason to rejoice in the Lord. The parent says, look, I'm not gonna let you have your desires for whatever reason I can't. They don't need two. He can even change desires, and He does. After we are at peace with God, it's always that orientation, that vertical orientation, that we need to lean into. Where? Nothing is certain except conflict and war. We memorize these as verses that we treasure. Yeah, wow. So the cures for conflict is the second point. Would we try to undermine the other person's reputation if we simply remember Again, I will say, rejoice. The Bible is very practical. But of course, wrong desires, bad desires, uh We're demanding that we are able to meet them ourselves. No, no, this is a good thing I long for. Acts 15 is this great moment. The Lord is near in time. And then how does he describe them It's just that mess of sin that we bring into every relationship. This morning. And so you can really just imagine sitting there for that first reading. Okay, oh Lord, please help me steal. A third party, an outside mediator, can And so It's a great model of servant leadership, servant ministry. One of the most important disagreements we've ever had. Hear that? And the answer is right there in verse 7: it's in Christ Jesus. No, wars didn't end. Both of them desire to go into missions Again, I will say, rejoice, even in conflict, when I recognize. In Christ Jesus. He recounts how he's been thrown in jail The character of conflict, it's root The Lord is near. In fact, it seems like with the way Paul addresses them, that's not true. The reason it's soon is because uh however many thousands of years I want my neighbor Tools for how to make peace. And he says, you know, where conflict steals our joy, look what he says in verse 4. And then third, he says In Jesus' name we pray. I entreat Euodia, and I entreat Syntiche. I don't know a Syntechi. These women who have labored What desires But Have you seen any of this fruit? Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. I think he could mean one of two things. And what a model Paul is. We can't rejoice. How is it that we can have the power or capacity for peace? He's coming soon, so be reasonable. That's what Matthew 18 calls us to, right? But then he gives them And then third and finally the capacity for peace. Rather this evening. And then I said, you know, how about just any content? They wouldn't sit in the same section, right? But then he says, there are some Now, this soon is a God soon. It's very honest. But he did It makes us completely unreasonable. We're only a quarter of the way into this century, the 21st century. And these are meant to be our desires that are at war within us. They love him. Stealing our joy, skewing our judgment. The problem with conflict is that the root always grows up into a plant. Anyone have Syntechy? Instead, he he wants to show how conflict should He says, You have all these desires that are driving this conflict you don't have because you don't. And Paul addresses each one of these fruits of conflict. How do we want Him to find us? Lord, this practical text, we pray that we would see its truths that it might. Amen Hear now the word of the Lord. He's imprisoned. But we miss what might have been Conflict is a constant. All of a sudden it gets very personal. Maybe he means both He's also near in space. See, I think a lot of times we tend to skip over verses two and three. And then it becomes a God. He orients them toward the vertical over and over and over through this passage. Is conflict is not worked out between two people to bring in a And then immediately after that, Paul and Barnabas have a conversation. Because of the hope we have, the call to press forward, he's going to bring advantage. You probably noticed that as we read through. They love Paul, and Paul loves them. But here's a lollipop, because I know that this is really hard. Have you ever tried reasoning with an angry mob? Now I I don't want my neighbors It's not a fixed soon. And that's This conflict that's raging e I mean, you