Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from Deuteronomy chapter 8. We're going to read through the whole chapter. This is continuing our series through the book of Deuteronomy with a A break last week to just dive back into the book of John, which has been a rich and rewarding series that Pastor Chris has been leading us through this morning. We're back in Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy chapter 8, and we'll talk a little bit about where this fits and In the book after we uh after we read through it and hear what God has to say to us from Deuteronomy chapter 8. That's on page 152 of the Bible. Bibles provided for you. Hear now the word of the living God. The whole commandment that I command you today, you shall be careful to do, that you may live and multiply and go in and possess the land that the Lord. swore to give to your fathers. And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he may humble you, testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not? And he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know. That he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Your clothing did not wear out on you, and your foot did not swell these forty years. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines you So you shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God by walking in his ways and by fearing him, for the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks, of water, of fountains and springs. flowing out in the valleys and the hills, a land of wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive trees and honey, a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity, in which you will lack nothing. A land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you can dig copper, and you shall eat, and be full, and you shall bless the Lord your God for the good land he has given you. You. Take care lest you forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes, which I command you today. Lest when you have eaten and are full, and have built good houses and live in them, and when your herds and flocks multiply, and your silver and gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied, then your heart be lifted up, and you forget. The Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery, who led you through the great and terrifying wilderness with its Serpents and scorpions and thirsty ground where there was no water, who brought you water out of the flinty rock, who fed you in the wilderness with manna that your fathers did not know, that he might humble you and test you. To do you good in the end. Beware, lest you say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this way. You shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth, that he may confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers as it is this day. And if you forget the Lord your God and go after other gods and serve him and worship them, I solemnly warn you today that you shall surely perish. Perish, like the nations that the Lord makes to perish before you, so shall you perish, because you would not obey the voice of the Lord your God. Here ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing on our time as we meditate on it further. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for these truths that it Speaks to us, Lord, this is an ancient word to an ancient people. And yet as we see week after week, it has a very direct bearing on us as your people, Israel of the New Testament, Israel Of the Church of Jesus Christ today, as we are in this wilderness of this life, as we are awaiting entrance into the eternal promised land that you've promised us in Jesus Christ. Use this word this morning to humble us, to convict us, to comfort us, and to reassure us of the great promises that you have given to us in Jesus Christ. In His name. Well, in the book series The Chronicles of Narnia, written by C. S. Lewis, he tells the story of children in England. You may be very familiar with this, children in England who stumble through a wardrobe and find themselves in another wardrobe. world, Narnia, the land where where they are royalty under a great king, Aslan the Lion, who is the Christ figure and And they enter in and they grow up in Narnia. They rule as kings and queens. They fight battles. They experience glory. But then, but then, as suddenly as they arrived in Narnia, they returned to England back to their old lives, their school uniforms. The ordinary things of life during World War II, England. The great danger when they return is that they'll fall Forget. That they'll forget. Forget Aslan, the great king of Narnia. Forget Narnia. Forget who they really are in that kingdom because Nornia and remembering Aslan, really remembering him, is the ultimate mark of love and loyalty to him. And that's exactly the warning we have here in Deuteronomy chapter 8. The warning against forgetting God here is preparing Israel to enter into the land of blessing and peace. And the greatest danger for Israel as they enter is not the enemies without, but forgetfulness. Within. We are in this part of Deuteronomy. We've talked about it a number of times. Deuteronomy is Written in the form of a covenant treaty, an ancient Near Eastern covenant treaty that a great king would write where he would enter into covenant with a lesser king. And a lesser nation to be their great king, their protector, their provider, their blesser. And they have responsibilities in that covenant and we're in that part of the covenant treaty where the great king is giving his stipulations, his his laws, his expectations for how to live at peace and thrive in his kingdom. And in many ways, Deuteronomy is much like many other documents we dig up from the ancient Near East, it's a covenant treaty. The big difference with Deuteronomy is that the great king Is not some mere human ruler who lived for a time and achieved greatness and is now dead. The great king here is Almighty God. Self, entering into covenant with his people. And so he's given a summary of his law, and it's it's because it's Almighty God who's entering into covenant here that it's worth us listening. Right? That this is not just a king of Israel in the ancient world. This is Almighty God, King of the universe. When he gives his law, it's not just law for Israel, his people, it's law for all of us. And we saw that in the Ten Commandments. Then he outlines first initially in chapter 5 of Deuteronomy, and then the rest of Deuteronomy through chapter 26 is going to be God explaining what that five that Ten Commandments mean. And we saw, when we looked at chapter 6, that chapter 6 basically begins the exposition in Deuteronomy of the first great commandment that will take us all the way through chapter 11. The first great commandment, which is You shall have no other gods before me. In chapter 6 begins by saying that negative command, you shall have no other gods before me, has a positive way of putting it. What does it mean to have no other gods before the Lord? It means loving God with all of our heart or mind internally. With all of our soul, or we talked about how that means self or life, that's our body and soul, our whole self. And then with all of our berry. Remember that? This little Hebrew word, that's literally what it means. With all of our berry, and so you say, what does that mean? Well With all of our muchness, with all of our might, a lot of translations give it to us. The idea here is, I think, that the Lord is calling us to think from internal, our internal hearts and desires, all the way to our external stuff. Loving the Lord your God. Having Him as God alone and no other gods before means loving Him with all of our heart and mind, our soul Himself, and all of our wealth or our stuff. So what What does that look like? Well, here, Chapter 8 of Deuteronomy, Chapter 6 unpacked what it meant meant to love Him with all of our heart and mind. Chapter 7 talked about what it means loving Him with our whole self. Here, Chapter 8 is but is unpacking for us what does it mean? to love the Lord our God with all of our variedness, our muchness, our wealth, our stuff. And it specifically looks like remember. Remembering, remembering three things as we look through this text. Remembering our identity, who we are, remembering our inadequacy, who we're not, and remembering our investor, the one who gives it away. Our identity, our inadequacy, and our investor are the three points we want to consider this morning. First of all, remember our identity, specifically our identity as creatures of the great creator on the Almighty God. See, at the heart of loving God with our wealth, with our stuff, with our material possessions, at the heart of it is a recognition that we are more than what we have. Now that doesn't seem like it should be rocket science, and yet it's actually hard to live like that, to remember our identity. It's so tempting to think that life comes from food. You know, like we're material machines, and if we just stuff bread in, for me it has to be gluten-free, uh, then we'll get life out, right? If we just have access to food and water, the right nutrients, we'll live. And then this mindset doesn't apply just to food, although it starts there. For most of human history, it really ended there. But if ever you reach a point of wealth and prosperity, it extends. Life is in the food, but then it's also in the money that can buy the food. And the house that can protect us from the weather while we eat, and on and on it goes. And this mindset. Ultimately forgets that we are not just physical beings, but we are also spiritual beings So how better to be reminded of our identity as not merely physical beings who need food to survive, but spiritual beings who need God Himself in order to thrive, how better to remind us of that than talking about Israel in the wilderness. in verses 1 to 3 of chapter 8. That's what God does through Moses. Verse 1. The whole commandment that I command you today, you shall be careful. to do that you may live and multiply and go in and possess the land that the Lord swore to give to your fathers, and you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these 40 years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, testing you to know what was in your heart. You see that he he put you in a hard place with great lack to see where your heart truly is. Testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. In a very real way, recognizing our spiritual as well as physical reality means that we will, for instance, take a day of a reality. Rest from working to feed ourselves and actually obey the command of the Lord. And verse 3, he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Or more literally, as you see in the ESV footnote, man lives by everything that comes out of the mouth of the Lord. What is the point? What is Moses saying here in these two verses that we're very familiar with? These are the verses that Jesus himself quotes in the wilderness when he's tempted by Satan. His point is: remember that you're more than a stomach that needs filling. Your identity as a human being is a creature breathed out by God in creation and sustained every moment of every day, sustained by God's Almighty hand of providence, not by neutral inanimate stuff, bread that you dig up from the ground, but by the very ongoing work of Almighty God by His Spirit. The every day, every moment work of Almighty God. I think that's the point of the manna. Mana, that's this miraculous bread that falls out of heaven every night as though God spoke it down in To the wilderness. All that comes out of the mouth of God, or literally all that comes by the command of God, every day was that continual reminder that ultimately all creation is by God's power, by his word. And we are mere creatures, that's our identity in relation to all Mighty God. I I often read these verses and I I've tended to think, well, what he says is we need j not just physical food and bread, but we need spiritual food In the word, and that's true. We need the word. We need to read and study it. It feeds our and nourishes our souls in a way that bread alone can't do. There's truth there, but I think he's saying beyond that. He's saying, you don't just need food. Even food, even bread ultimately is from the Word of God, who said, let there be, and there was. That's also I think the point of this miraculous health and preservation that that that shows that literally The fact that there is life in the world is this immediate, in a sense, very direct work of Almighty God that He does miraculously for Israel to preserve them in the wilderness. Verse 4, your clothing did not wear out on you. Now that doesn't just happen. That's something that God does. That's something, a way in which God preserves life and preserves something, keeping it from fraying and dying like everything else does in the world. And your foot did not swell these 40 years. Last year I went with some here even on Grand Tour, and we walked many, many miles every day. And uh in fact I was just going back recently and saying, how many steps did I take that one day at Rome where we walked? I walked so much. And uh it was an obscene amount of steps, and guess what? My foot did swell. And I got blisters and they haunted me the whole rest of the trip. That's what happens when you're in the wilderness and wandering, but not to them. Because they're being reminded of their identity as creatures. Who are always ultimately sustained by our almighty hand of our Creator, Almighty Word of our Creator, our Creator. Verse 5. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines you. So that you so you shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God by walking in his ways and by fearing him. Why does it talk about this being discipline, testing? Well, I think it's because of the nature of the wilderness. And we know this as well, right? The wilderness forces us, force God's people here, to recognize and remember their identity as creatures, body and soul, utterly destroyed. dependent on God as their creator and sustainer. And we read that in uh we read about this i elsewhere in the Bible. I think especially Psalm 104 captures Is so well. Where it says in verse 24, O Lord, how manifold are your works in wisdom? You have made them all. The earth is full of your creatures, your creations. And then verse 27, these all, these creatures, look to you to give them their food in due season. When you give it to them, they gather it up. When you open your hand, they are filled with good things. When you hide your face, they are dismayed. When you take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. When you send forth your spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground. John Calvin, the famous Uh reform theologian in his commenting on this passage concludes summarizes that summarizes really this first point. Remembering our identity, he says, we are simply and solely taught here That although bread and wine fail, our bodies may be sustained and invigorated by God's will alone. Remember our identity as creatures before a creator. And sadly, friends, don't we forget this all too often? Especially as we grow in wealth, our identity, who and what we are, who we believe ourselves to be, begins to get wrapped up in what we And we begin to forget what and who we are, our identity as creatures. I uh just went on this last week uh on a school trip with uh my my youngest uh son to Williamsburg down in Virginia and one of the highlights of it was going into the gunsmith shop which is cool you know seeing these rifles and these these uh this ancient weaponry that they're still kind of making today. And they showed us all the r the difference between a rifle and a musket and we're talking about how these were the primary things that people bought. You know, every farmer needed a musket. Uh not everyone needed a rifle, but some would use that For hunting. And then they any questions. And I said, What about those pistols on the wall? Who who were those for? And they said, those were for very rich people. Because those were just for self-defense. And you only needed to defend yourself if you were very rich and were threatened to be robbed. The very rich were the only ones who really could travel, and so you needed pistols and you'd Buy these pistols and you'd put them on your horse very visibly so that they would ward off any attempts at robbery. But then he said, but also you would put them out very visibly because they were a status symbol. They said something about who you were. And it represented how you wanted people to think about you, what you thought of yourself, your identity. And don't we so often do that? Wrap up our identity in our stuff, what we have, and how others Can see that. Like the rich fool in Luke chapter twelve, who really gets high on his own supply, if you will, right? He he gets all this wealth, all this crops, and he he says, I just I need to find a way to hold on to all this stuff. So let me build bigger barns to store bigger, more amounts of grain, thinking his life consisted in what he had. What does the Lord say to him? Fool, this very night, your soul is required of you, and the things that you've prepared, whose will they be? So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich. And Jesus elsewhere in Luke chapter 12 tells his disciples the whole point of this parable, take care and be on guard against all covetousness. For one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. And then he goes on, after telling that parable, says, saying to his disciples, Don't be angry About your life, for life is more than food and the body more than clothing. Isn't that the point of Deuteronomy chapter 8? How do we do this? How do we remember our identity as creatures before our Creator? Well, we begin to do this by taking a lesson from the widow and her might. Remembering our identity as creatures is intended to make us radically generous to those around us, reflecting our Creator who generously gives life to us as creatures. Not clinging to our stuff, our money, our food, but friends, even in our lack at times, like the widow, tithing and giving a portion of our income. Giving to those in need? We talk about tithing, giving 10%. That's not a perfect number. That's not the only thing we should give. We should start there, really. and and go beyond. Even you kids and young people, even those of you getting ready to go off to college, it can be very tempting. You're in college, you're trying to pay for this massive bill uh and y it's hard to keep a job and you often don't make very much much money but I encourage you to even there remember your identity that it's all from your creator and make sure to give a portion of that income Even as uh you work hard to pay your bills with very little. So remembering our identity is uh the first way in which we love God with all of our stuff. With all of our wealth, with all of our muchness. Point number two, the second way we do this is by remembering our inadequacy. And this is in many ways related to the first point, but a little different. And the idea here is even in success and wealth. So the first one is in our poverty and lack. Remembering that our identity is not in our food. It's in our cre it's as a creature before creator. But here, even in our success and wealth, remembering that it's not ultimately ours and to our credit. Remembering our inadequacy. Not only do we need to recognize God as God and that everything ultimately exists by the word of his power, but we also need our own inherent weakness and frailty and sin and inadequacy and In the face of this holy and almighty God, reminded to us, we need to not forget it, especially, and here's the profound point, especially when he blesses. We see this as Moses looks ahead. With Israel to a time of Israel's blessing and wealth, when they actually enter into the land and are prospering there, and they've received all this as a gift of God's grace. Look what he says in verse 7. For the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks, of water, of fountains and springs, flowing out in the valleys and the hills. To be a prosperous place of life, you first of all need water. This place has tons of water. A land of wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive trees and Honey, a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity. You also need food. And listen to this, without scarcity, in which you will lack nothing. A land whose stones are iron. So after you've eaten And are full and drunk and had your fill. Now you need to build the civilization. For that you need iron and copper. A land whose stones are iron and out of whose hills you can dig copper, and you shall eat. And be full, and you shall bless the Lord your God for the good land he has given you. Now you read this description of the promised land, and Maybe if you're like me, you say, that sounds pretty good. Sounds like a pretty good land. Yeah, that that doesn't that doesn't quite capture it. In the ancient world, this description was a miraculous heaven on earth. No land is like this, let alone the wilderness that they've just been wandering through In a very real sense, in our current modern-day terms, the description here is an upper class, middle class life in the USA. And so he says, when you've reached that point, he says, note, remember that it's not through your adequacy and your strength. And God through Moses makes it clear here where these kinds of blessings come. In verse 10, he says, You shall bless the Lord your God for the land He has given you. Isn't that the great danger? In these moments of wealth and blessing, to forget our ultimate inadequacy? And in pride to claim that somehow, somehow we deserve what we have. Verse 11, chapter 8. Take care lest you forget. The Lord your God, by not keeping his commandments and his rules, and his statutes, which I command Lest when you have eaten and are full and have built good houses and live in them, and when your herds and flocks multiply, and your silver and gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied, you get the point, blessing, blessing, blessing. Be careful, lest you forget in all of that blessing, and your heart be lifted up, and you forget the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house. Of slavery. How could Israel ever forget the blessings of the land are from the Lord when they had to be saved out of Egypt to ever receive them in the first place? And yet, isn't the same true for anyone today who forgets our inadequacy before the Lord? Since Friends, the only way we can ever amass wealth is first by depending utterly on God's common grace, allowing the rain to shine. Uh the rain to shine. The rain doesn't shine. Live for the rain to fall and the sun to shine. Uh see you didn't you didn't catch that, right? Put it together and yeah. Allowing the sun to shine and the rain to fall on the just and the unjust, allowing us to have another day of breath despite our inherent sinfulness. Before Almighty God. You know, it starts there. Like everything we have, just like Israel having to be saved out of Egypt, we've had to experience God's common grace to have a day to do anything. Yet we want to take credit for it. And how sad for us who have experienced God's special grace, it's even more so that Our inadequacy is should be more obvious to us. And it seems like that's what Moses is getting here in verses 15 to 17. Who not only led you out of Egypt, but who led you through the great and terrifying wilderness with its fiery serpents and scorpions and thirsty ground where there was no water, who brought you water out of flinty rock. He has miraculously saved your life. Special grace, who fed you in the wilderness with manna that your fathers did not know, and that he might humble you and test you to do you good in the end. Beware lest you say in your heart Lest you say in your heart, It's not the Lord who's done this to do good to me in the end, but it is me who has done myself good, right? Beware lest you say in your heart, verse 17: My power and the might of my hand have gotten me. This wealth. Now as you think of it, think of Israel saying that. And it sounds kind of preposterous in context, right? It seems obvious that you would simply give thanks to God for his goodness, redeeming you out of the hands of Pharaoh, out of Egypt. Leading you faithfully through the wilderness for 40 years, sustaining you, and then giving you victory in the conquest of the land, how could you think it was your strength? And yet isn't this so common? Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel chapter four is a great biblical example of this. Who actually is told, you know, you're a great king, but God did that. And uh if you take credit for it, you're gonna be a great king like a tree, you're gonna be chopped down. And yet a few days, weeks, months, hours later, he's walking on his roof. What does he say? Is this not great Babylon which I have built by my mighty power? Very day he's chopped down like a tree. Just as Daniel had predicted. Okay, or kids, let me give you this illustration to try to get at what this is like. Imagine that for your birthday or for Christmas you get the Millennium Falcon Lego set. Now if you know, parents you may not be aware of this, but that is the most expensive Lego set right now. Aside from all those rare sets you can buy on eBay for like Fifteen grand, I think there's some. Anyway, they're smaller. I don't know why you'd want them. Anyway, I I'm Millennium Falcon, eight hundred and forty-nine dollars and ninety-nine cents. Not sure why we need those ninety-nine cents of it. Imagine you get this for your birthday. The next day you walk to school and you say Look at how great I am. I have the Millennium Falcon, Star Wars Lego said. Did you pay eight hundred and forty-nine dollars and ninety-nine cents for it? No, it's a gift How can you take credit and yet credit for and yet don't we do that all the time? Take pride in our self-believing, our self-sufficiency, forgetting our ultimate inadequacy and dependence on the holy, living, almighty God for strength and light. H 1 Corinthians 4:7. Paul has to say to the Corinthians, What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? That's the same question here for Israel. As they're going into the land and they begin to forget. Why do you boast as if you did not receive it? John 3:27, Jesus says a person cannot receive even one thing. Unless it is given him from heaven. So having no other gods before the Lord by loving God with our whole wealth means remembering not just our identity as creatures. God being our creator, but remembering our inadequacy in ourselves as creatures and sinful creatures at that. So important for us to remember this as 21st century Americans. Who love to claim that we're those who pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps. Exactly what that means, I don't know, but it means something of not admitting our inadequacy, our insufficiency. But believing in our own self-sufficiency. And note there is nothing wrong with taking a measure of satisfaction in hard work. in building something great, in running our own business, in having success at school, good grades that you've worked hard for. There's not necessarily anything wrong in taking some measure of satisfaction in these things. But we must remember in our success, especially in our success, that ultimately we are utterly dependent on God and His blessing. And that's not just the temptation for the rich and the successful Sadly, there are ways in which even in our poverty and our lack, we can believe this lie. We can think that, well, I need to work harder. It's up to me. Or maybe believe that I can never achieve something great because I don't have X, Y, When it is ultimately always God who blesses and gives the growth and enables us to do whatever we can. And remembering our inadequacy is not just about remembering that with regard to our material wealth. And here's where I want to expand it a little bit. It has to do also with our remembering our inadequacy ultimately in even intangible things. Like being able to produce great art. Like parenting. How dare, after having raised kids and done our best, which probably is in the at least for me is pretty close to failure rather than success. How dare we think if those kids do okay in the world, look at what my wisdom has produced. Even in our church. It's important. This is probably the place we see this most often. Forgetting our inadequacy is in the context of the church. How dare, friends, We who are celebrating this year our 40th anniversary, how sad if such a joyful occasion and such a great opportunity to look back on God's goodness and blessing and faithfulness for 40 years so far. How sad if we take such an occasion to break the first commandment and fall into an idolatry of self-sufficiency. See, to claim some credit for ourselves for what ultimately God Himself has done. So How do we fall? How do we have no other gods before God by loving Him with all of our stuff, with all of our wealth, with all of our muchness? It's remembering our identity, remembering our inadequacy, and third and finally remembering our investor. Our God, who is the one who invests us, gives us life and strength. Friends, if we can't take credit for the blessings and success, we have without falling into idolatry, then who should we credit for it? And the answer is the investor, the one who invests us with strength and the ability to cultivate and enjoy the blessings that he ultimately gives and grants to us. The Lord God Almighty. And that's what we see in verse 18. Instead, Moses says, beware lest you forget. And say, My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth. Instead, you shall remember the Lord your God, for it is He who gives you power to get wealth. That he may confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers as it is this day. And how do we practically remember our investor? The answer is by worship, by simply recognizing him for who he is, giving him the praise and the thanks and the honor that he deserves, singular worship of Almighty God and Him alone, wholehearted, whole life, whole stuffed devotion to God as our creator and redeemer, giving him thanks and praise for uh and living our lives for his glory as stewards of his strength and his stuff. And here's the s here's the thing. Simply not worshiping in that way is a form of idolatry. That form of having other gods before him, because if we are taking any of the credit that he deserves and placing it somewhere else, that, friends, is what the Bible calls. Idolatry. Serving or worshiping, or honoring, or giving glory to the creature rather than the creator, as we are called to do in Romans Chapter one. And it seems like that's why the warning comes in verse nineteen if you forget the Lord your God, you'll go after other gods. And serve them and worship them. Then I solemnly warn you today that you shall surely perish. Like the nations that the Lord makes perish before you, so shall you perish because you would not obey the voice of the Lord. Your God, what a warning. You'll be like the nations that I'm about to use you to judge and drive out of the land. And note that in some regard, this has uh we've talked about this, how this law uh in some ways is for Israel as they're entering into the land, and it is the condition by which they will stay in the land. But here's the In a certain sense, even already, we're seeing that it it broadens. This is part of God's moral law. You shall have no other gods before him. And and here it's he's saying basically if you worship other gods, you'll perish like the nations that worship. Worship other gods, friends, that's a warning for all of us. In other words, forgetting wors The one who invests us with strength and power. Forgetting God as the giver of strength leads to idolatry, and that leads to judgment like being one of the nations, verse 20. So what do we do with this? How do we remember our investor? It seems so simple. Just remember But it can be so hard. Why is it so hard? Why is it so hard not to build our identity on what we have? Why is it so hard to not believe that we can create blessings for ourselves? That it's ultimately up to us. Why is it so hard to actually give God proper praise and worship for who He is as the giver of every good and perfect gift that comes down from the Father of lights, as James 1 says? Why is it so hard? And the answer is: as you know, our sinful bentness away from God, we don't want to let God be God. We want to serve ourselves and we want to get absorbed in this world. And make it what we're all about. And why? Well it's because we're born in sin. And we're born in this bentness away from God. And And that's the root of all idolatry, is taking credit for what belongs to God and Him alone. I mean, that's what idolatry ultimately is. It's directing credit that should belong to God to someone or something else. And we can begin to sense why that's so offensive. Because we get offended by it, don't we? If someone claims credit for something we did, project at work, a paper we wrote for school A performance we get offended. How dare you take credit for what I deserve credit for? Now multiply that by infinity, and you begin to get a little taste of the offense it is to God when we give credit for what is ultimately his. To anyone or anything else, let alone take it for ourselves. So, what happens when we don't remember our investor? When we take blessings and forget the blesser? When we live like we earned it, we built it, we sustained it, when we put ourselves in the place of the giver, Deuteronomy is clear here. Forgetting is not neutral. Forgetting itself is idolatry. And it brings judgment like the nations. Part of the reason the writer to Hebrews can give this strong warning: if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a sacrifice. Fearful expectation of judgment and a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries. And friends, here's the hard truth. As Israel's wealth was a test. We know the story. She ultimately failed. As our stuff is a test, we know all too well. We also Fail. None of us has loved the Lord our God with all our wealth, with all our muchness, let alone all our heart and self. But there is one who has. And that's the Lord Jesus Christ, God the Son, Israel reduced to one who entered into the wilderness to be tested He had the ability to make bread. But man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth Of God. He was tested and he passed, he obeyed, he fulfilled all righteousness, he remembered his identity as a creature, as man, even though he was also God, the creator. He remembered his human inadequacy and dependence on the Father, even though he was God the Son incarnate. He remembered his investor who gave him strength, his whole life being devoted to simply thinking. And praising and worshiping and glorifying his Father in heaven, who is at work in and through him. And what did he do with this wealth of righteousness that he himself did earn? 2 Corinthians 8:9. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, Uh was he rich in worldly wealth? He had some. His ministry had some. Judas could steal from it and they still were able to, you know, buy some bread for people occasionally. He wasn't rich in worldly wealth. What was he rich in? He was rich in righteousness. Though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. Taking the curse of the unrighteous, going to the cross, so that you by his poverty might become How are we made rich? By finding ourselves in Christ. In Christ. Empowered by the Spirit through faith. To receive not just temporal, earthly blessings, but the promise of eternal blessings in Jesus Christ, who died to pay for our sin and rose for our justification. So that we have confidence in God. What is justification? So that we have confidence. As we go to the Father through faith in Jesus Christ, he looks down on us and sees the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ. Enriched with that righteousness, we can stand before Him confident that we are His beloved children. Through faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus enriches us not, He enriches us by giving us a new identity, not just as creatures, but as beloved sons and daughters of our Almighty loving Heavenly Father. He enriches us by giving us humble confidence, not in ourselves, but in his work in us by his Almighty Spirit, who's at work conforming us more and more to his righteous image. He enriches us by giving us new hearts oriented to worshiping and serving God alone and giving generously, knowing that having all we need. All the wealth we need in Christ, both for this life and the life to come, we can be a generous, sacrificial serving people. Or as Paul says in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3: Blessed be the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And so, friends, let's conclude. Ponder your provider. Love the Lord your God with all of your muchness, your stuff, because in Christ you already have everything for life. Life and godliness. May you go forth remembering your identity, who you are in Christ, remembering your inadequacy apart from Him, and remembering the God who has invested in you every spiritual blessing. in the heavenly places, and may you love him with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your variness, with all your wealth, with all your strength, with all your muchness. Loving. Loving Jesus, our living bread from heaven, and the word of life and love, proclaiming to us God's grace and his everlasting kindness to us. Us in Jesus Christ. Remembering to worship our Lord, our Savior, our God, Jesus, our covenant King. Let's close in a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you for these reminders. Lord, how quickly we forget who we are, how quickly we forget our need before you, not only dependent upon you. But also sinners who are in need of your grace. How quickly we forget that you are at work in us, empowering us, enabling us. To live another moment of life and breath so that we can glorify and worship you. May you enable us to spend the wealth that you've entrusted To us with the praise and glory of your name in Jesus' name.