For our New Testament reading, let's turn to Ephesians chapter 6. That's on page 979 of the Pew Bibles provided for you. I totally messed up this reading, and this is not Ellen's fault. This is totally my fault. I had a stopping at verse 23 and And then leaving the last verse of the epistle. So we won't do that. We'll go through verse 24. And I had a starting in the middle of verse 18. I think it'd be better to jump back to verse 16. As you turn there, a quick note of housekeeping. We're at the end of Ephesians, so you might be asking, where are we going next? And just to Make sure that we're all on the same page. I plan to do a few weeks uh series going back to the Westminster Shorter Catechism and thinking about Christ our Redeemer and his role in redemption, and that'll carry us through the end of the year, so it'll be appropriate for us as we uh reflect on the incarnation in December as well. Those those parts of the catechism are helpful in reflecting on that. And then uh starting in the new year, uh plan to uh turn So that's the plan for now, and uh we will uh look forward to getting there eventually. But today we're going to finish up with the book of Ephesians, Ephesians chapter six. We're gonna start, oh let's start in verse sixteen and then just read through the end. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for the saints, and also for me, that words may be given to me in the opening of my mouth, boldly to proclaim the mystery. Of the gospel for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly, as I ought to speak, so that you also may know how I am and what I am doing. Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will tell you everything. I have sent him to you for this very purpose that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your hearts. Peace be to the brothers in love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love incorruptible. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing as we take some time to think on it further. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, that it is instructive to us, that you meet us in it, that you To use it to convict us of sin and to comfort us with the truths of your promises and the gospel. May you do that even this morning as we look at this text from Ephesians chapter 6. Open it to us by your Spirit. Illumine our Our hearts by your spirit enable us to hear the word that you would have for us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as you think of the future, as you think ahead to 2025, can you believe we're we're getting there? It's coming Sooner than we thought. Seems like that happens every year. It keeps coming sooner than I thought. Anyway, what is it as you look ahead? What is it as you look to 2025 that you hope for? What do you hope the year will bring? What do you long for in the future? Maybe it's something like peace, prosperity. Maybe you long for love, deep love, love for you and a love that you can return. Or maybe Maybe you're thinking in more spiritual terms, as we're called to in scripture. Maybe you're hoping to grow in your faith in the coming year. Maybe you're hoping to overcome sin that you're currently struggling with. Addictions that you may be becoming aware of, sinful desires. Maybe you're hoping to grow in grace in some way. If if any of these are longings that resonate with you, the good news is That we have some good words in Ephesians six that address how those sort of longings can be true, can be fulfilled, where it is that we can find satisfaction to these Our many often deepest longings and desires. Here in Ephesians chapter 6, really, we're going to look at verses 18 to 24 primarily. In these, the Apostle Paul, now we call him an apostle. Because that means sent one. One sent by Jesus Christ as an ambassador. He says it here, he's an ambassador in chains. And ambassadors are basically given the authority to Speak on behalf of the nation or the king whom they represent. And that's who Paul the Apostle is. We read through Ephesians and we'll say, hey, Paul says this, Paul says that. Why do we care? Because he's an apostle. Apostle. He's sent by Jesus Christ to speak for God, to give us God's truth, God's instruction, God's guidance. And what he does here in these verses, he shows how all of these kinds of longings that we We all at some point have longings for peace, prosperity, love, faith to grow out of our darkness. into a more light-filled existence. These longings can actually be our future as followers of Jesus Christ. Now, in this passage, I started reading verse 16, and maybe I could have even started before, because this is all happening in the context that Paul has been reminding the Ephesians and us that we are engaged in a cosmic spiritual battle between God and evil, between very real but but largely unseen forces, demonic forces. Of satanic forces, what Paul calls in verse 12, cosmic powers over this present darkness. We're engaged in that battle whether we realize it or not. And yet he doesn't want us simply to know about the battle and to fear it. Which describing it ought to bring some measure of discomfort or fear, but instead he wants to encourage the church to say, we're well equipped for it. We can stand firm in our faith because we can be girded with what Paul calls the armor of God. We didn't talk about this last time, but uh the word for armor there in Greek is actually the word from which we get panop panoply, not panoply. Monopoly, panoply, no. A panoply is basically all the required gear. for battle, right? So the the panoply of God. And we'll we'll realize why that's significant in a moment, because it does uh it does have significance for our passages But we've talked about how the panoply of God or the armor of God is actually God's own armor first. It's what he wears as he engages in the spiritual battle. And then it is a description of Christ Himself, whom we wear as we are in Christ as part of his body by the Spirit. And here then Paul concludes the whole letter with encouraging reminders of the resources we have as we wear that armor of God. And stand firm in our faith. How do we wear it? How do we stand against the world, the flesh, and the devil as this spiritual warfare is often described? It's by three things. First of all, persevering in prayer to God, participating in the people of God, and being persuaded of God's promises. Persevering in prayer, participating in the people of God, and persuaded of God's promises. First, persevering in prayer. And let me give you a little warning. This is an unbalanced sermon. This first point is like half a sermon or a little more. So but it's it's important because You know, Paul is saying, do or you know, take take up all these things, uh you know, these uh these things, the belt, the breastplate, the shoes. And then he ends and and and what we You realize is he gets to the end of this and he gets to the sword of the spirit. And often you'll see in interpretations of the passage that this is the first offensive weapon. All the rest has been defensive. A belt that girds all your gear on, a breastplate, shoes to protect your feet as you run, a shield, a helmet over your head. And then we get to the sword, and we think, well, there's your offensive weapon. But it's interesting, this sword, the word for sword here, is actually a very short sword. Yes, it was somewhat offensive, but it was really more of a defensive Weapon for close combat. It's the last resort. What's interesting is Paul hasn't really mentioned the main offensive weapons of the Roman military at the time. And it's often thought that that's what Paul is thinking of. He's thinking of these Old Testament examples which you looked at last time from Isaiah, these are divine warrior images, but you can imagine he is imprisoned in chains, he says in this passage, right? Uh for which I am a prisoner in ambassador in chains in verse twenty. He likely is chained to what? To who? A Roman soldier who is geared for battle in these sort of weapons. And so you can imagine Paul meditating on these truths. As he's he's looking at this soldier to whom he's chained. But what's interesting is he's only spoken of defensive gear, defensive parts of the Penoply. Offensive weapons are missing. And there were many in the Roman army at the time. They had all sorts of attack weapons. They had these darts that they would throw. Apparently Romans didn't like arrows. They would hire Assyrians and others for to be archers for them once they conquered them. But uh they had these darts that they could throw. But probably the main offensive weapon for the each individual soldier was the javelin. The long spear they would throw. It actually would stick into the shields and make them so heavy that they'd have to drop their shields and then they were targets for for you to come and fit. They also had things like catapults, these projectiles that could be shot from behind the battle lines into the oncoming army and and take out a number of them and cause chaos uh before they even encountered that uh enemy in There were lots of offensive weapons, but Paul doesn't mention any of them. In fact, he doesn't even continue the metaphor, really, and talk about these offensive weapons, but it seems clear. That the offensive, the the one main offensive weapon that Paul offers or holds out to us as we engage in the spiritual battle It's prayer. Prayer. That's the final exhortation there in verse 18. Praying, or we could say. In a sense, this carries on the imperatives of the earlier part. Pray at all times in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication to that and keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints. Three words. Well, two of them are the same, but three times he mentions this prayer. And the idea, I think, is that this is the one main offensive weapon in our spiritual battle. And it's what we all need. In many ways, it's like it's like modern artillery, it's like the air support, it's like calling the catapults from behind. You know, uh mil modern uh military, I think this is how happen you can correct me if I'm wrong. But that nowadays with all the tech you can go in and you go in on the ground, maybe you're going, you engage the enemy and you see them from way out. And you can call back for air support or artillery support and you can say, there's the there's the enemy, take them out. And you don't even have to get close And they're so targeted, they're so able to hit the enemy that really you can just see them from afar and then call in that air support. I think that's how we should think of prayer. That it's actually not in the end a weapon that we personally wield, but it is an appeal to God to be like that air support, that outer support, to take out the enemy even as we see them off, see it off. In the distance. In very real ways, prayer is simply talking to God, asking Him for what we need. And Paul, as he unpacks this one main offensive weapon, he shows us here both the comprehensiveness of prayer and the main content of prayer in the way he unfolds it in verses 8 and 18. First of all, he shows us the comprehensive nature of prayer. That prayer is, as I mentioned last week, to be the living, breathing activity of the Church of Jesus Christ. Where is the breath of the church? And we see this in the four alls in verse 18. Did you notice that? All, all, all, all. Four alls. That show their comprehensiveness of prayer. Prayer, first of all, they show the comprehensive times of prayer, praying at all times in the Spirit. In many ways, it's what Paul says elsewhere in 1 Thessalonians 5, 17, where he says, pray without ceasing. What does that mean? It doesn't mean that we sit on our knees and don't do anything. God has called us to work, He's called us to serve, He's called us to all kinds of activity. I think what it means though is that our lives are to be continually Sprinkled with prayer. Our days are to be dotted with prayer, if you will. God not only calls us to have specific times set aside for that. And we do that once a week as we gather on Wednesday evening with our Zoom prayer meeting and take an hour and say, this is an hour for prayer. But the rest of life is also to have prayer scattered throughout. Maybe before the meals that you eat, maybe as you encounter difficulties. We see this exemplified in Nehemiah And Nehemiah, this uh this uh man who is part of the uh exilic people of God, he's in serving in um the Persian king's court, and uh he hears about Jerusalem. He's in in In Susa and the capital of Persia, and he hears about Jerusalem, the walls are torn down. What does it say? It says Nehemiah chapter 1 recounts. He stops, he fasts, and he prays. And then he gives us this long, beautiful, thoughtful prayer, reflecting on God's truth, what God has done for his people. That's the kind of dedicated prayer time that is Certainly part of w one of the aspects of prayer. But then in the next chapter, he goes into the king, he's sad, his face is long, and the king notices, says, What's wrong, DMI? He's the king's cupbearer. And it says, Nehemiah says, and I prayed and I said to the king. This little, we call them an arrow prayer, and it sort of just shot up this, maybe even wordless, soundless, Lord help me, you know. And that's the kind of ongoing prayer that we can continue in in our life of faith. Prayer is to be at all times, our days dotted with prayer. The second all, a comprehensive shows the comprehensive kinds of prayer we should be engaged in. It says in verse 18, with all prayer and supplication. Now these are two words for prayer, probably sort of the two spectrum, the two ends of the spectrum of what prayer is. All prayer and supplication. And I think here, maybe getting at the various kinds of prayer that we think about in our acronym ACTS, ACTS. This is how we structure our prayers here in our worship service. The first prayer being a prayer of adoration and confession. Adoration when we praise God for who He is. Just His wonder, His Majesty. His greatness. Confession where we confess that we are sinful and need his help. We explicitly confess our sins and repent of it. And then thanksgiving and supplication. That's our second prayer where we give thanks to God for what he has done. Again, that's sort of a difference, right? Adoring him for who he is. Thanking him for what he has done, both in the past, both in the redemption we have in Christ, as well as in the present, as he continues to answer prayer week by week, day by day. And then finally, S supplication, asking for the things that we need. Paul says all of that is to be part of our prayer as we engage in this spiritual battle. It's interesting. The implication is that I think of prayer for spiritual battle as being calling for help, supplication. Paul says, no, it's all prayer and supplication is to be part of that engagement in the battle. And think about that. Isn't it true that all aspects of Acts, adoration, confession, thanksgiving, and supplication all serve to engage in this war? Adoration attunes us to how we were made to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. It attunes our hearts, building our faith, cultivating our love. And our hope. Confession renews us in the grace and forgiveness that we need, as by nature, sinful people who need God's forgiveness. Confession Renews us in that as we reflect on, no, it is there, but for the grace of God go I. Thanksgiving cultivates gratitude in A recognition of God's power in the past and his past kindness as well as his power in the present. It cultivates that faith that we need to stand firm in our faith. And then supplication renews our reliance on God and His sovereignty as we call on Him to help us in this battle we're engaged in. The challenge for us, I think, it's i is that it's so easy to fall into just supplication, just me and my needs, as opposed to seeing that all of the prayer is a way in which we wield this offensive weapon of prayer that God has given us for this battle. So comprehensive times of prayer, kinds of prayer. Third, the comprehensive manner of prayer. He says in verse 18, keep alert with all perseverance. All perseverance. Alertness with all perseverance. But if you know the story of Jesus and his disciples in the Garden of Gethsemane, you know why we need this exhortation. His poor disciples are much like we are often. They're asked to pray by Jesus. He takes them, uh only three of them. He takes them off in a little distance. He says, All right, I need you to provide prayer support for me. Basically, he's going to ask them to pray for an hour, and he comes back, and what does he find? He finds them sleeping, not alert, sleeping. If you've ever tried to pray for an hour straight, you know that it can be hard. To stay awake. In fact, sometimes when when I'm awake at night and can't sleep, what do I do? I take some time to pray. For better and for worse, it's a great way to fall back asleep. Alertness is so important in prayer, partly because really what prayer is, is it is using the power of human attention and directing it to spiritual things. It's interesting. Today there's more and more discussion of the power and the wonder and the value of human attention. Do you realize that all the tech companies are vying for more of your attention? Trying to keep hold of your eyeballs And that is actually so valuable they can sell it for millions and billions of dollars to the highest bidder, the advertisers. And if you think about it, that on the one hand is Striking. Like what you're saying, me directing my eyes creates value. Yeah. We don't think of that, I don't think, very often. But I think uh Beyond that, it's this reality that through human attention, so much of the world has been transformed. Think about it. Leonardo da Vinci, this Renaissance man, and he gave attention to certain things, and we are still benefiting from the way in which he directed his intelligent attention. Through his life. And the call here is: keep alert with all perseverance, direct your attention carefully, attentively, to God in prayer, to the spiritual matters that are before us in this spiritual battle. And don't be like the disciples. Mark 14, 37, Jesus comes back and could you couldn't you stay awake for one hour? Stay awake and pray so that you won't enter into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. How is it that we need to keep alert with all perseverance? Maybe it's you know Making sure we're praying before meals, setting aside maybe some time during the day. Maybe it is joining the weekly prayer meeting on Wednesday because by yourself you just can't quite Focus enough and keep the attention on prayer as you need to. It's such a valuable experience. We do gather. Often many of us don't even get a chance to pray, and yet be being there, participating, and together providing attention to these things. These spiritual matters that are before us, keep alert with all perseverance in prayer. Fourth, the fourth comprehensive character of prayer, the comprehensive beneficiaries. Prayer is to be for all kinds of people, all kinds of times. Paul gets at that and where he says making supplication for all the saints. I know for me that's a challenge. Often my prayer is very focused on me and on the things that are important to me, and that certainly There's nothing wrong with that. It's appropriate. But here I think we're called to look outside ourselves and to recognize that we're participating in the whole global church as we direct our attention in prayer. The whole church of Christ and one another are to be part of our prayer, and elsewhere, the scripture tells us, we're to even pray for our enemies and our persecutors. Part of the reason is because actually they may end up being part of the saints of God as we pray them into the kingdom of God. Like James chapter 5, where it says, when we are in deep trouble, we're to call for one another. And pray together, making supplication for all the saints. So there's the comprehensiveness of prayer. What about the content? Just a little more briefly here, Paul His his his call for what he wants them to be praying for, especially for him, is I think so remarkable to me. He he says, Pray for me to have courage and to be captivated with the gospel. That's in verses 19 to 20. Verse 19. And also for me, that words may be given to me in the opening of my mouth to boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel for which I am amended, wherewith I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. Paul says, pray for me to be bold. If you know anything about Paul, isn't that a little shocking? I mean Paul, who whenever we see him in Acts, is being bold, boldly preaching the gospel so much that he's getting arrested for it. That's That's what he is here. He's in chains. He's been arrested for preaching the gospel boldly. I can't imagine anyone who needs less prayer for boldness to preach the mystery of the gospel. gospel. And yet what a reminder that if Paul saw a need for it for himself, then surely we have need for it in ourselves. John Calvin, the great reformed theologian, he put it this way, there is no man reflecting on this verse. There's no man so richly endowed with gifts as not to need this kind of assistance from his brethren, so long as he remains in the world. But should we be surprised? I mean, isn't this exactly what we need prayer for regularly? If you're ever engaged in opportunities where you have to to share Christ, to share the gospel, you you need boldness, don't you? Well why is it? Well it's because what what keeps us from doing it so often it's fear, fear of what others might think. Fear of the rejection we might experience from others, fear of the way we might offend others with simply sharing our love for Christ and how grateful we are for all that He's done. And that actually leads us to the second point because part of overcoming that fear is not only by God giving us boldness to speak. And the words to speak, as Paul says here, but also being captivated by the truth of what we have to share. That's the second Why ought Paul speak so boldly? Why ought we speak so boldly? It's because of the wonder and beauty Of the gospel. That ought to motivate this, it ought to make it be easy. When we fall in love with someone for the first time, we can't help talking about them because we're so excited about that reality. And often when we come to faith in Christ, that's how it begins. And it should be that way. In the gospel we learn that we who by nature are sinful and dead in our sinfulness, that's what it says in Ephesians 2. That we who are in rebellion against God and his laws, and how are we in rebellion against him? Often by rejecting him outright, saying, Yeah, I know what God says, but I don't want to hear it Probably the more offensive way in which we rebel against God is simply by ignoring him. If you've ever been in a situation where you've been in a group and you've tried to say something, you're just completely ignored, that people act like you're not even there. You know how offensive that can be. What about when we do that to the Almighty God, creator of all things? What an offense. And yet the good news of the gospel is that God hasn't left us in our offense and our rebellion. But he has found a way to overcome our condemnation that should be due us due to sin. And the consequence of sin, which is death itself. And he did this by sending his son Jesus Christ, to take on himself the consequences for all sin, our sin, the penalty we deserve, so that we can be forgiven and have the promise of resurrection. From the dead, just as Jesus rose on the third day, that we can have everlasting life in the age to come. The gospel is summarized so well by the late Tim Keller, who says, in the gospel we discover that we're more sinful and flawed than we ever dared believe. But in the gospel, we also learn that we're more loved and accepted by God than we ever dared hope. Friends, that ought to grip us. That ought to captivate us. That ought to delight us so much that fear fades and boldness blooms and we can share Christ freely and rejoicingly. Yet sadly, our faith, our gratitude for the gospel often fades. Even though it's incredible, it's miraculous, it can begin to seem too ordinary, especially for you young people who've grown up in the church, maybe you've heard this gospel all your life, it can be be easy to think that, yeah, that's Doesn't everyone know that? No, not everyone does. And yet often, sadly, it takes divine intervention To be bold. And to and I think we see that desire for captivation in those last words of Paul, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. We ought to speak that way because it is such good news. And yet it often takes prayer, prayer to be bold, prayer to be captivated by it, so that we might have courage to share. That's the first point, and the third, the third, second and third are much shorter. Not only do we wear this armor and stand against the world, the flesh, and the devil, by persevering in prayer, but also by By doing it in the people of God or among the people of God, by participating in the people of God. We see this in verses 21 to 22, where Paul shows us the essential importance of being part of the body of Christ, the local church. The people of God. It's interesting, none of the armor is said to be worn alone. All the commands through this chapter are you all as a church. You all put on the full armor of God. You all stand firm in the faith. That makes sense because any army is not an army with one soldier dr dressed for war. We need many soldiers dressed for war, and that's what we have in the country. Why do we need one another? Why do we need the broader church? First Paul shows us here in verse 21, it's to keep track of God's progress in the spiritual church. Sometimes it can seem like it's it's a it's it's it's a war that's not being won, that it's a war that's hopeless, that it's not being defeated, espe Especially when we simply look at our lives, but Paul says let's Let's look beyond that. We need one another to see beyond that. That's what he says, I think, in verse twenty-one. So that so that you may know how I am doing or how I am and what I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will tell you everything. Now we don't know a ton about Tychicus, but he's probably a Gentile believer, so not a Jewish believer. That's because of his name. His name means fortune or fortunate. Lucky man. Most Jews and most Christians today wouldn't name their child lucky. Right? Because we believe in God's providence, right? Not luck. God ordains whatsoever comes to pass. So probably a Gentile came to faith maybe later in life through Paul's ministry. He's a confidant of Paul. He traveled a lot with Paul. Acts 20 verse 4, it says that he's a Christian from Asia, which is where Ephesus is. So he might have been an Ephesian. He might have been well known to the church there. Also a trusted uh colleague of Paul's. Probably he is uh Paul is making reference to him here because he's being sent with the letter. Often this would be done in the ancient world that you would not only just send the letter by a mailman, but you actually send it by somebody you knew and trusted who you had worked with, maybe even in writing the letter. So that they knew how to read it. You say, well, it's pretty easy to know how to read the letter. But the problem was Greek letters were written in a way not like they're laid out in our Bibles. They were written in all capital letters with no spaces. Just p like that. Try reading uh a book like that. It's very possible, but at times it can be tricky. And so you'd send letters with a letter reader, and that's probably what Tychicus is. Somebody to interpret. it rightly for them. But look what Paul says. He says, I'm sending him so that he can update you on the progress of He's in prison, he's imprisoned, and he certainly need uh needed this colleague and friend, and yet he said, I'm going to send him to you that he might inform you so that he you too can bear witness to the progress of God in the spiritual war we're in. engaged in. It's a good reminder that we're not that we're not just part of the local body of Christ, but that the church is wherever the gospel is being preached and believed. Around the world. And and we ought to pay attention to what God's doing around the world because it does encourage Us that the war is being won by God as the gospel goes forth, and many are being brought to new life. The second reason we need each other is for encouragement in the fight. And this is essential if you think of any war, any battle, you need courage to engage and this is the role played by fellow warriors. Before a war, uh before a battle you'd gather together, you put on your uh weaponry and your armor, and then you encourage each other. for battle. Rile up the troops. And it seems like that's part of what Tychicus is doing here. And we see that there in verse 22. I've sent him to to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your hearts. Another way to translate that is comfort your hearts. It's the same word for the Holy Spirit in John chapter 14, that he is the comforter or the paraclete. This is the blessing. The people of God, that we are to encourage one another in this spiritual battle that we're in. And it's the blessing of hearing missionaries come back to us or send reports back to us showing us what our work. is uh what what the work we're involved in is accomplishing in the world. Luke 10, after Jesus sends out the disciples. In many ways, what's happening here week by week as we gather as the church is what happens when Jesus sends out his 72 disciples and then they come back. They come back, they're like, man, you should have seen the spirits were obedient to us. Right? And in a sense, that's part of what we do is we gather and we say Hey, let me tell you what God's doing in my life. Look at what He's done this late week. Look what I've seen. Sometimes we don't see much. So it's good for us to gather and to hear how God is at work in the world. But then what is it that Jesus says? He says that okay, rejoice in that, but rejoice even more that our names are written in heaven. That's why we gather week by week and what do we do? We rejoice in the fact that our names are written in heaven because of the grace of God to us in Jesus Christ. So how do we persevere in the cosmic spiritual battle? By persevering in prayer, by participating in the people of God. And third and finally By being persuaded of God's promises. This is how Paul ends this whole epistle: assuring the Ephesians of all God's blessings. And grace in the gospel. And he ends like he began. He began in chapter 1: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and Lord Jesus Christ. Then look at verse 23 and 24. Peace be to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love. Incorruptible. He started off with grace and peace, ends with peace and grace. A beautiful little chiastic sandwich structure that says that's really what this whole epistle is about. The grace of God in Jesus Christ. That leads to peace with God and peace with one another. But notice in this last two verses, this final part, that Paul specifically tells us where this peace and grace comes from. From God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. See, it's God's promise to all who believe. Not world peace, as in no war or conflict ever. But a peace that Paul says in Ephesians in Philippians 4. 7, a peace with peace which surpasses all understanding. A peace of knowing that God has given us peace, that we've been reconciled to Him, that the Almighty, Sovereign, Holy Judge of the Universe looks down on us and will on the day of judgment look down on us. And not see our sin, not see our failure, not see our weakness, not see our struggles with sin, but see us in Christ as his beloved children, holy and blameless before him. This is a call for you who are not yet followers of Christ. These promises are only found through repentance and faith in Jesus. Jesus. There are gifts from him to his people. So don't face God's judgment alone. Find his promise of peace through faith in him when he says, I will cover you with my very own righteousness. John fourteen, Jesus promises us peace. He says, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you, not as the world gives, do I give it to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them Be afraid. We know God is smiling on us, that He no longer sees our failures and sin. We no longer have need for truth. And it's the same with God's grace. Not only is peace a promise of God, but grace is a promise of God. It's a gift of God. It's received by faith, and faith itself is a gift. If grace is through faith, and faith is a gift, then grace is a gift from God as well. Ephesians 2. 8, for by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God, and that's why Paul ends this letter, like he ends most of his letters, with a benediction, a good word. That's what it means. A word of blessing, a word of promise from God given to remind us, to persuade us of his promises as we conclude this letter. And his promises in Jesus Christ are simple and can be summed up with those two words, grace and peace. Peace and grace. And yet these promises are not just there to be heard and believed, but they're meant to cultivate in us as the body of Christ the Christian virtues of faith, hope, and love. And again, if you read Ephesians 1 and 2, that's how Paul begins. He says, grace and peace, and then he unpacks that, exploring how that comes through faith, hope, and love. And here in verse 23, peace be to the brothers and love. Love with faith. See, grace of God and peace with God frees us to love others and sacrifice for each other because we know we already have the love of God perfectly for us in Jesus Christ. We have the riches of glory in Jesus Christ, as Paul says in uh clause in Ephesians 3. 16 And we're filled with his resurrection, heavenly spirit, and being fitted for the new heavens and the new earth. So we don't need to cling to our stuff, but we can generously share it with others. We don't need to try to work our own salvation. We can generously serve one another because we know that we have all that we need in Jesus Christ. Faith is required because Christ right now is seated in the heaven heavenly places, as Paul says in chapter 1. We don't see him now, but we follow him, and we follow him by walking by faith, not by the way. Sight until we reach our hope, which is the everlasting life promised us in Jesus Christ. And then hope. Where do we see hope in this passage? Where do we see a reminder, or Paul trying to persuade us of our hope? In these last two verses, and it's a little hard to see, partly because of our translation, but it's in the very last word. Very last word. See, uh that second love in verse 24 really isn't there. That's how the translators are trying to make sense of this, but Literally the verse goes like this: Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility. And so then the translators are saying, well what does that in incorruptibility go with? Um and the you know one possible answer is it goes with love, that our love is incorruptible. But that actually puts it so far away in the grammar that I think one commentator said, I think that's unlikely, the one that I actually trust the most. He says, I think this probably goes with Jesus, that loves, who love our Lord Jesus Christ in his incorruptibility. Which is what he is, thrown at the Father's right hand, risen in glory. That's what Paul unpacks for us in 1 Corinthians 15, where he talks about The imperishable needing to put on, I'm sorry, the perishable needing to put on the imperishable. That's what resurrection life is. Yet I wonder if maybe that actually That word may go with those who who love in some sense. Instead, not not necessarily saying that our love is incorruptible, but that we are incorruptible as we follow Christ by faith. No matter what, whether it's talking about Christ and his immortality and his glory and his resurrection, New body or us and the new life that we already are experiencing some way in some way by the Spirit. It's a little reminder of our hope. Our hope is that when we are raised to new life, we will be like him. We will see him as he is. And we will reign with him in glory forever. So do you want true peace? Do you want everlasting prosperity? Do you want true love? Do you want spiritual growth and grace and faith and hope? Engage in the spiritual By persevering in prayer, participating in the people of God, and then growing in your persuasion of the promises of God, his peace and grace through faith, expressed in love, leading to the hope we have in Christ of everlasting life. With him in glory to the praise of his glorious grace. I'll close this series through the book of Ephesians with Paul's words for us here: peace be to the brothers, and here brothers and sisters are in view. And love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility Amen. Amen. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these words we've had throughout this book of Ephesians, these reminders. Your peace and your grace, how we have them in Jesus Christ. We pray you'd help us to grow in our love for Him and our ability to wage and engage in this spiritual war we're involved in. Help us to hate our sin and to grow in our dislike of it and our mortification of it. Help us to grow in grace and faith and hope and love, as even as we follow Christ, our good shepherd. In his name we pray. Amen.