Our Old Testament reading, our sermon text this morning is Jonah chapter 1, verses 1 through 16. You can find that on page 774, the Pew Bibles. This is the story of Jonah, a well-known story, certainly by many, but one which I hope we will see with new eyes as we look to try and ask with clarity what the text itself says. Siri might read it for us, but I'll read it too. Begins this way. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come up before me. But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. He went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went down into it. To go with them to Tarshish, away from the presence of the Lord. The Lord whirled a great wind upon the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship threatened to break up. Then the mariners were afraid, and each cried out to his God, and they hurled the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship and had laid down and was fast asleep. So the captain came and said to him, What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise, call out to your God. Perhaps the God will give a thought to us that we may not perish And they said to one another, Come, let us cast lots that we may know on whose account this evil has come upon us. So they cast the lots, and a lot fell on Jonah They said to him, Tell us on whose account this evil has come upon us? What is your occupation? Where do you come from? What is your country? And of what people are you? And he said to them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land. Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, What is this that you have done? For the men knew that he was fleeing away from the presence of the Lord, because he had told them Then they said to him, What shall we do to you that the sea may quiet down for us? For the sea grew more and more tempestuous. And he said to them, Pick me up and hurl me into the sea. Then the sea will quiet down for you. For I know it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you. Nevertheless, the men rode hard to get back to dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more and more tempestuous against them. Therefore, they called out to the Lord, O Lord, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us the innocent blood, for you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you. So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly. And they offered a sacrifice to the Lord, and they made vows. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we rejoice that you are a God who sends your word to his people. You are a God who calls people to repentance. And you've used your word in many ways through many people to do this. And we pray as we reflect upon this story as we hear of who Jonah is, what you have called him to, the way he's responded, that we might see the sin which rises up before you for what it is. We might see our sin. And that we might respond as those who fear you, who respond in repentance, Father. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. The hero or the villain? The hero and the villain, those are two different characters typically in the stories that we look at, that we hear, that we see. watch a movie, uh read a book, and we ask pretty quickly, who here is gonna be the hero? Who will be the villain? That's just the way that we tend to categorize people throughout narratives. One of the problems with narratives though, and ours trying to make those categorizations, is that often people appear to us to be pretty ambiguous as to what category they fit into. We think about narratives, stories, oh, even real life, they are real life is filled with conflicted or ambiguous characters, at least in how we perceive them. We might tend to call these people the anti-hero. Maybe they're the vigilante in the story. An experiment for us and just think for a moment, consider these names, and answer to yourself, is this a hero or a villain? Shakespeare's Macbeth, Hero or Villain, from The Godfather, Michael Corleone. Is he the hero or the villain? How about the Batman? Hero or villain? We can make it a little more funny. Captain Jack Sparrow. Hero or villain? The experiment does work with real life too. Napoleon Bonaparte. Hero or villain. What holiday of sorts have just occurred? Christopher Columbus, hero or villain? I could name just about any political figure and different people are going to have a different answer pretty sternly. No, he's a hero. No, he's a villain. This morning we are beginning a study through this Old Testament prophet, this book of Jonah, one who raises to many the same kind of question. Jonah. Hero or villain? The story of Jonah is probably pretty familiar. We tell it to children, the story of the great fish swallowing Jonah, and sometimes we tend to just leave it at that, a kind of kids' fairy tale. Or maybe as adults we consider the story in the great claims of Jonah and we start to argue on one side of it or another, uh well was it a fish? Was it a whale? What is actually happening here? That kind of argument at least happens amongst those who do believe that this event really happened, that the narrative here is a true story. On the other side are those denying that this story could be factually, historically true in any kind of sense. I want to say significantly here I absolutely affirm that this story occurred. But it's in getting so caught up in those elements that we tend to get caught up in. Well, how did it happen? And so often we can miss the real significance of what this story means. So much of the Old Testament is written as story. God uses these stories to teach us, to show us who he is, to teach us of the nature of our sin, to reveal to us the beauty of his gospel of grace. One pastor said it this way, we do not come to judge the Word of God, deciding if it really happened or not. We come to be judged by it to learn from it, to be molded by it. And so my hope as we explore this book, the story of Jonah together, is that that will be our experience. that we will be able to ask and then answer what is God teaching us through the story of the prophet Jonah Along the way, part of what we will see is that much of the thoughts and actions of Jonah are ambiguous. We come to this kind of story and we want to get into the head of Jonah. We want to have, with clarity, understanding about what he is thinking, what he is doing, trying to answer those questions. Is he being selfish here or selfless? Does Jonah come to this point or that? And is it there that he repents or Is he just lying to us? Is Jonah the hero or is he a villain? I imagine through this study, we'll probably get frustrated along the way. Because we cannot quite do that. We cannot quite psychologize Jonah that way. We don't often get the most clear of answers about him. And in some sense, ironically, for a story where we so often argue about whether it's real or not, this ambiguity, this frustration. is part of what makes this story so real to us. So often we are ambiguous. We assume, in one sense, of course I'm the hero, of course I'm the main character. Then we look into the depths of our heart, we review the actions of our hands, and we begin to fear. Or am I actually the villain? Is that what rests within me? Me, hero or villain? Sometimes as we review our lives, that is ambiguous, isn't it? Jonah is a prophet of God. He is one who was called by God to speak to God's people. The context here we would assume is to speak to God to Israel and repeatedly throughout the Old Testament, the prophets come as God's lawyers, warning and reminding the people, if you continue down this road, it only leads to destruction. If you continue on in your sin, it will kill you. That's what the prophets say again and again. What's striking about the story of Jonah right away is that he is called to go, not to Israel. Aware? To Nineveh. Why is God's prophet being sent to the Assyrians, to another nation? The Assyrians, they are the enemies of the Jewish people. The Assyrians have already oppressed and bullied Israel for many years throughout their history. The Assyrians will less than a generation after Jonah dies. Come and conquer Israel. And Jonah is sent to their capital city, Nineveh. We have a tendency to, when we already know the story and how it goes, jump to the end of it. Please try not to do that. Please try and sit where the narrative has us so far for a moment. God's prophets are called to go and call people out for their sin, to call out their sin. Jonah is being called to go to Nineveh to call them out for their sin. There's a sense in which we like the opportunity to do that to our enemies. Just imagine for a moment that God commissioned you to go tell your enemies, yes, you are dirty, rotten sinners. Some of us would say, free reign? You might imagine that's how Jonah would respond. But Jonah's not excited about this opportunity. Why? Because what does Jonah know about the nature of God's prophetic message? What it should lead to. Prophets went to warn people, they went to call people out for sin. So that those people might repent, so that they might turn to God for mercy and find his forgiveness so that they would not continue on in this destructive past, so that they might not continue on into death, but rather find life in God Jonah hears this call to him and he says, What are we doing flipping the script here, God? Could you actually be offering salvation to the Ninevehes, the Assyrians? They are the villains. Nobody should be saving them. God, you don't want them. You won't use them. Surely you wouldn't save them. Jonah wants no part in this. He wants no part in saving the villains. But what the story of Jonah, what the book of Jonah here will show us today is this. God's salvation comes at his own will. God's salvation comes at his own will. We're going to explore that here this morning in four points. There is first the call of the Lord, and then second, the action of the Lord. Next, the fear of the Lord. Finally, the salvation of the Lord. Join me in that first point here, the call of the Lord. When we open up this text, what we see, what appears before us, It's a fairly ordinary formula of prophetic message. Listen to verse 1. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come up before me. This is exactly how we expect prophetic commissions to start. The Lord calls someone to go and proclaim a message. The Lord's word comes to a prophet, calls him to get up and to go and proclaim that message to a certain people. And aside from the recipients of the prophetic, proclamation being Nineveh here, this formula is very ordinary. The Lord says, arise, go there, and call out. It's in immediately after that, though, that the formula gets totally jumbled up and our expectations are thwarted. Normally, next we would read something like, and so the prophet arose and went there and called out. We read these stories in the Old Testament, we read these kinds of narratives, and often our impression is this is so repetitive. Why do we hear the same thing and then the same thing again and then maybe the same thing again? Why do they say the same thing over and over? Well, the point, especially in a kind of prophetic commissioning Is that God tells the prophet exactly what to do, and then we see very clearly in the text that the prophet goes and does exactly what God told him to do. The prophet doesn't proclaim his own message. He proclaims exactly what God was telling him to do. The prophet is not supposed to have his own message But rather God's messenger. And so we're expecting Jonah to get up and hear a rehash of exactly what God told him to do. But, verse 3. But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshish, away from the presence of the Lord, and he went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went down into it. To go with them to Tarshish, away from the presence of the Lord. It's not the ordinary pattern here. God said, get up and go. Jonah gets up. Okay, good. But then flees to Tarshish away from God. Now there's some geographical debate about where exactly Tarshish is, but there's no debate amongst anyone that it's in the exact opposite direction. of Nineveh. Jonah's whole intention here is not to do exactly what God told him, but exactly the opposite of it. We're supposed to see right away in the text this striking reality that Jonah is breaking the prophetic pattern. He knows what he's supposed to do. Jonah does the opposite. The question then is, well, why? Why is he forsaking this call? Why is he disobedient? Why does he do this? What literarily becomes very clear is Jonah's trajectory. Jonah goes down. And not all English translations capture this well, but there's a certain preposition that gets repeated over and over throughout this chapter. Preposition for down. Look, he goes down to Joppa, then he went down into the ship. Later down into the deeper hold of the ship. Finally, he'll say, Cast me down into the sea. We may not know where exactly Tarshish is on the map. But we do know where Nineveh is. Guess what? You hold the map, you're an ancient Israelite. Nineveh is up. Guess where Tarshish is then? It's down. Why down? Well, because the idea of going down is that idea of departing away from God. We meet God where? On the mountain. We will join him up on Mount Zion. He reigns in the heavens. Down is the opposite of that. That's why the psalmist says things like, I am down in the depths of Sheol. Where could God be? I am laid down in the ground in death. God cannot find me down here, away from him That's how the ancient reader would see this as he sees these propositions again and again. Jonah is attempting to escape God's presence. He is trying to flee the presence of the Lord. He is intending to run and hide from God. Again, why? Does Jonah think he can actually escape the presence of God? Adjunah is a prophet. Some of you know better than that Doesn't he have better theological acumen than this? Doesn't he know Yahweh is the God of the land and the sea? He is present everywhere. Jonah is clearly rebellious. As the readers, we scoff and ask, what are you thinking, dude? Jonah has heard God's call. Jonah clearly knows what to do. Just doesn't like what he's supposed to do. He doesn't like what it insinuates. He doesn't like what it means for himself. So he's so certain he knows better than God. So rather than look up in submission to the Father's call, Jonah goes down, down, down. How's God going to respond to that? How will God respond? Point number two, the action of the Lord. We saw Jonah respond to God's call in the first three verses. Now continuing on in verse four. We see what God does, and in a literary sense, it's fantastic. Jonah is running away from God, or trying to at least. Verse 4, But the Lord hurled a great wind upon the sea. There was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship threatened to break up. Then the mariners were afraid, and each cried out to his God, and they hurled the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. The imagery here is quite literally Jonah running away, and the Lord takes a storm in his hand and throws it like a dodgeball at Jonah as he's fleeing. Jonah had this plan to run away, to go down away from God, but the Lord. He enters in right away and thwarts that. He hurls this wind at the sea. He causes this storm to swell up around the vessel, to trap this vessel that Jonah has gone down into. He catches them up in this tempest, in this storm. This year is no ordinary storm. And the text says it's so great a storm that the ship threatens to break up. It's kind of a funny way that it's worded there. The ship is personified here. The ship itself is considering whether it should just shatter under the pressure here. The text also describes the storm as so great that these mariners, these weathered sailors, are terrified. If you've ever seen the show The Deadliest Catch, then maybe you would understand how shocking this is. The Deadliest Catch was a show about commercial fishermen risking their lives for crabs in Alaska. Why? Because crabs are delicious and they make money. If you've ever seen that show, you you might be like me and have seen waves crashing against the boat. them being tossed around in this storm. And I would be like, this is the deadliest catch. All these men are clearly going to die. And yet The sailors in something like that are perfectly at peace. They may be running around on top of the deck still doing what they're supposed to, handling the lines, taking in their nets. But they're not screaming in terror like I would be. They're not crying out to God. No, this is just ordinary life for what mariners do. This is what they're used to. This storm, though, in Jonah is so mighty that precisely the scene is them terrified, each one crying out to his own God for mercy. What is Jonah doing, though? Read verse 5 again. Then the mariners were afraid. Each cried out to his own God, and they hurled the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship and had laid down, was fast asleep. The sailors are afraid. They're crying out to their gods, each uh offering prayers, hoping that they will just hit the right God to fix their problems, that they'll reach out to the right one as they run the gambit through the various gods they know of. Maybe this one will save us. They're also here in the text, obviously physically running around, casting the cargo, their livelihood, all of their investments into the sea. They're clearly bringing cargo somewhere to make money. But they no longer care about the money they'd make off this. They care about their lives. They know their lives are at risk here. They don't want to sink down into the depths of the sea. But what does Jonah do? Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship, laid down and was fast asleep. Jonah, in the midst of this, takes another step down, another step away from God, another step towards death. Jonah here makes himself to be fast asleep. It's another sign, a Hebraic symbol of death. And the pagans are up top praying. The prophet is down below, sleeping. Seriously, Jonah. That's essentially the captain of the ship's response as he comes down to see Jonah. Verse 6, so the captain came and said to him, What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise, call out to your God. Perhaps the God will give a thought to us so that we all may not perish. It's no accident here. The captain says nearly the same exact thing that God had said earlier to Jonah. It's the same verbal structures again. Arise, call out against Nineveh. Here from the captain, arise, call out to your God. There's a sense here in which God is again shaking up, calling out to Jonah. Now through this captain, God has come to find Jonah. Get up, sleeper. Call out. This captain is concerned for himself, for the crew. He knows we need to be saved from this. It will take an act of God to rescue us. Jonah, though, doesn't seem to have a care in the world. We don't even see any response from Jonah right away. Feels reminiscent of and yet so different from that scene of Jesus on the boat in the storm, right? It's a similar scene in some sense. The sailors up top scrambling, Jonah in the hole sleeping, the fishermen up top scrambling as Jesus was in the hole sleeping. And yet it's so different. Such a different story. Jonah is sleeping because he is fleeing God's will and call. Jesus was sleeping because he was perfectly at peace with God's will and call. The sailors here come together, verse 7, and they said to one another, Come, let us cast lots, that we may know on whose account this evil has come upon us. So they cast lots, and the lots fell on Jonah. And they said to him, Tell us on whose account this evil has come upon us. What is your occupation? Where do you come from? What is your country? Of what people are you? Here in the casting of lots, they're asking the gods, whose fault is this? And the dice roll the lots, they say Jonah. So they start questioning him. Who actually are you? What are you even doing on this ship? Why are you here? Why is Jonah here? Point number three: the fear of the Lord. Jonah answers these questions from the sailor this way. Verse 9: He said to them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land. There's a few things to pick up from that here, and they're all pretty ironic. What stands out so clearly is how Jonah identifies himself with God. He says, I fear Yahweh. We tracking along with the story here probably go, do you? We know what it is to fear the Lord in the scriptures. It is to worship him. It is to serve him. It is to hear his call and respond. It is to love him. Jonah, you sure that's what this looks like, what you're doing here? Jonah continues defining Yahweh in such an orthodox way. The God of heaven who made the sea and the dry land. I serve the God who made everything, even the sea. No God made the sea. My God made the sea. So, Jonah, you know that, and yet you thought you could run away where? To the sea. Okay. Jonah knows. And yet he irrationally runs away into the sea. And think about what we see here. Jonah knows with great orthodoxy who God is. And yet Jonah acts in a totally irrational way relative to that knowledge. In some grand sense, isn't that exactly what sin is? It's just an irrational tragedy. I know what I am to do, and yet again and again, here I am. Jonah, what are you doing? Well, you see, my God made everything, even the sea. So I decided to go and run and hide away from him in the sea. Now we laugh at him, the ridiculousness of it, and yet that's us every day, isn't it? I know what sin is. I know its effects. I know the damage it causes. I know its ruining power. I know that God has called me to something else. And yet again and again. I run away from him and towards him. And we think in those moments, whatever pet sin we're holding on to, you know, well, maybe I'm different somehow. Maybe somehow the rules don't apply to me and I can get away with it. I can escape and hide away from God with this thing that I desire. We read these narratives throughout the Old Testament. We see them again and again. People are rationally acting this way, and we scoff. You dummies, don't you know better? Yeah, just like we know better. And yet, the picture of sin here is a kind of irrational insanity that we fall into again and again. Jonah, you fear God. Are you sure? At the same time, we see verse 10. Then the men were exceedingly afraid. And they said to him, What is this that you have done? For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord because he had told them These sailors are already described as terrified. And here they become even more terrified. They hear about who Yahweh is. And they are greatly terrified. Jonah, if that's true, what have you done? And verse 11, then they said to him, To what shall we do to you that the sea may quiet down for us? For the sea grew more and more tempestuous. And Jonah answered, verse 12, he said to them, Pick me up and hurl me into the sea. Then the sea will quiet down for you. For I know it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you. And the verbal structure through the text, God hurled a wind, the sailors hurled their cargo. Same verb again, Jonah says, why don't you just hurl me in? It's clearly my fault. I know what I've done. Toss me in. Striking that the captain had actually already told Jonah what to do. And Jonah knows what he should do because he's a prophet who tells people what to do in response to sin. Call out to your God. Turn to him in fear and trembling. Repent and cry out for mercy. Yet Jonah here appears so hard-hearted But this just isn't even a possibility to him. He would rather just take another step down. The innermost hole of the ship isn't deep enough and just toss me into the sea. Some look at this from Jonah and say he's being heroic here, offering himself up to save the sailors. There's others who say he's being a kind of masochist here, just giving up on life and Honestly, it's not entirely clear. But what is clear is that Jonah as a prophet knows what he should do. He should repent and turn back. And instead, he goes deeper down. Verse 13, nevertheless the men rode harder to get back to dry land, but they could not. The sea grew more and more tempestuous against them. Jonah may not value his own life anyway uh anymore, anyway, but the sailors apparently do, and so they try to get out of danger here. row back to shore. It's a funny response because Jonah already told them, my God, it's the God of the land too, not just the sea. Land's not going to help Jonah much. And then maybe the most remarkable thing of all so far occurs. Verse 14. Therefore they, the sailors, they called out to the Lord. O Yahweh, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us innocent blood, for you, O Yahweh, have done as it pleased you. Now even the pagans are crying out to Yahweh. They're calling out in fear. They're calling out asking for mercy. Essentially, here they're saying, God, we're going to do what your prophet asked. We know you are sovereign. You do as you please. If we mess it up, please be merciful to us. The pagans cry out to Yahweh in fear. And yet Jonah just won't. What have we here? On the one side, rusty, suddenly now God-fearing sailors who are suddenly seemingly orthodox. On the other side, a blasphemous, foolish, rebellious prophet. What will happen? Point four, the salvation of the Lord. So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, verse 15. And the sea ceased from its raging, and then the men feared the Lord exceedingly. And they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows. These sailors do as Jonah asked them to. And Jonah sinks down into the sea. We could almost imagine that the story should just end right here. If we didn't know the rest of the story, we'd probably assume reading it that it does end here. The pagans make sacrifices to God. They see clearly this prophet failed his mighty God. We don't know In the context here, if these sailors have actually abandoned their old gods, we don't know necessarily what happens to them spiritually in the long run. But the author is making something clear. The pagan Gentiles get, in some sense, how they're supposed to respond. And Jonah doesn't. So Jonah is sinking to his death. If you are an Israelite at the time reading this, what does that say to you? The Gentiles will do as God commands Israel. Will you? Or are you Jonah here? What are you? And the message of the prophets is essentially just that. And Israel, turn to God, obey him. Israel, cry out in repentance that you might be saved. And here we see Jonah who just refuses. Who'd rather sink to the depths of the sea in death from what we can see so far? That's what happens. Israel, is that what you want here? To die in the depths, to drown? And yet, even here, in the midst of this whole scene, what else do we see? We see salvation. Jonah goes down. Japal Into the ship, into the hole, into the sea, to every Israelite being cast into the sea would mean that he is dead. And yet, through that, salvation comes to these sailors. Through Jonah going overboard into his shameful death, the storm is quelled Sailors make it back to the land. And their end here is not in death, but what end are they given to us here? Life. They live. It is ambiguous in some sense. Again, we do not know that these sailors actually go on in faith to worship Yahweh with their lives. We do not know their ultimate end. But we do know that here they are spared because Jonah went down to death. A lot of this story will be ambiguous. Did Jonah offer himself up heroically to save them? Did Jonah just want to die? We may have some signs, but again, so far we don't know. But here is what we do know. God uses the apparent death of Jonah to grant life to these sailors. We know here that God judges sin and rebellion with death, and yet we also know here that this is how God saves. And ultimately, that is what Jesus Himself will say about the story of Jonah. We will come to this passage again in this study. But just think for a moment what Jesus says about the sign of Jonah. In Matthew, in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 12, some scribes and Pharisees, some rebellious, self-righteous sorts of Israelites come to Jesus and they ask him. Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you. But Jesus answered them: An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given except for the sign of the prophet Jonah. For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth The men of Nineveh will rise up to judgment with this generation and condemn it. For they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here. You see, Jonah is a warning of judgment which comes to those who disobey God. But Jonah is also a sign of the salvation which God brings. Because Jesus, he says it himself, something like Jonah, but greater. Unlike Jonah, Jesus was perfect. sinless. He was God's true and ultimate prophet. He was the word of God incarnate. He obeyed God's call on his life. That call even all the way to death. Even death on a cross. Jesus went to death to take upon himself our sins. He went to the cross and faced the punishment Of our rebellion. He took upon himself the consequences of our foolishness, our recklessness. And he did it so that pagan Gentiles So that even self-righteous peoples might turn to him in repentance and might be saved. Hero or villain? What is Jonah? We'll come back to that question again. Gir at least, though. We see Jonah in his rebellion. We see a picture of Israel as she was rebellious against God. We see a picture too of us so often in our own sin. We see what it is when we are caught up in running from God, thinking that we can hide from Him, knowing what we are called to, and instead saying, I'm going to harbor the sin in myself. Seeing the consequences of sin in the storm and saying, I'll take them. I would rather drown with this. Why do we act with such foolishness? What is so obviously clear through this text, Christian, is that God does as he wills. Your sin comes up before him and he calls you out. You run from him and he will throw a storm at you to snatch you up. He will come with the very fear of God, but the way that he acts all along the way here is so that he might save. So that he might bring salvation. You know what is clear, hero or villain, here? It's that God is the hero. God is the one who saves. Even the Ninevites will find out. Yes. Even rebellious prophets? Maybe. Even the worst of sinners, the worst of villains, Christian, even you, even me If we would but repent and turn towards him and believe. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice that you are a God of salvation. That you are a God who does not see sin and respond to it with nothing, but rather sends your word, sends your call Reveals to us the foolishness of our rebelliousness, even in the life of a prophet like Jonah. Father, may we learn from this study What it is that you have to teach us about who you are, about the foolishness that we live into in sin constantly And yet the merciful, gracious salvation that you bring, even to villains like us, Father. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.