Well, we find ourselves in Route 3 at a critical point, uh, an exciting point. To recap a little bit, last week we met Boaz, and more importantly, last week. Ruth met Boaz. We learned alongside Ruth that Boaz was righteous, he was rich, and he was a relative. Because he is a relative, he can Also serve how? As a redeemer. A Boaz is eligible to act as a kinsman redeemer, one who could marry this widow and restore to her the blessings That she's seeking. But at the end of the chapter, at the end of chapter two, what we see is that nothing relationally has really developed beyond this meeting point. Well, this morning we arrive at the close of the harvest. It has been a month or two since this event, since Naomi has heard about Ruth meeting Boaz. We're here at the end of the harvest and Naomi is sensing that the window of opportunity might be closing. On a relational side, we can understand That. It's the last day of the semester. The break is about to begin, and you're wondering, is something gonna happen here? Is this gonna develop? There's that tension. And that tension can be unsettling, can be exciting, but it also can be unsentiing, a little nervous. Is this gonna happen? And so how does Naomi begin this chapter? In verse 1, Naomi says to Ruth, My daughter, should I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you? Naomi wants rest for Ruth. That she would be able to cease from worrying about her plight, and that she could get beyond the prospect of rejection. Uh that she wants there to be a guarantee, a surety that Ruth will not be forgotten in the emotional, physical, even spiritual sense. Uh in those senses, we can recognize that kind of need. The desire for that kind of comfort, that kind of what Naomi calls rest. Could you imagine not having to worry about being rejected? About uh not worrying that uh you having a sure confidence that you won't be forgotten, abandoned, uh pushed under the rug for whatever is new and And bright and shiny and seems best. As you think about your own relationships with people, stepping into a new season of life, stepping into a new place, building new relationships, where can we Where can I find that kind of sureness, the confidence that I belong? Where can I find that kind of rest? This morning in our story, we will see God's answer to that question. And it's this the promise of rest rests in the Redeemer. Let me say it again. Promise of rest rests in the Redeemer. And we're going to explore that in these three points, these three movements of the story. They're this first an unsettling plot. An unsettling plot. Second, a risky rendezvous. And thirdly, a sure thing. An unsettling plot, point one. As we look into the beginning of the text, We find an unsettling plot, don't we? We discuss Naomi tells Ruth that she wants her to find rest. Naomi's used this term before. Back in chapter one, uh Naomi is weeping over the death of her. Of her husband and her sons. She's moving moving from Moab to Israel. And she speaks to both her daughters-in-law. And in Ruth 1. 9, she says These words. The Lord grant that you may find rest, each of you, in the house of her husband. What Naomi was saying was, I hope you find rest. By finding a husband. And now Naomi is saying to Ruth again, it's time for you to find that rest. It's time for you to find this husband. And Naomi has a plan, a scheme for how to make this happen. Mother mothers have a you know a way of trying to do that At times. She knows Boaz is out at the threshing floor. How does she know that? How does Naomi know this? We are at the end of the harvest. And once all the grain has been gathered in the fields, there would typically be this big event, a big, let's call it a threshbash. I don't know. Uh an event where all the men would gather their grain and they would beat it on the threshing floor and they would separate out the grain, what you can eat, from the parts that you cannot eat. Well, you have this big old pile of food. And when you have a giant pile of food, you must feast. So once the work was done, they would feast, they would drink, they would party, they would rejoice in how God has blessed them. And then they rest. Naomi knows this is what Boaz is up to and where he can be found. And so Naomi instructs Ruth with these words. She says in verse 3, Ruth, wash yourself therefore, and anoint yourself. Put on your cloak and go down to the threshing. floor. But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. But when he lies down, observe the place where he lies. Then go and uncover his feet And lie down, and he will tell you what to do. Maybe this point has been beaten to death in sermons past, but as you read that, you are probably thinking, that is not what how I want my daughter to woo a man. That's not that's not my plan for her, and that makes sense. It probably shouldn't be. Uh the matter is not helped by the reality that in Hebrew this Whole part of the narrative, this instruction is just littered with innuendos. These words like uncovering. Remember Noah being uncovered. By his son Ham, or to lie with one. It is continually a reference to promiscuous activity. Feet are not always feet in Hebrew. Sometimes they're other things. Now, this does not necessitate that what is being prescribed by Naomi must be as unchaste. as it sounds. It doesn't necessitate that. But the author is certainly, and I think intentionally, leaving the door open for that. It's a possibility Naomi tells Ruth to get all dressed up, all perfumed up. This is how you prepare for a wedding night. Sh Naomi is sending Ruth Ruth prepared for such a night, but we haven't seen a wedding yet, have we? What may leave us even more unsettled is Ruth's response. Verse 5, Ruth says, All that you say, I will say, Do. What happened to our sweet virtuous Ruth? The women who show up at the threshing floor dressed up and perfumed like this. They're not the kind of women that we've been led to believe Ruth is. Whatever the intentions of Naomi, this is certainly a vulnerable venture for Ruth. For Ruth the Moabite, what if someone else has had their fill of wine and finds her? What if Boaz rejects her? You know what this event mirrors in more than one way is another time that we have met a woman back in Genesis 19. We see a daughter sent to uncover a man and lie with him. That man is Lot. That man is Lot. And Lot was this daughter's father. A father who she got drunk, who she determined to lie down with. And by whom she conceived a son. And what is that son's name? His name is Moab. Well, here we see A descendant of that sin, a descendant of Moab. And we're met with the question. The author is pressing this question Will history repeat itself? Will this daughter fall prey to that same action and this same fate? Is Ruth just a Moabite The sons and daughters of Moab have been sworn enemies of God ever since. Will this cycle continue? I hear Ruth entrusts herself to the guidance of Naomi. And we're left asking: can Ruth, in this vulnerable, unsettling, concerning position, can she find rest? In this? Or will she be left broken? Let's get to the event. A risky rendezvous Scene 2. Ruth goes down to the threshing floor. Loez has beaten out the grain. He's feasted. He's had his wine. He's rejoiced over God's blessing. We get a little picture. Here of a man living out his calling from God, obeying God and working and enjoying his creation and thanking God for what he's provided, and he lays his head down to rest. And when he lays his head down, suddenly he is awoken. He's startled. He rolls over. He looks up. He sees that someone has uncovered his feet. Now the word for feet here is not. Actually, the one which we might expect. It's not actually the word that insinuates that innuendo I mentioned earlier. Here is Ruth curled up at the place of his feet. And Boaz asks, Who are you? It's a different question from last time they met. Last time, Boaz knew who Ruth was So he's not asking right now who who is this woman? He's saying, uh who actually is this in front of me? He doesn't recognize. He can't see it's midnight. Tends to happen. And it's a little dark. And now Ruth finally breaks from Naomi's plan. And Naomi's instructions were to lay at this man's feet and then just let him lead. But what does What does Ruth do? Ruth knows what she is there for. She's there to find a husband in this man. And so verse 9, she says. She answers, I am Ruth your servant. You spread your wings over your servant, for you are a redeemer. She is explicitly taking action. Action here, moving, asking this man to redeem her and to marry her. A kinsman redeemer plays a very special role in the Mosaic Law, in the law of the land of Israel. He's responsible to love, to care for, to redeem near relatives in the midst of suffering, harm, and injustice. When a man or woman is murdered, it is the kinsman redeemer who is responsible to step in and bring justice, bring vengeance upon the murderer. When one is trapped in crippling debt and becomes an indentured servant, uh in this time uh you uh get into so much debt you become a slave of that person until you've paid it off. It's the The kinsman redeemer who is responsible to arrive and pay that debt and free that person. We've talked about leverette marriage. We talked about it Last week, when the bride is widowed, the kinsman steps in to marry her, to care for her, to provide for her. And so Ruth makes her petition to Boaz. She knows the law of God and she says, I I am Ruth, and you, Boaz, you are a redeemer. And this redemption, this is not just for Ruth's own sake. No, who is she also here on behalf of Naomi. Her mother as well. How is Naomi going to find rest? It is in this redemption. So she asks him, she petitions Boaz, she comes to him asking him to act as the man of God, as the righteous man of God. And notice the words specifically that Ruth Uses. Verse 9, she says, Spread your wings over your servant. Your text might say, spread the corner of your garment This is not a textual variant. This is not a different reading. This is just the English trying to jump the gun a little bit in translation here. It's interpreting it a little more for us. But we've seen this exact phrase earlier. Back in verse 12 of Ruth 2. Boaz meets Ruth And he says this: the Lord repay you for what you have done. A full reward be given to you by the Lord the God of Israel, under whom wings you have come to Take refuge. There Boaz is acknowledging that Ruth has abandoned the land, the people, the gods of her homeland. To bind herself to the God of Israel. He's using the same phrase that she is using now. This is the same phrase that we see in Ezekiel 16. The prophet speaks of Israel. Ezekiel sixteen, eight, he says, No I pitied you, you were cast out and abhorred. By you again and saw you. You were at the age for love, and I spread my wings. I spread the corner of my garment over you, and I covered you. I made my vow to you and ended Entered into covenant with you, and you became mine. These words are God's words of betrothal. His words, his commitment, his promise of marriage. And here is Ruth asking Boaz to make good on that blessing that Boaz spoke last week, that Boaz spoke last chapter. This is a risky, this is a vulnerable move. How will Boaz respond? Uh Boaz has some options here. He could be embarrassed, he could be scared, he could be angry. Let's not forget, he is A rich man with a good reputation. This is a poor, widowed foreigner. He could get away with just about anything. How does Boaz respond? He immediately relieves the tension. He immediately says, Bless you. The Lord bless you. Don't worry, don't fear, rather. Bless you. And then he brings up this point, this word we've talked about over and over through this series. He speaks again of Hesed. He says in verse 10, you have made this last Hesed, this last kindness, this last faithfulness greater than the first. You, Ruth, have acted again in covenant faithfulness. You've done it even greater than last time. When was the last time? When was the last time he spoke of this? The last time he blessed her faithfulness and how she She bound herself to Naomi, how she bound herself to Naomi's gods. That's why he continues. In that you have not gone after Young men, whether rich or poor, Ruth, you could have gone after another husband. You could have gone after one in your homeland. You could have gone after a young man. have gone after love for the sake of love, passion for the sake of passion. But what have you done instead? You have chosen You have chosen to follow God's will, to follow God's law. You have chosen to honor Naomi, your mother-in-law. You have chosen to honor your dead husband, to honor God's law and God's plan of redemption. God's plan. We love to read Ruth with our Hollywood goggles on. I don't know if you tend to do this. We see these characters and we assume Boaz is a good-looking elder statesman type. Shawnee suggested George Clooney for this. Now I have to throw away all of the oceans movie. Uh Ruth is uh we imagine her as this dainty Cinderella type. Uh you know, we'll when we film the movie, we'll add the fifty pounds of Grain she's carrying on her shoulders and post, amazing what CGI could do. The frame of who we expect could not support that. Our preconceived motives are to make this primarily A romance centered on this passion. But what motivation here is primary? What motivation is primary? First and foremost. This relationship is centered on their faithfulness to God and God's faithfulness to them. This is not to say that romance does I believe it does. I believe it should. I believe we see that in the story. But the primary motivation here is what? It is God's Faithfulness and Boaz rejoices in this. He rejoices in it. Boaz knows that Ruth is faithful and virtuous, and he says Yes, I will do all that you have asked. All the men of the town, all the men in the gates of this city know that you are worthy. That you are virtuous. It's no mistake that in the Hebrew Bible's ordering of this, it's a little different from ours In Proverbs 31, we hear about the wise, worthy, virtuous woman. And you know what the very next chapter in the Bible is that's one where we meet her. In the Hebrew Bible it's Ruth 1. We meet that woman. And Boaz knows here, I have met this woman I have met her, and Boaz values her for this. Ruth has proven again and again, showing her faithfulness. And Boaz says he will do all these things. Now there is a little bit of a snag in verse 12. There is a redeemer nearer than I. The positive side. Either way, Ruth is going to be taken care of. Boaz will. On the negative side, there is some nameless guy who might step in. We do we don't know him. We don't want him. He never gets a name. We are Team Boaz, right? That's what we're rooting for. So Ruth, at his request, goes to sleep. She rests at his words at the feet of the Redeemer and departs first thing in the morning. Some want to insinuate that something else, something more happens here. I don't think we have reason to believe that. In the midst of this conversation about virtue and following God's law, it seems odd that that would be the case. And so she leaves. As she leaves, Boaz gives her this grain To bring home. And why does Boaz do that? Well, we don't know yet. We'll find out in a moment. Just wait, rest on it for a moment. What we do see here is is Ruth resting at the feet of the Redeemer. So we step into this next scene. A sure thing. A sure thing. As Ruth arrives home, Naomi comes out to meet her. And if we render the Hebrew here really woodenly, we get a phrase that we saw just a little bit ago. Naomi asks Ruth Woodenly, who are you? Who are you? The English again kind of in in Interprets this for us. It says often, How did you fare? If we keep that wooden translation though, this is the second time Ruth is asked, Who are you? But this time Ruth knows who uh Naomi knows that it's Ruth in front of her. What is Naomi asking? She's asking, are you the same person who left here last night? Or has your status changed? Is there something new, something different about you? Ruth, are you still left to fend for yourself Are you still Ruth the Moabite? Are you still one seeking this rest, or has the situation changed? And Ruth responds, explaining every Everything that we've seen, and we get one new detail here. One new detail. Verse seventeen, she says, These six measures of barley Boaz gave to me, for he said to me, You must not go back. empty-handed to your mother-in-law. This is a clue to us. Remember Naomi's words when she returned home for the first time? As she says, I left full and I have come home empty. Friends, Naomi is no longer empty, and she never will be. No, she sees the promise that these two women will never be empty again. She sees the promise that they will find rest here on Ruth's shoulders. Is the deposit, the surety, the promise that Boaz will act as a redeemer. But they have to wait. They have to wait. Boaz has given the promise, but these women must wait. Here is the promise. You will be protected. You will be prote Be provided for, you will belong, you will find rest, you will be redeemed. Why is it? Because of his love for God because of his love for this woman. Friends, do you long for those promises? Do you long? Do you year Yearn to have one offer this to you. That you wouldn't have to worry about being rejected, that you wouldn't be left vulnerable like this. There is a righteous man who offers this promise and so much more to you. There is a man rich beyond measure. There is a Redeemer who offers to betroth you to himself, who descended from heaven, who suffered, bled, died, and was resurrected, all so that he could offer you These things. Who is that man? It is Jesus Christ. He is the Redeemer, and why would He do this? Because he loves you. Because he loves you. And what does he ask? That you would throw yourself at his feet. That you would seek refuge under him. His wings, that you would ask for him to be your redeemer. The experience of that now for us is like Ruth, right? We've been given that promise. Jesus offered himself up on the cross to provide that down payment. The Spirit indwells you as that surety, as that seal that you belong to Him. And yet we wait. We don't quite experience the fullness of that rest yet, do we? We're waiting. Received that promise, but here I still am weighed down by the burdens of this earth. Friends, may I ask, who are you? Who are you? If you are a Christian, if you have thrown yourself at his feet, if you have placed your hope of comfort under His wings, then you can rest assured that you have this down payment, that you have this promise, that this is for you, that you are His, that you are his. And so we wait for his return. We wait for the marriage supper of the Lamb. We wait to the day when all things will be made right, when we will be united to him as the perfect, spotless bride. Boaz has gone away to prepare everything for Ruth. And she waits. She waits and rests in the promise of her Redeemer. Friends, Jesus has gone to prepare you upon He has left, he has ascended, and here we are awaiting his return. As you desire that kind of rest that is promised. here. Don't keep looking for it to be offered in man. Don't be looking for that security to be offered in Riches. Don't look for that invulnerability in the promises of this world. No, where does this promise rest? You have been offered This in the arms of Jesus. I know there is still some tension here, this already not yet situation as we wait. But you have been offered Offered this promise. Hold fast to it. What are we called to? Hold fast, believe in, and trust yourself to This promise. Hope in his return. Of this life, for the things that leave you vulnerable now, they will all be done away with. Rest in that promise. Wait like Ruth for the wedding. A fitting providence of God that we will have to wait for the conclusion of this story till after Easter. Let us pray.