I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything, but he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son Born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. There ends the reading of God's word. May he add his blessing to it. And let's pray that he does that now. As we uh take some time, get ready to take some time meditating on this these truths some more. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word, and we thank you for the revelation of the Redeemer that we have in Jesus Christ as we Think of this truth this morning. Help us to see why we need a Redeemer. Help us to see why Jesus is the Redeemer that we need. In His name we pray. Amen. Has anyone here not seen The Return of the Jedi, the third and the first trilogy of Star Wars? Okay. Alright, a few of us. Man, this is a sanctified crew. So many. I'm so impressed. Well are any of those of you who haven't yet seen it? Like worried about getting it spoiled? Good. Alright. I'm gonna take that as a no because my opening illustration would be a spoiler. So spoiler alert, close your ears if you don't want it to be spoiled. What it but I want you to those of you who've seen this, sorry for those of you who haven't. Those of you who have seen this, uh, imagine walking in to that scene, that final scene of the Return of the Jedi, where young Luke Skywalker removes the mask. Of Darth Vader to see expose this pale, ghoulish, older guy who it before had sounded like James Earl Jones. And as soon as the mask is removed, you realize that that's um that's just a dub, right? He he doesn't look at all like James Earl Jones and he doesn't sound like James Earl Jones and he says something like, you know, Yeah, Luke. I think he's already said, Luke, I'm your father. That's the spoiler. Uh you were right about me, Luke. He knew there was some goodness in me, and he had just just saved Luke from the evil empire. Imagine walking in on that scene, not having seen the rest of the movie. It would be a little comical. You might be tempted to to chuckle rather than be deeply moved, as it seems like you should be, if you're looking at the face of Luke Skywalker, who's all serious and sad, as his father is Dying in his arms. That's kind of what we're having to deal with as we come to this question and answer 21 of the shorter catechism today. In many ways, we are coming. Like stepping into a story at the climax. And we've been looking at uh in these topical series, we've been looking at the shorter catechism. We've done twenty questions so far. And Uh now we've really come to the climax of that in question and answer 21 that asks the question: who is the Redeemer of God's elect? And if you don't know the shorter catechism, it's right in here for you, right in the hymnals for us, on page 870. And the answer to this question, who is the Redeemer of God's elect, goes like this. Kids, you've memorized it. You don't need to look, you can just say it along with me. The only Redeemer of God's elect. Is the Lord Jesus Christ, who being the eternal Son of God, became man and so was and continues to be God and man in one person In two distinct natures and one person forever. But that's really the climax of the story that's been being told in the Westminster shorter catechism and if you have your hymnals open to it you can kind of look and see the story that it's telling through these questions and answers that are unpacking the doctrine of the theology of redemption It starts off with what are we here for? It our chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And then it talks about who this God is that we're we're made to glorify and enjoy and where we learn about him in the scriptures of the Old and New Testament. And then it talks about how God has created all things good. He's created man in his image, and yet man has not continued him. That. God having condescended and entered into a covenant of life or a covenant of works with Adam. Adam fell from the estate he was created in. Good, holy, righteous. And he's ushered us into an estate, the catechism says, a condition of sin and misery. And that last question, then, that we looked at last time we were in the shorter catechism was question answer 20 that said this: Did God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and And the answer of the good news began to be heard when it said, No. God having out of his mere good pleasure from all eternity elected some to everlasting life, did enter into a covenant of grace to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery and to bring them into an estate of salvation by a redeemer. And now we're going to unpack this idea of Redemption. The Redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we're going to look at about the next maybe ten or so questions, and that's going to be a beautiful series to take us into the Advent season. As we reflect on Jesus Christ as the incarnate Son, who comes in the flesh to be our Redeemer as the eternal Son of God. That's the way this story is leading up. But that brings us then to question answer 21, where we we're asked We're called to ask that question, who is the Redeemer of God's elect? And we're told that the only Redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. And as we think about this question and answer of the Catechism and try to unpack what its theology is, how what it's telling us about Jesus as the Redeemer, we're going to see that it shows us, outlines for us, three important, very important elements of Who Jesus is as our Redeemer. Specifically, it shows us that He is exclusively our Redeemer. The exclusivity of the Redeemer is the first point. The second point will be the eternality of the Redeemer. And the third point is the embodiment of the Redeemer, the exclusivity of the Redeemer, the eternality of the Redeemer, and the embodiment of the Redeemer Jesus. Jesus Christ. First, the first point is the exclusivity of the Redeemer, and this is exactly how the catechism begins. You might skip over the word that That makes this utterly clear, but it's it's one of the first words in the answer. It says, the only redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. And to understand why the catechism says this, first of all, we need to ask the question, well, what is a redeemer? And John Thompson in his uh commentary on the catechism from seven But he asked that question. That's why his uh exposition of the catechism is so helpful, because he asks the questions that naturally arise in our minds. Well, what is a redeemer actually? He says this. A redeemer is any person who pays a price for another person or thing that has been forfeited or pledged from the first owner or proprietor. That person may be called a redeemer. As when a captive is bought or redeemed by a price paid for him, or when an estate or anything else is mortgaged or pledged for a debt and another person recovers the pledge by paying the debt, such a person may be called. And so one example he gives is a captive bought or redeemed by a price paid for him. That's the picture we have of God as our Redeemer in Exodus chapter 6. six. Israel, who in a sense had been in poverty, right, lacking food in famine during Jacob's life, and goes down to Egypt. And at the time of Jacob, right, just goes down and is blessed by Joseph's presence there and finds food. But in a real sense, by uh by being in that destitute situation, they end up selling themselves into slavery. And eventually their masters become brutal and oppressive, and they cry out to God, and God hears them and redeems them with a mighty outstretched arm going in Paying the price, in that instance, not really paying a price for them, but conquering their oppressive ruler to redeem them out of that. And this exclusivity of Christ as our Redeemer, the only Redeemer of God's elect being the Lord Jesus Christ, this is something that the catechism simply lifts right from the pages. So often that's the way this catechism is. It's using phrases, using terms, using truth that just arises from the biblical text. as it stands. And so the Bible itself claims this very fact in Acts chapter 4, verses 11 and 12. I believe this is Peter preaching. And he's preaching to the Jewish leaders of the time, and he says, This: This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. They're citing the Psalm. And there is salvation in no one else. There it is. Salvation in no one else. For there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. 2 Timothy or 1 Timothy 2, verses 5 and 6 says, There is one God, and there is one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom or a redemption price. For all. There's an exclusivity to the reality that Jesus is the Redeemer. There is no other Redeemer. It is only, there's only one Redeemer of God's elect, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, as soon as we say this, recently I have a student who's a pastoral intern and he was sharing with me an experience. He got to go into a Jewish school full of Jews. Jewish students of all different stripes of Judaism. There are conservative and liberal Jews, just like there are conservative and liberal Christians. He was allowed to go in there and say, what is it that Presbyterians believe? And he got to say, what is it that conservative Presbyterians believe? Because obviously they just had a few weeks before a PCUSA pastor, female pastor, who'd come in and said, what do you think we as PC USA Presbyterians believe. And he went in assuming that they want to talk about the differences between the PCA and the PCUSA, and maybe talk about our views on politics. The children, uh, he started explaining what what we believe and how we're distinct from more liberal Protestants uh and Presbyterians. And uh and all of a sudden a student raised a hand and said, Are you Saying that if we don't believe in Jesus, we're going to hell. The whole rest of the time, this young student uh had to dialogue with these young students who were very interested and eager. And what what is it that you actually believe? And what he had to preach and what he had to proclaim, he did it, tried to do it lovingly and graciously and with open arms, them. But it was the exclusive Of Christ as the Redeemer. We don't like that in our postmodern context, where we sort of have this view that everyone has their right to their own truth. That we should be tolerant of everything and everyone and their truth as long as they aren't intolerant and claim an exclusive claim. And we don't claim an exclusive claim based on our own Wisdom or knowledge or sense of self. We just simply repeat, like our catechism does, the claim of Scripture that the only redeemer Of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ. I was talking to a woman at a grocery store the other day, and it came out that I was, yeah, it very quickly comes out that I'm a pastor. Yeah, sometimes uh a serve at a seminary and and so she you know then started telling me about what she believed. And she said something like, That's great for you. I'm so glad. I think everyone has a right to their own ideas, as long as they work for you and don't hurt anyone else. That's Whether or not uh that is okay, whether or not uh that view of Jesus and the Bible is is truly acceptable to Jesus. I was talking to a Mormon the other day who uh shared about his experience on the mission field, and he actually shared, you know, I wasn't really often that concerned with trying to convert people to Mormonism, I just wanted to help everyone grow in their understanding of and their relationship with God. So I'd meet with Muslims and encourage them to be good Muslims. I'd meet with Christians and try to uh other Christians and try to encourage them to be good Christians. And this is this is what we love in our day. But it it it is not what the scriptures would call us to in understanding who Jesus is as A redeemer. To be redeemed out of this awful estate of our sin and misery, there is an exclusive exclusivity to the claim that there is only one redeemer. And that is the Lord Jesus Christ. That's clearly taught in the Bible. Jesus Himself teaches us. John chapter 14, verse 6, he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. How many come to the Father, or how many other ways are there to the Father? No one comes to the Father except through me. This is clearly taught in Scripture. And it's actually logically necessary given the uniqueness of a redeemer we need, which we're going to consider in the second and third point a little bit more. More. But the point is this: to solve the problem of our sin and misery, to deliver us out of it, to redeem us out of it, the Lord Jesus Christ is the only way. What does this exclusivity of Jesus mean for us? I think it means that there's a warning in it and a welcome. A warning and a welcome. On the one hand, it's a warning, it's a warning to all of us who would seek another. Another redeemer or another way of redemption. It's a warning to all of us, any of us, who look to other things or other people for redemption. And salvation. How many people today are, I mean, we're all keenly aware of our sin and misery. Just read the headlines, any day of the week. We realize that this world is under the curse of sin. It's under sin and misery. But how many people today are looking to someone like a politician to redeem us out of the estate of sin? A little side note there, Ken, you brought it up earlier in your prayer. I don't know what will happen on November 5th. I think we all know that on November 6th there are going to be many saddened, disappointed people, maybe fearful people. I don't know what will happen on the 5th, but I do know that on November 4th. On November 5th and on November 6th, there is something that will be true of every single one of those days and every day after, and that is that Jesus is king and reigning on his throne. And he is the redeemer, the only redeemer of his elect. Some of us look to prosperity If only I had X amount of dollars in my bank account, the sin and the misery of this life I could handle. In fact, it would be more of like in a state of goodness. And blessing. Some of us look to personal piety, thinking that somehow we can maybe redeem ourselves if we just reach a certain level of godliness then I will feel better about myself. Then I won't feel so bad about the situation and then often the way we we don't have to argue too much for this idea of sin and misery because we we know it it we know it because it's it's It's what's expressed here in verse 3 of our passage before us in Galatians 4. In the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. And he goes on and talks about how the elementary principles of the world are being under this law, that God has created the world to be good. He's written his law in our hearts, and yet in sin we're enslaved to To work against that. To always have that tension, that discomfort of knowing we should be doing things we aren't, or knowing that we shouldn't be doing things we are. That's what sin is. And that at the heart is the real misery of the sinfulness in which we live. None of these other options for redemption can actually Truly redeemed, can save from the sin of misery. In fact, our tendency to look to them is actually itself evidence of the sinfulness of the human heart, our tendency toward idolatry, our tendency to w to look anywhere else except where God has promised. Redemption can be found. The only Redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a warning in that. There's also a welcome. And here's the welcome. Friends, anyone who recognizes the hopelessness of any earthly promises, that having our candidate elected, that having a certain amount in our bank account, Reaching a certain level of personal piety, that all of these are just window dressing on a corpse or lipstick on a pig. Anyone who recognizes that has Is welcome to recognize that there is real hope in Jesus Christ. He is the only Redeemer. That's an exclusive claim, but He offers to be anyone's Redeemer. Yours if you simply repent and believe. Romans 3:23 says, All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Then it goes on. And are just Justified by his grace as a gift through what? The redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Romans 6, 23, for the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life. Christ Jesus our Lord. But this first point brings us to the question: why? Why is Jesus exclusively the Redeemer of God's elect? And the answer is because he's the only one qualified to be truly the Redeemer of God's elect, because he is both perfectly God and righteous man. And that's how the catechism continues. As we read on. And that brings us to the second point, the eternality of Jesus. We've seen the exclusivity of Jesus as our Redeemer continu The eternality of Jesus as our Redeemer is as the catechism goes on: who is the Redeemer of God's elect? The only Redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ, who, being the eternal Son of God. The eternal son of God. And in a very real way, this eternality of Jesus as God's Son is really simply shorthand for his divinity. That he's eternal because he's truly God. What does our catechism say? Question answer four, all the way back too many series ago. What is God? God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. And those are the three incommunicable attributes or four Three, four, incommutable attributes of God. That only God is infinite, we are finite. Only God is eternal. We are limited in time Only God is unchangeable. It took me, I didn't learn this until seminary, and so any of you who haven't gone to seminary yet, I'll I'll give you the give you the answer here. I'll give you a little fluid. I I always thought of e that eternality meant not having a beginning or an end. And so we talk about eternal life because our eternal life has no end. Technically, we probably should speak of everlasting life Because our life had a beginning, even though it will have no end. But even when even even if it had no beginning, like for the Son of God, God has no beginning or no end. But that's not technically what What eternality means. Eternal means being outside of time. Not just being in time with no limits on the beginning or the end, but actually being outside of time altogether. Kind of like the the idea of an author and a character in a book. You know, in a book, the characters are limited to the timeline of the book. At any point in the middle of the book, you read and the character only knows what's what's gone before. They're going to have to discover what comes after. And when we read a book, we kind of enter into it and we sort of follow the timeline of the characters and and walk along their story with them. But the author knows the beginning and the end, he sees it all, and he's not actually within that timeline. He's outside of it and kind of captures the idea, not perfectly, but captures A little bit of the idea of what it means for God to be eternal, for the Son to be the eternal son of God. This reference in our catechism to Jesus, the Lord Jesus Christ, being the eternal Son of God, is literally a reference to the Son's divinity, his coequality with the Father and the Spirit. We see that here in our passage before us where it says in verse 4: But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son. His son wasn't born eternally. This is why we talk about the son being eternally begotten. He it has this father-son relationship of Persons of the Godhead, Father and the Son, have this relationship, but it doesn't mean there was ever a beginning to the Son. He was not begotten at a certain time. He's been eternally begotten. It's a reference to his eternal relation. To the Father. And so here, when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son to be born as a man. He does have a beginning as the God man, and we'll talk about that more. In a moment. Does the Bible refer to Jesus being eternal? Does the Bible speak of Jesus as being divine in this sense? And I would argue it does. John 17, Jesus Is praying his high priestly prayer, and what is he saying? Now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory I had with you before the world existed. Before time. In eternity. I love how we say eternity past. There's no past to eternity. In eternity, eternal. Jesus Christ had shared the glory with the Father as the Son. And this is reflected in even in how Jesus is described in his incarnation once he comes. The Lord Jesus Christ is called Lord. He's addressed in ways that show his divine nature. Acts 10, 36 speaks of Jesus Christ saying, He is Lord of all. Isaiah 9:6 Jesus is prophesied by the prophet there and says, For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called wonderful counselor, Almighty God. Prince of peace. In John 20, 28, Jesus in his resurrection glory appears to his disciples. And doubt Thomas, doubting Thomas, who says exactly what we all are thinking. Right? Uh unless I see his hands and his feet, I will not believe. And Jesus appears and says, Thomas, look. And Thomas doesn't need he says, actually unless I see and touch. And Thomas doesn't Need to touch, he sees. And he bows before Jesus and says, My Lord and my God. He's addressed as God himself. He also is accredited with having the attributes of God. So Jesus is shown to be the eternal Son. the divine Son of God by not only how he's addressed in Scripture, by the attributes Scripture gives him, attributes like omniscience. In John 2. 24 it says Jesus Jesus did not entrust himself to men because he knew all people and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man. He also is shown to have abilities that are divine abilities. John 5:21, Jesus says, For as the Father raises the dead and gives life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Son is the creating creating God, the life giver. Colossians 1:16 says, For by him Jesus, all things were created in heaven on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions. Or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. We see the eternality in the Son, not only in how he's addressed as God, how he's ascribed attributes of God, how he's described having abilities of God, but also in how he's adored as God, how he's worshipped as God. Again, Thomas, my Lord and my God. Thomas worships Jesus in John chapter 20, 28. The women at the tomb in Matthew 28, 9, as they they confronted by the risen Savior Jesus Christ, they took hold of his feet, it says, and they worshiped him. If Jesus were not God, it would be blasphemous. A blasphemous evil for him to accept worship. That's what we see every time an angel appears to a man. And we're as human beings tempted to worship because of the glory of the angels, reflecting the glory of God in whose presence they they serve. And the angels always say, Stop it. You must not worship me. I am not God. But Jesus accepts the worship of God. Worship of the women. And the same thing with the disciples in Matthew 28, 17 and Luke 24, 52. He's adored as God as well. So we see the eternality of the Son clearly taught. In scripture, showing that he is the divine, eternal son of God, the second person of the Godhead, as he's addressed as God Has attributes of God ascribed to him, has abilities of God ascribed to him, and is adored as God. Why is this so important for us to know Why is it so important for us to know that the only Redeemer of God's elect is the eternal Son of God, the second person of the Godhead, God Himself? I think one answer is that it means that he's uniquely qualified to redeem us from the curse and consequences of our sin. Again, John Thompson in his Commentary on the catechism asks this question: why was it needful that our Savior should be God? And he says this: great answer. It was needful because otherwise he could not have endured. The infinite burden of wrath due for his people's sins. And especially because his obedience would not have been of sufficient dignity or worth to satisfy divine justice in our place. Thomas Vincent, another commenter on the shorter catechism, Puritan commentator. He says, if he were not God, if Jesus were not God, he could not have borne up under. Nor have got loose from the weight of wrath which was laid up upon him for the sins of man. His sufferings would have been of finite extent, and so could not have made satisfaction to God's. Infinite justice which was offended by sin. See, we someone has asked that question, why is hell eternal if my sins only last so long? And the answer is it's not how long the sin is But the s every sin, the smallest sin, is an infinite offense because it is a sin against an infinite holy God. Only a divine Redeemer, an eternal Son of God, was sufficient to take upon Himself the infinite offense. Hebrews 7:24 and 25 gets at this, where it speaks of Jesus as our great high priest and him holding his priesthood permanently because he continues forever. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. Them. And whenever we talk about Jesus bearing the wrath of God for sin, we need to make sure that we aren't thinking Jesus bears the wrath of the Father. For sin. There's truth in that. But it's actually Jesus bears the wrath of the Father, Son, and Spirit, the three persons of the Godhead. When he bears our sin on the cross. John Piper, the famous uh pastor from Minneapolis, has just recently published a book thinking about Jesus. Jesus and his work of redemption and consummation. And he uh a portion of this was published as an article, and the article's title was Jesus Saves Us from Jesus' Wrath. It's a profound point, but one we need to keep in mind. He doesn't abandon his divine nature, his eternality as the Son of God. When he goes to the cross, but it's in that very divine nature that he is a sufficient redeemer for us. And here's this point of Jesus' divinity, here's why this point of Jesus' divinity is such good news, because it means Not only that he can bear the wrath of God, but that as he showers us with his grace, that grace is infinite. It's infinite. We can be confident of the infinite riches of Jesus Christ that His grace will never run out. Our sins, which Cling so closely, the sins that we think we get over, and then the next day they come back to haunt us, we can wonder, is the grace of Christ sufficient? And the answer is Yes, because of the eternality of the Redeemer, the eternal Son of God. I'll close this second point with a quote by Thomas Watson who has There's a wonderful, wonderful book Meditating on the shorter catechism and the truths. And he says this: What a rich consolation is this to those who have either no grace or their stock is low. They may go to Christ, the mediator, as a treasury of grace. Lord, I am indigent, but whither shall I carry my empty vessel but to a full fountain? That full fountain is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. I am guilty, you have blood to pardon me. I am polluted, you have grace to cleanse me. I am sick unto death. You have the balm of Gilead to heal me. Joseph opened all the storehouses of corn. Christ is our Joseph. Who opens all the treasuries and storehouses of grace? In Christ our mediator, there is a cornucopia and fullness of all grace. The exclusivity of our Redeemer, the eternality of our Redeemer, third and finally, the embodiment of our Redeemer The claim of the catechism's question is that this Redeemer, who is divine, became fully man. And this is what our passage says, right, in chapter 4 of Galatians. But when the fullness of time, verse 4, had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. to redeem those who were under the law so that we might receive adoption as sons. That's how the catechism concludes. The Lord Jesus Christ, who being the eternal Son of God, became man and so was and continues to be God and man in two distinct natures and one person forever. And here is a great mystery that we just sang about in our hymn. The great mystery that God the Son Became man. And he became man not by filling a human body, like you know, the divine spirit becoming the soul of the body. That's not that's not what it's claiming here. He became man by taking to himself a true body and a reasonable soul, the fullness of manhood he takes up into his person. becoming man. And in so doing, he didn't empty himself. It's not that he emptied himself of divinity and his divine nature to become man. Instead, there is this passage in Philippians That talks about Jesus emptying himself, but we understand that to mean that he emptied himself by setting aside for a time the glory and privileges of his divinity. Before taking that back up at his resurrection and his glorious return on the last day. And so we talk about this reality that just Very similarly or analogously to the fact that there is one God and three persons, there is one person, Jesus Christ, who has two natures, unlike any We all have one nature, a human nature. And that human nature is a body and soul. Jesus has two natures, one divine and one human, including body and soul. And this is the doctrine. Here's, yeah, this is a great way to capture the mystery because it's it's terms that we don't understand. It's the doctrine of the hypostatic union. You can say that three times. The hypostatic union, maybe a better way to call it, I mean that's sort of taking up the Greek, the personal union of Jesus Christ. That there is a union of two natures, divine and human, in the one person of Jesus Christ, ever since the incarnation of the Son of God. In time and space. Forever he exists, having two whole and complete natures, being truly and fully God, being truly and fully man. And both at the same time. And what this means, we can't quite comprehend. It is mysterious. We can't quite fathom it, we can't quite comprehend it, but we can know it to it enough that we can speak of it rightly. And what this means is that whatever is true of either nature can be said of the person, the Lord Jesus Christ. Is he God? Yes. Because he's divine. Is he man? Yes. Because he's human. Is he immortal? Yes. Because he's divine. Is he mortal? Yes. Well, he was and died. is no longer having risen on the third day. Is he omniscient, knowing all things? Yes, because he's God. Is he limited in knowledge and has to learn things? Yes. According to his human Is he omnipresent everywhere present? Yes, because he's God. Is he locally present, limited in space, bodily? Yes, because he's taken on a human nature. nature and his bodily presence. Is he spirit? Yes. Is he body? Yes. So while we can speak truly and rightly of these things or wrongly, right? This is where heresies come about. When we speak start speaking of it wrongly. So it is important for for us to get our language right. We we have a hard time wrapping our minds around it and that's the way it should be. It's a mystery. A profound mystery. As we just Just saying. Come behold the wondrous mystery. Comprehending it is not an option. We need to learn how to speak to it. I think one of the best ways to speak to it is to think about when we're ascribing aspects that are part of his nature, to speak Always speak of the person of Jesus Christ. We don't speak about his natures existing independently. There's not a divine Jesus running around and a human Jesus. There's one person, Jesus Christ. But what we can do is we can speak about this person according to his natures. I like that language. The Council of Chalcedon in I think the fourth century it was wrestling with this reality of Jesus. having being one person but having two natures and I love its language it says says this and this is what we follow here. When we then following the Holy Fathers, all with one consent, interestingly, they say here it is 400 years after the time of the Christ, but the Holy Fathers all agreed. Teach men to confess one and the same Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, the same perfect in Godhead and also perfect in manhood, truly God and truly man. Of a reasonable or rational soul and body over here, consubstantial, meaning having the same substance with us according to the manhood. Great way to talk about it. Jesus, according to his manhood, according to his human nature, is just like us. Begotten before all ages of the Father according to the Godhead. And in these latter days for us and for our salvation, born of the Virgin Mary, the mother of God, according to the manhood, one and the same Christ, Son, Lord, only begotten. To be acknowledged in two natures, inconfusedly, unchangeably, indivisibly, inseparably. Got all that? It's worth meditating upon. It's worth reflecting upon. It's worth wrestling with. What does this mean? How can I speak better, more clearly, more truly about who Jesus is as the one person in Two natures, with two natures, eternal and embodied, as our Savior and our Redeemer. This does kind of raise a question, doesn't it? Why all the trouble? Why all the trouble to go go through this hypostatic union and have to give us this big theological word that we can never quite grasp? Why all this difficult and mysterious effort? Why did God the Son need to be embodied as a man to redeem? Thankfully, John Thompson asked that very question In his catechism, his commentary on the catechism. Was there any necessity that our Redeemer should be man? And he says, Yes. Yes, that he might be capable To fulfill the law in our nature and name as well as place, which he could not have done if he had not become man. See, friends, our sin deserves human suffering. So to be our Redeemer, Jesus humbled himself, had to humble himself and become man so that he could see Suffer and die in our place. And this lesson is taught by the constant sacrifices of animals. Since they were animals, they could never truly Pay the penalty for sin. They were meant to simply be a sign pointing to the true Lamb of God, who could, did, take away the sins of the world. And at that point we have to say what a loving and gracious Savior we have, who would stoop so low to lift us so And as if it weren't enough that Jesus didn't just do this, uh as if it weren't enough that Jesus did this, he didn't just do it for a time, you know, take up human nature for a time to pay the penalty. He took it up forever. That's what our catechism says. He, being the eternal Son of God, became man and so was and continues to be God and man in two distinct natures. and one person forever. And this is what makes Jesus such a perfect redeemer. He's the The transcendent and imminent God we need at all times, who can rule and defend us and reveal God to us as the divine Son, but who can also compassionately care for us, understand us, and take our place. In his great work of redemption, taking upon himself our weakness and frailty as human beings, and then taking upon himself our sin when he went to the cross. Blaise Pascal, a famous uh philosopher of ages past, says it this way: He says, Knowing God without knowing our wretchedness and our sinfulness leads to pride. Knowing our wretchedness without knowing God leads to despair. Knowing Jesus Christ is the middle course because in him we find both God and our wretchedness. Taken away. Right? All of this mystery of Jesus' personal union of two natures is not just for us to study and try to understand better, although it is that. Not just to study to become better students of the Bible and theologians, not just so we can go around saying words like hypostatic union. Ultimately, these truths are important because they are to move us to work. The Lord Jesus Christ as our God, as our Redeemer, who has purchased our redemption from everlasting sin. That's what we're Purchased out of. He's purchased our redemption to an everlasting life. And as the Bible says, not with gold or silver, but with his very own precious Blood. And he's purchased us to make us co-heirs with him of everlasting. That's what it says in the end of our passage. Verse 4: When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. So that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts crying, Abba Father, so you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if his son, then an heir through God. That is the profound mystery here. That Jesus Christ, God the Son, becomes man. And he doesn't just do it to go and save poor wretches like us in our sins. But he get not just to earn us, to buy us, and say, okay, you were slaves of sin. Now you are going to be slaves of me. There is that reality. Right? We become servants of Christ. But beyond servants, we become sons of God. He says, I'm going to make you co-heirs with me of everlasting life. My kingdom will be shared with you. Jesus Christ, as our exclusive, eternal, embodied Redeemer, shows us the truth of the gospel. That is, that we are more sinfully flawed than we ever dared believe, and yet at the same time more loved and accepted through faith in Jesus Christ than we ever dared hope. The Lord Jesus Christ is the only, He's the exclusive Redeemer who can do and offer all this, and He has done all this as the eternal and embodied Redeemer. The Lord Jesus Christ. Won't you love Him back? Won't you follow Him forever? Amen. Let's close in prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you for these truths that are so well summarized for us in this question and answer of the shorter catechism. We thank you for our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you for his willingness to, as The eternal Son of God, become man, that he might take upon himself the work of our redemption out of our sin and misery. We thank you for the hope of everlasting life we have through his redeeming. Blood. Grant us faith to rest in Him day by day. Grant us confidence in the infinite riches of the storehouse of His grace As we seek to follow you by faith from one degree of glory to another, as you accomplish and work out in us the great salvation that you have wrought in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In His name we pray.