For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfectly. Through suffering. For he who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified, all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers. Saying, I will tell of you, I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God has given me. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil. And deliver all those who, through fear of death, were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore, he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest. in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing on our time as we meditate upon it further. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word and all that it reveals to us, not only about you and your character, that you are the God infinite eternal. Eternal and unchangeable, your being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. But that it also shows us and reveals to us the way of salvation through your Son, Jesus. Jesus Christ, our God, and the one who became incarnate, taking on flesh, taking on the form of a servant. That he might deliver us from our sin and misery. We pray that you'd help us as we reflect on this text and this question of our catechism to grow in our depth of understanding of the depth of your love in Christ. The wonder of your grace and the gospel, and the confidence in the beauty and perfection of our Savior Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, important people tend to be interesting to us, don't they? People who are famous and well known for some reason, maybe having accomplished something great in their life. We want to know about them, we want to read about them, and this is why there's a whole industry of biography writing. People writing biographies. And often the more famous, the more important you are, the more biographies are written about you as time goes on. I think that our elected officials know this, and so often before they'll run for a significant office, they will first publish a uh a biography of themselves. Or if they're introducing themselves to the public, they'll speak a lot of who they are and what they uh their life story and what they bring to the table because we sort of recognize that when there are people around us that uh want to be in important positions that we want to know something about them. Uh certainly we've seen that this election season, which uh is that reminder that uh here we're going to be having to use our civil uh freedoms and duties here in the coming week, encouraging all of us to take our earthly citizenship Seriously. However, as we gather on the Lord's Day, what I love about the Lord's Day is that this is a time for us to take a break from our earthly citizenship and rebel. In our heavenly citizenship. And our heavenly citizenship is part of not a democratic nation, but a king. Our king didn't get elected, but he is perfectly fit for the task. And so it's worth us taking a moment today, and what we're going to do as we look at question and answer 22 of the catechism is we're actually going to consider the biography. Of the man Jesus Christ, the king of God's kingdom, our king, if you're God's through faith in Christ. I would argue the most important person, the most interesting person, therefore, is none other than Jesus Christ of Nazareth, son of Mary and adopted son of Joseph. Who was his adoptive father? I don't know if I need to argue that. Every year in December, usually the whole month of December is taken to study the biography of this man, Jesus Christ. For weeks we spend our time reading portions of his biographies that are written to us in God's Word. The four Gospels that tell us about who Jesus is and what he has done. And in many ways, this question and answer 22 of the catechism is a summary of the biography of the man Jesus Christ. Now remember where we are. Last week we looked at Uh question answer twenty-one, that specifically highlights the divine nature of Jesus Christ as our Redeemer. Talking about him as the eternal Son of God who became man and so was and continues to be God and man in two decides. Distinct natures and one person forever. And yet that raises the question asked in the next catechism question, which is, how? If Jesus became God and man, how did that happen? Is the question. How did Christ, being the Son of God, become man? And the answer for us, if you've memorized it, you know it. Maybe you got a chance to memorize it this week. I won't quiz you. Maybe afterwards in private, I'll come up and just quiz you on your catechism learning. It'll be worth you learning. It'll be worth all of us learning. If you don't have it learned, it's on 87 The answer is Christ, the Son of God, became man by taking to himself a true body and a reasonable soul. Being conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit in the womb of the Virgin Mary, and born of her, yet without sin. Now, how do we summarize all that? Well, what is that telling us about the man, Christ Jesus? I think this question really in many ways, unlike the last question, is drilling down into his humanity, is really focusing on the incarnation of the Son of God. And especially what it's highlighting for us is the utter uniqueness of the man, Jesus Christ, as the Son of God the incarnate Son, the utter uniqueness of the man Jesus Christ as the incarnate Son. And it's kind of interesting because, on the one hand, what the catechism is saying is Jesus is fully and truly human, just like us, very ordinarily human And yet, as the as the catechism lays this out for us, it also stresses his uniqueness. So let's consider this question, how it summarizes the biblical truth of Jesus' uniqueness, specifically the uniqueness of his personhood. That's the first point. The uniqueness of his paternity, that's the second point, and the uniqueness of his purpose, that's the third point I want us to consider. Personhood, paternity. and purpose, all of which for Christ are utterly unique. First of all, the uniqueness of his personhood. And we see this in the opening line of the Catechism's answer where it says, Christ The Son of God, there it is, the divine nature we talked about last week, became man by taking to himself a true body and a reasonable Soul. I think it's worth noting here at the outset of this point that it's first good to note that the uniqueness of Jesus Christ as a person is not in his human nature. That is a very ordinary human nature that is described by the catechism as simply exactly the same as ours. What does it mean to be human? What is a human nature? It is a body and soul joined together In one person. And it says that's what Jesus has in his human nature. Taking to himself a true body and a reasonable soul. Now again, this is important to realize how this happens. This doesn't happen by Jesus finding a person and taking over that person, possessing them. It doesn't happen by Jesus finding, basically making a body and then putting the divine spirit or soul in there. No, it's full man, body and soul, just like one of us. And yet somehow, by God's power, in his mysterious, wondrous providence, he unites the person, the second person of the truth Trinity, God the Son, with a full human nature. And that's not the part that is uh extraordinary about this But this is something that is clearly taught in Scripture, and it's worth us noting that it's right here in our passage where it says in verse 11, for instance, he who sanctifies Jesus, he who makes holy, Jesus. And those who are sanctified, Jesus' people, the elect, those he sanctifies and, or I'm sorry, he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers. In this one source that it's pressing is the human nature, which ultimately finds itself source in God. Down to verse 14, since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things. And then down to verse sixteen and seventeen. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham, therefore he had to be make made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God. And this is reiterated throughout Scripture. We could cite many examples, I'll just cite a few. John 1, 14. The word, which is Jesus in John chapter 1, became flesh and dwelt among us. us and we have seen his glory glory as the only son from the Father full of grace and truth. Romans 1 3 speaking of the Son said is he who descended from David according to Romans 8. 3, for God has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do, by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh. Philippians 2, 7 and 8, the classic example. Jesus emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Cross. Now there's one important implication about the fact that Jesus' personhood is not unique in his human nature, and that's this. When we see Jesus going around and doing things in the gospel, we have to do that. I think it's often tempting for us to invoke a false teaching, a heretical teaching, to say, how can Jesus go and and touch the the beer, like the the the thing that uh the a dead person is carried on, touch a beer of a young man and he comes back to How does it happen? And what we often think is, well, he can because he's divine. But see, that gets us into the heresy that we talk about talked about last week, which is uh the Council of Chalcedon said, no, the two natures are distinct and they don't, you don't get to mix and intermingle them. You don't get to say, well, Jesus just tapped in to his divine nature, overcoming his human nature in order to do something wondrous like that. Instead, Bruce Ware, in his book, The Man Christ Jesus, It's a great short little book to reflect on Christ's humanity. Maybe a good thing to read for this December, this Advent season, as we're reflecting on that. Except for one chapter. I don't love one of the chapters toward the end. But we can talk about that later. This chapter I really like. I think it's the second chapter where he speaks of how Christ did the miracles that he did. And his argument, and I think it's absolutely right from Scripture, is the way Jesus did all these mighty works is not by simply somehow tapping, by his human nature, tapping into his divine nature, but is by being fully human. And trusting God to work through him by his spirit, just like God does through the disciples, just like God does through us. Acts 10. 38, Peter says, how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. So he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil. For God was with them. See that Paul doesn't Peter doesn't say there, for he was God. He says God was with them. That as fully man, Jesus as man going out and doing this work which he did as the incarnate Son visibly in front of people, and that's human nature, right? That he could be localized and bodily present, he did that empowered by the Holy Spirit. spirit. And this is what's promised in Isaiah. Isaiah promised the shoot that will come forth from Jesse and it says the spirit of the Lord shall rest on Upon him. The spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And then Jesus, when he begins his ministry, quotes from Isaiah sixty-one that says, The spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me. Bring good news to the poor. And that's important for us to realize because when we see Jesus doing the good works that he does as the man, Jesus Christ, he does the same things that his disciples will later do. So many of Jesus' miracles are replicated in the disciples. Why? Because he was doing them empowered by the Spirit, and it shows the utter humility of Jesus, committing to live a life much like you or I must commit to, which is dependent. Dependent on the Spirit every day for life and health and breadth and power of God to work in and through us. But His personhood is unique, and the uniqueness of Jesus' personhood is not that he had true humanity, that's ordinary, just like us, but that the person of Jesus is also united to true, full humanity. Divinity. And that's that opening line of the Catechism's answer where it reaffirms the exact same thing it just had affirmed in the question before, where it says, Christ, the Son of God, became man. Why is the uniqueness of Jesus' personhood as true God and true man? See, that's the uniqueness. Not that he's true man, but that he's true man and true God. Fully God and fully God. human. Why is that so important? Why is it that the catechism would take a whole you know question of the catechism to reflect on that more deeply And I think the answer is because it shows us that Jesus is uniquely capable for doing what he was called to do. You know, you might be familiar with this when you are a person who has worked across cultures. And many of our friends here, right, come from other lands, Africa, Asia, and you come here to the United States. And at first everything is very foreign and you feel like a fish out of water. You don't feel like you quite understand what's going on around you. But the more you're here, the more you learn. And you can start to say, like, oh yeah, that's just those crazy Americans. That's how they do things. And when you go back to your country, you fit right in. You you know it because you're part of that culture. And if you bring someone from your country back here, they are shocked by culture shock again. And you can sort of remember, oh yeah, yeah, no, I I just get it. I can I can move in both cultures because I now have experienced both cultures and know them well. I grew up over uh seas, as I've mentioned before, in Austria, uh the first ten years of my life, and uh we loved Austria. We loved the culture there. As a family, we adopted some of the traditions of Austria, even though we never truly became Austrian. And yet, if we go back, there's much of Austria that we can say, oh yeah, that's just very Austrian. I'm familiar with that. Jesus can do that. Jesus, as God, can say, I know what it is to be man. And that makes him the perfect mediator between God and God and men. God and human beings like us. I love how G. I. Williams Williamson in his commentary on the catechism puts it, he says this: the Savior that I must have is the Savior who's able to reach me. And to reach God. And this Christ alone can do. He can do this because he is God and man. And isn't this such a comfort to our hearts that Jesus knows, that He knows what it's like. Kids, Jesus knows what it's like to have to seek to submit, to honor, to obey sinful parents. Jesus knows what it's like to have to sit under the instruction of teachers who are flawed human beings themselves. Jesus knows what it's like to have to grow up and learn all the things you're having to learn as you give up. older. And if you've been hated, Jesus knows what that's like. If you've been hungry, Jesus knows what that's like. If you've ever suffered, Jesus knows what that's like. If you've been scoffed at, Jesus knows what that's like We see that here in our passage in verse ten, for instance, for it was fitting that he for whom and by whom all things exist, and bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their perfection, of their salvation, perfect through suffering. Verse 18. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. And isn't that what we see in Psalm 22 throughout the Psalm? Jesus, crying out in ways we can often echo in our our own walk in this world. The sense that God has forsaken us, that He's abandoned us, a struggle to believe. You're present. Jesus knows our misery. He's experienced our misery. And we know that he cares. About it. You know how we know he cares? Because he's done something about it. He's done something about all the suffering and the misery of this life that we endure, and he did something by taking it on himself. in an utterly unique way, going to the cross and taking our misery and shame upon himself if we simply repent and believe And in doing so, what we find is that he endured Psalm 22 and the cry of dereliction in that psalm in a way that none of us ever have to, because he has. He truly was abandoned by God in ways we never will if we're in Christ. He truly was separated from God as he bore the wrath of God for sin, and that was as we talked about last week. That wasn't just the wrath of the Father. It's the wrath of the Father, Son, and Spirit on the cross. And he did so in order that, like Tolkien says in his books, everything sad will one day come untrue. So the uniqueness of Jesus' personhood and his being a man who is also God, that's the uniqueness of it, right? But the question is, how can Jesus be so unique in his personhood? And that leads us to the second question. How can he be so unique? It's because he has a unique Paternity, a unique paternity or fatherhood. And we see this in the next section of the Catechism's answer where it says this. Being conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit in the womb of the Virgin Mary and born of her, yet without sin. And you say, Pastor Fix. I don't see anything about a father or paternity in here. I see everything about a maternity, right? A motherhood, the motherhood of the Virgin Mary, which is the claim of Scripture, the claim of Christianity throughout the ages, that Jesus Christ is the Son of Mary by the conception of a virgin Mary. In the womb, and that's what's described in our catechism answer. I mean, and again, so let's begin this first point. When we're talking about the unique fraternity of Christ, it's worth recognizing that he actually has a very ordinary Maternity, motherhood. And you say, well, it's not that ordinary. A virgin conceives. Okay. Okay. It is unique in that regard. But actually, in the Bible, that's not that unique. Unique in experience. Basically, the Bible is full of case after case where a barren woman who cannot have a child is enabled by the Spirit of God to have a A child, to bear a seed of the woman and continue that hope, the promise of the Messiah to come. Over and over again. In many ways, the virgin birth is simply the most extreme form of this. That's the utterly barren woman, as one who is a virgin. And yet it's actually not that unique in the redemptive history laid out for us in Scripture. And yet that's exactly what we're told Jesus has. He's born of a virgin. Isaiah 7. 14 says, behold a virgin will consider And Luke talks about how that is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And it specifically is fulfilled how? By the Holy Spirit descending or hovering over Mary. uh uh the Virgin Mary. And that's described in Luke chapter one. And we read this every Christmas where the angel comes to Mary and says, You you are going to conceive in your womb, and you shall bear a son, you shall name his call his name Jesus. and he will be this great Messiah that is promised, and Mary says to the angel, How will this be since I am a virgin? Kind of the same question asked of our catechism. How can Christ, the Son of God, become man? And here's the answer of the angel. And you'll see this is echoing, or this language here is echoing right there in our catechism answer. which so many of them are. They're just lifted right from scripture. The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore the child to be born will be called holy The Son of God. So what's unique about the virgin birth, the virgin conception, is not as much the virgin birth I mean, maybe the conception is somewhat unique, but in the end, Mary is the mother of Jesus like any woman is the mother of anyone else. His motherhood, the maternity that he experiences, is very ordinary. It's much like ours. It's the paternity, the fatherhood of Jesus, that is unique. See, Jesus had, because of the virgin birth, Jesus had no earthly father Yes, Joseph was around, but he wasn't conceived by Joseph and Mary. He was conceived by a virgin, by the power of the Holy Spirit. I love how Marcus Dodd, this is a 19th-century theologian, a Scottish theologian, and he describes this event, I think in these beautiful terms. He says, the same Holy Spirit, who at the first creation Moved on the face of the waters when darkness was on the deep, and out of the chaos produced light and order and harmony and beauty, did the same Holy Spirit at the commencement of the new creation. Out of the corrupted substance of the Virgin, form a human body, as perfectly separated from all corruption by the divine workmanship as the symmetry and light and beauty of the material world were separated from the darkness, confusion, and shapelessness of the desolate abyss. And at the moment when this body was conceived by the divine operation of the Holy Spirit, the power of the highest united to it a soul formed also in perfect Purity and holiness, and at the same moment too, we're both body and soul united to the Godhead in the person of the Son by a personal union never to be dissolved. of deep petty theology worth us spending way too much time thinking about we don't have time for that. But notice there, there's it it pushes back against one doctrine that is not biblical, and that is that the reason that Jesus was born of the virgin is because somehow she was sinless. Our Roman Catholic friends believe that actually Mary was sinless, that she was born by an immaculate conception, so that she could bear Jesus. But no, as God says, that's not the point. It is the corruption, the very human nature of Mary within which God works to create something utterly uncorrupted by And the way he does so is by the Holy Spirit descending upon Mary and conceiving by the Holy Spirit's power uh in the womb of the virgin. Uh Thompson, in his commentary on the catechism, says, How is Christ conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary? and I I like how he answers it. He says, not in a way of ordinary generation, but by the power of the Holy Spirit, so that he was a man so so that as of as he was a man, he has no father, and as he was God, he has no mother. Kids. I think that uh not kids. Uh well Kids too. I think what this is getting at, what we're getting at here, is this idea that Jesus had two very different parents and inherited from them two very different aspects. of his personhood. And we see this a bit reflected in kids. So often we can see kids, and at various times in their life, we can say, wow. That kid looks so much like the mom. Or at other times, wow, that kid looks so much like the dad. Different contexts, different times in their life, they can look like one or the other. And in a very real sense, this is the uniqueness of Jesus' particular eternity that at times we can see him, we can say, wow, he clearly is divine. Other times, wow, he is clearly truly human. And it's because while he had ordinary maternity, he had an utterly unique paternity. His paternity was none other than Almighty God, the Father, descending upon the Virgin by the Holy Spirit. And his paternity, his unique paternity, is so important because it means he breaks the cycle of original sin. This goes back to question answer sixteen of the catechism we looked at months ago when we were looking uh when we were last in the catechism, uh, where after talking about the fall of Adam and Eve from sin, It asks this question, a very important question, a good one for all of us. Did all mankind fall in Adam's first transgression? And and listen to the answer. The covenant being made with Adam, not only for himself, but for his posterity, all who can All mankind descending from him by ordinary generation sinned in him and fell with him in his first transgression. Now if you know I don't know if you remember back when we were looking at that passage, we honed in on those words, by ordinary generation. And that's exactly what the Bible and this question answer 22 of the catechism clarify for us: that Jesus was born not. By ordinary generation, but by an extraordinary generation, by having a unique paternity. He was born of God, not of the first Adam, so that he could become the second Adam. And be the Savior, the covenant keeper, the one truly holy, righteous, obedient, true image, bearer of God that we need because he did not inherit original sin from our Father. Father Adam. Hebrews 4. 15 says we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who is in every respect has been tempted as we are and yet without sin. Hebrew uh 1 Peter twenty two twenty-two says he committed no sin. Neither was deceit found in his mouth. Hebrews 7. 26, for it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, Jesus, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above. Above the heavens. So, what does the unique paternity of Jesus mean for us? How do we apply this second point? First, it means that Jesus knows the experience of Of not having an early earthly father. And I think we can skip by this too quickly, but Jesus only ever had an earthly stepfather In that sense, he shares the experience of over 18 million children estimated in the U. S. today who have no earthly father living in their homes. Home. Maybe that's you. Maybe you've long longed to have an earthly father's love and wisdom. Maybe even if even if you have an earthly father, you long for that because you have. Haven't had a good earthly father. And so you've had to cling to the truth that you do have a good father in our loving Heavenly Father, who loves us and cares for us, who disciplines us in love, who speaks wisdom to us. If that's your experience, Jesus knows what that's like. But it secondly means that he's perfectly qualified to be the Savior. we need. That he's perfectly qualified to accomplish the atonement that we need. Now that's a big theological word and yet it's so important. It is the word that captures what Israel was taught over and over again when they went to the temple. And made their sacrifices. That because of our original sin and all the other sins that we pile on top of that, we are separated from God and we need a perfect substitute. We need a blameless, holy, and righteous one to give their life in our place, to shed their blood. And so week after week, day after day, month after month, the Israelites would bring a lamb, bring a ram, bring an ox. It would be slaughtered in the blood of that animal that was meant to be pictured as blameless, as innocent. It was sprinkled on the person, the worshiper. It was sprinkled on the altar. It was sprinkled all over the place to cover those things so that when God looked at them, he saw the blood, he saw the life. His life is in the blood. He saw the life of the blameless one covering. the sinful, unholy one. That's atonement. Jesus Christ having his unique paternity Having God as his father, only an earthly mother in Mary, enables him to be the savior, the atoner we need. And so that is Jesus Christ's utterly unique personhood, his utterly unique paternity. And that leads us then to the third and final point: his utterly unique purpose. And the purpose is nothing less than atonement. Redemption. And that's that. That's not so obvious in our catechism question and answer. But I think it's really clearly hinted at in that very last line, yet without Sin. You see, why did God go to all this trouble? Why would God, the Son, willingly become man, humbling himself to the point of becoming a zygote in a womb? Of being humble to the point of being born as a helpless infant who couldn't even move around, who needed his mom to feed him, to burp him, to clean up his poopy diapers. Yes, Jesus. Why would God go to such lengths to all this trouble of a new act of creation in the virgin womb, of uniting the second person of the Trinity and all of his divinity with the human nature, body and soul, and all the suffering and sorrow and shame that would come along with that that we read about in Psalm 22. Why would he go to all this trouble of being persecuted, mocked, and vilified as a man, and then being hung like a criminal on a cross? And the answer is Jesus' unique personhood and paternity served, ultimately served his unique purpose of being the Redeemer we need. See, friends, our our sin, our misery is self-inflicted. We've rebelled against God and we live lives bent in on ourselves as proof of this. Lives of self-focused. selfishness trying to save ourselves by chasing after idols of power and pleasure and success and the promise of saving this life. And yet as Jesus says, you desires to save this life in his own strength will lose it. That's the nature of our sin. Ultimately they were trying to save ourselves and yet friends we always will fail if we try to do that. And isn't that our daily experience? Of always failing to save ourselves. You know, we we pursue the next big thing, the achievement, the acquisition, the next great thing, the promotion at work. The A on the test at school, the championship of the sports season, the election victory of our favorite candidate or candidates. We achieve early retirement. And yet all these things always end up leaving us empty as we still continue to struggle. With the same sins, the same shame, the same guilt that we might be able to ignore, that we might find temporary relief from, and yet it never lasts. The Bible is utterly clear that the reason for this is we cannot save ourselves. But the good news is we don't have to. That's the other message of Scripture so clearly. We cannot save ourselves. We don't have to, because that's exactly why Jesus took on flesh and came. He came to save us. 1 John 3, 5 says, you know that he appeared in order, purpose, to take away sins. And in him there is no sin. That's what we see here in our passage in verses fourteen to eighteen. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil. and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. That's lifelong slavery, subject to death. We're trying to save ourselves. What is it that's barreling toward us? No matter what success and achievements we make in this life, death still awaits unless Christ returns. There's a slavery to death, and yet Jesus came to deliver us from that slavery to death and sin. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps us The offspring of Abraham, therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the s Of the people. Propitiation is a word of atonement. To atone for, to redeem a people. That's why he came. That's his purpose. And it's utterly unique. No other man or woman can do it, but Jesus can. So what do we do with that? How do we respond? Let's close with this. Two responses I'm going to call us to. First, repent and believe. We have a sin problem. We are deserving of God's wrath, but he holds out redeeming grace. Grace. He holds out the forgiveness of sins to all who acknowledge, yes, we are sinners. We need salvation. And he says, if you're ready to say that and run to Jesus, Christ and follow him by faith, he welcomes us with open arms. You know, Jesus didn't just take on flesh to show us God's wisdom and power, though it does that. To show us how God can do this new work of creation in creating a man who is not a son of the first Adam. Jesus didn't just take on flesh to show God's wisdom and power, but to rescue and redeem a people. Who feel the weight of and struggle with sin day by day. Perhaps you're here today and you're wondering: could Jesus, could God really forgive me? Could he really forgive my sin that nobody else here knows? And if they did, they'd be horrified. Could Jesus really ever love me if he can see my heart? And the answer is a resounding yes. Yes, in the good news of the gospel. That's the beauty of the gospel. He can love you because it's not ultimately about your worthiness or mine that we can muster in ourselves, it's about Christ, His worthiness. As the perfect God man, the only redeemer of God's elect, as we saw last week. And friends, he went to all this trouble to save us so that he could say, as Jesus says in John 6:37, Whoever comes to me, I will. never cast out. Won't you repent? Won't you believe? Won't you follow Jesus today? Maybe you already have, maybe you are pressing forward in your walk with Christ. What do we do with Jesus' uniqueness then? Well, rejoice in it. Wonder at it. Rejoice in it because of his incarnation, friends, we have hope. We have hope that one day we will actually see God with our very eyes You know, theologians have long talked about the beatific vision. Beatific means wondrous or something like that. I didn't look Look it up. Look it up sometime, some other time. It's this beatific vision. And it's basically this idea that one day we will actually get to see God. Wow. And yet often the way it's thought of or described is that somehow we'll see the essence. of the divine Godhead. How can you see something that's invisible, right? It's spirit, right? God is spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. And so it's often described as, oh, there's such this bright light, I'll just consume That's not the beatific vision. We should want to see God. The beatific vision is that one day we will see God in the face of a man. The man Jesus Christ. That we because Jesus took on flesh, one day we will be able to hug God. We will be able to laugh with God. We will be able to hear the voice of God because it will be the voice of the man, Jesus Christ. Might have to learn Hebrew to understand it, but we can work on that. We could start. One day we will get to feast with God, eating the same food he's eating in Jesus Christ. Not just because Jesus atoned for our sins, but because he became man. And that's where he is. Bodily. He is the man Jesus Christ at the Father's right hand, from where he will come to judge the living and the dead, as we confess. After week, and usher us into his kingdom, his everlasting kingdom of beauty, joy, pleasure, safety, and peace. But this wonder of Jesus' work for us There's a lot of future, right? It's a lot of future promise. One day, one day we will. But there's also a present reality. Because Jesus is bodily at the Father's right hand, he is right now praying, interceding for us, present with us by his Spirit whom he has sent. Hebrews 7. 25 says, consequently He, Jesus, is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. He always lives. To make intercession for them. Jesus right now is busy at work praying for you if you're his. And who better to do so? Since he had the Father's ear, he's at the Father's right hand. Father doesn't have a body, so exactly what that means. There's a metaphor to it, but he's in the presence of Almighty God. And he has a father's ear because he's his only begotten beloved son. Son. And since he knows what it's like to struggle and to suffer as we do, because he's man, he he knows not from a distance, looking and seeing, yeah, I could see that being tough. No, he knows I've been there. I've felt it. I've experienced it personally. As a unique man, unique in his personhood, having two natures, unique in his paternity, having no earthly father, and unique in his His purpose that he did all this to be our loving Redeemer, the only Redeemer of God's elect that ought to give us every reason to rejoice. To rejoice, to praise, to wonder at who he is, to pray by his name day by day, to relish the fact that he is praying for us, and to eagerly await his coming when we will finally see See God in the face of Jesus Christ. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this good news, this reality, that our Savior, Jesus Christ, is God, and yet is also true. Man. How we thank you for the great sacrifice of humility that this was. Jesus Christ for a time laying aside the glory that He had with you in the Spirit forever and eternally. Heavenly Father, in some sense, even humili humbling himself for all ages as he takes on human flesh and uh forever and is at your right hand. How we thank you that he is at work, intercede. For us, using his human nature even for our good and for our blessing, even now. We thank you that he will one day return to raise us to new life even Reflecting the life that he already has in his risen glory. And so we thank you for these truths and pray that you'd enable them to uh be laid deep in our hearts to change the way we we think and live each each day knowing this our redeemer the God man jesus christ in his name we pray