Hear now the word of the Lord. And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John his brother, and led them up a high mountain by themselves. And he was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light. And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah talking with him. And Peter said, Jesus, said to Jesus, Lord, it is good that we are here. If you wish, I will make three tents here: one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah. He was still speaking, when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. And a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified. But Jesus came and touched them, saying, Arise and have no fear. And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only. And as they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them: tell no one the vision until the Son of Man is raised from the dead. And the disciples asked him, Then why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come? He answered, Elijah does come, and he will restore all things. But I tell you that Elijah has already come. And they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased, so also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands. Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing on our time as we reflect on it further. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that it is living, that it is active, that it is your word to us today, not just your word to your people in ages past. How we thank you that you've spoken and that in time and space you had your appointed apostles and inspired authors write this word down for us that it might be your living word throughout the world. The ages. Lord, as we reflect on what it means that we have your written word and your incarnate word in Jesus Christ this morning, may you use it to help us see our need for that word and help us to grow in our love for that word. as you've given it to us in Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Well to get To get a big project or task done, it's helpful to know who is assigned to what part of it and what their role is. In our home, and kids, you might be able to resonate with this. In our home, that's trying to run a home and keep it orderly and keep it tidy with six plus people running around there regularly. It takes clear assignments of tasks. and chores. And so maybe kids, you have one of these in your in your household. We have a family chore chart. And here are the chores for the week and here's who's assigned. And so when the trash can gets full and you say, who's on point for emptying the trash? You can just look at the chore chart and then see who to call and say, hey, you might not have noticed that the trash is overflowing. We know this, this is why we have, you know, for every project, you have a project manager that makes sure all the people are in place. This is why we have on On sports teams we have different roles, different positions that are played. I got to see our own Kasha win two tournaments yesterday. She played different roles on two different teams, but gratefully they both won because she was on them. But you have, you know, you have your forwards, you have your midfield, you have your backfield in soccer, you have your goalie. You have these different roles and functions to get the big work done of winning. the game. And this is the whole idea of an office. It's a role. A role to accomplish or to do a certain function. And we have that in the church. We have officers in the church. Deacons and elders who are assigned certain tasks, certain functions within the church to serve the church and keep the body of Christ alive and well through our pilgrimage through this life. You have this in companies where you have officers, chief officers, like the chief executive officers, CEO. You have the chief Operations Officer, COO, I think you have CFO, C A O, and C3PO, if I'm not If I'm not mistaken, but I'm not sure what the function of that role is. In the government, you have the president, you have the vice president, you have speaker of the house, you have other offices. An office is related to the work that is needed to accomplish certain tasks. And uh Each of the offices above is vested with authority and ability to serve the function that they are intended to serve. And see, I mention all this because what we're doing now is we're turning in the catechism as it's been unfolding to us the wonder of the Redeemer we have in Jesus Christ, it begins by telling us about his person, who he is. He's God and man, in two distinct natures and one person forever. We talked about his divinity and what that means. We talked about his humanity and what that means. That's who Jesus is, the person of Jesus. But the catechism goes on now in the next coming questions to address the work of Jesus, what he does, the redemption that he accomplishes. And it breaks that down and shows us that Jesus, in order to accomplish this great work of redemption, functions in three different offices. The three offices of Jesus Christ. If you want to follow along through these catechism questions, it's on page 871. We've moved on to page. Page 871 of your tr your Trinity hymnal, the red hymnals that's underneath the seats in front of you. And so we come to the next question in the catechism, having looked at the person of Jesus, the beginning Question about his work is the one that asks, question 23, what offices does Christ execute as our Redeemer? And the answer, you're probably familiar with these terms if you've been around here for very long. Christ as our Redeemer executes the offices of a prophet, of a priest. And of a king, both in his estate of humiliation and exaltation. Christ, as our Redeemer, executes the office of a prophet, of a priest, and of a king, both in his estate of exaltation. And for the next three sermons, we're going to look at each one of these offices individually and try to reflect on okay, what is it that it means that Jesus is prophet, that he's priest, that he's king But first, notice that these are all offices related to the work of redemption. Redemption or salvation. And no wonder, because as the catechism has pointed out, we meet this work of a Redeemer as sinners who have no hope for salvation in ourselves. And it's interesting because as we think about what we've lost in our sin, we've specifically lost something of the image of God in us. And what was the image of God? Well, the catechism earlier in an earlier question had outlined it: that the image of God in man, we were created to reflect God in knowledge, righteousness, and holiness with dominion over the creatures. And what's very fascinating is in many ways we've lost that. Our knowledge is distorted. Our righteousness is no longer Perfect. Our holiness is no longer existent. And yet each office of Jesus answers one of these losses in our So we've lost knowledge, and so we need a prophet to bring God's word and teach us. We've lost righteousness, and so we need a priest to intercede. And re and sanctify us, make the sacrificial atonement we need to be righteous before God. We've lost our holiness, and so we need a king to rule over us and make sure to lead us into holiness that we must have. The prophet redeems our knowledge, the priest redeems our righteousness, and the king redeems our holiness. And this expectation of One, a Redeemer who would come and who would fulfill these three offices. This is an expectation that has long been cultivated in God's word before Christ comes. The whole Old Testament is really structured around teaching us about how we need these offices so badly because of our sin. It starts off with the first, we could call the first great man of God. And in him, in Abraham, the three offices are together. He's called a prophet in Genesis 22. Verse 7. He functions as a priest as he offers sacrifice to God in Genesis 13:4. He functions as a king in Genesis 14, but then in the course of the history of God's people, God starts to distinguish the different offices. And give them to different persons, probably because the authority vested in all three offices together are too dangerous for one man to hold all alone. This is uh from what I understand actually part of the the way in which our government is designed to have a sort of a division of uh authority and power of the three legislative branches are in some sense a reflection of Of the three offices of Christ that God in his providence had split up in the life of his people. And so you have Moses, the first of the great prophets. Who speaks God's word and mediates between God and man the information, the knowledge that is needed. Then you have Aaron and his sons as priests who Offer the sacrifices and bring God's people into reconciliation and communion. And then you have David and his sons, the kings But there's this expectation that gets built as the scriptures unfold, and that is that the expectation that these offices will come back to Together into one man, the Messiah, the anointed one, who would bring them all together and serve all three, serve in all three offices perfectly to accomplish redemption, to accomplish salvation. And that's what is recognized, is acknowledged, is declared in question and answer 23 of the catechism. That has all come together. These offices come together in the person of Jesus. Jesus Christ. His work is as priest, is prophet, priest, and king. But before we move on and start talking about what it means for him to be a prophet, it's it's worth pausing with question and answer twenty-three of the catechism and just noticing that last line. There's this glorious point right at the end of that question, the answer to that question, and it is this: it says that Jesus, as our Redeemer, executes the office of a prophet, of a priest, and of a king. Both in his humiliation and in his exaltation. His humiliation is the work that he does, the life that he lives while on earth. Humble, looking like just an ordinary man, looking just like us in our weakness, suffering greatly for sin, the humiliation of Christ. And we'll talk more about that in a coming question and answer. But it says also in his exaltation. It doesn't just do this work of redemption while he's here with us, but he in his risen glory at the Father's right hand is still our prophet, priest. and king, our great revealer of God, reconciler to God, and ruler over us as our king. That's good news. So let's think about what it means for him to be a prophet or the prophet from God. And that's the second question that we're looking at this morning. That's question answer 24 of the catechism. It goes like this. How does Christ execute the office of a prophet? And the answer is: Christ executes the office of a prophet in revealing to us By his word and spirit, the will of God for our salvation. Revealing to us by his word and spirit the will of God for our salvation And I would argue that the catechism question here is summarized in the teaching of Scripture, much of which is brought to us right here in Matthew 17, that shows us the reason we need a prophet. It shows us how we can recognize Jesus as the true prophet and how Jesus rescues us. as the true prophet. These are the three points I want us to consider. The reason for a prophet, the recognition of Christ as the prophet, and our the rescuing word of Christ as our prophet. So, first, the reason for a prophet. And the answer to this question, which is, why do we need a prophet anyway? I mean, the answer is that our communication has broken down severely. We can't have communion without communication and uh and and and communic our communication is terrible. I mean, look at our communication together as a nation. We aren't talking the same language oftentimes If our communication as human beings who all share the same space, share the same nation and culture is broken down so severely, what about the communication between us and Almighty God? Holy when we are unholy, righteous when we are unrighteous, sinless and pure and perfect while we are sinners. See, this goes all the way back to creation, and the reality that the very meaning and purpose of humanity was to live in communion with God. And it's interesting, you may be here this morning, you may not be a follower of Christ, you may not be a believer even in God. Indeed, I would argue that at some level. At some level, don't we all find it uh find it an answer that is not totally satisfying The claim of the modern world that is just purely materialist that we are simply a mass of cells that happen to glum together for a time and will soon decompose. Don't we recognize as we engage with the world that there seems to be more meaning? There seems to be something out there that we were made for. Tim Keller, a famous preacher from New York City, as he's reflecting on some of these things. He used to love to quote Leonard Bernstein. Leonard Bernstein, the great musician or conductor, uh, who I don't believe ever truly confessed Christi the Christian faith. he was a Jewish background. I'm not sure what his his his faith standpoint was, but at one point he Bernstein in in in the The Joy of Music, this book that has all these sort of interviews or dialogues with Bernstein. He's meditating, he's thinking about Beethoven, and he says Beethoven is just this profound composer. Beethoven, he suggests, is one where every next note, it seems to be the perfectly right. One. And he says, Beethoven has the real goods, the stuff from heaven, Bernstein says, the power to make you feel at the finish, something is right in the world. There is something that checks throughout, that follows its own law consistently, something we can trust that will never let us down. It's that feeling we get when we listen to Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. And we say, wow, that has just made me sense something far greater than anything anything that is in me or in any fellow human being. Around me. Or when we watch that perfect sunset, when we fall in love for the first time, when we deeply connect and feel understood by a family member or a friend. Friends, we are relational beings. And yet the reality is no matter how many human relationships we have, there's always this nagging sense that there is something more. That there's something more beautiful, more profound, more wondrous. That we were made for, made to commune with. And the Bible says, yes, that's true. We were made to live in communion with God, and yet to commune with God, we need to communicate with Him. And because of sin, that communication has broken down. Imagine living with a spouse. And seeing evidence of them and their love for you and their service to you all around. The house is cleaned up. The dishes that were on the counter are cleaned. It's decorated. The lawn is mowed. That door handle that was broken is now suddenly fixed. All these evidences that the spouse I live with loves me, that they care for me, and yet even though they're around, they'll never talk. Never say anything. Would you feel loved? Would you feel like you're living in communion with them? I think I've had that experience at times, and it's normally called the silent treatment. That's I've probably caused that problem that situation more than I've I've received it. That's a curse. That's punishment. You get the silent treatment. No words, only presence. Originally, God created Adam to be in direct communion with him. He spoke to him in the garden. Hey, here are these trees. Eat all of them, except that one right there in the middle. Don't eat that one. Very clear, direct command. As we know, and we looked at weeks ago when we were looking at those portions of the catechism, Adam fell into sin. He disobeyed God's law. And because of that, as our catechism says, we have lost communion with God. And we are under his wrath and curse, and so made liable to all miseries of this life, to death itself, to the pains of hell forever. And one aspect of that fall from our original righteousness that we had in Adam is that we've lost communion and thus communication with God. God. Now we haven't lost it completely. God, through general, what we call general revelation, through the works that He has made, does communicate some things about Himself to us. Us. So Psalm 19 says, the heavens declare the glory of God, the sky above proclaims his handiwork. We can see the glory of God in the heavens. Just look. And the more and more we look, the more and more I think that's so true. We see these high, uh, high-resolution images of the vastness of creation. The glory of God. Romans 1. 20 says, God's invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world. In the things that have been made. And yet, it's a little like seeing the evidences of our spouse around the home But never communicating with them, never hearing. There are certain things that we can't know about God, about who he is, and about what he thinks about us unless he speaks. And the reality is that even these things that we can see about God in the world are distorted. We don't see them well because of our own sin. In which we suppress the truth in unrighteousness. So if you're here this morning and you say, look, I look at the heavens and I don't see the glory of God. Yeah, the Bible says that's often true. And that's because we distort, we cloud our vision because of our sin. We can't deal with the reality that that would testify to a God to whom we're accountable. And so we say, I don't think it does. I think I can explain it with mechanisms of science instead of as having an eternal Creator. In that sense, we become our own static. I don't know if anyone listens to the radio anymore, but uh uh I I've l often listened to the radio in the car, for instance, and you're driving along, you have it tuned to your station, and further and further you get away from your station. The further distance between you and the radio station, the more you get that crumbly crackly static, right? Rather, sin creates this vast distance between us and God. So even the truth that can be seen in the world is muddled, is marred. We can't quite discern it. Well, so Ephesians 4:18 says Unbelievers, those who reject God, are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardness of their hearts. That's the reason we need a prophet. Somebody to come to us from God who can speak for God to us. Who can communicate? Who can tell us plainly who he is and who we are? Who can teach us what God loves, what he desires from us and for us? To specifically teach us how we can be restored to right relationship and communion with Him. And that is the role of the Prophet throughout God's word, one who speaks on behalf of God. Like an ambassador today or an emissary, somebody who can go to another distant foreign land. An ambassador of the United States can go and say, thus says the United States. I can speak on their behalf. That's what a prophet is. And we see that here in the question: that Christ executes the office of a prophet in revealing to us the will of God for our salvation. So simply put, the reason we need a prophet is our ignorance in our sin. The prophet brings us God's word and teaches us knowledge of God that is necessary for our salvation. Knowledge of God and his will for us. And that brings us to the second point: the recognition of Christ as the true prophet And this is the whole passage's point, right? The whole passage is driving this point home that Jesus is the ultimate final prophet. Greater than the greatest of the prophets, greater than Moses, greater than Elijah, and fulfilling the prophecy of of Moses in Deuteronomy eighteen. where it says the Lord your God in verse 15, the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers. It is to him you shall listen. Look at Matthew 17. After six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John his brother and led them up a high mountain by themselves. And light bulbs should be going off, alarm bells, high mountain? Oh, this happens. This is where often God speaks or reveals himself to his people. And he was transfigured before them, his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light. And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah talking with him. Moses and Elijah. Why these two? Because they are the two great prophets of the Old Testament. Moses, the first and foremost prophet, Elijah, the man of God during the monarchy. Who did mighty feats on God's behalf and spoke God's truth faithfully to the kings of Israel. And they become the focus of the rest. You know, it's this idea that this is all about prophets and prophecy. In verse 9, as they're coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, Tell no one this vision until the Son of Man is raised from it. from the dead. And the disciples asked him, then why did the scribes say that first Elijah must come? And he answered, Elijah does come and he will restore all things, but I tell you that Elijah has already come. And they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased, so also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands. See, he's making this con comparison. Elijah, the great prophet, must come, and in many ways the Son of Man comes. like him. Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist. This reality that John the Baptist may be the ultimate, the greatest prophet, because he is the forerunner of Jesus. Jesus Christ, that he has come, and as he has come as the the the great prophet, Jesus as the Son is the greatest prophet. That's the idea here See, prophets had to be commissioned by God directly. And thus the ministry of the prophets usually begins with a theophany, a vision of God in his throne room, being ushered into the presence of God. And so you have Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 6. Seeing the throne of God, being overwhelmed by it, undone by it. Ezekiel in Ezekiel chapter 1, seeing the chariot throne of God with its wheels and its creatures. There's a sense in which that glory of God enthroned is not just something that Jesus sees. As the great prophet. But the glory of God and throne is who Jesus is as the true and ultimate prophet. Who better to speak God's word than his very own only begotten Son who has come down out of heaven? And that's what it says right here in verse 5. As he was still speaking, and he was still speaking, when behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. And that happens right after the transfiguration where he ends up embodying all those images that the prophets saw when they were ushered into the throne room of God. Light shining from his face, his clothes as bright as, and his his clothes white as light. Jesus is the Son of God and as the Son, he is perfectly capable, perfectly fitted To be the true and ultimate prophet of God. John 1:18, it says, John, no one has ever seen God, the only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. Who better to make God known than the The only begotten Son of God, incarnate the God man, the person Jesus Christ. John fifteen, fifteen, no longer do I call you servants, Jesus said. For the servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends, and here it is. Jesus says the ultimate prophet. For all that I have heard from my father, I have made known friends So the passage here is driving home this idea that we need to recognize Jesus as the true and ultimate prophet prophesied and having come Who as he is the son and what he does so uh and and the recognition needs to recognize both who he is as the son, but also what he does in perfectly fulfilling what prophets do. And what is it that prophets do? Well, we can recognize Jesus as the ultimate prophet also in this, in seeing his work as the prophet, which prophets reveal God's word and his will. They reveal his character and his commands. And Jesus does both perfectly. Here, first we see Jesus revealing God's character, being the Word of God incarnate. Hebrews 1, 1 to 3 says, long ago, at many times in many ways, God spoke to us, to our fathers by the prophets, but In these last days, he has spoken to us by his son. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. Jesus is not only a prophet who speaks God's words, but his words are God's words. John 1:14 says, the word, that's Jesus, became flesh and dwelt or tabernacled among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. And we see this recognized here in Matthew 17 because what happens here is fraught with significance. Jesus gets up, or I'm sorry, it's fraught with significance as Jesus gets and gives the mountaintop experience that Moses and Elijah only longed for. Yeah, I think that's the significance of this transfiguration story. Remember Moses when he goes up top a high mountain And God meets with him there. He says in Exodus 33, 18, Lord, please show me your glory. You remember the story. God says, you can't see me and live. But I'll cover you up, and uh my back will pass before you. And as he does this, he declares, he reveals himself to Moses through a word, as he gives himself his name, the Lord, the Lord. Gracious and compassionate, full of mercy. And then Elijah, when he has uh defeated the prophets of Baal in 1 Kings 19, he goes up to a mountaintop as well, and he sort of seems to be complaining of being desperately alone. of just longing for a recognition that God is actually with him because he it seems like he's the only believer still still around and God says, all right, go up onto the mountaintop and and God's God meets with him there. He passes passes by him, not in the wind, not in the earthquake, not in the fire, but I think as I would translate it, but in a deafening or a crushing silence. Now God does end up speaking to him, but there's a certain sense in which the silence is telling. I think God's there trying to teach Elijah. He's trying to say, look, you may not hear me, you may not see me, but I'm here, I'm at work. But wouldn't it have been so encouraging for Elijah to actually see God? And here he does. Here he does. Moses asked to see God, but he could only see maybe a bit of his back. Here, he's standing there talking to Jesus, finally seeing God, looking him in the eyes. the face. Elijah longed for communion with God and he met God in the silence. Here he meets God and Jesus Christ and speaks. Within verse 3. Here we are on a high mountain again, and now God is revealing himself as he never has before in the person of Jesus Christ. And that's what we see as the voice comes. Verse 5 Even while Jesus is still speaking with Elijah and Moses, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved. And then verse six: when the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified. You say, why are they so terrified? Why do they fall on their faces? I think the answer is because Jesus' work as a prophet is not just a revelation of God's character, but it's a revelation of God's law. Of God's will, his commands. Our catechism question says he reveals to us the will of God. And I think here verse six happens in light of verse four, uh verse four, where Peter has says said to Jesus, Lord, it is good that we are here. If you wish I will make three tents. And you could translate that tabernacles. Three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. It's clear that Peter is not talking about build setting up a little camping tent. So that they can spend the night together, right? Because then he would have said, a tent for you guys and us. He's basically saying, wow, this is a lot. Elijah, this is Moses, and Jesus is with them. How about we make a tabernacle for all three of you to honor you? And it's at that moment that the voice comes down from heaven and says, You've missed the point. They're all prophets, but this one is the prophet. This is my beloved son. He doesn't say, listen to my prophets. He doesn't say listen to the words that Moses wrote down for you. Listen to the words that Elijah spoke. Although that would be true. He said, This is my beloved son. Listen to him. It's interesting in Mark's account, uh it says that Peter blurted this out, and it says he he didn't know what he was saying. He was just so so freaked out. Uh freaked out is not the way the Bible puts it, but you know, he was so terrified. It seems as though the point is, why were they terrified? It's because in that voice from on high God declaring who Jesus is and the authority and power he has to command and to speak God's will and his law, they were recognized their own. Sin. Peter, who has heard Jesus preach, Sermon on the Mount, that sin is not just something we do with our hands, but it's something that occurs first in our hearts. Peter, who now all of a sudden, when Jesus is declared to be by that voice from on high, the Son of God, who is The prophet, not anything like Moses and Elijah in his greatness, in his in his splendor as the God-man, the only begotten Son of God, all of a sudden Peter realizes he has just suggested breaking the first commandment. And setting up three tabernacles. And this after Jesus has taught him what God's law really calls for. That's how Jesus is to be recognized as the true prophet, both revealing to us the character of God and his commands, revealing to us the word of God and his will. Do you recognize Jesus as the ultimate and true prophet? And does that make you want to respond in proper fear and worship? That's part of the point. Fear is often associated with worship. When we recognize who Jesus really is, we ought to fear him in the proper sense. We ought to worship him. Recognizing Jesus as the true prophet ought to make us tremble and want to bow down with faces to the ground. That's the reason for a prophet, our ignorance and sin. The recognition of Jesus as the perfect prophet, revealing God's character and his command. Third and finally, the rescuing word of God in Christ our prophet. And here's the point of this final point. Jesus does not just reveal to us by his word and spirit the will of God. That would be good all of itself. He doesn't just reveal to us the character of God, which is basically what the law is descriptive of. The character of God is God's law to us. Jesus doesn't just reveal to us the character of God and the will of God, but the catechism says it so beautifully. The will of God for our salvation. Jesus rescues us from the ignorance that is a byproduct of our sin and unbelief because he rescues us from our sin and unbelief. Belief. And that's the focus right here at the center of this passage in verses 6 to 8. When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified. Just like Isaiah in the throne room of God in Isaiah 6, woe is me, for I am a man of unclean lips among a people of unclean lips. They fall on their faces and terrify, but it goes on, and there's this beautiful button. Verse 7, but greatest word in the Bible over and over again, but Jesus came And touch them, saying, Rise, be raised, and have no fear. Yes, these are commands, and part of it is just get up. But he uses the term that is also used for resurrection. Get up, be raised, and have no fear. How could we, in the presence of this true great prophet? This one who, when transfigured, when when a little glimpse of his true glory is seen, has a face that shines like the sun, has clothes that are white as light, how could in his presence we have no fear? It's because, verse 8, and when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only And then as they go down the mountain, him having veiled his glory once again, as they go down, he says, I'm here not to shine. That way. I'm here to shine by dying and rising again. I'm here to give you a word of salvation By becoming the word of God that is silenced in judgment, so that we may not have the silence of God's judgment any longer. He becomes the Word of God silenced by our sin as like a lamb before its shearers is silenced, so he opened not his mouth, and yet going to the cross He cried out for a word from God. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And what he received in response was the crushing silence of God. Because that is the loss of communion that we And yet he was crushed by the silence of God's judgment, so that you and I never have to be if we Simply repent and believe and follow Him, we can enjoy renewed fellowship and communion with God by faith as He speaks to us. In his beloved Son, Jesus Christ, as he speaks to us through his word. See, Jesus rose on the third day and ascended to the Father's right hand, and this is the beauty and wonder. He not only was God's word incarnate during his life on earth, in his humiliation, but having risen to the Father's right hand, where he is reigning in glory, in his estate of exaltation, as the catechism says it, he is forever God's word of grace to us. And how do we hear this word of grace in the gospel? How do we hear the will of God for our salvation? Well, the catechism answer puts it this way: it says, by his word and spirit. By his word read in the Spirit, the Spirit which He has given us, the Comforter, who enables us to have our sin and its blinding effects on Done, to have our sin which stops up our ears, removed from our hearts, to have our hearts of stone melted, to make them hearts of flesh, so that as we read his word, we can delight in it, and we can meet Jesus in it. I love how Peter talks about this whole experience of the transfiguration. Because if if you're like me, you'd say, wow When your faith struggles, wow, if I had only had an encounter like that where I could have heard the voice of the Father, if I could have seen Jesus in his transfigured glory, wow. That might really strengthen my faith. And Peter says, No, I've been there It's not the greatness of God's word to us. Listen to this. He says in 2 Peter 1, verse 16. For we do not follow, we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we were, and he's talking about himself, we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. And he's specifically speaking of the transfiguration. For, he says, when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was born to him, by the majestic glory, saying, this is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. Exactly what he says in the gospel. We ourselves heard this very voice born from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain. And, or I think maybe better translated here, but, but we have the prophetic word more fully confirmed to which you will do well to pay attention, as to a lamp shining in a dark place until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. Knowing this first of all that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation, for no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Peter is saying here that the scriptures, which for him were the old only the Old Testament, the Scriptures are a better word for us now. As they declare to us the wonder of who Christ is. They're a better word than the word he heard. Just simply saying, This is my beloved son. Not that that's a bad word, it's a great word. But I want you to see here how Jesus rescues us and gives us his word for our day-to-day life. And gives us not only his word of truth, his word of God's character and his law, but the word of grace and the good news of the gospel. How do we hear this word of grace? How do we hear Jesus guide us by his word? How do we have him comfort us by his word? It's by hearing it. By reading it, by studying it, by meditating on the written Word of God as we do so empowered by the Spirit, asking and pleading for the Spirit's help. It's interesting. The word can't do it all by itself. The word can only uh can speak of Jesus, but there are all sorts of people who read this, who study it deeply and and still don't see Jesus. And still don't believe him. It's by his word and spirit, both are necessary. This pushes back also against those who would sort of say, oh, well, all you need is the Spirit. You don't really need this dead letter. You can go out and engage with God merely by the Spirit, and theologians would say, no, he has given us his word. And it's the same, this word is what is inspired by the Spirit, and then it's the same Spirit who has to enable us to hear it and to love the God we need in Christ executes the office of a prophet in revealing to us by his word and spirit the will of God for our salvation. I like how Thomas Vinson in his commentary on the catechism puts it. As he's reflecting on this idea of it being the word and spirit, he says, could God do it just by the spirit? Yeah, he could, but he has said he doesn't want to. He's given us his written word Could he do it by the written word alone? No, because the Spirit is always necessary. So he says it this way: the word of Christ without the Spirit cannot teach us the will of God for our salvation. The word of Christ without his spirit cannot teach us. The Spirit of Christ without his word will not teach us. The will of God for our salvation. Christ executes the office of a prophet in revealing to us by his word and spirit the will of God for our salvation. Let's wrap up with A couple brief points of application. Are you listening to Jesus' prophetic word as the prophetic word of God? Are you listening to him as he reveals himself in his word? What areas of your life is Jesus calling you to realign with his word and according to it? You long to talk to God. Do you long to commune with Him? Do you long for deep relationship? Ultimately, that longing is always only fully fulfilled in communing with God. Through Jesus Christ. So come to Jesus. Start a conversation with him by reading his word and by prayer. Take regular time to stop and listen to Jesus' words that he has given us in Holy Scripture. Jesus doesn't just tell us information about God as our prophet. He is God's self-revelation to us. And in that sense, he is God's letter of love to us. Us. Listen to the letter of love God has written to us in Jesus Christ. Read of His everlasting love, His sanctifying grace, of the holiness without which no one will see See God and yet which is forged in us by His Spirit as we simply grow in our knowledge of Christ and our understanding of Him and therefore our love for Him by Him. Matthew 11, 27 and 28, Jesus welcomes us to do this. He invites us to do this. He says, All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Jesus, the great prophet. And then he follows that saying, come. Come to me, all you who are labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Come bask in the wondrous work of Jesus our prophet. Friends, let's listen to him Amen. Close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your word written that teaches us of your incarnate word, Jesus Christ. How we thank you that He is our great prophet. That He has revealed to us your will for us, not just of how to live in the world, not just of your law and the character that we We should have as we bear your image and reflect your glory, but that He has He has revealed to us your will for our salvation. How we thank you for Jesus and the great work that He has done. And we pray that you would make us those who attend more and more, who listen to him as you've told us to do. We pray all these things in his precious name and for your glory. Amen.