Well, we don't talk about priests much these days. If we do, it's probably in the context of the Roman Catholic Church, where we still have priests that are like, maybe kind of like our pastors today. We don't talk about gods, we don't talk about idols, but when we open the Bible, we see these words regularly. Priest, idol, temple, God. I would argue that even though we in our modern context, in everyday life, don't use the terms priests, sacrifices, idols, Temples. We don't use those terms. I would argue that the realities are all around us all the time We have just changed the terminology. Now it's not so much idols that we make for ourselves that we worship, but it's the concepts, the ideas that were behind them. We still pursue as our greatest goal things like beauty, glory, fame Health, power, wealth, influence And yet, when we pursue these things, access to these life goals, if you will, is limited. We often know that we're not able to achieve them in the way that we think we should or the way that we want, and so we need what do we call them? We need experts. Experts. People like Plastic surgeons to help us reach the beauty we think we should attain. Makeup companies, influencers, financial planners, doctors, personal trainers, scientists, these are often modern-day priests who are giving us access to our greatest goals, which become our gods. Now, all of these things are not bad in and of themselves per se. It's not bad to be beautiful, it's not bad to be famous, it's not wrong to be healthy or have a measure of power or wealth. But often these goals become gods when we devote ourselves to them. And when we've done that, we very much know the need for a priest, someone who can help us navigate access to these goals that we're so longing for, that we're pursuing. And that's the idea of priesthood. That's the idea of idolatry that we meet in the Bible. And yet, all of that These sorts of priesthoods that help us pursue goals that can become gods and the idolatry that surrounds them, all of that is is just a fake version of what we actually were created for. And in some sense, they reflect a reality there that is a real need. We do need a priest to have access to what we should be longing for, the God we should be worshiping. And that is one of the roles, one of the offices that Jesus enters into as our Redeemer. We've been reflecting on the The person and the work of Christ in these past few weeks. In some sense, we're extending the Advent season this year. When we think about Jesus, who he is, how he came in his first coming and who he is now and how he will come again. And we're extending that by going through the Westminster Shorter Catechism and studying these questions, starting about questions 21, 22, and all the way through about 29, 30, somewhere in there. About Christ our Redeemer. And we looked last week at how uh first we we looked at who Jesus is as the person of our Redeemer. He's God and man. And then last week we began looking at the work of Jesus Christ. And the work is divided up into three offices: Jesus as prophet, Jesus as the true great high priest, and then Jesus as our ultimate king. Last time we looked at how the prophet helps bring us knowledge that we've lost because of the ignorance of our sin. Today we're looking at Jesus as our great high priest who overcomes the righteousness problem, which we'll talk about in a moment. Here's question and answer 25 of the catechism, and this is on page 871 of the Pew Bibles. If you would like to have the words before you, it asks this, how does Christ execute the office of a priest? And the answer goes like this. Christ executes the office of a priest in his once offering up of himself a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice. And to reconcile us to God and in making continual intercession for us. Now Let's try to unpack this and reflect on what this actually means. Why we need a priest like this and who Jesus is as our high priest. And to do that, let's consider three points this morning. That all begin with the word O, or with the letter O. First, the office of priest we need. Second of all, the offering that Christ makes as our priest. And third, the outcome of Christ's priesthood for us. The office, offering, and outcome. Three points we want to consider. First, the office of priest we need. And here's the point. As I mentioned in the illustration that I opened with a moment ago, our modern need for experts, which we could call a kind of priests. It shows that we have a real felt need for a priestly work, a felt need for some access to some good that we know that we're cut off from, if we're honest. I would argue that that felt need for the office or function of a priest is actually just proof of a factual need, a real need. That we often misunderstand or misconstrue. Let's think first about the felt need. How we can all agree that in some sense we need a priest. I guess the question here is: why do we feel the need for modern priests? Why do we feel the need for experts, influencers, professionals? Isn't it because we recognize our own lack of perfection? our limitations. The ways in which we are separated from some of the blessings of life and blessedness. And and we know that because of our imperfections, we just can't get them. Maybe there are imperfections of having all the medical knowledge that a doctor needs to give us to bring us to a place of health. Think about what we long to have access to: beauty, fame, health, wealth, power. Each one at some level is a little description of a part of the blessed life. A life lived to its fullness. A true life, in a sense. And yet our imperfections keep us from those things, things like physical weaknesses or physical imperfections. mental struggles, other kinds of weaknesses or lacks in our life. So maybe your life is a mess right now and you already know you need help. Maybe a doctor to deal with some chronic illness and you just don't know which one. Or you need a psychiatrist to help you work through some mental health issues, or maybe you need a dietitian or a personal trainer for physical health, uh a a doctor to prescribe some medicine. You you feel your need for a priest. That's the felt need, and that reflects something deeper. That reflects something deeper. But maybe you're here this morning and you're actually feeling pretty comfortable. Yeah, you're think of yourself as relatively good looking. I mean that's what I think of you, you all out there. Uh you're fairly physically fit. You You don't feel a need for an expert to show you the way in any of the ways in which I mentioned, but the truth is one day there will be a moment. When you all of a sudden have the reality of alienation from the blessedness of true life that enters in, maybe it'll be a terminal diagnosis. Cancer, heart disease. Maybe it'll be the news of the loss of a loved one. And at that moment we all run To priests. What do I do? Tell me, tell me, and I'll do it. What can I offer? What sacrifices can I make to overcome this alienation to the good life? How can I beat this? Thing that's before me. How can I live another day? The point is we will feel our need for a priest. But this felt need actually is simply reflective of the factual, the real, true need that we all have. And this is the one that the Bible lays out for us in bold technicolor. And that is that the Bible comes to us and says, yes, see, you are alienated. From the good life. You are alienated from the very source of life itself because you're alienated from God due to your unrighteousness and your sin. Romans 3, 10 to 12. It drives this point home very clearly. No one is righteous. No, not one. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. No one does good, not even one. What is unrighteousness? What is sin? Well, it's simply failing to live as our God and our Creator commands. It is a reflection of the sickness that is entered into the world through that first sin in Adam that we've talked about as we worked our way through the catechism. It's the bentness that affects us all. We all can, I would imagine here, if we were all honest, we can look back over this past week and remember moments that we regret. Where we didn't relate to a friend the way we we should, the way we want to normally. Maybe the parent, the spouse, the child. We haven't acted out of the kindness and love and selflessness that we And friends, the problem of unrighteousness and sin is that it does cause a separation from God, who is the ultimate source of all blessing and life, who is the the one from whom the good life comes. Isaiah 59, too says, Your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. And this truth of the separation, this factual need that we have to somehow overcome this distance between us and God, that that Separation due to our unrighteousness is reinforced throughout all of the Old Testament in the instructions for Israel's worship. They all scream, no access. Separation. And we see this in the structure of the tabernacle and the structure of the temple, which were pretty similar. All around them is a big courtyard walled off. You can't enter unless you're properly equipped and qualified. And then you enter in and you enter into the court. And what's there? A big wash basin. Altar, saying you must be cleansed and a sacrifice must be made. And that's what the priest does because you actually can only get that far as a worshiper. The full presence of God on earth is uh sort of uh in a sense typologically represented in the Holy of Holies deep inside the tabernacle or the temple, and you could only look at that big structure from the outside. The priests had to make the sacrifice. The priest had to wash and then take that sacrificial offering into the tabernacle or the temple for the worshippers. And even there. He could only enter in so far before he'd see that great curtain, a hand breadth in width. This great thick curtain keeping everyone out. The Holy of Holies, that place where the presence of God, where God in his wisdom decided that his name should dwell, his presence on earth should be represented. In the articles therein. In there, only one high priest, great high priest, could enter once a year for a brief moment to offer the atoning sacrifice for sin. All of this screamed, no access. The only way to overcome this distance was by means of a priest who could instruct you what sacrifice to bring, who could prepare it, who could offer it, who could bring it into God's presence to atone for sin. The point is. This is the office of priest we need. It's something that we feel in the various alienations we experience in this life, but it actually all those feelings of alienation are simply reflections. of the factual need we have to overcome the separation we have from Almighty God because of our unrighteousness and sin. And we see this in that first, in that question and answer of the catechism. Where it says that Christ executes the office of a priest in his once offering up of himself, and here it is, to satisfy divine justice and reconcile us to God. That's the office of priest that we need. Second point. The offering Christ makes. And there are basically two essential aspects, two essential parts to Christ's offering as our great high priest that are recounted for us here in this question that reflect Scripture. And here are the two essential aspects of Christ's offering. First of all, Christ is the perfect offerer, and he gives the perfect offering. Perfect offerer, perfect offering. First, he's the perfect offerer. Christ's offering is exactly what we need from our priest because he offers it as the perfect righteous, sinless, holy priest that no other human priest ever could be. And he does this by what we call his act of obedience. That every day of Jesus' life he maintained his holiness, his righteousness, his perfection by obeying God's law fully and perfectly. Can you imagine that? How hard it is for us to obey God's law for a few moments. Christ in his act of obedience for 33 years on earth, through all those different parts of life. fully fulfilled God's law that he might be declared perfect, righteous. the perfect offerer that we truly need to overcome the separation due to our sin. Look at verse 27. He, that is Jesus, has no need like those high priests to offer daily sacrifices for his own sins and then for those of the people. Why? Because of what it says a verse above in verse 26. It was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. Isn't that so often the problem we run into in the insufficient priests that we run to? They have their own weaknesses, they have their own flaws, so that ultimately they can't ward off the alienation from life that is ultimately reflected in death itself. They can't be the expert or the priest who need it. I think of a doctor's, for instance. I've had a number of health issues myself through the years, and I've had some doctors who have really helped me. overcome some significant obstacles and reach a level of good health. The first one I started going to when I was 11, and he is in St. Louis. Now I believe he's still practicing medicine. I worked with him from about 11 until my mid-20s. And then it's at some level it just became too We were separated distance-wise and it became too kind of financially burdensome. So we I wasn't able to use him anymore. Gratefully, God brought along another doctor who is more local here based out of Virginia. And uh he really helped me a lot, helped me figure out a number of health issues, and uh and then he moved to Colorado and retired. I know some of you have had this situation. You have a doctor that you've loved and you've worked with and he he's been a good uh you know, professional. He's been a good priest in that sense, helping you navigate health issues and whatnot, and then he he gets old and retires or Maybe passes away and all of a sudden you're you're out there looking for another another priest, another doctor, another one who can help you with your health. This is the weakness of all human priesthoods. It was the weakness of the priesthood of Aaron. That's that over and over again, priests would be raised up, and even if they would be faithful priests, even if they would follow God's law as much as they could, they still had their own sin, and eventually they would die. That's what it says there in verse 23, the former priests were many in number because they were prevented by death from continuing in office. Same thing that's mentioned back a couple pages before that in Hebrews chapter five, where it says, For every high priest, in verse one, every high priest chosen from among men is appointed to act on behalf of men in relation to God to offer gifts and sacrifices for sins. He can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward, since he himself is beset with weakness. But because of this, he's obligated to offer sacrifice for his own sins, just as he does for those of the people. And same thing here in verse 27. The weakness of human priesthoods is their problem, but Jesus. is the perfect offerer. He is the priest that no one else can be for us. He's different because he's sinless and he's He's righteous, and he has risen now in glory to live forever as the perfect offer, which it shows to us here in verse 24. But he holds his priesthood. permanently because he continues forever. And then down in verses 26 to 28, for it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest holy unstained separated from From sinners exalted above the heavens. He has no need, like those priests, to offer sacrifices daily for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself. For the law appoints men in their weakness as high priests, but the word of the oath And this is that promise from Psalm 110 that Jesus would be a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek, for the word of the oath, which came later than law, appoints the Son who has been made perfect forever. He's been made perfect through suffering forever, fulfilling his active obedience. But not only is he the perfect offerer in his active obedience, he is also the perfect offering. In what we call his passive obedience, suffering, the penalty for our sin in himself when he went to the cross. This is what the catechism says: in his once offering up. So it's his offering up, the perfect offer of himself as the perfect offering, a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice. We see that right there in verse 27. He did this once for all when he offered up himself. Hebrews 9. 12 says, He, Jesus, entered once for all into the holy places, not by a means of blood, not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. Hebrews 10, 10, and by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. We are so ready, aren't we, to sacrifice to try to save ourselves sacrifice ourselves from the alienations we feel. We're willing to give our time, give our money, give our relationships, give our own bodies. I see this even today in this sense in which more and more people are confused, feel uncomfortable, unat home in their own bodies, and give their bodies. To all sorts of things in order to just try to overcome the alienation that is felt And these may be acceptable to the gods of this world for a time. They may bring a measure of overcoming alienation, but they cannot save ultimately They cannot save our true need, which is a spiritual one, because sin demands a holy life in our place. But friends, that's exactly what Jesus offers. a holy life in your place and my place as we come to him through faith. He offers his very own body and blood when he goes to the cross. And in doing this, he has put righteousness, unrighteousness and sin away forever. I love Hebrews 9. 26. He, Jesus, appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of the world. Let me close this second point with two quotes from Watson. The first quote answers this question. What was that sacrifice of Christ really like? What did it cost him to give himself? And Thomas Watson, this great Puritan commentator, says it so well. He says, Christ, in the death of the cross, he suffered in all his senses. His eyes beheld two sad objects, his enemies insulting. His mother weeping. His ears were filled with the revilings of the people, shouting out, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. His smell was offended when their spittle fell upon his face. His taste when they gave him gall and vinegar to drink His feeling when his head suffered with thorns, his hands and feet with the nails, his whole body one great wound, this white lily, died with purple color. What do we do with this reality of the offering Christ has made? This reality of Christ as the perfect offerer who offers the perfect offering of himself. What should that mean for for us? What should we do with that truth? Here's what Watson says. In the bloody sacrifice of Christ, see the horrid nature of sin. Sin is odious. As it banished Adam out of paradise and threw the angels into hell. It's bad enough in that sense, but he says, but that which is most Which most of all makes it appear horrid is this, that sin made Christ veil his glory and lose his blood. We should look upon sin with indignation and pursue it with a holy malice. The sight of Christ's bleeding body should incense us against sin. Let us not parlay with it. Let not that be our joy, which made Christ a man of sin. Sorrows. Let not that be our joy, the sin that made Christ a man of sorrows. So the office of priest we need. It's a felt need that shows forth our actual need. The offering Christ gave in his active and passive obedience, third and finally the outcome of Christ's priesthood. Simply put, the outcome of Christ's priesthood is atonement. You say, well, that's simple, but what in the world does that word mean? We don't talk about that word very often either. Atonement. A dictionary definition of atonement is reparation for wrong or injury, reconciliation to God in Christ. Let's put some let's put it an example forward. Kids, imagine, and this might be a gear, well, I don't know. This uh imagine that you're at your friend's house And they have a brand new what Xbox PlayStation. I don't know what the latest game system is. It's brand new. They just got it for their birthday and they've invited you over to play. and you start playing and this game, whatever you're playing, is so amazing and intense, and you're in there and you get so excited and then you lose and you get so frustrated that you just lash out and you accidentally knock. the the game system off the shelf and it lands on the floor and shatters into a million pieces. Your friend's brand new Xbox or PlayStation What do you do? Well you start by saying, oh, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I didn't mean to do that. Please forgive me. Your friend may say, okay, but you know that's not going to make it right, right? What do you need to do? You need to go Tap into your savings, ask mom and dad to help you. Maybe bring your own brand new Xbox from your home and say, here. Let me give it back to you. Let me restore what I have taken, what my sin, the damage my sin has caused. It's a little picture of what atonement is, right? Making reparation for wrong or injury. And here we're told that this is what Jesus does for us The debt that we couldn't pay, he pays on our behalf. Look what the catechism says. It says, Christ executes the office of a priest in his once offering up of himself a sacrifice, here it is, to satisfy divine justice. And to reconcile us to God. Or to put it another way, the outcome of Christ's priesthood results in three F's Forgiveness, fellowship, forever. Full forgiveness, fellowship forever. First of all, full forgiveness. See, because Jesus as great high priest has already obeyed fully in our place, if he's our high priest, And he's taken the penalty for our sin, it means that we're forgiven. I love Ephesians 4. 32, where it grounds our relationship with each other in this forgiveness of Jesus. Be kind to one another. Tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you. Now, not only is that a great challenge that we ought to be the best forgivers, But think about what it says about Jesus' full forgiveness. He is kind, tender-hearted. He forgives. And calls us to follow him in that. Imagine going into a courtroom, going in Knowing you're guilty of the crime, and it's so severe that you know that it'll either result in life in prison or the death penalty. And you walk into court and you're called to stand for the verdict, and rather than getting that, you hear not guilty. And the gavel goes down. That's forgiveness. Full forgiveness. Imagine the relief. Imagine the joy. Imagine the hope. Imagine the sense of freedom. Friends, that's what we get in Jesus Christ. full forgiveness of sin. It's how we ought to, it's why we ought to live our lives unburdened by guilt. We ought to live our lives in unending joy. We ought to live our lives rich with hope, resting in the freedom that He has purchased for us by His body and blood, full forgiveness of sins. Don't we see that in Zechariah 3. 9? Where it says there in 3. 9, and it's predicting that the righteous branch, who would be the priest, the other Jesus priest. The one who comes not with soil garments, but with perfect garments, and then takes the soil garments on himself for us, it says, your iniquity will be removed in a single day. And that happened 2,000 years ago. On the day that Christ went to the cross and was crucified and died for us to forgive our sins. I love how one commentator in reflecting on Christ's work as priest in bringing forgiveness, he says: Since we are fully forgiven, through Christ's perfect sacrifice, we need not be ashamed when we fail. When we stumble, we must resist the temptation to hide from God until we can try to make ourselves worthy of his forgiveness. We can never do that. His forgiveness is there. We have only to confess and receive it. Full forgiveness. That is what the first outcome of Christ's priesthood is. The second one is fellowship. Fellowship. That's that line in the catechism where it says he not only did this to satisfy divine justice, which is forgiveness, but to reconcile us to God. You may have heard that phrase. What does atonement mean? It means at one moment. Having reconciled us back to fellowship with God. And this is so important because, friends, we actually always live in God's presence in some presence. Sense. You've heard the term, quorum dao, before the face of God. There's a reality that God is always there. Even when no one else is watching, no one else is looking, He sees. And knowing that ought to strike concern, terror in our hearts, knowing our sin, and that so often our sins, our worst sins, are not known by anyone else but ourselves. And yet, because of Christ, we know that our sins are forgiven. They're removed as far as the east is from the west, as Psalm 103 that we heard for our assurance of pardon, says, so we can walk through life light. Cleansed in our consciences, enjoying fellowship with God, the sweet fellowship of his smiling presence, because we know he no longer sees our sin. He can't, because Christ has already. Paid those in full. So verse 23 of our passage here in Hebrews 7 says, he is able, Jesus is able to save those who draw near to God through him. And what a picture we see of that when Christ goes to the cross and he cries out, it is finished, and what happens? That hand-breadth curtain covering the Holy of Holies is torn in two. And it's put on full display. Access now is free to God for those who are in Christ Jesus. Jesus, for those who enter into God's presence through the means of the great high priest Jesus Christ. This is the other outcome, the result of Christ's redeeming work in his priestly office. Full forgiveness, fellowship, and it's forever. It's forever. Jesus' priestly work assures us of the promise that as that death has been defeated once for all, that we have the promise, the assurance of eternal life. It's ours, both because he rose. To prove that his sacrifice was sufficient and that God had accepted us and that there's nothing more to do? And also because he rose To do something. To do something. And this is where Christ's priestly work continues to this day. There's a once-for-all sacrifice he makes of himself, but he continues to serve as priest in making continual intercession. for us that last beautiful little line of the catechism. And that's what it says here in verse 23. The former priests were many in number because they were per uh prevented by death from continuing office. But Jesus holds his priesthood permanently because he continues forever as the risen Savior at the Father's right hand. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him since Here it is. He always lives for a purpose to make intercession for them. To make intercession for them. See, if Jesus is the God man praying at the Father's right hand, we can be sure that what he's praying, God will do. It's going to happen. And what is he praying? I think John 17 gives us a clue. In his high priestly prayer, as it's called, he prays things like this: Father, keep them in your name. That they may be one, even as you and I are one. Father, keep them from the evil one Father, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth It says he continually makes intercession for them here in verse 25. In the catechism, it says he can makes continual intercession for us. That raises a good question. Who is Jesus praying for? And that is actually a big question that opens up this big qu this this this deep doctrine of the extent of the atonement. Who is it that Christ serves as priest for? And we don't have time to get into this in great detail. We're running out of time here. We could spend another hour talking about the nature of the atonement. I think Chris is going to talk more about that tonight, so come on back. It's a little advertisement. Come on back to think more about this if you're wrestling with this. But there are kind of two options. One is a universalism, and the other is a particularism. So universalism that That either God decrees to save everyone, some people believe that. He died for everyone, and so everyone's going to be saved. Most people realize that in the Bible there there are clearly some who are not saved. And so some who believe in sort of a universal effect of Jesus say, well it's universal uh you it's it's universal, but it only saves partly. You have to do the rest. It's up to you to sort of cross uh do part of that, cross part of that bridge to accessing God. Jesus only does so much, but he does it for everyone. And then you have particularism that says, no, Jesus died for particular people. That when he went to the cross, he did so out of love, and he did so with an eye toward his people. Those who would be his through repentance and faith. This is what we call limited atonement. That Jesus dies specifically for the sins of, as he says in John 17, 9, those you, Father, have given me. It's interesting, Jesus doesn't even pray for those the Father hasn't given him. As John 17, 9 says, I'm not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. If we say that Jesus died for everyone, how could he not pray for everyone? And if he is praying for everyone, then his prayers are not being answered This is, I think, problematic. So the question is: how can we be those for whom Christ is praying? That's the question. Is Jesus your high priest? If you know your sin and you see its ugliness in the work of the cross, as Watson encouraged us to do, repent of it. Turn from it. Put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And then yet, yours will be the full forgiveness of Christ's priestly work, his offering. Yours will be the fellowship that only he can bring between you and God. Yours will be the forever ministry of his interceding for you. Won't you bow your knee? Won't you draw near to God through the work of the great high priest Jesus Christ? And if you're sitting there and you're thinking, I don't know, I don't know that I have, I don't know that I can, I I I want to have Jesus as my high priest, I don't know if he is, then friends, you that probably means that he is. So just answer the call to follow him by faith. Join his church where he works to sanctify us by his word and keep us from the evil one. And if he is your high priest by faith, by having committed your life to follow him, then know that Jesus Christ, the risen Savior, is praying for you right now. Praying for you by name. Praying for you out of the great love with which He has loved you, as He gave Himself in your place. Mentioning your name before the Father, saying, He's mine. She's mine. Bless them. Keep them. Sanctify them. How would remembering this ongoing continual intercession of Christ right now for us, how might that change every day of the coming week? How might that change how we view our struggles? How we view our fears? How we view our guilt? How we view our joy? I'll close with this word by Thomas Watson, reflecting, meditating on this wonder of Christ's intercession for us as our great high priest. He says, though Satan tempts, Christ prays. And Satan will be vanquished. Now you may lose a single battle, but not the victory. Christ prays that your faith fail not. It is man that sins. But it is God that prays. What sovereign comfort that Christ makes continual intercession as our great high priest Amen. Let's close in a word of prayer through our great high priest. Heavenly Father, we thank you that even as we bring requests to you, even as we enter into your presence, even as we can can readily access your throne as a throne of grace because of Christ's sacrifice on our behalf. We thank you that it is not merely our prayers that you hear, but that you have a continual prayer going on at your right hand through Jesus Christ, our loving, holy, righteous Savior, our Lord, our great high priest. How we thank you for his work in this office of priest. How we thank you that it was foretold throughout the Old Testament and the prophets, and through the law as it laid out for us the realities of a priesthood. We confess that we so often try to overcome our alienations from you by seeking actually to integrate with various forms of life in this world. Lord, forgive us. Help us to attend to this great work that Christ has done. Help us to live our lives in light of it. Help us to remember each day our Savior at your right hand to continually intercede. For us in his name, the name of Jesus Christ. Our great High Priest, we pray. Amen.