In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth. To a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And he came to her and said, Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with you. But she was greatly troubled at the saying and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and he will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne. of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And Mary said to the angel, How will this be, since I am a virgin? And the angel said, answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. And the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. And behold, your relative Elizabeth, in her old age, has also conceived a son. And this is the sixth month with her who is called barren. For nothing will be impossible with God. And Mary said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. Here ends the reading of God's holy word. Let's go before him in prayer and ask his blessing as we meditate upon it further. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for the great truth that we spend some time focusing on at this time of year, that we have a great king. You, our God and Father, together with your Son, the Spirit. We thank you that we have a great king who is Not only God, but also man in Jesus Christ. We thank you for his humble birth, his incarnation, and the fact that we get to celebrate the wonder of that every day, but especially focusing on it. at this time of year. May you grant us grace to understand the wonder it is that Christ is our King. In his name we pray. Amen Question for you this morning, for me. Who rules you? Say I'm an American, no one. Right? We don't like kings around here, uh, and that's certainly part of our history. But can you really say no one or no thing rules you? I mean, granted, we gratefully are not under a tyrannical human ruler or institution in America at this point, though we should never take that for granted, as it's always a danger. But even if we're not ruled by any human earthly tyrant, are we not often ruled by our emotions? Our desires, our lusts, maybe relationships we do have with people, toxic relationships, oppressive people who we feel ruled by. Maybe we're simply ruled by the social media notification ding on our phone. That immediately drags our attention back to it and really exercises a rulership over us. As the great philosopher Bob Dylan said. You're gonna have to serve somebody, right? It may be the devil or it may be the Lord, but you're gonna have to serve somebody. And he's getting at a real truth there that we are wired naturally to seek a king. To seek a king to rule over us. And we see that in the world. Kings are what all history has been made up of. The last few hundred years we don't have as many of them in the same way. But that's a small little bit of history. The majority of history, there have been kings. People have sought kings. Even today, if you go to Great Britain, there's still a king, and people love their king. In fact, some of us who are Americans even love their king. And you have anglophiles, right, who who watch every wedding of a prince or princess. We can still be Find ourselves gravitating to that, and it's because we're wired to want a king, a king to lovingly rule us, to wow us with their power and glory, a king even to adore and to worship. In some level. And the Bible says that's because kingdom and kingship are engraved in our hearts. They're part of our DNA because the universe was created as a kingdom. With a great king ruling over it. And that great king is none other than God Almighty Himself. But maybe you're thinking. No, I don't really want a king. I'm really American. I really don't want a king to rule over me. I want to be free to do what I want. Doesn't that loop us right back around to that first question? Yeah. But when we reflect on the distortion and the rebellion of what the Bible calls sin, we realize that when we are our own kings, we are really often just Ruled by our own desires, by our own sinfulness, by our own appetites, by our own lusts. And that's the sinful distortion of kingships. The king God intended for us is to be our protector and provider who brings peace, not an oppressive ruler who brings slavery. The king in the ancient Near East, and it reflected in the Bible, the king was talked about as a shepherd. And that's exactly how God designed kingship. A king who would care, who would love, who would protect and provide for his people, the sheep. And yet we live in a disordered and dangerous world, so we need a mighty and merciful king. Who can free us from it? Who can protect us from it? And that's exactly what the angel announces to Mary here. Jesus would be a Redeemer King. That's the idea that's summarized in question and answer 26, which is the one we're looking at this morning of our shorter catechism, on page I think 871 of your of your hymnals, if you don't know it. How does Christ execute the office of a king? And the answer goes like this: Christ executes the office of a king in subduing us to himself, in ruling and defending us, and in restraining and conquering all his and our. Enemies. We want to think about this question and answer and reflect on its biblical basis. And as we do, I think what we're going to see is three main points here: that Jesus Christ as our Redeemer King. Does three things for us. He defeats us with his love and grace. He defeats us with his love and grace. He directs us with his word and spirit. And he delivers us. With his power and might. Those are the three points I want us to consider. Jesus defeats us with his love and grace, directs us with his word and spirit, and delivers us with his power and might. First, he defeats us with his love and grace. And maybe this sounds a little counterintuitive. We're defeated? By Jesus as King first? I find it is counterintuitive, but it's that in that first little phrase of the catechism where it says, Christ executes the office of a king in subduing us to himself. Himself and subduing us to himself. I love that little phrase because I think wrapped up in that little phrase is a profound little summary of the gospel of his grace. Of the gospel of his love. Because it says there that what Christ must do, because of the state of sin and misery we're in, What he must do to populate his kingdom is first convert hostile enemies to loving followers and servants. by subduing us to himself, conquering our rebel hearts. And this makes sense in the context of the Westminster Short of Catechism. In many ways you can say that the catechism, I know it seems very doctrinal and didactic, it's this question and answer sort of back and forth, but really the shorter catechism is a beautiful story. That's being told. And we've been walking through that story. A story that begins at creation. God's establishing his kingdom and his world and human beings to rule over it. And then we we saw how the story goes. Mankind and our first parents, Adam and Eve, fall into sin and usher in this state of sin and misery under the curse of sin that was promised as they rebel against God and Who is the true king, and we all are citizens of that rebel nation as children of Adam and Eve. Born into a state of enmity with God. Isn't that what it is to have citizenship, right? You're born into your citizenship. You don't get to choose. And we as children of the first Adam are born into a state of Of rebellion and enmity with God. We're born as enemies of God. That's what Romans 5. 10 says, that God, in saving us, has to save us as enemies. Enemies first. For while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son. Much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by His life. And yet here, in Jesus first defeating us with his love and grace, is where Jesus as our King is so different from all other kings. He doesn't come first in power with weapons to destroy his enemies, but instead he comes first in weakness to defeat us, not with a display of power. condemning us with his truth and justice, but instead by wooing us with his love, by winning us by his grace. And that's what we see every year at this time of year when we celebrate this Advent season, this reminder or reflection on the first coming of Christ. We see that here in Luke chapter 1, where Jesus is announced, and he's announced as a king, the expected king, the divine, Davidic King that all Israel had been longing for so long, and they expected him to come in power and glory. And crush their enemies and free them and make them a free nation again, much like Moses had delivered the Israelites out of Egypt. But look at the humility in which he's announced. Verse 26: In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God. Now that's glory. The messenger is the divine angelic being sent to God to a city of Galilee. Name Nazareth. Now that that would be like today saying we're going to announce the winner of the presidential election first and foremost in Frederick, Oklahoma. Anyone know Frederick, Oklahoma? No. Unless oh Rachel, unless you know Rachel's mom, who was born there. It's a small little town in what is it, the southeast of southwest of Oklahoma. You have no reason to go there. Nobody knows. It's a backwards place. And sadly, it's getting more and more backwards. Unfortunately, as things go along, or so it seems, we're we're hoping hoping better for it. That's Nazareth. That's where Jesus' mom is present. And look at what she is. She's a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David. Now that sounds kind of like some measure of glory. But think about it. Think about it. He's of the Davidic line, and yet he's under this oppressive rule of the Empire of Rome. It's kind of a further sadness of the captivity of Israel, right? That Joseph of the house of David is a poor carpenter And the virgin's name was Mary, and he came to her and said, Greetings, O favored One, the Lord is with you. But she was greatly troubled at the saying and tried to discern what sort of greeting that might be. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. Elsewhere we're told that Jesus is the name He's given because it means salvation, or the Lord saves, and He is the one who would save His people from Their sins. And that's what he goes on and says, For he will be great, will be called the Son of the Most High. He's God in man. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there shall be No end. And then Mary responds, How will this be since I am a virgin? Again, a humble birth. He's born to a a mother who's going to look like she's having an illegitimate child, and he's going to be accused of being an illegitimate child later on in life. The humility, the poverty, the lowness of the way in which his birth is announced is on striking display here as the angel answers The Holy Spirit will come upon you. The power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. He is the God man. He is God the Son coming in human flesh, and yet look how humbly he comes. And Jesus came so humbly because that's the kind of King He is. A king who instead of crushing us In our sin defeats us by softening our hearts of stone, giving us hearts of flesh, gently humbling us. To recognize our sinfulness, to repent of it, to mourn for it, to beg his mercy and grace, which he promises to give generously to all who have How does Jesus do this? How does he defeat us with his love and grace? By taking on flesh, our flesh, humbling himself, even To the point of death, even death on a cross, and then rising in glory and sending his spirit to proclaim liberation from slavery to sin and Satan and death. And then subduing us and sanctifying us into his image by the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. Friends, I don't know if you've had experiences. Of this, of Christ subduing you to yourself. If you've been converted and you've come to faith, you have had an experience, even though you may not have noticed that, but but as I walk along and I go through this life of faith, following Jesus Christ as King. I'm so often struck by what a gentle king he is. How often I, you know, I can think of multiple times in my life where I've been been struggling with sinful patterns of thought and Behavior and speech. And instead of coming down and crushing me with the consequences of my sin, and they could be great, instead, he convicts. My heart. He brings some measure of consequences, but just enough to ensure that I truly come to repentance, hating my sin and turning from it. He defeats us, but with his love and grace. What a great king Jesus is in this. Earthly kings kill and slaughter other people. To fill their kingdoms with humble, subjugated, terrified servants. Jesus, our King, instead humbles himself as a servant. And then is killed in the place of each one of us, taking our punishment that we deserve. We his wicked straying enemies. And he does it in order to woo and win over our hearts so that we willingly, happily, readily bow our knees. And worship and serve him as our King. I love how Alexander White, in his commentary on the catechism, puts it. He says, This: We all come into the world in a state of rebellion, alienated from our Maker and Redeemer. And accordingly, one of the leading offices of Christ is to subdue us. Every conversion is represented as a conquest. To be more and more brought under the law to Christ is the very life of grace and the salvation of the soul. Christ's scepter is not so much the symbol of his power as of our salvation. How do we apply this first point that Jesus defeats us by his love and grace? Well, I think this is first of all why Christian leadership Ought always to eschew, to turn aside from coercive power and force. You know, whether you're a church officer, whether you're a husband, And father, whether you're a parent, whether you're a teacher in the church, church leadership ought always to reflect our King in humble service, leading by grace and love to woo sinful sheep, to follow the good shepherd. I think husbands and fathers, this is an especial challenge for us because it's so easy to try to lead with a rod. To try to lead with force and think that that is the way that we exercise our authority, our oversight. We are called to love our wives and our children, reflecting Christ, not forcing submission by power and manipulation, but wooing them, winning them. winning them to honor and obey not just us, but ultimately our our great Savior and King Jesus Christ by our grace and love, just as Christ does. With us. Second application point from this first point is if he is one who first has to subdue us to himself, we are called to submit to that defeat. That way in which he wins over our hearts and subdues them by his love and grace. Tim Keller, the late pastor up in New York City, put it this way: He said, Don't forget this. Jesus is not just a king, he is a king on a cross. If he were only a king on a throne, you'd submit to him just because you have to. But he's a king who went to the cross for you. Therefore, you can submit to him out of love and trust. This means coming to him, not negotiating, but saying, Lord, whatever you ask, I will do. Whatever you send, I will accept. When someone gave himself utterly for you, how can you not give yourself utterly back to him? Practically, this means submitting to the authorities that he's placed in our lives. It's a challenge for all of us. All of us in some measure are under Christ's authority, often through human authorities and circumstances. Kids means honoring our parents. as the authorities that Christ has put in our lives. For some of us that means submitting to Christ's kingship as he leads us through the valleys. The hardships, the circumstances that make us want to lash out in anger and frustration, and yet instead submitting to him looks like trusting him through that, seeking to learn what it is he'd have us learn in that. So Jesus as our King defeats us first with his love and grace. Second, he directs us with his word and spirit. He directs us with his word and spirit. So Jesus first establishes and populates his kingdom by subduing enemies to become his people, his beloved servants, children of God. But what does his ongoing kingship and rule? Look like. And when we think of the ruling of a king, what is it that looks like in a king and a kingdom? There are two aspects: there's an inward dimension. And an outward dimension, right? The inward dimension is ruling his kingdom, establishing justice and order within his kingdom, creating peace within. And then there's an outward dimension, protecting the borders, defeating enemies, making peace without The catechism question goes on and it really divides into those two ideas. It first focuses on the inward dimension: how Christ Jesus governs his people, his church, the elect. Christ exercises the office of a king in Ruling and defending us. This is what is promised here in Luke chapter 1, verse 33. He will reign over first and foremost. Look at that. The house of Jacob. The house of Jacob is Old Testament Israel. It's the church of the Old Testament. He's saying he'll rule over his people forever, and of his kingdom there will be no So the question is, how? How does Jesus actually do this ruling of us as his people? And again, the contrast between King Jesus and earthly kings is so apparent here because he does it by his word and spirit. His word and spirit. Earthly kings rule their kingdoms similarly, but also strikingly differently, right? They rule by their human laws that they enact. And by the coercion of the sword and physical force. Instead, Jesus rules us by his word, which is so much better than mere human laws. First, because God's word is perfect in truth and justice. Jesus' word is God's word And we look at a psalm like Psalm 19 that speaks of the wonder and glory of God's word. This is how God rules us. He rules us by his word. Look at Psalm 19. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. What human king can say that about any of their laws? Their laws are perfect. We may like some of ours very much. They may be close, but hmm. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, the commandment of the Lord is pure. Enlightening the eyes. God's word is so much better than mere human laws enacted by a mere human king because his word is the divine word. It is perfect in truth and justice, but it's also the effective word. His word comes with power to do what it says to be done. I think here of Jesus healing the lame man, a few weeks ago we looked at John chapter 5 with our pastor Chris Calvey. And there was a striking moment there in John chapter 5 where Jesus goes up, it's all about him healing this man who's lame from birth. He can't walk. And Jesus goes to him and he says, get up, take up your bed, and walk. And you say, those are imperative verbs, those are commands. Jesus How can you tell a man who's lame to get up and walk? Because Jesus' word comes with the power to do. But the verse goes on. And at once the man was healed. See that? The power to do. The man was healed. And he obeyed and he took up his bed and walked. God's word is full of creative, redemptive, healing power that can affect The commands which it gives. The commands are given with the power to do them. And that's unlike our word. That's unlike any human king, let alone any human parent. In our house, Rachel would love to have that kind of effectual word when she calls us all to come down for dinner. And sadly, that word often doesn't come with the power to obey. Somehow. Get up, come down to the table for dinner doesn't come with the ability to stand up and and walk in there. So it needs to be said a few times and then eventually, eventually it happens to her chagrin, and we're working on it, we're trying to be better. We we are we are The children have probably learned bad habits there from dad. Anyway, Jesus as our great king rules us not by human laws, but by his divine, life-giving word. The question is, are we listening? Are we? And instead of ruling as earthly kings do by coercion and force, the coercive power of the sword and physical force. Jesus rules us not only by his word, but by his spirit, sending his Holy Spirit into our hearts to empower us to obey him and grow in grace and godliness as the Holy Spirit works through the Word. And they always work together, right? We don't have the Holy Spirit out aside from the Word. This is the word He's given to us through which the Spirit works in our lives. We don't have the Word without the Spirit, or it doesn't do, it doesn't have its effect if the Spirit isn't enabling us to To understand, to apply the word, and to be conformed to it. But Romans 5:5 says this is how Jesus rules us. God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. Jesus is our great King directs us, rules us by his word and his spirit. But maybe you just heard Romans 5. 5, God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. the very third person of the Trinity, a dwelling in us, working on our hearts to enable us to grow more and more to love Jesus back as our king, to to serve him and follow him as our king. Maybe you hear that and you say, I'm not feeling that right now. Not feeling that. Right now. Hey, maybe I don't feel like Jesus is that close. Maybe I I I don't want to follow in what he's asking me to do right now. What do you do about that? Maybe that makes you think, I'm not sure that the Holy Spirit is in my heart. The answer is, first of all, Um he is. Believe it. Believe it because it's true, whether or not we feel it. And we see that e even here in uh chapter one thirty-seven where uh uh the the the angel says all this is gonna happen. Yeah, I'm sure at the end of this, you know, Mary's saying, I'm going to conceive and have a son, like, you know, how is that going to be? I mean, I I'm not sure I feel that. And the angel says, nothing will be impossible with God. God says it, he's doing it. So he says this about the Holy Spirit's work in our life. We can believe it because it's true, even if it doesn't feel like it at the time. But then also, you know, we do want to have an experience of God's love for us, his his nearness to us. We do want to have that experience that he is drawing us, that he's wooing us with his love and grace, that he's that he's leading us to humbly submit to his rulership and governance in our life, that we we want him to be king, we want him to rule. We want to feel that. And if you're not, why don't you ask? Why don't you seek? Why don't you knock? That's what Jesus says in Matthew 7. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives. And the one who seeks finds And the one who knocks, or to the one who knocks, it will be opened. What a great King Jesus is. That he rules us by his divine, life-giving word, and by his sovereign, sanctifying spirit working in our hearts to conform us from the inside out into his glorious, holy image that he's called us to. Alexander White in his commentary again, this is this old Puritan commentator, says this, having subdued us, Christ rules us. We are not compelled, but sweetly constrained to take the law of our life in everything from his word and spirit. We are proud to confess that we are not proud. Our own. Proud to confess that we are not our own. Are you? Are you? Can you delight in Christ's kingship? As it makes you his servant. Are you leaning into the arms of Jesus Christ as your king? Are you engaging him through your word and s through his word and spirit that he might rule and defend you as your king? How ought we respond to Christ's rule over us? I think like Mary here, verse 38, Mary said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. Christ as our King defeats us by his love and grace. He directs us by his word and spirit. And third and finally, he delivers us with his power and might. See, Jesus not only creates us a He creates peace within his kingdom, his church now and the world to come that he is building. But he also creates peace outside of his kingdom in a sense, or without his kingdom. Christ executes the office of a king in defending us. And in restraining and conquering all his and our enemies. I think these are the phrases of the catechism that get to this idea of Christ's deliverance of us. in defense of us as our mighty, almighty King. Most kings lead with power. They fight their way to the throne. And then usually when they get to the throne, they flex their muscle first and foremost over their kingdom. Right, establishing their rule, subjugating and squelching any rebellion against them. Jesus is so different. He comes first as a king on the cross. And only when he returns on the last day will he come in that glory and power that has always been his. It's so important to recognize, I think, this time of year, because this time of year we celebrate the incarnation and we reflect on Christ's coming as this humble, helpless little infant. I remember years ago a movie where there's this family sitting around a dinner table, and the father begins to pray, and he says, Oh, dear little baby Jesus. Then he goes it starts going on on his his prayer and the mom stops him and she's like, you know, he he did grow up, he's a man. He says, no, no, no, but I I like to think of the dear little baby Jesus when I I'm speaking to God. I think actually maybe that's why Christmas is so popular in the broader world, because maybe Jesus as an infant is More approachable, easier to ignore, then Jesus is Almighty King. Glory, power coming in judgment. But never forget that that's who Jesus is, as our Almighty God. Matthew 28:18, before Jesus ascended to the Father's right hand, he says, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. He is Almighty. And here in verses 32 to 33, look at how describes Jesus' reign in power. He will be great And he will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob. How long? Forever. That's a kingdom of power and might that can be permanent. No other kingdom on earth has ever achieved that or ever will. His kingdom, of his kingdom, there will be no end. I think the greatest image we have. Of Jesus in his glorious power as king is in Revelation 19, where it speaks of Christ coming back on the day of judgment in his second coming, his second advent. And it describes him like this. Listen to this. Maybe close your eyes and just let the words be visual to you, because they are. Then I saw heaven open, John says. And behold, a white horse, the one sitting on it, is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood. And the name by which he is called is the Word of God. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations And he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings. And Lord of Lords, Jesus is the mighty King who delivers his people with his power and might. And it's, I think, that image of Christ in his glory and power delivering his people that seems to be in view in that last phrase of the catechism answer. That Jesus exercises the office of a king, not only in subduing us to himself and ruling us, but also in defending us and restraining and conquering all his and our enemies. And who are his and our enemies? Well, our first enemy is actually not his enemy. Our first enemy is God Almighty Himself, whom we are born at enmity with. And it doesn't Jesus defeat that enemy, the wrath of God, when he takes it on himself. And bears it fully on the cross and delivers us from our rebellion against him. I love 1 Thessalonians 1. 10 that says Jesus saves us from the wrath to come. But having been saved, having been brought into his kingdom, as Colossians says, we have been transferred out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of God's beloved Son Jesus Christ, in whom there is redemption and the forgiveness of sins. If we are those who've been brought into his kingdom, who are his and our enemies now? And John Thompson, the uh early Presbyterian in the American Church, he says there are four, four enemies, very simply, and you you know these. It's the world and its snares. It's our flesh, the sinful inclinations of our own hearts. It's the devil and his temptations. Finally, it's death, that last enemy to be defeated. Death itself And notice that the catechism uses two verbs for how Jesus defends us from our enemies. It says that he restrains and conquers them. restrains and conquers him. And every word of the catechism is so carefully chosen. I think it's it's profound that it that it uses those two terms. On the one hand, Jesus is actually conquering all his and our enemies right now. That's actually the work that he is doing from the right hand of the Father. 1 Corinthians 15, 24 to 26 is a wonderful meditation there of Paul on the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And it says, you know, Jesus rose, he ascended the Father, and it says this, and then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after. So it's kind of thinking about when Jesus comes again, he'll deliver the kingdom to his to the Father. after destroying every rule and every authority and power, for he must reign until he has put his enemies under his feet, and the last enemy to be destroyed is death. What's the implication that Jesus right now is at work destroying and conquering his enemies? But there is a sense in which there's still work to be done. Hebrews 2:8, that's reflecting on Psalm 8. Talking about how all things will be brought under the true man, which is Jesus Christ, is the God man. And it says in Hebrews 2. 8, but at present we do not see everything in subjection to him yet. Kind of reflecting on this idea of 1 Corinthians 15, but saying, We don't see that quite yet. There is a sense in which Jesus is ruling in power and glory. He is sovereign over all creation right now. But there's also a sense in which there's work that he's doing. And in that sense, Jesus, we can be sure, already is restraining all of our enemies. Even if he has not maybe completed the conquering of them, like death, he's restraining its effects. Here, John Thompson again in his commentary on the catechism asks two important questions. Because we hear that and we say: all right, if Jesus is this great king. Why are our believers so often overcome and foiled by their spiritual enemies? How then does Christ defend them? Thompson asks. And he answers this way, and I think this is so helpful. He says, Christ, as he is king of his church, does not, nor is he obliged, so to defend even true believers, here it is, as never to suffer them to be overcome or foiled by their spiritual enemies. Enemies. I think what he means there, not being overcome spiritually, that we would lose our salvation, but maybe being overcome by spiritual enemies that end up taking our lives, even To the point of death, foiling us or afflicting us in our walk with Christ. He says, for true believers are often so far overcome as to be led captive under sin and Satan, but There are two advantages that shall be surely forthcoming to the believer by virtue of Christ's kingly office. First, that the final victory shall be assuredly at last on the believer's side. And two, all these foils and temporary victories of the enemies, which believers' enemies obtain against them, shall work together for their eternal good at last. How does Christ defend believers from death? This is how Thompson then concludes. Because he he he He does says that about the enemies, but then you know there's this reality. Yeah, but what about death? He says, how does Christ defend believers from death? I think I've read this to you before because I love his answer here. Christ, by his providence, defends us from death till we are prepared for it. And he frees us altogether from the sting, the curse that is in death, as it is a punishment of sin. So that when death comes to us, it comes not as an enemy. But as a blessing from God, a friend to conduct us to glory. As our King, Jesus defeats us by his love and grace. He defends and rules us by his word and spirit. He delivers us from our enemies by his power and might. What do we do with this? How should we walk away from these truths? I think, first of all, if you are a follower of Christ, if you are under his kingship, be encouraged, be comforted. In Jesus, we have a great king. Whatever you're facing in this season Whether it is a sense of great loss, whether it is a fear of the future, whether it is any sorrow or joy for that matter. Rest assured, Jesus is your loving shepherd king who will see you through He will subdue you with his love. He will rule and defend you, and he will protect and keep you to the very end. When you feel alone, remember your Almighty King is by your side by the Spirit, whether it feels like it or not. He's there to empower and enable you to endure fully to the end. It's worth asking here, though, who is the us? Who is the R of the Catechism, right? He subdues us to himself. He rules and defends us. defeats all his and our enemies, who is the us and the are? And the answer is it's it's Christ's people. It's the elect. It's those who have heard the gospel, who have recognized their sin, who have believed in Jesus Christ. Friend, if he is not your king this morning, then hear this as a word of warning and welcome. Warning, because he is the King of Kings, whether or not you admit it or acknowledge him to be. And one day he promises he will come, and when he comes, it will be to judge. Us. The Bible says that on that day every knee will bow, every tongue confess his kingship. But if that's the first time, that confession will lead to condemnation and judgment in hell forever. So don't wait till then. And there's the welcome. You don't have to wait till then to bow the knee and confess Jesus is King. Instead, hear his welcome, hear his invitation to be your loving King, to woo and win you by subduing you by his grace and love. He is the King who graciously calls you to be under His loving rule for your good through this life and into everlasting life. Hear and heed his call. Repent and believe in Jesus Christ. Trust him. Submit to him, follow him. He can and will lead you home to glory with him in his kingdom, his kingdom of glory and peace that will have no end. And that really brings us to not only the conclusion of this sermon, but actually it brings us to the conclusion of the few questions of our catechism that focus on what in Latin is the munus triplex, the three offices of Jesus Christ. So I thought maybe I could close this term. We're going to come back and we're going to continue to reflect on Christ as our Redeemer in the next two weeks as we think about his humiliation. But I love this quote by Kim Riddlebarger, who's a pastor, a reformed pastor out in California. As he's reflecting on the three offices of Christ, he says this. This then is our hope and our comfort. Jesus Christ, the final prophet, the great high priest, and the conquering king. There is a miraculous cure for the disease of ignorance, guilt, and pollution. It is The triple cure. Jesus Christ, not only as our King, but as our prophet and priest as well. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these glorious truths, these truths that we do come back to year after year as we think about Christ's coming and the humility of it, and yet recognize that He comes as our King. First, to subdue us by his humility and the weakness in which he came and suffered in our place and died. And then rose again in glory and is now at your right hand, ruling and defending us, and at work, restraining and conquering all of his and our enemies. Lord, may you subdue us to yourself. May you do that work of enabling us to be faithful servants of Christ, following him day by day as our good shepherd king And may this all serve not only to our good, which it will, but to your glory as the ultimate end of all of our lives. We pray all these things in Jesus' name.