In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of Syria. And all went to be registered, each to his own town. And Joseph also went up from Galilee from the town of Nazareth to Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and And while they were there the time came for her to give birth, and she gave birth to her firstborn a son, and wrapped him in the In swaddling claws, and laid him in a manger because there was no place for them in the inn. And in the same region there were shepherds. Out in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night, and an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And this will be a sign for you You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling claws and lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom He is well pleased. When the angel went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child, and all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them, and at the end of eight days, when he was circumcised, He was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. When the time came for their purification, according to the law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord, every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to. The Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. Now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon And this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms. And blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. That you have prepared in the presence of all peoples a light for the revelation to, or for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel. And his father and mother marveled at what was said about him. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed. And a sword will pierce through your own soul also, so that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed. And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Faniel. Of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin, and then as a widow until she was eighty-four. She did not depart from the temple worshiping it with fasting and prayer night and day, and coming up at that very hour, she began to give thanks to God and to speak of him to all who are waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem. And when they had performed everything according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee to their own town of Nazareth, and the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom and the favor of the Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's continue to worship by turning in our hymnals to Hymn 229. Gentle Mary laid her child The hymn begins, Gentle Mary laid her child lowly in a manger. That's how it fits so well with the theme we're going to be exploring. Further in our sermon. Let's stand together and sing him two hundred and twenty-nine Gentle Mary laid her child. He is a weapon with my Sarah Barbara with. As we prepare to spend a few moments thinking about this passage and how it shows us Christ's humiliation, let's go before God in prayer and ask his blessing on our time. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that is living and active. We thank you for this word that presents to us the coming, the first coming, the first advent of our Savior Jesus Christ. We thank you how it shows forth to us what we just sang, how he was lowly of birth, how he was humble as our Savior. And we pray that you might apply to us the truths of this text. Expose to us in our own hearts the sin that needs to be confronted as we look at the wonder and beauty of our Savior, as well as the May you enable us to be comforted by these the truths of Christ, not only in his person, but in his gracious work for us in redemption. We pray these things in his name. Amen. Well it seems like every spring or summer in our home the ants attack. I don't know if any of you have this experience. Usually it starts with one little ant coming along. easy you just kind of squish it and throw it away. Then there are two and that's not too hard, but eventually it's it's a whole stream of them. And you have to break out the poison, you set it out, they swarm it, they eat it, and apparently they take it back to their colony and It kills off many of them. I always feel a little bit bad about that, but not too bad. I feel bad because I think what would it be like to be one of those little ants. Have you ever had one of those thought experiments? In some ways kind of interesting. Maybe you kids have thought that. Like, oh, I'd love to be an ant for a day. You know, we have this whole uh ant man, right? One of the Avengers, I think. I think it is, right? And uh he can do that. He can turn into an ad. And in in some ways it's kind of a cool thought experiment. Kind of fun to experience, maybe for a day. Not longer, right? Especially not with a big human thumb around that's getting ready to squish. It's a fun thought experiment. But imagine the actual possibility. If you were given the chance to be a tiny little ant, would you really volunteer to do so? I know I would not. Just because of the danger that human beings posed and all the other bigger creatures. And yet, in this thought experiment, we may begin just to get a little bit of a taste, a little bit of a sense of the astounding, unfathomable, incomprehensible reality. of Jesus' humiliation when he took on human flesh, when he willingly became the redeemer of God's elect, which is exactly how he is presented in our Westminster shorter catechism that we've been Looking at over the past few weeks, and we will today and then next week as we wrap up the short series on the section of our Westminster Short of Catechism that is on the Redeemer of Christ's elect or of God's elect, which is the Lord Jesus Christ. And this section divides up into, first of all, two parts One is it tells us about Jesus person. That's questions 21 and 22, where we talked about Jesus being the God man, fully God, and fully man in his incarnation. His person and then his work. And his work section is divided up also into two sections. The first few questions, 23 to 26, talking about his work in his offices. Priest and King. We looked at King last week. And in the last two questions, the first one we're looking at today, talk about his states in his Work, his state of humiliation, which we'll talk about today, and the next week we'll look at his state of exaltation. And what we noted when we be when we began to talk about Jesus' offices is that Jesus is fulfilling the offices of prophet, priest, and and king in both his state of humiliation as well as exaltation. So it's worth us keeping that in mind as we go through these two states. Today we're looking at his state of humiliation, and here's how the catechism introduces that and presents that to us. It says in question answer 27 Wherein did Christ's humiliation consist? And you'll see why this is a good one to think about at this time of year, because it starts like this: Christ's humiliation consisted in his being born. And that in a low condition, made under the law, undergoing the miseries of this life The wrath of God, the cursed death of the cross, and continuing under the power of death forever A time. It's a long answer. There's a lot to unpack there. But I think we can actually kind of pull it together and say really it's it's it's covering three parts, three aspects of Christ's humiliation. In his birth, in his life, and in his death. So the humiliation of Christ's descent at birth will make the first point. The humiliation of Christ's in his duration, in the duration of his life. So 2Ds, three D's, the descent, duration, and then the death on the cross. Descent at birth, duration of his life, and then death on the cross. And this is gonna, we're gonna have a lot of doctrine this morning. Uh we're going to have, I've got a number of great quotes. So you're gonna bear with me. It might might be a little quatety, but they're all so profound. And and the reason I'm I'm trying to bring them to us is because this is all truth. It's sort of obvious. Like yeah, of course Christ's humiliation in these Ways. But what I hope we do this morning as we reflect on this and meditate on this, I hope that this brings us to wonder. To awe and really to worship Jesus Christ for his humiliation on our behalf. So Christ's humiliation in his descent at birth. That's how the catechism begins. Christ's humiliation consisted in his being born. You know, really we could stop right there and you wouldn't need to say much more. That is profound humiliation. No greater humiliation could be fathomed than that God, the Son. Creator of heaven and earth and all things in it became a zygote in a woman's uterus, became a fetus in a womb. Only to be born as a helpless, weeping, mess-making baby in all that that entails. Just I mean that's that's why the Christian church year after year comes back to this truth and spends weeks just trying to ponder it and reflect on it so that we can wonder and awe at the humiliation. Of Christ in his birth. And yet, the catechism answer goes on. That's not all. It says it consistent in his being born And that in a low condition. He was not just born as a baby, which is a great humiliation for Christ, who is God, but he was born as a Poor baby, as a baby in a low condition. And don't we see that here in especially verses 1 to 7? In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that the world should be registered as a This was the first registration while Quirinius was governor of Syria, Syria. All this political data it signifies all sorts of things. We could reflect on that for a long time. Simply put, it shows that Christ is born to a people who are enslaved to an empire, who are under the oppressive rule of a foreign government. And all went to be registered, each to his own town, and Joseph also went up from Galilee. Low condition. That's like saying, respect. But you know, that the king is going to be born. We talked about this last time. Born in maybe West Virginia. I don't know. If you love West Virginia, then pick your own state that you like to pick on. Galilee. That's what Galilee is. But then it gets even lower. Because from the town of Nazareth, we talked about that last time. Last week. To Judea, the city, uh uh the to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, a little bit more renowned, a little bit more recognizable, a little bit more honor-filled, but still small. Tiny backwoods, because he was of the house and lineage of David, as we talked about last week. Here he is of this royal line, and yet he's a port Carpenter, and he is under the thumb of the Roman Empire. To be registered with Mary, his betrothed. Further low condition. They're not even married, and yet it says married, and yet it says she was with child. And all the stigma. And shame that might have been attached to that. See, we keep going lower and lower. See the descent? Christ being born in such a low condition. And then she gave birth to her firstborn son? And wrapped him in swaddling cloths, bound up so he can't move, and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the air. Thomas Vincent, one commentator on the catechism, says this Christ humbled himself in his birth in that he, being the eternal Son of God God became man and was born not of a great princess, but of a humble virgin. Not in a stately palace, but in the stable of an inn. Instead of a cradle, he was laid in a manger. This is the astounding humiliation Jesus endured simply in his birth, and that in a low condition. Thomas Watson puts it a little differently, but so profoundly. That man should be made in God's image, that is a wonder, Watson says. But that God should be made in man's image is an even greater wonder. That the ancient of days should be born, the ancient of days. Eternal God having a beginning according to his humanity. That he who thunders in the heavens should cry in the cradle. That Christ should be made of a woman and of that woman which He Himself had made. That the branch, Mary, should bear the vine. Jesus. That the mother should be younger than the child she bare, and the child in the womb bigger than the mother, Christ taking flesh, is a mystery we shall never fully understand. Isn't that true? Amen. And the lowness and humility of Christ's birth is so clear in the term that we're using for this first point, his descent. Because we talk about Christ's birth being a descent. From glory, a descent from heaven, a descent so humble and so low we can't quite fathom it This is none other than God Himself, God the Son, who has descended to earth to take on flesh. And we see this reality of the greatness of the descent of Christ in the way he's announced by the angels. There's this interesting juxtaposition of the glory and power of heaven saying, He is ours, and it being announced to this humble, lowly group of shepherds. In the field, the the people that were most stigmatized in that society. The lowest of the low. This is your, you know, your jobs that nobody wants to do The hourly wage or something like that. In the same region, verse verse eight, in the same region there were shepherds out in the field keeping watch of their flock by night, and an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you this is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord, and this will be a sign to you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a And suddenly there was with the angel a great multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is well pleased. Jesus' origin is on display here. Heaven announces his coming. But then when the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying. Can can you imagine that? You you you're there as a shepherd and you see this glorious display of the glory of heaven and the announcement of Jesus, you're terrified by it, even though you're promised you don't need to fear, and then they say, Go see this glory, and it's going to look like a little baby. And they wander over and they find this couple and a little baby lying in the manger and that's it. That's it. See the humiliation of Christ's Sent at birth. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child, and all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasures it up these things, pondering them. In her heart. John Thompson, his commentary on the catechism, reflects on the The humiliation of Christ in his descent. He says, what is uh wherein does the greatness of Christ's humiliation in his conception and birth appear? And he says this, first, in that he condescended to be conceived at all, and so become man. But then he who was the creator became a creature. The eternal God became an infant of days. The omnipotent Jehovah, Yahweh, became a feeble, helpless child. He who feeds the ravens submitted to be fed by the womb and breast of a feeble woman, the holy and incomprehensible God to be enclosed in the womb of a sinful Woman. And although he's announced by the angels, he's announced these humble shepherds who are the ones that go uh take the message to Mary and uh others, and then it says the shepherds returned, verse 20, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen. That had been told him. Christ's humiliation consisted in his being born and that in a low condition. You know, kids, I don't know how how you feel about this. I know when I was a kid, some of you're all age. I look at adults and I'd be like, you know, I can't wait to be an adult someday, because then I can be in charge of my own life, right? And trust me, that is kind of nice about being an adult. Adult. Sometimes it's not. You don't want to be in charge. You want somebody else to take care of things. But most of the time, as adults, we kind of like that. In fact, many of us would not go back to being a child in some of those regards. Jesus was not just an adult, he's God. And God became an infant child. Ponder the depth of his humiliation. In his descent at birth. And yet it's not just that he was born, and that in a low condition. It says the catechism goes on, it says he was made under the law. You know human beings as human beings we chafe at being under the laws of others. Somehow we often chafe more at being under our own laws, at least that's what it seems like from Congress that makes laws and then doesn't actually apply them to themselves. But here, God, Jesus, God the Son, has made laws, and he enters into humanity and submits himself to To them. He's made laws for human beings, and he becomes man that he might submit himself to them. And we really see this on full display throughout this text. Did you notice that over and over again where it notes how the law must be fulfilled and how Jesus Parents, I mean here's the profound thing. Jesus is made under the law, subject to it, but when he's born, he can't even fulfill it on his own. He's a baby. He can't say what needs to be said, he can't do what needs to be done. His parents have to Verse 21. And at the end of the of eight days, when he was circumcised, he was called Jesus, the name given him by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. Who fulfilling the law, commanding children of Jewish Israelites to be circumcised on the eighth day. And when the time came for their purification, uh here it is, according to To the law of Moses. They brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord. See how Luke is driving that point home? Made under the law. Every male who first opens the womb. shall be called holy to the Lord and to offer a sacrifice according to the to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons that signifies that they were coming and giving the offering. Of poor people. Again, affirming his low condition. Galatians 4:4 says, When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. And so again, John Thompson, reflecting on this, says, though he was the great and sovereign potentate and lawgiver of the whole universe. His further humiliation after being born was being made under the law. Both the precept and the penalty, both moral and ceremonial. In this way Jesus humbled himself to fulfill all righteousness as he says himself in Matthew 3. And remember that Jesus' humiliation, Christ's humiliation as our Redeemer is in all three offices. As prophet, priest, and king. And so reflect on how Jesus engages in his office as prophet, priest, and king in weakness and in humanity. humility in the manger. Sort of profound to show how how humbled he is. He comes to be the true prophet and yet he's unable to speak when he's born He comes to be the true priest, and yet he's unable to offer sacrifice or let alone prayer because he can't speak and he can't act on his own behalf. He has to be swaddled himself and the offering has to be made. He comes as the true king, and yet he's born in poverty and obscurity. Only the shepherds are there to take notice. This is why one theologian says the incarnation is a kind of a vast joke, I think probably joke in quotes, whereby the creator of the ends of the earth comes among us in doubt. Diapers. Until we too have taken the idea of the God man seriously enough to be scandalized by it, we have not taken it as seriously as it demands to be taken. So how do we take it seriously? Let's wrap up this first point. And this is the longest one. Don't worry. What do we do with this truth of the depth of humiliation of Christ in his descent at birth? Well, first of all, I think it means that he understands, that he can identify with the struggle it is to be human in so many ways, our weakness. Our mortality, our proneness to illness, suffering And he engages it with it. He comes to experience it out of great humility and love for us. Thomas Watson, in his commentary, says, Behold, the infinite love of Christ. In that he was willing thus to take our flesh. Surely the angels would have disdained to have taken our flesh. It would have been a disparagement to them. What king would be willing to wear sackcloth over his cloth of gold? But Christ did not disdain to take our flesh. Oh, the love of Christ. So he can identify with us. He understands what it's like. And that means we can learn from his humility and respond to him in humbled love. Not just bowing before him as our Savior and King to worship. But also engaging in a similar kind of humility, engaging in a similar kind of love for our neighbor, for those around us in the body of Christ, because of Christ's incredible, humble. This is Paul's point in Philippians chapter 2, where he's reflecting on the the humiliation of Christ in uh his descent at birth. And he says He he meditates on this as as a as to drive home the point that this is how we ought to engage with one another in hum humble love. Philippians 2, 3. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests. but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God, something to be grasped. But emptied himself by taking the form of a servant and being born in the likeness of men. So we see Christ's humiliation in his descent at birth, but we also see it, second point, in the duration of his life. Throughout the duration of his life. I already mentioned that the catechism begins to reflect on this in that last line of we just We just talked about him, him being made under the law. On the one hand, he's made under the law right from birth, and we see that throughout Luke. It's driven home, doing these things according to the law of Moses, the law of the Lord. He's under strict requirements to obey God's law even at birth. And so he as a baby needed help from his parents. And we see this in Luke's emphasizing the fulfillment of law happening here in verse 22, 23, 24, 27, 39. But this is only the beginning. The reality is, he's made under law for the duration of his life. Life, his life, law, throughout his life, his whole life is lived Perfectly obeying and fulfilling God's law as the second Adam. He fulfills it. Just like the first Adam, and all who are in him, you and me, born in sin, don't. This is what Romans 5. talks about. We won't go there and read all that. When we think about Jesus obeying in his humiliation, it's worth us recognizing. You know, I think it's easy for We might be tempted to say, oh, well, it was easier for Jesus to obey the law because he was without sin. Like Tim Keller, I think, said Uh no, that's not true, because at times uh uh having the possibility of giving in to temptation actually sometimes makes it easier to resist. Jesus never had that option. But furthermore, Adam was tasked with obeying in a perfect paradise. A garden that was full of all that he needed, a place where it ought to have been as easy as possible. Where does Jesus obey? He obeys in a world under the curse of sin and misery. That's how the catechism goes on. Not only was he made under the law, but he underwent, undergoing the miseries of this life. So there's a sense in which each of the phrases of this catechism question basically are like stair-steps down in a further descent of humiliation, step by step. Not only is he made under the law, but he has to live in obedience to that law, undergoing the miseries of this life. So here's where we see Jesus humiliation not only descending from heaven to earth, but by enduring some of the worst suffering the world has to offer. And read the accounts of Jesus Christ in the Gospels. We see him suffering from all sorts of the miseries of this life: poverty, hunger. Thirst, loneliness, temptation, mocking, derision, rejection, enduring natural disasters, emotional, and physical abuse. Even an unjust, torturous death. Jesus' humiliation was for the duration, was a lifelong lowering of himself From one step to the next, to suffer and endure as much as we do, and yet without sin. That's what Hebrews 4. 15 says. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weakness But one who is in every respect has been tempted as we are yet without sin. And again, Jesus' work as prophet, priest, and king is done in the context of this humiliation. Being undergoing the miseries of this life throughout the duration of his life. As a prophet, he is the word of God incarnate. He proclaims God's truth, and yet he was rejected by the religious leaders who should have recognized God. God's word in them. Instead, they tried to silence him. As priest, he cleansed the temple. He taught in the temple and was driven out from it because of that. And because of it, the religious leaders were seeking to kill him. As a king, he was enslaved under Roman empirical rule and persecuted even as a baby by one who claimed to be king of the Jews. That was Herod. Why did Jesus endure all of this humiliation for the duration of his life? And the answer is because all of that was part of the consequences, the curse that our sin deserved. As God promised in the Garden of Eden in Genesis chapter 3, the miseries of this life that we endure, part of this curse of sin. Sin has come into the world, and it brings with it misery. In this sense, Jesus enduring the miseries of this life is actually part of how he endures the wrath of God, which is the next phrase in the catechism answer. Christ's humiliation is being born and not in a low condition, made under the law, undergoing the miseries of this life and the wrath of God. And undergoing the miseries of this life is part of enduring the wrath of God, because it's part of enduring that curse of Sin. That's actually what Romans 1 says, right? Romans 1 that introduces the the wrath of God It says the wrath of God in verse 18 is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. And you say, Well, how is the wrath of God being revealed today? And the answer Paul goes on and says it's by God handing people over to their sin and sinfulness. Verse 24. Therefore God gave them up to the lusts of their hearts, to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves. Then down in verse twenty six, for this reason God gave them up to disvonorable passions for their women exchanged natural relations For those that are contrary to nature, and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty. For their error. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, here it is again. God gave them up to a debased mind, to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, etc. , etc. God giving us up to our sin is a sign of his wrath, is a taste of his wrath for sin. And Jesus Suffered not in God giving him up to his sin, because he had none, but in having to endure the sin from others who are given up to it. Around him. He himself, being without sin, he committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. First Peter 2, 23. 2 says, so Christ's humiliation for the duration of his life was his active obedience, fulfilling God's law, and his passive obedience, suffering while he did. Made under the law, undergoing the miseries of this life, the wrath of God. Jesus' humiliation is not only in his descent at birth, but in his How do we apply this second point? How do we what do we walk away? What should that do for us as we see the humiliation of Christ in the duration of his life? And I think again it it it should may help us to see the sympathy of Christ for us in our suffering. He knows it from the inside. He stepped into it himself to be able to experience it and so that he knows. What it's like. Don't feel like you engage a savior who hasn't tasted the suffering that you endure. But notice also his steadfastness and strength enduring through the suffering. And that is the same strength, that is the same endurance, that is the same steadfastness that he holds out to all of us. As he holds fast to us and pours out his spirit to us, he enables us to hold fast to him. So there's a challenge to that as we see Christ humbly, enduring. See, furthermore, see his sufficiency as our Savior. That while he was obedient and righteous, he is obedient and righteous exactly where we fail. Romans 1 goes on and describes The kinds of sin. You know, it it talks about some of these sins and perversions there in chap in verse twenty-six and twenty-seven, but then it goes on and gives a long list. He says they, and this is still talking about those whom God has given up to their sin, they were filled with all manner of unrighteousness. Evil, covetousness, malice, malicious. Oh, let's see, they were full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. Has one of those hit yet? I don't know. They are gossips, okay, slanderers, okay, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, and you kids are like, yeah, I don't think any one of those disobedient to parents. Foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless, though they know God's righteous decree, that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them. Friends, one of these is going to hit home, is going to land if we're honest. And it's at every one of these points where Jesus Jesus is righteous, where Jesus endures and he's obedient to the very end. And what that means is he's a sufficient savior Who can die in your place in mine, who can be righteous where we are not, and then credit that as a gift of his grace to our account. And finally, see him as a study in humility and learn humility from him. Thomas Watson again in his commentary. This is archaic language. But it's so profound. As he applies this idea of Christ's humility, he says: Dost thou see Christ humbling himself, and art thou proud? Christians, be not proud of fine feathers. Fine feathers. He means anything that we could kind of boast in. Any sort of outward show of glory and honor. Don't be proud, knowing our humble Savior. He says: it is an unseemly sight to see God humbling himself and man exalting himself. To see a humble Savior and a proud sinner. Hast thou an estate? Do you have a lot of stuff? Be not proud. The earth thou treadest on, that ground, that dirt that you just think is only good for walking on, is richer than thou. It has mines of gold and silver, Watson says. In its bowels. Hast thou beauty? Be not proud, it is but air and dust mingled. Hast thou skill and parts? Knowledge, wisdom. Be humble! Lucifer has more knowledge than you. Hast thou grace, be humble. Thou hast not hast it not of thine own growth. It is borrowed. Oh, look to Christ this rare pattern and be humbled. So Christ's humiliation at his descent. In his descent at birth, at the duration of his life, and then again, as though we're stepping to further and further places of humiliation, third and finally, Christ's humiliation in his death. Death on the cross. Christ's humiliation consisted in his being born, dead in a low condition. Made under the law, undergoing the miseries of this life, the wrath of God, and the cursed death of the cross, in being buried and continuing under the power of death for a time. Friends, this is the remarkable truth about Jesus' birth. You know, most of us, when there's a birth, it's a time of joy and expectation. It's a celebration of life. We're full of eager hope and expectation of how this little infant will live long and have a full life of blessing and uh grow up to bless and serve many around them. It's it's this celebration of life itself, but Jesus. Was born to die. To die. To grow up to be holy and perfect, only to become the perfect sacrifice, the Lamb who would be slain. To take away the sins of the world. Yours and mine, if we are putting our hope and faith and trust in him. This is what we see in Simeon's prophecy here in verses 25 to 35. There was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon. This man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ, the Messiah. And he came in the spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought the child Jesus to do for him according to the law, the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms, blessed God, and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace. According to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light for revelation to the Gentiles and for glory to your people Israel. And then he turns to the Father and Mother. They were marveling at what he said about them, and Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed, and then here it is, and a sword will pierce through your own soul also, so that the thoughts of from many hearts may be revealed. And we're not exactly sure what the significance of that is, but I think the best understanding of that is that it's it's this little prophecy, this indication. That though this little infant baby is bringing a measure of joy now, one day she will be mourning his death at the foot of the cross Sword will pierce her soul also. And so Nancy Guthrie, I know we know many of us know and love Nancy Guthrie, this great ref commentator and writer on the Bible, she says this. Continual passion. And here it is. Listen to this. Others die martyrs. But Christ was born a martyr. He found Agatha where he was crucified, even in Bethlehem, where he was born. For to his tenderness then the straws were almost as sharp as the thorns after, and the manger as uneasy at first as the cross at last His birth and his death were but one continual act, and his Christmas Day and His Good Friday are but the evening and the morning of one. Like enduring the miseries of this life as part of enduring the wrath of God for sin, so much more in Jesus' death does he And so at this time of year, as we wonder and marvel and at the miracle of the virgin birth. As we try to fathom what it means that God would become man in the person of Jesus Christ, let us not forget his purpose in being born, in taking on flesh. He was born to save, to redeem his people from our sins. By dying in our place on the cross, in order to pay the full penalty for the guilt of our sin before a holy and righteous God. And then it says He continued under the power of death forever. A time. Why is that so humbling? Because for three days it left open the question: is he really the Christ? Is he really righteous? Of course, we know the answer. Announced on that third day when he rose. But here's the profound truth: he endured death and continued under the power of death for a time to free us. From the power of death forever. When we go to the grave, we are immediately in the presence of the Lord, in paradise, as he promises the thief on the cross. His birth was to serve the purpose of his death, to be the redeemer of God's life. We kind of see this uh hinted at in in Anna. This prophetess Anna verse 36, the daughter of Faniuel over the tribe of Ash, and she was advanced in years, having lived with her husband for seven years from when she was a virgin. Virgin, and then as a widow until she was eighty-four years old. So I mean decades. She uh did not depart from the temple, worshiping with fasting and prayer night and day, and then coming up at that very hour, she began to give thanks to God and to speak of him to all who are waiting for, and here it is, the redemption of Jerusalem. And yet look how low Jesus stoops to fulfill this purpose. Not just descending to earth in his birth, not just suffering the misery throughout the duration of his life, but ultimately by going to a Death and not just any death, but an ignoble death. The death of a criminal on a cross. That's what Philippians two says. And being born and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross, so that Thomas Watson, in reflecting on this, says, Now this was the lowest degree of Christ's humiliation. For Christ to be reputed as a sinner was the greatest pattern of humility. That Christ, who would not endure sin in his angels, should himself endure to have sin imputed to him is the most amazing humility that ever was. Again, we can see how Christ's three offices are being fulfilled, are being in are in play even in the great humiliation of hanging on the cross. There he is, and there he is as the true word of judgment and mercy, which is what the prophets brought. He's the true prophet bringing that word, that final word of both judgment and mercy. Judgment for our sin paid once for all on the cross and mercy to us because of that payment. There he fulfills the great work of a priest, offering up his very own self as the sacrifice to take away sin. And there he is with the words above his head on the cross. King of the Jews, subduing us to himself, conquering his and our enemies, even while he hung helpless. On the cross. Why would Jesus do this? And the answer, friends, is actually very simple. Why would Jesus humble himself so low? Why would he begin this this these steps of humiliation, beginning at his birth, which is the largest step in some ways, but leading all the way down to his death on the cross and his undergoing or in his Continuing under the power of death for the time. The Bible gives us the answer. He did it out of love. To rescue helpless, hurting, sinless. People who themselves were suffering from the miseries of this life and the wrath of God. He did it not just to rescue us from our suffering at the hands of other wicked people, but He did it to rescue us out of the suffering and misery we cause in others or for others through our own sin that we bring into the world. Revelation 1. 5 says Jesus Christ is the one who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood. That's good news, isn't it? Thomas Watson, as he's reflecting on why Jesus came, he says he came that he might take our flesh and redeem us, that he might instate us into a kingdom. He was poor that he might make us rich. He was born of a virgin that we might be born of God. He lay in the manger so that we might lie in paradise. He came down from heaven that he might bring us up to heaven. And what was all that but his love? If our hearts be not rocks, this love of Christ should affect us. Behold love that passeth knowledge. May we humble May we, uh the humble and infinite love and mercy and grace of Jesus Christ melt our hearts May we be humbled by His humility. May we be humbled to repent of our sin, to recognize Him as our Savior and King and bow and worship, and may we be moved to greater and greater compassion for those around us who are suffering. The miseries of this life under the curse of sin. May we be quick to forgive. May we give generously of ourselves to those around us. May we serve selflessly even as Christ has first served us. And may we do all this with joy, knowing the depth of humiliation that Christ went to as our Redeemer. Redeemer of God's elect. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these reminders of Christ's humiliation to be our Redeemer. How we thank you for the call, the challenge it is to our proud hearts often. Humbling us before our humble Savior. How we thank you that He was willing to do all this, that He might redeem us as a people, that He might set us apart to be those who through faith are your people, your children. Who know your love through the love of Christ. In his name we pray