Now, the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband, Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son. And you shall call his name Jesus. For he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose, and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him, and assembling all the chief priests and The scribes of the people he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him in Bethlehem of Judea. For so it has been written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people. Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly, and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word, that I too may come and work. Worship him. After listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. Then opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, and frankincense and myrrh. And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own way, their own country by another way. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing as we take some time to think on it and the truths that are in it Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that is living and active, sharper than a two-edged sword. We thank you for the truths contained in it. And this morning, as we reflect on this birth account of Jesus Christ and how it not only shows us the humility with which he came But it also begins to begins to foreshadow some of the greatness, the exalted glory that Jesus Christ would one day have that he now has at your right hand. We pray that you'd help us to rejoice in these truths, understand them, apply them to our lives for our good and for your glory. In Jesus' name. Well, as most of you surely know, the Bible gives us a number of different accounts of Jesus' birth, which uh is what the church And what we tend to focus on at this time of year, the birth of Jesus Christ. Last week we looked at another one of those accounts from the Gospel of Luke, which highlights In many ways, highlights Jesus' humiliation as God the Son, eternally begotten from before all worlds, one who had no beginning, entered into time and space in the The person of Jesus Christ took on flesh, humbled himself in doing so. And we looked at that as we were reflecting on our Westminster shorter catechism. Question answer 27 Which talks about the humiliation of Christ. If you're not familiar with the Westminster Shorter Catechism, this is a wonderful, fairly short summary of the faith that we profess, the faith that we believe the Bible teaches. In Reformed and Presbyterian churches. It's meant to be a very short account so that children can memorize it and understand it. But as we've been going through, we realize that the shorter catechism really is in many ways all we adults can handle. The answers are so chalk full of deep theology that is really reflective of the whole breadth of teaching. So we looked at question and answer 27 last week, the humiliation of Christ in his birth, in his life, in his death on the cross. Here in Matthew, in his account of Jesus' birth, I think he he doesn't ignore the humbling of Jesus Christ in taking on flesh but in many ways he highlights in a way different from Luke some little glimpses through the humility of Christ's birth to To the exaltation of not only who Jesus is as God the Son incarnate, but how he would be exalted at the end of the gospel account. after he's first humbled in his life, death, and uh and then exalted in his resurrection I mean, in many ways, this fits Matthew's purpose. Matthew begins his gospel in chapter 1 introducing Jesus as the son of, do you know who it is? Son of. David, the son of Abraham. And with that idea, he is first the son of David. Matthew tends to highlight Jesus' fulfillment, Jesus' coming as the glorious, exalted, long expensive. Expected messianic king, the great son, the greater son of David, who is promised throughout the Old Testament. And we see that all highlighted in these first few verses. Right there in verse 18, the birth of Jesus took place in this way, when his mother Mary was betrothed or had been betrothed to Joseph. And he introduces Joseph back in chapter 1, where Joseph is the one through which Christ can connect his line, or one of the ones through which he can connect his line to David. Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit, reflecting Christ's divine nature, that he has God the Father as his Father, not Joseph. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him. So the angel appears to Mary in Luke chapter 1 and 2. But here the angel appears to Joseph. Joseph, son of David. There it is, son of David. Highlighting that royal heritage that Jesus will have even through his adoption by his earthly father. Father Joseph. Do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. Now it's interesting, usually fathers name their sons. Here Joseph doesn't get the chance. Why? Because Jesus' true father. Father is Almighty God. So God, the Father gives him the name, and he says his name will be Jesus. And listen to how it captures his exalted glory as the divine son in the way the angel describes his name. He will name him Jesus. Jesus means the Lord will say. But what does it say? For he will save his people from their sins. Even there in his name and how the angel defines it, he's showing Jesus is Lord. Jesus is Almighty God. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Here it is, this long expected Jesus highlighted by Matthew. He's been awaited. He's been expected. He is the Messiah who is who has finally come. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet Isaiah. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. Another name of Jesus showing his divine nature, his glory. When Joseph awoke from his sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord had commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. And all of this is capturing just a little glimpse, or uh Matthew is highlighting sort of this little glimpse of the fact That even as Jesus comes in his humiliation, and even as Matthew gives him some indications of his glory and wonder as the incarnate, God, the Son, the story is going to go on and show much of his humiliation. Right after this passage that we read, Herod goes and starts to persecute, tries to kill him. And he's driven and persecuted throughout his life by religious leaders. What does all this do? It makes us expect Jesus to be great and welcomed and exalted, but he isn't. First, he's humbled, he's humiliated, he suffers. And only then does he enter into glory. And I think that's what is so important for us to remember. And that's why I chose Matthew this morning as we think about the fact that when we pause and we reflect on Christ's first advent, His first coming, which we do at this time of year. It's so important for us to remember that all of that not only calls us to look back, it calls us to look forward. To his second coming and all the exaltation of Christ that happened, is happening, and will happen on that last day. In a very real sense, the depth of Christ's humiliation that we looked at last week Is finally fully matched by the height of Christ's exaltation in glory as the risen Conquering Son. The depth of Christ's humiliation is finally fully matched by the height of his exaltation. And maybe you're here this morning and you you aren't used to going to church. This is a little different for you. Maybe you don't know what Christianity is all about. And you wonder why why it is that this time of year we love to focus on this little baby in a manger, this little baby that was born two thousand years ago in the backwoods of Galilee and Judah. And friends, the answer is this is who Jesus is and was shown to be in the fullness of time, that he is the exalted, glorious King, and that's why. We focus on his humble coming. Because it is his very nature as God the Son and then exalted in time that makes it so profound how he humbled himself. Himself at his birth. So the question answer 28 of the shorter catechism goes like this: talking about Christ's exaltation. Wherein consists Christ's exaltation? Now, right there, you should notice one little difference, one little word that is so important. When we talked about his humiliation, we said, wherein consisted past tense? His humiliation is passing. He was humbled at his birth, through his life, in his death, and that all is past. His exaltation, listen to the tense of the verb. I know we're doing a little grammar here, wherein consists Present tense. Consists Christ's exaltation? Here's the answer. Christ's exaltation consists in his rising again from the dead on the third day. Ascending up into heaven, in sitting at the right hand of God the Father, and in coming to judge the world at the last. Now again, I think we can divide this up. It sort of tells a little story, just like the humiliation told a story of descent. This exaltation of Christ tells a story of ascent. It's like steps leading up. And we can follow that ascent, I think, in three phases. Christ's exaltation begins in his bodily arising. Second of all, his heavenly ascent And third in his second Advent. Arising, Ascent, and Advent. Those are the three points I want us to consider as we reflect on the exaltation of Christ as it's summarized for us in this catechism. question. Christ's exaltation, first of all, consists in his bodily arising from the dead on the third day. That's where the catechism answer begins. Christ's exaltation consists in his rising again from the dead on the third day. And friends, this Is the central claim of Christianity. I mean, at this time of year we focus on the other claim, the other important claim, that we believe Christ was born of a virgin because he was God who became Man. It's very important for us to know that, to reflect on that. But I would argue the central claim of Christianity, and this is a historical claim, one that can be examined through the means of examining history is that our Redeemer Jesus Christ, who was both God and man, born of a virgin, that he truly died according to his human nature, and on the third day he arose bodily from the grave. He arose with the same body he had had before he died, and yet different, changed. He was no longer mortal, no longer perishable, no longer prone to weakness, able to do things that we can't do, move through closed doors and locked locked doors and closed walls, appear and disappear, apparently. And yet he could also say to Thomas in the upper room, Thomas, put your finger in my wound. There it is. It's me. The same body, though a bit different. So, why is it that the catechism begins with Christ's resurrection as the first step of his exaltation And I ask that because, you know, is that really that unique? In the Bible, there are many people who are raised from the dead. Jesus raises Lazarus in John Lazarus in John 11. Jesus raises the widow's son in Luke 7, Jairus' daughter. Others are raised in the Old Testament. A widow's son is raised by Elijah. The Shunammite's son is raised by Elisha. In the New Testament, Tabitha is raised by Peter. Eudicus is raised by Paul. And I don't know if you heard that little preposition. That's the key difference. Throughout the Bible, people are raised by people. Jesus raises, arises himself. He rose from the dead by his own divine power. Of course, the Bible also tells us, he doesn't tell us that he didn't act alone, right? All three persons of the Godhead were involved in this. The Bible tells us that the Father raised Jesus. Acts 2. 24, Romans 6. 4. The Bible tells us that the Spirit raised Jesus from the dead. Romans 8. 11 and 1 Peter 3. 18. eighteen. But Jesus also claims he, as God, God the Son, raised himself. John 2, 19, Jesus is talking about his own body as the temple. He says, destroy this temple and And in three days I will raise it up. John 10, 18, No one takes my life from me, Jesus says, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. And so Jesus' exaltation began in his arising again bodily from the dead on the third day by his own divine power as the incarnate Son. And uh notice that this is according to his human nature. You know, already we're trying to figure out, okay, if Jesus is dead, how can he raise himself? Well, and that's gets us into this deep theology that we've been exploring as we've been looking at Christ as our Redeemer, the fact that He is both God and man in one person. This is what we call the hypostatic union. If you're just visiting church, I'm sure you didn't expect to get theology like that this morning. But this idea that the Bible teaches clearly that Jesus is fully God, but he's also fully man. And so whenever Jesus acts or is acted upon, we have to ask the question, well, according to which nature? For example, when he died, the Bible tells us Jesus died. And Jesus is God. Did God die? Well, technically, God can't die. His very essence of his nature is that he's not mortal, that he's eternal, that he Has life in himself. So, no, Jesus did not die according to his divine nature. Instead, he died according to his human nature. And that's important because his exaltation in rising from the dead is according to his human nature. So Thomas Watson, who's a Puritan uh theologian who writes a commentary on the catechism. He describes it this way, in what sense has God exalted Christ? Not in respect of his Godhead. For that Jesus Divine nature cannot be exalted higher than it is. As in his humiliation, the Godhead was not lower. In a very real sense, Jesus did not actually lower himself from his divinity. So in his exaltation, the Godhead is not higher, but Christ is exalted as mediator. His human nature is So Christ's exaltation in resurrection, that he arises is that he arises by his own divine power as God the Son, utterly unlike us in that sense, uh in a very real way we will not raise ourselves. But I think the exalted way in which uh the resurrection, his resurrection, uh brings exaltation to him is Is as we think of the fact that Jesus' bodily resurrection uh was unlike any other one in the Bible. Because all the other resurrections in the Bible, people were actually more resuscitated. They were raised back to die again. Jesus is raised never to die. And therefore the Bible calls him the firstborn of the resurrection, the firstborn of the age to come, the firstborn from the dead. Colossians 1:18. It says he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be pre- So his exaltation as according to his human nature as bodily arising is not necessarily in the resurrection itself, for he promises that he will raise us. Like himself one day. Philippians 3:20 and 21 says, Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. By the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. First John 3, 2, when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. There's a sense in which Jesus' resurrection is a A foretaste, it is the first among many. We all will be raised like him, but that firstness is the exaltation. Revelation 1. 5 says Jesus Christ is the firstborn from the dead. So his exaltation and his bodily arising from the dead is from the So his first this first aspect of his uh uh exaltation is his bodily arising from the dead on the third day. What do we do with this? How do we apply this point? What does Jesus' exaltation mean for us? What does the fact that Jesus did rise from the dead on the third day have to do with us? Friends, the answer is it has everything to do with us. Everything. If you're a follower of Christ, it means that you Can find comfort. There's only so much comfort we can find in this little child being born in a manger. It's beautiful for what it is, profound and glorious. But it's really a fact that Jesus not only was born, that he lived a life, a faithful, righteous life, that he died on the cross, and then ultimately that he is raised that brings. Such comfort. Because it means that he has fulfilled his name. His name is Jesus. The Lord saves. His resurrection proves that the Lord has saved. Because exaltation means that our sins have been paid in full if we are a follower of Christ, and that there's no debt left, because if there was, he would still be in the grave. He has conquered once for all through his resurrection, sin, Satan, and death So Romans 4:24 can say Jesus our Lord was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Raised so that God can look at us and no longer see our sin. But see the perfect righteousness of Christ covering us as his blood washes away our sin and credits us with His righteousness. 1 Corinthians 15, 17. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you're still in your sins. But it goes on and says, but in fact, Christ has been raised. The first From the dead. So Martin Luther applies this idea of the resurrection of Christ like this. He says, when your conscience plagues you, or when you are in dire distress, Do nothing but grasp Christ in faith and say, I believe in Jesus Christ. In his wounds and death I see my sin, and in his resurrection I see the victory. Over sin, death, and the devil, I see righteousness and eternal life as well. Christ's exaltation is first in his bodily arising from the dead on the third day. Second of all, here's the second point. We see Christ's exaltation in his heavenly ascent to the Father's right hand. His heavenly ascent to the Father's right hand. Christ's exaltation. consists in ascending up into heaven and in sitting at the right hand of God the Father, as the catechism goes on and says. And again, this is a historic claim of Christianity that Jesus, after he wrote Rose from the dead, that he appeared, and he spent time with his disciples over 40 days, and at the end of 40 days. He stood before his disciples and he said, I must go, but I will come again. And before their very eyes he rose up into heaven. In some way, we can't quite imagine exactly what that might have looked like. But he rose up and they were looking and waiting, and the angel had to tell him, Yeah, he did. He just told you a rise into heaven. He is in a very real sense gone, but don't worry, he'll Send his Holy Spirit to be with you. The historic claim of Christianity is not just that Christ has risen from the dead. But that he has ascended to the right hand of the Father. And we find this in Ephesians 1. 20. The Father raised Christ from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, it says. Acts 2. 33, it says Jesus is exalted at the right hand of God. 1 Peter 3. 22, Jesus who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with the angels and authorities and powers having been subjected to God. And this means there's a very real answer, and this is very important theologically, there's a very real answer to where is Jesus today. First, we have to say, well, according to which nature? Where is Jesus according to his divine nature? He's everywhere. Omnipresent. Because that is what it means to be God. But where is Jesus according to his human nature, which is truly human? That means being human, he's finite and confined to one place in time, just like we are. Jesus' body is in a place. Jesus is bodily in a place, we should say, and that is in heaven at the Father's right hand. And note, this idea of being at the Father's right hand does not mean that he's he's somehow sitting on the Father's right hand. Sometimes we say sitting on the Father's right hand. It's not not to picture that, right? The Bible says very clearly that God is spirit. God doesn't have body parts. And so there is no literal right hand of the Father. It's a good reminder. Whenever we come to scriptures like this, that you know we need to interpret scripture as it intends us to interpret it, not overly literalistic or wooden and say, well, it says here he's at the Father's right hand, so the Father must have a hand. No, this is a metaphor, this is a picture, this is the way we use human language. Thomas Watson, in his commentary on the catechism, says this: God really has no right hand or left. For being a spirit, he is void of all body parts. But this is a metaphor taken from the manner of kings who had the practice of advancing their favorites. Next to their own persons and set them at their right hand. So for Christ to sit at the right hand of God is to be in the next place to God the Father in dignity and honor. The human nature of Christ. Being personally united to the divine is now set down on a royal throne in heaven and adored even by angels. That's the exaltation of Christ in his heavenly ascent, and sitting at the Father's of the right hand hand. And this is all anticipated, I would argue, in Christ's birth that Matthew recounts for us. Like Luke recounts the angels announcing Christ, which is sort of This picture of Christ's glory having a heavenly announcement, but they announce it's humble shepherds. Again, focusing, Luke focusing on the humility of Christ's birth. Who is it who's called to worship Jesus in Matthew? Matthew. Well, it's not kings. Often it's we need three kings. It probably is not kings. It doesn't say that here. It says wise men or magi. These probably aren't kings, and there probably weren't three. There were three gifts, but probably a few more wise men. But they are probably ambassador-like, representative of far distant nations. And that's why when they come, where do they go? They go to the palace, the palace of Herod the king. to to say, hey, we we know that there's a new king here, and uh so we'll go to the the palace, the place of glory and honor, and and that's that must be where we'll find him, or we'll at least we'll find people who know him. Verse 1. Now of chapter 2. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is the he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. You know, if you're a a boss, that's like somebody walking into your office. office, you know, labeled the boss, and saying, where is the boss, the new boss? You say, wait, I didn't know we were hiring. That's how it is for Herod here. No wonder. It says when Herod the King heard this, he was troubled. And all Jerusalem with him. Maybe for different reasons. He was troubled because what did it mean for his kingship? Maybe all the rest of Jerusalem was troubled because it meant Who's Herod then? What's going on with him? Maybe we don't have to deal with him as our king. And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he, Herod, inquired of them where the Christ was to be born, and they told him Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judea, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for you, for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. It's a good reminder. We read the Old Testament and we wonder how did they have uh an understanding? How do they how could they anticipate The Messiah the way we know him. Well, maybe they didn't anticipate him fully the way we knew him, but they had a lot better understanding of the Messiah who is coming that we might have if we just read Old Testament here they knew where the Messiah was supposed to be born, and that was in Bethlehem, which is where he was born. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly ascertained from them what time The star had appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child. When you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. As king, he's claiming to desire to worship this newborn king. If you read on, you find out he didn't really want to worship. He really wanted to kill him and make sure that he could remain king. After listening to the king, they went on their way and behold the star that uh they had seen when it rose before them. until uh uh it rose before them, uh until it came to rest from the place where the child was. When they saw the star they rejoiced with exceedingly with great joy, and going into the house they saw the child with Mary's mother, and these representatives of the nations of the earth Fell down and worshipped Jesus Christ as a baby. Then opening their treasures, they offered him gifts fit for a king, gold, frankincense and myrrh, and being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. Thomas Watson, in his commentary on the catechism, says, By virtue of the personal union of Christ's human nature with the divine, there is a communication of all that glory from the deity of Christ, of which his human nature is capable. Not that the manhood of Christ is advanced to an equality with the Godhead, but the divine nature being joined with the human, the human nature is wonderfully glorified, though not deified. Christ as mediator is filled with all majesty and honor beyond the comprehension of the highest orders of angels in his humiliation. He descended so low that it was not fit to go lower. And in his exaltation he ascended so high that it is not possible to go higher. In his resurrection, he was exalted above the grave In his ascension, he was exalted above the airy and starry heavens, and in sitting at the Father's right hand, he is exalted far above the highest heavens, as Ephesians 4. 10 says. And notice that his ascension is not just going up into heaven, but sitting at the Father's right hand. What does that mean for him to sit? It means he's reigning. It means he's reigning as the cosmic lord and king. That's the only person who sits in the throne room. The king. There's one seat usually in the throne room. It's the king's. Sometimes there'll be maybe another seat for an honored guest, for a vice regent, and maybe that's what we conceive of as Christ's throne. to the right hand of the Father. Psalm 110, verse 1, is a promise to Jesus from Almighty God. Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your food. stools. The point is Jesus' exaltation in his heavenly ascent means that right now he is right now ruling and reigning as the risen sovereign king and lord of all creation. And this is all anticipate in the Magi's visit. When these representative of nations come and bow before this one man, this God man. Jesus Christ. So how do we apply this point? What do we take away from this second idea of Christ's heavenly ascent? What should the ascent, the heavenly ascent of Christ and his sitting at the Father's right hand, what should that mean for us or do for us. Well, first of all, it should call us to trust in his sovereign reign. Trust in his sovereign reign. When chaos seems to surround us, we can look to the ascended Christ seated at the Father's right hand. It should also enable us to trust his sovereign reign because we know what he's doing there. He's not just sitting. The Bible says that he's sitting and interceding, praying for us until he returns. Should also call us to submit, submit to his call to follow him through suffering to glory. Jesus is exalted at the Father's right hand, and yet he calls us as his followers to follow him on the same path he trod through Through suffering into glory. Thomas Watson says sufferings must go before glory. Many desire to be glorified with Christ, but they are not content to suffer for him. There is no way to heaven but through suffering. No way to the crown, but by the cross. Like the wise men here, see that heavenly star and follow up wherever it leads. May we look to our risen heavenly Savior Jesus Christ and follow him as he leads. And then finally, the Bible says, because Christ has ascended to the Father's right hand, we're to set our minds on things that are above. What does this mean? It means lean into And look to our hope that we have in Christ. That as he is risen and reigning, we too will be raised to new life and reign with him. Colossians 3:1 says, if then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of the So Christ's exaltation is in his bodily arising, in his heavenly ascent, and third and finally in his second advent. This is part of the reason that Christmas is, I think, so celebrated and recognized by the church, because in remembering the first advent of Christ, looking back 2,000 years ago, we're moved to look forward to his second advent. Second coming, when he comes again in his exalted glory to judge the living and the dead. As the shorter catechism confirms, this is how it ends. Christ's exaltation, foundly in his rising again from the dead, his ascent, his heavenly ascent. But also third and finally in his coming to judge the world at the last day. Acts 111 When Jesus ascends, right, the disciples are there, they're standing there, they're looking up. What happens? And an angel comes and says, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? He's like, why? We've seen something that we couldn't imagine. Nobody else has ever seen or ever will. Jesus Christ, the risen Savior, ascending into the Father's right hand. Why do you look into heaven? But then he goes on. Why do you look into heaven? This Jesus. Who was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. Acts 17, 30 says the times of ignorance got overlooked, but now Now he commands all people everywhere to repent, because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him, that man he has appointed from the dead, Jesus Christ. John Thompson, his commentary on the catechism, this is a 18th-century Presbyterian uh minister and theologian. He says, Will Christ appear in his human nature as judge. Again, we have to ask. Human or divine? And he says, yes, Christ will appear in his human nature to judge. Here's why. So that both his friends and his enemies may see him in his glory with their bodily eyes He goes on and says, This will be for the unspeakable joy of his friends, and the terror and everlasting confusion of his enemies. Jesus taught clearly that his second advent will be sudden and unannounced. It will surprise everyone, even though he says, well, you really shouldn't be surprised because you should be awaiting it. He says that's that his second coming is the next thing to occur in redemptive history. And so we're those people, ever since Christ has ascended, that we are those who pray Come quickly, Lord Jesus. We look forward to it. We anticipate it. The phrase of the early church is Meranatha, which means our Lord come. And that's the prayer we find throughout Revelation. In a very real sense, Jesus says, Every eye shall see his coming. When I was younger, I was like, How in the world will that be when you have a globe, right? How can somebody down here see Christ's coming? Well now that doesn't seem So strange. When something happening any part of the world can be streamed, live streamed anywhere at any moment. Christ is coming soon, he said says. And we're to look forward to that. In many ways, kids, you know, you're you're anticipating Christmas morning. You are looking forward to those gifts. And you can't wait for the the surprise. It is, on the one hand you know it's coming. Uh on the other hand for you the surprise is what is going to be in those gifts. And that eager anticipation of Christmas Day is actually in some sense to cultivate in us a sense that that's the kind of eager anticipation we we We ought to have, we ought to cultivate, we ought to desire for Christ's second coming. The surprise will be when it happens, unlike Christmas, not what happens. Bible has said when Christ comes again, he will judge the living and the dead. And actually what he does before he judges, when he comes again, it says that he will raise The living and the dead to everlasting life. He says that every one of us here will live forever. And that's his promise. When he comes, he will raise every single person who has ever lived on earth to new. Life. Is that good news or bad news? Can be one or the other. Because actually living forever is not good, not something to look forward to, if it is living to be punished. On the one hand, he says he'll raise some to everlasting life and blessedness and fullness and peace. That's great. Jesus promises that some will be brought in glorified like he is and be part of his consummated creation with him in glory where where there is Revelation talks about so sweetly there where there are no tears. Where there's no mourning, no more funerals, no more memorial services, no sadness, no death. That's good. That's good resurrection life, but there's another kind of resurrection life. A resurrection to an everlasting life of curse and judgment. Jesus describes it as a Place lived in weeping and gnashing of teeth. Place lived in punishment for the infinite Debt that our sin occurs because it is against an infinite, holy, just, and almighty God. So the question for all of us is which will be our future? Which will be our kind of everlasting life? Friends, This is the most important question you can ever ask, and the most important question you can ever find an answer to. So let's reflect on a moment, just a quick moment as we conclude. How can you get ready for Christ's return to judge? 2 Corinthians 5. 10 says, Jesus, when he appears in judgment, will uh give due for what everyone has done in the body, whether good or evil. evil. So then each one of us will give an account of himself to God, Romans 14 says. So you so you need to stop sinning? Just be good? That's a lot of way that's the way a lot of people think about Christianity. It's all about trying to get people to stop sinning and be good. I remember a professor years ago. He's like, you know, he was uh in my during my PhD studies and he was like, so as a pastor It's kinda easy what you have to do, isn't it? Just tell people just stop sinning. It's like, yeah, actually that would be very easy if that's all that it that it was. The Bible says even if we could stop, that that doesn't mean Romans 3 says, All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. It says, No one is righteous, no not one. No one truly does good, not even one. Maybe you've Never murdered, never committed adultery, never committed a felony or a significant crime. Now those are all good things. You're blessing your neighbor by them. Thank you. Don't do it. Don't do any of those things. Those are bad. But those are only a small part of God's law. Of his law, of how he has made us to be as his creatures. His law can be summarized like this: love the Lord your God With all of your heart, with all of your soul, with all of your strength, with all of your mind, and love your neighbor as yourself. Most of us think we're pretty good people. Yeah, most of us do. If you go out in the world and you say, are you a good person? Most of us will say, Yeah, I'm a pretty good person. And why? Well, because we can look at the news and we can see that serial killer. Oh man, I'm not like him. You know if you go talk to that serial killer, he says, I'm a pretty good person. Not like that other serial killer. There's always somebody we can look down on, somebody worse. But friends, that's not Jesus' standard. Of perfection. It's not, are you better than some people? Are you better than a lot of people? Are you better than most people? Jesus says, be perfect as my heavenly Father is perfect. That's his measure of judgment. And even as we try to think of ourselves as pretty good people and get ourselves off the hook, aren't there those little nagging sins, maybe sins of the past? Maybe struggles of the present. That we have to try to rationalize a way. I'm a pretty good person. Well, there is that. But but it was a bad moment in my life. I don't do that anymore. Whatever the case is. Friend, if you're hoping to stand in judgment before Jesus claiming to be a good person, I can assure you you are doomed. You are doomed. You know why you're doomed? Because if you go to Jesus and you stand before him and you say, I'm a pretty good person, he can say, No, you're not. I was a truly good person. I knew what it was like to love God with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love my neighbor as myself. I knew, I know what it took, and trust me, you have not done that. But you don't have to face Jesus in this way. And that's the good news of the gospel. None of us can escape judgment based on our own goodness, our own sinlessness, as Romans 3 says. None of us are truly good except for Jesus Christ. So there must be some other way that the promises of blessed eternal life that is promised to some come to us. How do those blessings come to us? And that's the whole point of the Bible. That's the whole point of the gospel. And it's summarized very well in 2 Thessalonians 1, 7-10. Where it talks about Jesus' second coming. It says, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels and flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's the people who do not know God, who do not obey the gospel of Jesus. That's who will be taken to that eternal life of weeping and gnashing. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might when he comes on that day. That's bad news. But listen to this, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints and to be marveled at among all who have believed. Did you hear that? That's the difference. Those who inherit eternal life of blessedness and peace are those who are saints who have believed. Saints who have faith, those of us who have turned to Jesus Christ, recognizing him to be the only truly righteous man ever to live, and yet recognizing that he lived that righteous life not just for himself. who is perfect as his heavenly father is perfect, not just for himself, but for us. So that he could be the righteous Lamb of God, slain to take away the sins of the world. So that as we confess our sin to him as our Savior and Lord, we We can be assured. We can be confident that He has taken all of our sins and nailed them to the cross, destroying that record of debt that stands against us by dying under its load in our place. Only to rise in glory, and he rose in glory to prove it truly is finished. For those of you us who are waiting Christ in faith, that last day will not be a last day of judgment. But will be a day of blessing when we will not be judged by Christ, but will actually join him in judging the world. That's what the Bible says. And so John Calvin can reflect on this. John Calvin, that great Reformed theologian, he reflects on Judgment Day like this. These are sweet words. What a wonderful consolation that we perceive judgment to be in the hands of him. Who has already destined us to share with him the honor of judging? Far indeed is he from mounting his judgment seat to condemn us How could our most merciful ruler destroy his people? How could the head scatter his own members? How could our advocate condemn his clients? No, no mean assurance this, that we shall be brought before no other judgment seat than that of our Redeemer. to whom we must look for our salvation. Moreover, he who now promises eternal blessedness through the gospel will then fulfill his promise in judgment. Therefore, by giving all judgment to the Son, the Father has honored him to the end that he may care for the consciences of his people who tremble in dread. If you think of the judgment of Christ and you tremble and dread, you're in good company. So do all of us who know our sin. And yet Calvin says, remember, your judge is your Redeemer. Finally, if we are Christ, his exaltation is a glimpse of the of what he promises all of us at the last. And we'll close with this quote of uh Charles Spurgeons. As we are represented in Parliament, so is every child of God represented in heaven. But that figure fails to set forth the glorious representation of which uh representation of us which our forerunner Christ carries on in heaven. For we are actually one with him We are members of his body, of his flesh, of his bones, and his exaltation is our exaltation. Beloved, look up to Christ now. Let the eye of your faith catch a sight of him, behold him there with many crowns upon his head. He has a crown and he will not wear his crown unless he gives us crowns too. He has a throne, but he is not content with having the throne to himself. He cannot be there without his bride. The Savior cannot be content in heaven unless he has his church with him. Isn't that good news? You shall not be as great as he is, you shall not be as glorious in degree. but you shall in a measure share the same honors and enjoy the same happiness and the same dignity which he possesses. Friends, that is the good news of the gospel. That is why Jesus was born in the first place. That's why he endured the humiliation we looked at last week. And that's why he must be exalted as he is. Won't you bow your knee? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Won't you confess with every mouth that will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord? Won't you follow him and worship him, even like these wise men did? Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these reminders of who Jesus is, of where Jesus is now, that He has risen, that He is reigning at your right hand, that He will Lord, prepare us for that day by granting us true confession of sin, by comforting us with this good news of the gospel, by assuring us as we look up to heaven where Christ is seated at your right hand. hand. We look to our future because of the work of Christ as we look to him by faith. May you comfort us with those truths in Jesus' name. Amen.