Hear the words of this poem, this song. Maybe you recognize it. Almost Heaven, West Virginia Okay, you got it. Blue Ridge Mountains, Shenandoah River. Life is old there, older than the trees, younger than the mountains. Growing like a breeze, and what is the chorus? Country roads, take me home to the place I belong. West Virginia, Mountain Mama, take me home Country roads. So glad you played into that for me there. That is probably some of the most famous words ever sung by John Denver. It's one of those reliable tunes that in many places throughout America you can go and people will chant out, will sing that chorus together. Now why is that? Is it because so many people throughout America have such Sweet, fond, personal memories of West Virginia. Uh you know, the couple who actually wrote those words for John Denver had never themselves been to West Virginia. That's probably why they got a lot of the geography in the song wrong. They were thinking of Gaithersburg, Maryland. That's where they were from. People cherish that song because of how sweetly it captures the idea of home. And home is, or at least it is supposed to be, the place that I belong. The ideas of home, that idea of belonging, it provides. Something that people cherish, something that people desire. That's not just true for people in America. That is an idea that people who are historians or anthropologists track back. As far as memories are written, people crave the safety and belonging of that idea of home. Home is supposed to be a place of security and acceptance, isn't it? We recognize at the same time, sadly, that the experience of many people in the homes here in this world isn't exactly that, though. Many homes don't live up to that calling upon them. Many have been places of overbearing judgment and expectations. And yet, nevertheless, a real home is something we desire. As families, you know, you want to build a home where people feel that they belong. Where your kids feel that they are loved, where they want to be. I did not grow up in a perfect home by any means, but uh one of the very sweet realities of what my mom sought to instill in our home Was that it was a place where her children felt they belonged. That it was a place where we wanted to be and where we wanted our friends to come over and be, where they too felt like they belonged. The reality though, nevertheless, is that we are a restless people, and that kind of home is a very hard thing to find. How am I ever going to attain real safety in a world with war going on? How am I ever going to find real belonging in a world where there are people who hate me? How am I ever going to find a true and everlasting home? A one where I am a beloved child and not in fear of being a disappointment or a failure or unwanted. The answer that Paul brings to us this morning is that that truth is found in the resurrection. Where is that kind of home found? It is found. In the resurrection. And what we're going to see from Paul this morning in the text is this: Only God can bring us to a true and everlasting home. Only God can bring us to a true and everlasting home. And we're going to explore that idea with three points here this morning. They're this first, an elementary principle. An elementary principle. There is something instilled in us that makes us feel not at home. What is that? A second we're going to see an existential intervention. Something outside of us that must happen, that does happen, to remedy the problem. And then third, an everlasting home. How is it that we know and do truly have sealed to us that true home? Join me in that first point here. An elementary principle. We're going to get pretty deep into the text here. Paul walks through this section of Galatians 4 using this analogy of a household. And particularly here at the beginning, verse 1, he uses this illustration of a son and a father and the process of inheritance. And it he describes how, uh this is a reality in Greco-Roman times, even though the son may be set to inherit his father's estate, before he takes ownership of the estate. The access he has to it is like that of a slave. Look at verse 1 with me. Look down in the text. I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is owner of everything. Though the son here may be set to take ownership at some point, until that point, he has the same kind of access to dad's wealth that a servant or a slave in the household has to it. So, he continues verse 2, there is this time of waiting for the Son until that inheritance. Paul uses this illustration to describe, he says, what it was like for God's people for Israel once upon a time, before Jesus had come. Verse 3, he says, In the same way we also, speaking of the Jewish people, when we were children, we were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. Since there we were enslaved to these elementary principles, what are those? Israel was Enslaved to some kind of principle. And what Paul has built leading up to now, what we're going to see again in another verse here, is that principle, what he's saying they are enslaved to, what he's describing it as, is the law of Moses. How do we know that? Look at verse 4. Told you we're getting deep. When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. So that we might receive adoption as sons. Paul describes Israel here under the law, and he describes that as a time when they were in bondage. When they were enslaved to something, they were owned by something and needed to be purchased out from under that slavery. That's what redemption is when Paul uses that word here in the text. Redeemed. It's the way you speak of a slave being bought out of their slavery. Now, here's what's going to get a little difficult and confusing looking at the text. Paul speaks that way of Israel under the law, and then towards the end of our passage, hear what he says in verse 8. He takes up that same kind of language to talk about the bondage of different people. The bondage of the Gentiles, the pagans outside in the world who don't have God's law. He says, verse 8, formerly, when you, speaking to this Galatian audience, these people outside of Israel, Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not God's. But now that you have come to know God, or rather be known by God How can you turn back again to the weak and worthless, elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be once more? Think about that. Did you catch it there? What is Paul showing is side by side here? He says, first about the Jewish people, you were slaves to these elementary principles. And then he turns to the Gentiles, these people who were worshiping pagan idols, and he says, And you too were slaves to these elementary principles. Now that's awkward why. Because Paul sees as equivalent in some way here, Israel enslaved to God's law. And the Gentiles worshiping false gods being in slavery to them. Whether this is your first time at church in a while or you are here every week, that doesn't quite track, does it? That feels awkward to say. What is Paul saying here? Living under God's righteous law And living as an idol-worshiping pagan, there is some kind of similarity in that? That's confusing, right? What is Paul doing? The comparison that he makes here is because there is really a common thread that runs through those two different kinds of lives. those two different ideas. And it is this thing that Paul calls an elementary principle. What do these two different kinds of lives, life under God's law, and life worshiping false gods, what do they have in common with one another? It's this principle that Paul has actually been talking about and building and developing throughout the whole of this letter to the Galatians. It's the principle of law. The principle which says, do this and you will live, or else fail and you will die. Is that idea that there is a demand or expectation that's placed upon you? If you don't live up to that expectation, if you don't live up to those demands, then you will be discarded and exposed to the world. Paul describes this as an elementary principle. He says that because this is an idea that is imprinted upon all of humanity. This is something that is common for all of us that we all walk with. That idea that says, I must do and succeed in order to be seen as worthy. You know, whether you are living under the law of Moses or you're in Rome living under the law of Jupiter or you're a kid living at home under the law of mom or dad, or you're on social media living under the law of Mark Zuckerberg. What is the common thread? What do you feel in every one of those situations? I need to prove that I am worthy. Or else what? I'm meaningless. If I just do enough, then I'll be acceptable. Then I'll be safe and secure. Then I'll have a home here in this world. It's the same kind of principle that Paul describes in Romans, particularly Romans chapter 1 and 2. Whether we can name this law on our hearts or not, we know it He says that there are all these people who are living in sin, violating the law, doing what they know is wrong, doing what they know is evil, and what they all know is that that evil deserves to be condemned. How do they know it, Paul? How do people who have never heard God's law know that? Because this principle is written on their hearts. And people prove they know this principle. They prove it because their conscience condemns them for it. Because occasionally they try to do what's right. When they fail, their conscience says to them, There you go. Not quite worthy, are you? This elementary principle is carved into all of us. Which is why we know at a base level we have to achieve enough. We have to achieve enough in order to find comfort and peace. in order to find that ultimate home, or else what's going to happen at the end? We died. This is why when you ask Ten different people on the street. Is God going to let you into heaven and why? The statistics say, even amongst many Christians, at least nine out of ten of them are going to tell you I think God will let me into heaven because I did enough good things. It's baked into every religion, that principle. What did I do? I did the pilgrimage, so maybe I'm okay. I made the sacrifices. I worked at the food pantry. I spent that summer with them Habitat for humanity, whatever it is, wherever you go, karma, polytheism, Aristotle himself, they're all going to tell you the same kind of idea. They will ask you to do enough. In order to receive. It's precisely the kind of idea that our society is built upon, isn't it? Do enough of the right things, and then we will give you the honor and glory that you're looking for. Be successful enough and men you can finally be blessed with the peace that you want, with the rest that you desire. Our society is so built upon this, uh it's so embedded into us that we are really good at keeping tally of uh our pros and our demerits along the way in it. Think about all the ways that you try to affirm to yourself, I really am good enough. We love to track it. You track it with the GPA. Got the A. Got the C. And you track it with the digits on the pace stop. The neighborhood that you live in, how much you do or do not weigh at this moment, the brand of shoes that you wear. They are all different kinds of things that we look to and say, look what I have achieved. Am I enough yet? When we're honest, we ask that question, who's the answer that we hear back? Well you know back there. Sure, maybe I've had some successes along the way. There's a lot of failures too, aren't there? And your faults and your conscience, they sit in the background and they remind you again and again, it's not enough. It's not enough yet. That's why Paul says living under that kind of principle is a kind of slavery You are enslaved to it. It's because your conscience is there with that principle written on your heart and it looks at our sin. Looks at the way that we have hated other people around us. Looks at the way that we have disregarded God's instructions to us. It reminds us over and over. Oh, you thought you aced that one? Remember this? Remember that? Do so that you might live. What our conscience reminds us about that principle over and over is that you have failed, so you will die. And you walk through this life worried, concerned that you're not safe. Take this principle, think about it in just the way that you interact with people around you. You walk around worried that you're not really loved for anything more than what you do for the people around you. Worried that the moment you drop the plates that you're spinning, you will be exposed to the world as the fraud that maybe you are. Worried that you have to fight for every sense of security and belonging you can find so that you don't end up emotionally homeless. Living under that, that's living in slavery to that elementary principle. And no matter how hard you strive to get success in this life, And the condemnation that comes with that principle for you is inescapable. Because according to that principle in your sin, you are already dead. You start to internalize, reflect on that, think about that, that is an existential crisis for humanity. That's why we need, point two, an existential intervention. How does God address this reality in our lives? Look at verse 4. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son. It's that famous turn which we see a number of times throughout the Bible, especially in the New Testament. This was your inescapable, dire crisis. But God. But God enters the scene. But God acts to take you who were in slavery and redeems you from that slavery. He says here. Unto sonship. What Paul presses into, and what is massive for us to remember, is that God is the one who takes action in the midst of our crisis. He takes action both to rescue us, Paul makes sure to remind us too, and to adopt us. Why is that significant? Paul uses this analogy for us of that waiting heir. The son is waiting for that appointed day when he will take full grasp of the inheritance. But while he is waiting, remember he said he's basically the same as a slave. So that son is waiting for that day when the dad will say to him, Son, you are ready. Son, you've graduated. He's waiting for the day when the Father will say, You have proven to me that you are mature enough to take this all on. And that is, in a sense, what happens. with one particular son. But that isn't what actually happens with us. Rather, God saw us in our situation, and who does he send? He sent his own son, his only begotten son Jesus to deal with this. Verse 4. When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. So that we might receive adoption as sons. Paul is emphasizing, God, not when you were ready, not when you made everything good, Not when you had proven yourself, when God deemed it appropriate, he sent Jesus, his own son, to be born of the Virgin Mary That means that Jesus, who was true God, took on true flesh like each of you and I have at a historical moment. Says he sent Jesus to be under the law. That means Jesus was subject to, according to his humanity. That same elementary principle, do this and live, or fail and die. You realize that means Jesus experienced what it is. to bear under the weight of that expectation that you feel in this life. Jesus did not come and waltz through life like everything was perfect, right? When you read the stories of the Gospels, you know Jesus came and Jesus suffered. It's not because he did anything wrong. Jesus suffered because you suffer. Jesus suffered because you have done wrong. And Jesus is that son who does All that his father expects and so earns merits that inheritance. But ultimately, where does the story go? Jesus died, was crucified upon a cross, and that should be, for us who are used to that elementary principle, a real confusion point, shouldn't it? Because the principle of this world was do and live or fail and die. And what we see of Jesus when he comes and lives is that he does everything he was supposed to. Jesus never failed. So why does he die? The way that the Son proved the quality and maturity and glory of the sonship to the Father was doing all that his father had asked. He did all of that so that he could die, so that he could die in our place, and so that then we could be given his life. That's what Jesus has done. And you know, the hang-up for us still who are used to that elementary principle as we hear that story, Jesus has done all of this for you. And the question that we're ready to ask is: great. So what do I have to do to earn that for myself? But friends, the precise point that Paul is making But is that you can't earn that, that you don't earn it, because what Jesus has done is free you from that principle. Paul emphasizes that particularly towards the end in verse 9. But now that you have come to know God, he checks himself then, or rather to be known by God. How can you turn back again to weak and worthless elementary principles of the world? It isn't even really that you've done the work to come to God yourself. It's that God has come and He has found you. And He knows you. What all of this means for you is not that you have been given some kind of great do-over. It doesn't mean that now you've been given a new chance to prove yourself again. The result of this is that you now have, if you have faith in Jesus. The full rights of sonship as those who have been adopted. God didn't only send Jesus to erase the bad things that you have done. God did send Jesus to pay for the wicked things that you have done in this life. That is seen on the cross. But that isn't all He also says, you are now made to be true and full sons of the Father, each and every one of you. Each and every one of you who believe in Jesus Christ are made to be like firstborn sons That adoption described in the text here was a common reality in the Greco-Roman world. It was usually the situation where a wealthy elite, if they had no son of their own, And then they would find a son to adopt, one who could take on this new father's name and be brought into this new father's home, and that was done so that they could inherit all that the father had. What is the point being made? Jesus is the Son of God, according to his person. God the Father was not without a Son. He had one, a perfect one. And yet what he has chosen to do is to make us sons according to his grace. And that is so true for you if you believe in Jesus that it means there is no discrepancy between the inheritance that Jesus has. And the inheritance that you now have. Not because of anything you have done to earn it, but because of what Jesus has done for you. And think about what that means for a Christian. For those who believe in Jesus, what Jesus has done for you is pay the debt of your sin, the debt owed according to your failure. And he has also brought you into the household of God. He has brought you in so that you might share truly and fully in his inheritance. which he has already earned. Is that hard to believe? Probably doesn't feel like your experience every day here on this world, right? That's where we have point three here, an everlasting home. The story of your justification being declared, made right, in good standing with God. And your adoption, being declared a son of God, the idea that both of those things really happen for us, it's kind of impossible to believe. It's often impossible for us to believe because that says something about God the Father, and we are not used to fathers who act this way. And do you feel that sometimes? When you have existed in a world where so often you have lived under that principle that you have to do and perform in order to belong. The idea that someone has done the doing for you already, and so just by declaration you do belong. That is hard to believe. That often sounds too good to be true. The reality that we often think of that as too good to be true explains really well while we still here today, even as Christians, often live like it isn't true. It's why we try to test God often. It's why we lash out in sin, acting immaturely and rebelliously as children. It's why we are drawn to think often of God as a taskmaster and not as a good heavenly father. Think of all the ways that we tend to show we do not trust him as a father. Our constant worrying about the future. Constant concern for perceived injustice towards us that might not ever be made right. Our sensitivity to criticism. You have a hard time when you're criticized. I do. Our suspicion of God in the midst of trials, moment when we start to say, see, I knew it wasn't really for me I knew he wasn't really going to take care of me. Our need to prioritize what I think will make me happy in this moment, even though God has told me that thing is lethal. Not good for you at all. That's what sin is so often. All of these are expressions in our lives of how we do not believe that our heavenly father is really our good father. Maybe he's given me a glimpse of a nice home, but Am I really safe? Do I really belong? You know, once I trip up, isn't he, as soon as he realizes who I really am, just going to say, he wasn't actually worthy. Take it away. For you, though, what Paul wants you to know, what the text is calling you to believe, you who trust in Jesus as your Savior, is that it is not just possible to have that kind of good father. It is abundantly clear and true that you do have that good father, that you are his precious child, not because you have earned it, but because he has declared it so. And you can know and believe that is true even today. Because verse 6: God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts crying, Abba Father. What does that mean? Christian, this is talking about the work of the Spirit of Resurrection The resurrection here is a multifold proof to you of the truth of the Father's love for you. How so? At first, because it really happened Jesus Christ is not the Son who is left dead on a cross. Jesus Christ did die on the cross in your place. He took your sin and your failure upon himself and died for it. And the historicity of the death of Jesus, we could talk about this if you want, is not disputed by historians. It just isn't. They all agree that happened. And what happened next? On the third day, he rose again. The objection, of course, that's impossible. People don't rise from the dead. There's no power to do that. What power did raise Jesus from the dead? What all the eyewitnesses say is that Jesus was resurrected, and what Jesus told us is that His Spirit is the one who takes the dead and makes them alive. That his spirit is the one who raised him from the dead. Another piece there. What did Jesus tell us he was sending his spirit to do? That he was coming to resurrect you and to live in you, to make his home in you. The Spirit comes and makes his home in your heart if you believe in Jesus. What that means is that he is that seal, that promise from God that you are truly alive in him. That you really do belong to a good Heavenly Father. The Spirit is sent into our hearts, and He is the same Spirit who rose Jesus from the dead. He is the same Spirit who raises our souls from the dead. And he is the same spirit of adoption who cries out in us, Abba, Father. That's Romans 8. And what is the Holy Spirit doing inside of your heart? He's doing exactly that, testifying to you the truth that God is your good Father. That in your darkest moments, when you are at the end of the rope, and where else can you turn, the Spirit is within you, testifying to you. God is not your judge. Not your executioner, not your enslaver, but rather your father. A last piece. This Spirit is the one who seals to us our future bodily resurrection. A reminder that death is not the end. And we do have a rich inheritance of life which Jesus has earned for us. That heavenly home, which on account of us being named as sons with Jesus, means according to Jesus' work, you who believe in him are owed it. It is your right, it is your inheritance, that heavenly home. It is not something we can now earn, it is something rather that we are granted by right, because we too are sons. When we cry out, Ah the Father, what is being said? Paul actually writes this in the text in Aramaic because he's quoting a man, a son, who spoke Aramaic. He's quoting Jesus. Because the point is: just as sure as Jesus is the Son of God, for you who call out to your heavenly Father as Abba Father, so Christian are you. a son of God. And just as Jesus is an heir of all that the Father has, so Christian are you. Just as sure as Jesus has accomplished all his Father's will, so his father is well pleased with him So, Christian, your Heavenly Father is and always will be well pleased with you. That we are freed from the slavery of that elementary principle. Because the doing has already been done by the Son of God. Because we are given life. Life as sons. Life as the same as that firstborn son who was given that full and rich inheritance. For you, that means you are given a home. A good home. A real home. A heavenly home. One where you are truly loved and secure One where we are at peace and belong, one not conditioned upon our performance, but granted by right, one where we have no fear of being kicked out. One where we have a good and perfect Father who is well pleased with us In life, we experience here a foretaste of that. The Holy Spirit reminding us and assuring us of that truth. In the next life, we get to experience the culmination of that, a rich inheritance when we too are raised up in bodily form. When we take hold of that inheritance, one that is way better than West Virginia. Maybe West Virginia nearly is heaven to you. Guess what? Jesus owns that too. That's your inheritance too. Go back to the elementary principle. Go back to slavery of do this and live or else. Paul's final cry, that may it never be. May we never go back to that. May we believe and trust Instead in Jesus, and so be adopted as fellow sons and be received in his home, and so rest in his grace. If you want that kind of peace and promise, cry out to your Heavenly Father. Cry out to Him to receive you, not on account of the points you have tallied. And what you have done for him. But on account of what he has promised through his perfect son, Jesus the Christ. Then turn and live as his son. Live loving him. Live in repentance for your sin. Chasing after all that he has called us to, even that rich inheritance. Let's pray