Well, before we take some time to meditate on this passage and think how it applies to us today, let's go before God in prayer and ask His blessing on it, because without Him removing the rebellion and the sin in our hearts, we can never See his truth clearly. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you have spoken, that you have written your word, and you've handed it down through generations to us, this word, even from the book of Deuteronomy. And so we ask you this morning as we Seek to attend to it, as we seek to listen to it and hear it, that you would remove the blindness of our sin that remains. That you would open our hearts, enable us to hear your truth. Hear it when it hurts as well as hear it when it helps and offers us the comfort and good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. May you do that for the sake of your glory and as well as our good in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, why is it that when humans amass near total power, they so often demand religious worship of themselves. From ancient emperors in Rome to modern dictators, the impulse is always the same, isn't it? That they reach a certain level of power and then it's not just enough to obey. They want to be adored. Want to be feared, want to be worshipped, not just as leaders, but as gods themselves. And we We see this and often we cringe at it. Maybe we see Kim Jong-un in North Korea and his demand of religious worship, that every home has a picture of him to which they they pray. We we cringe at that, but the reality is deep down we're not So different, are we? We believe the experience of life that seems to persuade us at every step that we are the center of the universe. Right? I mean I can only look out of these eyes. I can only act out of this body. Everything revolves around me, right? We begin to believe that experience, and we begin to crave the throne that we think that place That role deserves. Now, we most of us don't do it the way despots do. We do it in more polished and polite forms, demanding independence, control. Personal comfort, demanding recognition, looking for likes, retweets But this reality, this idea that if we could if we could amass the right power and wealth, that we we could sit at the top And we could be like gods. That is that is deep within all of us at some level as a desire. And maybe that's why God begins the Ten Commandments Which are the summary of his moral law, what he expects of all his image-bearers, people made in his image. He begins them with the first commandment: you shall have no other gods before me or in my face. That is God confronting our God complex head on. And that's what we see him doing as he through Moses here in Deuteronomy chapter 9. Presses the point of what this first commandment means. I mentioned a moment ago that we've seen, he's unpacking, he spends many chapters reflecting on this This one commandment, this first commandment, and we've seen how it calls us to whole hearted love, whole life love, whole wealth love, and and here he drives the point home further, showing us that to have no other gods before God means Recalling our rememb rebellion, remembering who we are, rebels by nature, sinners by birth, and utterly dependent on His. So as Deuteronomy as you look at this passage and we see how it it utters a death blow to s the self-righteous God complex that We all are bent toward. What we what we see in this passage that I want us to reflect on this morning are three points. The character of our rebellion, the consequence our rebellion deserves, and the correction to our rebellion that only is a very important thing. God can provide. The character of our rebellion, the consequence and the correction of our rebellion. First of all, the character of our rebellion. And I think this is important because let me ask you this: do you think of yourself as rebellious, as a rebel? Say probably not. I don't think most of us do, right? No, we think of ourselves generally as pretty good. Well, I'm not like X, Y, or Z. You know, even death row inmates, even serial killers. I I think I remember uh watching an interview with Jeffrey Dahmer years ago, and I don't remember exactly what he said, but at one point there was just this Judgmental self-righteousness in the serial killer. And yet isn't that so true? We can always find someone else next to us and say, well, at least I'm not like that person. I'm not That bad. And yet all of Scripture tells us a different truth. That the nature and heart of sin is, at its heart, rebellion. against God and his rule. That's why David in Psalm 51, here where this is a psalm that's written upon his being Convicted of sin, his sin with Bathsheba. He sinned against all sorts of people, Bathsheba, uh Uriah, uh Joab, his armies, I mean, his whole kingdom. What does he say in verse 4 of Psalm 51? against you. Oh God, you only ultimately have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. That's what sin is, rebellion. Cosmic treason, as one theologian called it. And so if we're going to recall a rebellion, we need help to see it, because we're so often blind to it ourselves. We need to identify its character and look and see how it is that rebellion often shows up in our lives. And we see that in two ways here, the character of our rebellion in two ways. First of all, rebellion is often evident simply in self-representation. Righteousness, in self-righteousness, somehow thinking that we're better than others. Moses begins here. First of all, he begins this passage reminding Israel, as we always need to be reminded. Of who God is, of who he is, as a consuming fire, as the holy warrior who's going on before them, and who will lead them into victory in the battle. Here, O Israel, verse 1, you are to cross over the Jordan today, Probably not literally that day, right? It's like when you say, oh, back in my day, I did this in X, Y, or Z. It might have been multiple days. We use days in different ways. The idea is they're on the border. That's this is the next step of God's Redemptive Act. Today you're about to cross over, to go in to dispossess the nations greater and mightier than you, cities great and fortified, up to heaven. A little hyperbole, but that's Probably how Israel felt. These are huge cities. How can we overcome these walls? Up to heaven. A people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim. These are giants whom you know and of whom you've heard. It said, the proverb in the land, who can stand before the sons of Anak? Know therefore today that he who goes over before you as a consuming fire is the Lord your God. He will destroy them and subdue them before you. So you shall drive them out and make them perish quickly, as the Lord has promised you. But as soon as he says this, he envisions the time when they'll be in the land, and he quickly warns them Beware of self-righteousness. Righteousness. See, because if they think it's their righteousness in the land that has gotten them there, they will miss the opportunity to have no other gods before the Lord. They'll start to think of themselves As having done what actually God did. And don't we do that so often? Look at verse 4. Do not say in your heart after the Lord your God has thrust them out before you. It is because of my righteousness that the Lord has brought me in to possess this land. Whereas it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord is driving them out before you. Okay, Israel's got the point, right? No. Because he goes on and says, not because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your heart are you going in to possess their land? But because of the wickedness of these nations, the Lord your God is driving them out before you, and that he may confirm the word that the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and to Jacob. Have they gotten it yet? Probably not. Do we get it yet? Probably not. Know therefore, verse 6, that the Lord your God is not giving this good land to you to possess because of your righteousness. for you are a stubborn people. Remember and do not forget how you provoked the Lord your God to wrath in the wilderness from the day you came out of the land of Egypt until you came out came to this place, you have been rebellious against the Lord. Maybe now we've caught that. Repeating it three times. It's sort of like it's sort of like saying, don't be like that kid. Maybe kids you've had this experience where when you're really young. And mom or dad said, let's bake a cake. And you go and they say, okay, here, let me measure the flour. Okay, now you dump it in. Okay, now stir the dough a little bit. Alright, now I'm gonna ice it and then why don't you put some straw And you do it your best job. And then the cake is all done, and the company comes over and you say, Look at the cake that I have baked. That's what he's warning Israel against doing. Why? Because don't we do that all the time? Take credit for what only God deserves credit for. Again, like the Pharisee in Luke chapter 8. eighteen and the publican, we come back to them over and over again. The Pharisee, Lord, I thank you that I'm not like this tax collector here. And then the tax collector. And actually it's interesting. I think in our day actually, maybe the parable will go something like this. The tax collector sat there and said, Lord, I thank you that I'm not a hypocrite. Like this Pharisee. Oh, we all we all can take pride even in our tax collector-ness. But what does he actually say that justifies and have mercy? On me, O Lord, a sinner. One commentator on this passage says this: the conceit of self-righteousness is an attempt of the sinner lusting after autonomy, being self-sufficient. Without God. Lusting after a town of autonomy, the conceit of self-righteousness is an attempt to free oneself from God at that very point where he is in need of God. Most desperately, at the point of the need for forgiveness and cleansing. It's so important for us to remember that the character of self-righteousness. Self-righteousness can look like just overt pride. I thank you that I'm not like this one or this one. Sadly, self-righteousness can also look like self-pity. Saying to yourself, no one appreciates me like they should, because there's something in me That they're not seeing. And that's what rebellion can look like. It doesn't always rage. Sometimes it merely smirks. But either way, it puts itself puts ourselves where only God belongs. This form of rebellion is probably the most insidious because it's too often tolerated in the pews. Sit and we think it must be something in me that makes me come here and worship week after week. Whereas those those people God says, no, no, no, no. No, no. You're much more like them than you know. Second, the second character of our rebellion is seen here in a stubborn defiance. of God's law. This is what we more normally expect of rebellion. But but look at how it happens. This is not just ignorance of God's commands, it's knowledge of his commands, but doing the exact opposite. And we see this in Israel as we read on and Moses recounts and tells them The story of Koreb, that's Mount Sinai. And you've got to picture that moment. This place in the wilderness, this great mountain. Israel standing below it at the feet. God descends with fire and glory on the mountain and he speaks. And that the people hear it. He says, he speaks the Ten Commandments. And the people say, all right. That's enough. That's all we can stand. They begged Moses, Moses, you, you make it stop. You go speak to the Lord. And friends, that is the right response of reasonable creatures in the presence of a holy God. As it says in verse 3, he is a consuming fire. Kids, maybe you've had those moments where you're standing sitting around the campfire, you're s sitting around maybe a fire pit in your backyard, and fire is so fascinating. You can watch it for hours and it's warm. Draws you near, but you see if you look deep into that center of the fire, it is white hot. If you throw a stick in there, it burns up immediately. If you throw metal in there, it'll disintegrate even. That's a little picture of the holiness of Almighty God. They've looked in this fire of God as a consuming fire, they've beheld it come. Down upon the mountain. And what is it that they do right after this encounter? Look at verse 8. Even at Horeb, you provoked the Lord to wrath, and the Lord was so angry with you that he He was ready to destroy you. When I went up on the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant that the Lord made with you, I remained on the mountain forty days and forty nights, and either ape. bread nor drank water and and the Lord gave me the two tablets of stone written with the finger of God. So here it is. He's spoken his law, but just in case they forget, he will write it down. He inscribes it on tablets of stone. In a supernatural act of God, written with the finger of God, and on them were all the words that the Lord had spoken with you on the mountain, out of the midst of the fire, on the day of the assembly, and at the end of forty days and forty nights. The Lord gave me the two tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant. Then the Lord said to me, Arise, go down quickly from here for your people. Whom you have brought out of Egypt, have acted corruptly, they have turned aside quickly out of the way that I commanded them. They have made themselves a metal image. Of God anticipated in his pronouns, your people, Moses. You led them down. I'm no longer taking responsibility for the Israel here in making this golden calf, this is not a momentary lapse of judgment. Instead, this account is a picture of the human heart. Moses makes it so clear in showing that this was not a one-time event. And he recounts in full, and he'll go on and talk about what happened after that at the base of the mountain with the golden calf. But then after he's finished recounting all that, what does he say in verse 22? At Taborah also. That's Numbers 11 when Israel rebelled. And complained against the Lord and demanded meat. And at Nassa, Exodus 17, when they rebelled against the Lord and banded water in the wilderness. And at Kibrath Hateva, that's the other another name, another place in Numbers eleven where they were provoking the Lord. And and when the Lord sent you from Caesarneus, saying, Go up and take possession of the land that I have given you. That's in Numbers thirteen and fourteen. Tells him to send up the spies, and he says, All right, it's time to go. Then you rebelled against the commandment of the Lord your God and did not believe in him or obey his voice. You have been rebellious against the Lord from the day that I knew you. What's the point? The point is this: this is who we are by nature. Not mere mistakers. Not mere slight wanderers from the way. But as we show in our self-righteous pride or self-pity, and as we show in our stubborn refusal to submit to God's rule, we are Rebels without a cause. I know often we think of rebellion as looking like murder. Robbery. Atheism. But it also looks like knowing what God says and simply ignoring it. We know scripture calls us to purity, but we brush off our compromise as pretty normal. Christ calls us to forgiveness, but we nurse our grudges like their pets. We hear God's warnings about idolatry, right? And not having any other gods before Him. And yet we still find ourselves centering our life on things like personal comfort, attention, family, reputation. Friends, these aren't neutral behaviors, these are rebellion, and having no other gods before God means facing the character of that rebellion, recalling our rebellion as we face its character. We're called not to excuse it, not to manage it, but to face it and be undone by it. Because only when the law breaks our pride can the grace of God. Come in and heal our soul. That's the character of rebellion, self-righteous pride, stubborn defiance. But rebellion isn't just a posture, it has a price. And with that, we move to our second point, the consequence of rebellion. We don't spit in the face of Almighty Holy God and walk away unscathed. There are consequences. God doesn't suffer fools lightly, and he's self-respecting human king. Brings consequences when His servants act this arrogantly, act this rebelliously, because we recognize the the horrific affront this behavior is, especially when the king is good and just and right. And so what are the consequences that we see recounted here? The first consequence is: the first consequence of our rebellion is that it defines us as an enemy. Enemy of God. It defines us as an enemy of God. And we see this in verses four to five, where God's point throughout, right? He says, it's not your righteousness. That is making me let you defeat or have you defeat the Canaanites, but their wickedness, but there's an implication in this, isn't there? Well, what about Israel? Who are they like? Well, God uses terms throughout the rest of this passage to say that they are Much like the Canaanites themselves. They're stubborn, they're rebellious, and then in verse 27 he even says, It's their wickedness and their sin that Moses has to plead with God to forgive. They're wicked like the Canaanites. And the point is that as they rebel against God, they just put themselves on the sides of God's enemies, deserving the same consequence. That he is bringing on them, which is judgment. And that's the second sort of sub-point under this the consequences of our rebellion. Not only This is the first consequence that we are defined as enemies of God, but it means that because of that we deserve God's wrath. And we see this in Moses' recounting of the Lord's response to the golden calf in verses 13. 18. Furthermore, the Lord said to me, I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stubborn people. Let me alone that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven. You know, the Canaanites were going to be erased and wiped off the land, but we remember their name. This is a judgment. The Canaanites didn't And I will make of you, Moses, a nation mightier and greater than they. So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire, the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands. And I looked, and behold, you had sinned against the Lord your God. You had made yourselves a calf, a golden calf, you had turned aside quickly from the way that the Lord had commanded you. So I took hold of the two tablets and I threw them out of my two hands. And broke them before your eyes. This picture of you have broken the covenant that is written and inscribed in the stone, so I'm going to break the very covenant document itself. Then I lay prostrate before the Lord, as before, forty days and forty nights, I neither ate bread nor drank water, because of all the sin that you had committed in doing what was evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger. And if that wasn't bad enough, Moses says something that I find truly terrifying. Verse 19: For I, Moses, was afraid of the anger and the hot displeasure that the Lord bore against you, so that he was afraid. Was ready to destroy you. This is Moses, who in all of God's people looked at the mountain and they said, All right, we don't want to get any nearer. Moses, you go up And it says the mountain was covered with this consuming fire, and Moses walks right in to meet face to face with God. That man of God, fearless so often, yet here says, I was terrified of the anger and the hot displeasure of God. God, if Moses trembled at the judgment and wrath that we deserve as a consequence for our rebellion. What about us? Friends, this is not an old testament exaggeration. The holy wrath that is described here by Moses is the same thing that Jesus describes of hell. A place where the fire is not quenched and And the worm does not die. That's the consequence of our rebellion, that it deserves us, it it makes us designated as enemies of God and deserving of his wrath and judgment. I guess the question for us, do we feel The weight of that we often Instead, say to ourselves, or maybe say out loud to others, but it's it's a little sin. I think of it as a personal preference. Surely God has bigger fish to fry than my little mishap over here. And friends, when we do that, it simply means That we haven't grasped the glory God deserves, that we haven't properly understood and confronted His holiness, that we take Him too lightly. See, friends, God is not safe. God is not manageable. As Moses says here, he is a consuming fire. And the whole universe is made to reflect his glory. Every breath, every second of our life is meant for us to sing holy, holy, holy. Is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory, and we are to be part of that glory of God as we glorify his name and we think he won't respond. When we spiritually instead spit on his face. Friends, God has nothing better to do than jealously guard his own And this is not some egomaniac activity of God, because God jealously guarding his glory means the Father. Jealously guards the glory of the Son and the Spirit. The Son jealously guards the glory of his Father and of the Spirit That he has sent. The Spirit jealously guards the glory of Almighty God, the Father and the Son. When rightly understood, how dare we not quake in terror at the consequences of our rebellion? So having no other gods before God starts right here with recognizing or recalling to ourselves the rebellion. Its character and its consequences. Humbling ourselves before the Almighty Holiness of God To know God, to know it this looks like knowing that God is God and I am not, and I'm not just not God, I'm I'm worse by nature. I'm a rebellious sinner who deserves his Wrath, but that is not the end of the story. And that leads us to the third and final point. We've seen the character of rebellion, we've seen the consequences of our rebellion. What about the correction of our rebellion? Seeing our pride, our defiance, our the wrath that we deserve, it should raise in us a desperation, the desperate Question, how can there be any hope for a rebel like me? That is the question we all ought to face each day of our lives. And yet, friends, we all ought also to always hear there is an answer. And the answer is: there is hope. But it won't come from within. It has to come from outside us, from a mediator who can stand between us as sinners and a holy God. And that's what we see first in Moses, who is presented here as an empathetic mediator, a compassionate mediator. That's the first correction to our rebellion, having an empathetic compassionate mediator. Moses doesn't minimize Israel's sin. In fact, he magnifies it. And then he stands in the breach. 40 days Days and forty nights fasting, praying, pleading for God to spare Israel. Read about that Then I lay prostrate before the Lord as before, forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water because of all the sin that you had committed. I'm not downplaying it. I'm Facing it honestly, magnifying it, in doing what was evil in the sight of the Lord to provide provoke him to anger. For I was afraid of the anger and the hot displeasure that the Lord bore against you, so that he was ready to destroy you. But the Lord listened to me that time also. Moses, the empathetic mediator. Prayed. And the Lord listened. And Moses, I mean, Israel is in such a terrible position here because not only do they have a problem with God, Their high priest, their great high priest, has a problem with God. Because Aaron is the one who made the calf for them, even though he said, Well, I threw some gold in the fire and outtopped this calf. And the Lord was so angry with Aaron that he was ready to destroy him. And I prayed for Aaron also at death. And then Moses, as this empathetic, compassionate meteor, what does he do? He intercedes, he prays. And then he deals with their sin. That's what we see in verse twenty one. Then I took the sinful thing, the calf that you had made, and I burned it with fire and crushed it, grinding it very small until it was d as fine as dust, and I threw the dust of it. Into the brook that ran down from the mountain. Moses' empathy and compassion as mediator is so clear. It's so clear, especially not just in what he does, but in the opportunity he foregoes. You know, he's been offered. Right in verse 14, the Lord says, you know what, Moses, I'm so angry with my rebellious people that how about we just try something new? How about you be king? You be the new Abraham, and I'll make a great nation out of you. How many of us wouldn't jump at such an opportunity? And yet what does Moses say? He doesn't say stand up and accept the crown, he bows down and lays prostrate. I love how Psalm one oh six describes his his his mediatorial work. Therefore the Lord said he would destroy them, Israel, and Had not Moses, his chosen one, stood in the breach before him to turn away his wrath from destroying them. Friends, that is a picture of God's Grace. That's redemption. That's mercy. That is having an empathetic mediator to stand in the way. And to turn away the judgment that we deserve. And the mediator does this. Here in this passage, we see not only is the correction to our rebellion an empathetic mediator, it is an effective intercession. Moses doesn't just pray and plead. He knows how to intercede. Look at what he does in verses 26 and following. And I prayed. To the Lord, O Lord God, do not destroy. And here it is. He reminds God of what God had said before: your people and your heritage, whom you have redeemed through your greatness. Whom you have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand. Lord know, remember the identity of this people as they are yours. And then remember your promises. Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Do not regard the stubbornness of this people or their wickedness or their sin. Lest the land from which you brought us say, because the Lord was not able to bring them into the land that He promised them, and because He hated them, He has brought them out to put them to death in the wilderness. Lord, guard your name before the nations, for they are your people and your heritage, whom you brought out by your great power. by your outstretched arm. Notice that Moses' appeal here is not based on the people's worth, but on God's glory, on God's name, God's promises. Showing that him extending mercy to his people would ultimately serve his ultimate end, which is glorifying himself. Father, Son, and Spirit. And this intercession is effective, and Israel goes on to live, not because they deserve it, but because of this intercession of their empathetic mediator. But at this point we need to stop and say, all right, so we have Moses, this empathetic mediator. Thank God for Moses in the life of Israel, right here, in his intercession. I mean, that's really in many ways the focus of this whole passage over and over again. Moses, I fast. And prayed for forty days and forty nights for you, for you. Is he our mediator? Well, no. The end of Deuteronomy, Moses dies. So who is ours? And of course, you know the answer. We have a more excellent Moses. Who stands in the gap for us? Like Israel, friends, we have the same problem they did. We're rebels, we've broken covenant, we deserve the fire of God's wrath, we share their problem, but we have a far better solution. And that solution comes to us in the person of Jesus Christ. 1 Timothy 2:5 says we have a better mediator. There is one God, and there is one mediator between God and man, the man Jesus Christ. Jesus is the greater Moses for us as his people. Jesus doesn't just beg for mercy. He bears the wrath of God himself. completely. He didn't just destroy our idols. He basically took their place and was crushed for our iniquity, as Isaiah 15 He didn't just climb the mountain like Moses, he carried his cross up it. To be crucified, hung upon it, and when he at last was hanging there naked, beaten, bloody on the cross, and he cried out, It is finished, that was not wishful thinking. But it was a shout, a declaration of redemption accomplished once for all. That's why he is a more excellent Moses, a more excellent mediator, Jesus Christ, the Righteous one. Where we are faithless in our rebellion and sin, he was faithful to the end. Not self-righteous, but self-sacrifice. Not defiantly disobedient, but submissive even to the very laws which he as God the Son had written. He was a perfect covenant keeper, and yet he endured the covenant curse that we deserve. He was numbered among the transgressors, Isaiah 53 says. So that we could be a number among the true beloved children of God. Because of Jesus, how do we have no other gods before the Lord? Well, by recalling our rebellion, yes. But not just staying there, recalling our rebellion so that we can look beyond it to our Redeemer. Jesus Christ. Not just acknowledging our sinfulness, but basking in the wonder of his grace and mercy, not to leave us in our sin as he could have, but to enter into the sin-cursed world and to save us. Save us from it by fulfilling God's law, going to the cross and rising on the third day from the dead, accomplishing our salvation by his very own body and blood. This is our Creator King. This is our great mediator. This is the one who ultimately can correct the rebellion that is so deep in our hearts. May we look to Jesus as the greater Moses, as the one who fulfills all righteousness for us, crediting his record to us that we might. be reconciled to God as his beloved children and as saints, holy ones, in Jesus' name. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these reminders of your word. They're hard. We don't like thinking of ourselves as rebels against you. And yet we confess that as Israel here we need to recall who we truly are, left to ourselves before. But not so that we can stay there, but so that we can look beyond that, who we are in Christ, through repentance and through faith in Christ. Him. Guard our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus this day. Through this good word, the good news of the gospel. May it breathe life into our lives. May it enable us to not only be honest about our sin, but also to turn from it. That's what repentance is, to turn from it and turn to new life in Jesus Christ. Christ, as we walk by faith, in his name we pray