Let's look to the Lord in prayer once more. Let's pray together. Gracious God, our Father, through the Lord Jesus, we come to you because of the power of your spirit sent out to enable us to cry, Father. We pray that as we consider this subject tonight, you would help us, help me, all of us, to Seek to grasp the incredible greatness that you are, and what this subject reveals of that greatness, mercy. And continued and magnificent love for your people and for the world that reels in darkness in so many places. We are thankful for your glory and your people that are here laboring to advance your great kingdom. So advance it in our hearts tonight, so that the words of my mouth, meditations of all our hearts, may be acceptable in your sight, the Lord our Rock and our Redeemer. Amen. Um when asked to preach two one off sermons and Enjoying preaching series, you don't do that when you're thickly separated by uh a week. But Pastor Fix asked me to preach tonight and on the 24th. And so I chose the subject of the ascension for tonight, and in the passage we're going to read, as was Suggested by some number of the passages that Chris quoted this morning will also get the theme of the coming sermon, God willing. So if you'd like to follow along, turn in your Bibles to Acts 1, first chapter of the book of Acts. And I'll be reading the first eleven verses here of this account by Luke of Jesus' ascension. Acts chapter 1, verses 1 to 11. In the first book, O Theophilus, I've dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach. Until the day when he was taken up after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen. He presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God. And while staying with them, he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father Which he said, You heard from me, for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. So, when they had come together, they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. But you will receive power When the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. And when he had said these things as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes and said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who is taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. So far, the reading of God's Word, and He will bless it. So you can see that both themes that I've suggested are here. This one principally dealing with the historic reality of the ascension of Christ, our Lord, into heaven, and the other theme of the return of Christ is also mentioned because the comfort that was given to them by these two men in white was that Christ is coming back. And as we will see, God willing, in two weeks, it's the goal that should be the place where all our hope rests. Peter says so. And so we'll postpone that. I don't want to get started on that. Let's be preemptive here. What I want to do first is I want us to give you a Overview of this subject of redemption. If I were to ask you, write down on a piece of paper, beginning from wherever you want to start, what are the redemptive events? That is, what are those things necessary as Scripture reveals them for us to be redeemed? And of course, just to be clear, redemption means Buying back. So it means that those that are redeemed are sold. In fact, the scripture is very clear, they're slaves. And the only reason there's a need for redemption is because Adam, who didn't need to be redeemed until he fell was perfectly fine, made in God's image with all the things he needed to obey and to walk in the ways of the Lord. But once fallen He really deserved nothing more than what the angels who fell received. And there is no salvation for fallen angels, which is worth contemplating. God didn't provide it. By his incredible grace and mercy, he determined to provide a redemption for people like us made in his image. So where does it start? Well, it starts in a Garden of Eden, the promise, of course, made to Adam and Eve that There would be a redeemer who would crush the head of the serpent, although his heel would be crushed. As we proceed through the biblical record, we come to the wickedness of the earth Where people are spread abroad, and so is their wickedness, and they're destroyed by a universal flood. And both before that flood and afterwards the assessment of the Scripture is that man's heart was only evil continually and Genesis 8. 21 adds, from his youth. It starts early. And so there was no change in the nature of people in their need of redemption. Then we get the Tower of Babel where people were not going to do what God said and spread throughout the earth, but congregate and get into cities, and what a mess are cities that are filled with unbelievers. Except by God's restraining grace it would be even worse. So he scatters them by changing their languages, and we know the story well. And They scatter, and then we hear of this man Abraham. Abram, when we first meet him, who's a idol worshiper, his parents were, and he's called to leave, and he does. And he has two sons, and one of them is chosen to be in the line of this promised seed that God had mentioned to Adam and Eve and promised. And then that son. Uh i if Isaac has two s sons, Jacob and Esau, and E Jacob is the chosen one to continue that line towards the promise, Redeemer. And Jacob has twelve sons, and Judah is the one, we find out later, is the one that's going to be the vehicle through whom this promised Redeemer comes. And then we have all the shadows of the promise in the Exodus from Egypt. Great event, which is the greater redemptive event of the Old Testament, physically from Egypt, but Egypt wasn't brought out of the hearts of the people, as we read, unfortunately. And then there were the Provisions for the tabernacle, for worship, for the temple. All of that was shadows of this coming person. And along with them were prophets, priests, kings, judges. And the best of them, what happened to them? They died. And none of them was raised again. So, where is this coming Redeemer, the waiting? Then when the kingdom was set up and a further promise was made to David about a redeemer, um At the end of the kingship, which was established by the people rejecting God They were sent into exile because of their wickedness. So the king couldn't keep them walking in a way of faith and waiting for this redeemer. God brought them back from exile and then gave them a period of 400 plus years of silence. No profit. If you read the book of Maccabees, it points at times to the fact that there was no voice, there was no prophet, until John, the son of Zechariah and Elizabeth. And John is the promised one that is going to bring and inaugurate the Redeemer that was promised and had been foreshadowed. We might comment, though, in passing, of two people in the Old Testament that give us sort of a hint of our subject tonight, the ascension of Christ. You remember Enoch. And Enoch walked with God, and Genesis simply says, he was not, for God took him. And Hebrew's understanding of that text is Enoch pleased God. He had the record before he was taken of having pleased God. And then after that, we read this verse in Hebrews 11. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. He who comes to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those. Who diligently seek him. Certainly that was true of Enoch, and it's right in the context of coming right after Enoch. You remember the other person who did not suffer death in the Old Testament. Ijah, one of the greatest stories in the Old Testament. 2 Kings 2, one of my favorites. And the thing that's striking about that incident, where you remember that His servant Elisha, who had worked with him all those years, was constantly discouraged by Elijah from following him. But Elisha was stuck to Elijah like, you know, glued. Yeah, I'm not going to leave you. Even when he got to the stop before they crossed the Jordan River where the end of Elijah's life was going to occur on earth, The prophet said, Don't you realize your master's going to be taken from you today? And he said, Don't mention it. I don't want to hear that. But when he they crossed the ri the Jordan Elijah's last miracle, he strikes the river with his cloak and it parts. Something that hadn't happened since crossing of the Jordan into Canaan. Glorious. Beginning, triumphal entry for Elijah, faithful prophet, in the midst of darkness and unbelief. What does Elisha ask? I have a request of you. I want a double portion of your spirit. And what a harbinger that is of the ascension. And Elijah said, that's tough. But if you see me when I go, and of course Elijah stuck with him. He wasn't about to go anywhere after all this. You may have it. And he did see him. And his cloak fell to the ground as Elijah was taken up by the horses and chariots of Israel. And Elisha, as you may know, performed twice as many miracles as Elijah did. The Lord gave him a double portion of his spirit. But it was nothing like what was coming through the real Redeemer. It's a picture. It's wonderful to see these pictures that prepare us for what's coming. So, when we get to not just the promise of the Redeemer, but now we get to the actual Redeemer and his accomplishment of redemption. We have, of course, the incarnation. Because the Redeemer has to be a man, he also has to be God, so that he can bear as a man the eternal punishment that sin deserves, because Sin is against an eternal being. It deserves an eternal punishment. But he must be man to represent those he's redeeming. So he's incarnate by the Holy Spirit. It is God with us. And John calls him the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And he did that not only by dying, but by living a perfect life. And as man, and this is important for us. The righteousness we receive from Christ when we put our trust in Him is not divine righteousness. It's human righteousness. We can't divine righteousness would destroy us. Human righteousness is what we need. And by imputation, the perfect life of Christ and all his obedience. is what qualified him, therefore, to have a righteousness that we can have by faith, as he takes our sins when we put our trust in him. That double imputation of God imputes our sins to him and his righteousness as man to us. It's glorious. That's why he has to be our representative. And that's what he did. And then there was the cursed, vile, bloody death. Jesus died to pay for the sins of all those whom the Father gave him. That actually accomplished redemption. It saved all those people for whom he died and whom the Father had given him to redeem. And he tells us that in his high priestly prayer in John 17. Well, this morning we heard about Jesus' resurrection, the beginning of his glory, his glorification. And Jesus' resurrection justified him and his work. Now it didn't mean that he was sinful and needed to be given a righteousness. That's why in 1 Timothy 3. 16, if you want another verse to memorize, it's 3. 16, not just John, this is a good one. And here it is. It's sort of a hymn, or it's a wonderful summary of great facts of redemption. Great indeed, we confess, Paul writes, is the mystery of godliness. 1 Timothy 3. 16. He, Christ, was manifested in the flesh, vindicated in the spirit. seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, and what's last, taken up into glory. So the two aspects of the glorification of Christ as seen on earth is his resurrection and his ascension. Now after the ascension, I mean after the resurrection, excuse me, the Lord Jesus spent, as Luke tells us in Acts 1, 40 days. With his disciples. And what was he doing? What did that text say? He was speaking to them about the things of the kingdom. And no doubt he was explaining to him a lot of the things that he couldn't have explained before. He was raised from the dead, and by my view of what happened in John 20 when he breathed on the disciples. To enable them to understand this, let's say, upper level course uh instruction that he gave them after the uh resurrection for 40 days. It was intense. And they needed it. And they needed of of course the patience to um to learn and and did. So He told them, though, as you noticed in that text, don't go out of Jerusalem until you receive the promise from the Father. Let me state the thesis this evening of why the ascension is important. It is just as important as all the other events that I've talked about. Why? Because if Jesus doesn't ascend and he isn't received in heaven with the acclamation that Psalm 47 that we read spoke of And Psalm 29 also refers to, I think, when it says, Lift up your heads, O ye gates. Be lifted up, you everlasting doors. And the who? The King of Glory will come in. Who is the King of Glory? The Lord strong and mighty. He is the King of glory. And that's none other than our Lord Jesus Christ, in my opinion. Another reference. a a prophecy for the ascension of Christ. And so uh this this this um Ascension is utterly essential, just as much as the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, and the coming of Christ. If he doesn't come again, what is all this? If Christ isn't risen, that means he's not coming, Paul says you're in worse shape than anybody else. You believe foolishness. But he is coming. He has been raised. He did ascend. And it's glorious. So he didn't want the disciples going out until he had ascended and was able to pour out this magnificence. of the Holy Spirit who had always been in the world from creation, hovering over the watery dark mass of Genesis 1. 2, in order to effect what the word commanded, let there be light, and there was light. So, the apostles would have been in no way ready to face the opposition And to go powerless without the Spirit and trying to even, with the best of intentions and hope, to represent their Lord, without the Spirit it would have been vain. And if any of you have seriously done street evangelism, or you've been involved in specifically going out to talk to people about the gospel or yourself. As you as you meet people praying, Lord, give me words to say, and you start talking, you're talking about the most wonderful thing that could possibly be mentioned to somebody. They're a Christian, they'd say, amen. This morning coming down the elevator, there was a lady on the elevator. I'd never seen her before. We're in the sixth-floor or twelve-story building. And I noticed in her bag there was a Bible as she was getting off. I said, Oh, you have a Bible? She said, Oh yeah, I'm going to church. Wonderful. Blessings are you. I have no idea what church. I assume i it was one of those Bibles with indexed uh books, so I figured she's concerned about where the books are. And that's good. That's better than just I have a Bible and it sits on the counter and I've got a vase on it. Um looks like it's been used But but no, they they needed this power, they needed this presence of Christ with them by his spirit. So the ascension of Christ Was his return to the Father for heavenly acceptance, and to claim the Father's promise to him of the Holy Spirit to be sent out in this entirely new degree. in order to apply his own work, Christ's own work, to each of his elect persons. And thereby ensure that myriads from every nation, tongue, and tribe and people would spend eternity with their Savior and Lord. You see how imperative it was that he has sinned. Here's Peter in his sermon, and this is a tremendously important text. Acts 2, verse 33. He says, Joel's prophecy of the coming of the Spirit was fulfilled as well as our Lord's own works. Acts these are my words before we get to Peter, excuse me. So that Joel's prophecy that he's quoted about the coming of the Spirit was fulfilled as well as our Lord's own work works words to his disciples when he said Peter, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing. And hearing. Christ earned the Spirit in the degree that He poured it out, with the Father pouring it out as well by His obedience. That's what Peter is saying here. That's what's so striking. So not only was Christ's obedience earning our righteousness A human perfect righteousness, indefectible. But he was earning this gift of the Holy Spirit to be able to go and These men be able to go and every Christian be able to go into the world and represent him properly. You see, we're saved by works. Christ's works, including his obedience, and including this reward of his works, the blessed Holy Spirit of God the Father and God the Son. It's striking. We should think on these things. This is extraordinary. Chris this morning quoted Jonathan Edwards, a good fellow congregationalist. pastor from many, many years ago, to say that Jesus' resurrection was the most joyful event that ever happened Well, you know, that may be true on earth, but what about in heaven when he ascended? You think it was joyful? Were they glad to see him? Now remember this. This is extraordinary. There's so many extraordinary things, and if I say that word too often, then it won't be extraordinary. Jesus as Jesus was never in heaven before this. But the Son of God was eternally with his Father and the Spirit. Together, wherever that was. Because we confess, and I think it's absolutely biblically true, that God is a spirit infinite eternal and unchangeable. That means God the Son as well. But what we're going to see in a few moments, that's very important for us, To get inside the head of our Lord Jesus as he spoke to his disciples about himself, his relation to the Father, and his desires about the Father. Is that though he was never in heaven as man, as man on earth, he expressed this great desire to be back with his father? It's almost as if the divine nature of Christ, in the human nature of Christ. Was expressing itself to say, I'm not where I really belong, and neither are you, my beloved brothers and sisters We're going to see that actually by an incredible verse, and they're more than one verse, We are actually there with him now. Get to that in a moment. But Jesus had this longing to be back with his Father So, what I'm pointing out is the resurrection was massive joy for the disciples. And Edwards is probably right about that on the earth. But when Jesus went back to heaven, oh, everything broke loose, not hell. Hell's never going to break loose. All heaven broke loose. Think about what Jesus said about one sinner who repents and what happens in heaven. If that's true about one sinner who repents, what's it true about the one who earned? The redemption of all sinners when he comes home and in our nature is standing there to the acclamation of whether visible or invisible angels And the spirits of just men made perfect, and women and children, as Hebrews describes it, I'm telling you, it would have been phenomenal. And it probably still is. It's ongoing. We know that they're singing holy, holy, holy. They're singing all kinds of other things too that are appropriate to the glory of Christ. But when he ascended, oh what glory. Here's what Jesus said about the necessity of the Spirit, though, and this is important for us. He said, whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, this is John 7, and you remember this was a time of a feast, and Jesus was talking about the water of life. And so he says this in the great day of the feast, the last day of the feast. He stands and says this in the temple whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his innermost being will flow rivers of living water. Flow out of his innermost being rivers. How do they get in there? Well, he then John explains. That's the end of the quote. Now, this he said about the Spirit. Whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not yet been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. In fact, the text in the original says the spirit was not yet, didn't exist. Now, of course, that doesn't mean that the Holy Spirit didn't exist. What it means is, in the sense that our Lord was talking about it, and that John means is that the Spirit hadn't been poured out in this degree, in this manner, ever before, and it hadn't happened yet, but it was going to happen. And so this necessity of appearing before his Father and receiving the benefit of the Spirit for the Church and for His people. Was yet a future thing that he himself promised, not just Joel. So from both Old Testament promise and New Testament pronouncement, Jesus' ascension His heavenly exoneration and glorification were essential for the outpouring of the Spirit. Do you see now why the ascension is as essential as everything else? Why don't we hear more about it? Um Kim was telling me this morning that R. C. Sprohl wanted to name the Presbytery out in the Pittsburgh area, the Ascension Presbytery, because of the neglect of preaching on the Ascension. I mean we emphasize the the Christmas, but that's just getting started. I mean it's important without any question. And we emphasize Holy Week and the events of that, which are vital. But ascension and Pentecost are just as important. We wouldn't be here, folks. The reason you have believed is Jesus ascended And he sent on his spirit, and that spirit taught you what you were really like and how dreadful your condition was. Whether you realized how bad it was at the time, but as you've lived longer, you've certainly learned more about it. As you reflect like Paul did on his past in 1 Timothy when he said, Um, I was a blasphemer, but I found mercy because I acted out of ignorance. But even then, thinking about what he no longer did. Because he persecuted the church. He said, Christ died for sinners. This is the really bottom-line truth and glorious truth of whom I am. In chief. Why? Because he could never forget what he had done in the past. Paul wasn't still persecuting Christians. He loved them. He was doing everything in his power to increase their number. But that memory, I certainly have memory of sins that when I think about them, it's unthinkable. In fact, it should be for us almost axiomatic that when we sin, we're basically asking Jesus to step aside Let us go do something that the world's doing, as Satan's provoking us to do, that our indwelling sin is advising. And asking him, can I have permission to do this? We don't do that, do we? But how careful should we be in our words, in our thoughts? That's why David cries out at Psalm 139, Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. Help me to think, in other words, Lord, about sin the way you do. And all I have to do is really ponder the Lord Jesus Christ and his person and work. And that's the antidote. John Owen wrote that the greatest incentive to not sin is to view the love of Christ pouring down the face of our Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. The love of Christ. How can we sin against such a love? Well, let me point us to the way Jesus was thinking about returning. Because I think this is important for us because it'll help us in our in our thinking about his coming back and of what he's given us. And so that we have, dear Saints, and hear me carefully. a holy discontent with the best things that we have in this life and enjoy Don't set your affection on things below, but on things above. Paul didn't say don't enjoy them. He didn't say, don't be thankful for them. He didn't say, don't use them in the manner that the Lord's given them to you to be able to use. He just says, don't set your affections on them. Because they belong to Christ. His are on us. And if his is on us, how can ours not be back? How can we not reciprocate? So, to grasp Jesus' desire to go back, we need to realize this intimate relationship, which we know about theoretically, but we perhaps don't think about too often, of Jesus with his Father. The Lord Jesus said, I live because of the Father. He bears witness to me. I was sent from him and I speak his words. I do his deeds. I follow his will. I only follow his will. I always do what is pleasing to him. And the Lord Jesus will raise up all the Father has given him at the last day. No one can come to Jesus unless the Father grants it, etc. His whole life was bound up on earth. With the Father's will, either expressed in the Old Testament or day by day, directing him about what he did, what he said Everything our Lord did, either fulfilled Old Testament promise, prophecies, and types, or was in direct obedience to what he commanded him. And so we should not forget that the incarnate Son, our Lord Jesus, while living in this fallen and cursed world, was never properly understood by even his closest friends. This is why we read of him so often withdrawing to pray to the one who did know and understand him, and of course loved him in a way that we can't express, an ineffable love, the Father's love for him. And we have an explicit example of that, for example, in the high priestly prayer of our Lord in John 17. So naturally, on the earth, he was out of his element. As he frequently stated, listen to some of these verses and just reflect on this subject of being out of your element. Luke 12. I have come to cast fire on the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled. I have a baptism to undergo, and how distressed I am till it is accomplished. Urgency. To complete this work, but he couldn't go any faster than the father permitted him. He had to go through the whole three years of labor. Remember, he said, How long am I with you? A couple of times. And after coming down from Mount Transfiguration in Matthew 17, this glorious moment where Luke tells us he was sitting there. With Moses and Elijah glorified, and they're talking about the exodus Jesus was going to accomplish at Jerusalem, which was his death. And they come down from the mountain and what's happened? Well, there's a father who's got a lad who's got some demon possession. And he took them to the disciples, and they couldn't cast him out. And so he says, Oh faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Jesus had a holy weariness with unbelief and weak faith, although he persevered as we know with his dear saints. But listen to these verses from John 16 from the upper room discourse, which Chris referred to a number of times today. But now I'm going to him who sent me, yet none of you ask me, where are you going? But because I've said these things to you, sorrow has filled your hearts. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it's to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the counselor The comforter, the advocate, that wonderful word, parakletas, will not come to you, but if I go, I will send him to you. John 16 again, I came from the Father and have come into the world. Again, I'm leaving the world and going to the Father. In his high priestly prayer, and now I am no more in the world, he says to his father, but they are in the world, and I'm coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are one. And a verse that Chris quoted this morning of Mary's Magdalene, so close to him, at his feet, no doubt. And so he says, Do not hold me, for I've not yet ascended to the Father. You can't keep me here. I must ascend to the Father. And who's that? That's to my Father and your Father. To my God and your God. magnificence of the inclusivity of those words to engage them. Well, I I I'd like to bring this to an end by just reminding you of something that well you may know, you may not know. Occasionally, we have confessions from the Heidelberg Catechism. The beauty of the Heidelberg Catechism is not just that it's 80 years older than the Westminster documents. But it's personal. What is my comfort in life and in death? And when it comes to the ascension, it says this: What benefit do we receive from Christ's ascension into heaven? And here's the three bullets. First, that he is our advocate in the presence of his Father in heaven. Just being there, he's our advocate, and of every other believer on the face of the earth So much of the letter to the Hebrews is taken up with Christ's priestly work for us in heaven. You want to follow up on this? That's the book to go to. He represents all believers and the guarantee of our continuance and ultimate salvation. Secondly, the Heidelberg says, we have our flesh in heaven as a sure pledge that he, the head, will also take us his members up to himself. And that coming to take us to himself, stay tuned in two weeks and we'll look at it. What's your appetite? And third, that he sends us his Spirit as a counterpledge by whose power we seek things that are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of the Father, and not things that are on the earth. So again, this utter necessity and the immeasurable benefit of the gift of the Holy Spirit as a result of Christ's ascension. And all the fruit that he prepares in our hearts and working his will at us. Seated at the right hand of the Father. Before we think of a couple more ways of application, this passage from Galate uh from Ephesians 4 just struck me, having to do with the ascension. Just listen to these words. Grace was given to each one of us, Paul says, to the believers at Ephesus, but to us as well who believe. Grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore, he says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean but that he also descended into the lower regions of the earth? He that descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry. Watch how Paul builds this. For the building up of the body of Christ, of which we are a part, until we all attain to the unity of the faith. and of the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the ways and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning and craftiness and deceitful schemes. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ. Now watch this last verse. From whom? From Christ, the whole body joined and held together by every joint With which it is equipped when each part is working properly. The whole body makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. You're saying this verse is telling us that we grow one another. We are to minister to one another by listening, by responding. By weeping with those that weep, by rejoicing with those that rejoice, by doing everything we can to encourage and advance this great grace that the Lord has given us. And what is our position? To be able to do that? Well, Ephesians 2 verse 6 tells us what it is. It's just incredible. God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved, and here it is. and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. You're not on earth, folks. You're Christian. Oh yeah, your body's here. You've got to deal with this life for a few more days, a few more weeks, years. You are seated with Christ. And that's again a deterrent for anything that we would think of doing against Him or Not following him in the full measure that he gives us grace to be able to do. And this fullness of the Spirit is really the fulfillment of Moses' prayer One last reference to the Old Testament. You remember when the Israelites were complaining so much? And Moses said, How can I bear all these people? I can't handle all these people. He says, well, I'll take some of the spirit that's on you and I'll put it on other people over here. Well, he did that, but there were a couple people, El Dad and Me Dad, it's hard to forget their names. They were not they were they were back in the camp somewhere. And somebody comes running out to say, uh Moses, there's two guys out here in the woods that are or wherever they were. They're prophesying And Joshua is defending Moses, he thinks. Tell them to stop. What does Moses say? Here's what he says. Are you jealous for my sake? Would that all the Lord's people were prophets? That the Lord would put his spirit on them. Moses, your prayer has been answered. That's the case. It's magnificent, folks. So, how should this affect us? Well, empowered by God's Spirit, seated with Christ in the heavenlies. We're to be thinking of our life here as strangers and exiles. That's the command in the New Testament. It's in the hymn. This world's not my home. I'm just passing through. Heaven's not my home, and Lord, what will I do? The angels beckon me from on high. Oh Lord, I'm not at home until I get there. Peter says to those who are elect exiles, in the first verse of his first letter. Beloved, I encourage you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh. This isn't your home. You're there already, spiritually. Think of it. 22nd verse of verse of chapter 3 of 1 Peter. Jesus Christ has gone into heaven, is at the right hand of God with angels, authorities, and powers being subject to him. And in Philippians, Paul says, our citizenship is in heaven. From it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's our theme in two weeks. So, how do we maintain this perspective as seated at the right hand of the Father with Jesus, who is there? Well, I think we listen constantly to his voice as he speaks to us through the whole counsel of God as we read and meditate, memorize and pray back to him his word with thanksgiving. For his communing with us. That's possible, folks, anytime, any place. I know we're busy, you're working, you're studying, we have responsibilities But even then we can, I'm constantly in the presence of God as I'm there with Christ at God's right hand. And so, therefore, we want to seek to keep ourselves in the conscious presence of God. And pray and labor as we do for the advancement of this glorious truth for other people. Ask the Lord to give you a real heart for the lost, and particularly individuals that you know who are. I'm sure many of you are praying for people that you know family members, as was mentioned this morning, ki uh children, parents, friends. It's we want others to have this great benefit and to join us in our position where we're sitting. Let's ask the Lord's blessing. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for the ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ. for the example that he is to us of that yearning to be with you. Because he knew perfectly, infinitely as God, what it means to be in the favorable presence of God where there is no sin. There is no possibility of sin. There is no possibility of sadness, of death, of sorrow, of anything else that this life is so filled with. So we cry out to you that the reality of this will sink into us. We'll reflect on it. Be thankful for it. To the best of our ability, live it out. For your praise and to advance your kingdom, as long as we are physically here until you take us home or come back for us. We give you praise for this time together in Jesus' name. Amen.