Our New Testament reading, our sermon text today is John chapter 13, verses 1 through 20. It's down on page 900 of the Pew Bibles. Just a little bit of a heads-up This particular passage addresses a couple of different ideas. I'm going to address a particular one this time And then next time I come to this text, uh we'll move on past this text but readdress particularly uh the case of Judas, as he is uh pretty present in here. So if you feel like I didn't do Judas, Justice to the person of Judas is present in here. For one, how much justice do we need to do him, you know, betrayer? Uh but for a second, don't worry. We'll r we'll get back to it a little bit, okay? John chapter 13, verse 1 begins. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who are in the world. He loved them to the end. During supper, when the devil had already put it in the heart of Judas Iscariot, Sime Simeon's son, to betray him, Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hand, and that he And he poured out water into a basin, began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no share in me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my feet. My head. And Jesus said to him, The one who is bathed does not need to wash, except for his feet. It is completely clean. And you are clean, not every one of you. He said to them, Do you understand what I've done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I, then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash Wash one another's feet. Truly, truly, I say to you A servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. You know these things. Blessed are you if you do them. I am not speaking of all of you. I know whom I have chosen. The scriptures will be fulfilled. He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me. I am telling you this now. Before it takes place, and when it does take place, you may believe that I am He. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me. Whoever receives Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have chosen to give us your royal decrees. To give us your word, about your word incarnate in the person of Jesus Christ in his time on this earth, and also this word which we open up together to read of Jesus, who he is, and what he has done. Not so often, words that are written here feel mysterious, feel contrary to our natural ways. Father, help us to see and receive both who Jesus truly is, the way that he operates here. Help us to receive it in such a way. that we are motivated to follow his path. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Everybody wants to rule the world. That's what Tears for Fears taught us all back when they released that single in 1985. Now, I wasn't alive for that release, but nevertheless I'm a big fan of the song. I would call it one of my top five eighties pop songs. I love the tune. It's just really catchy to me. And even that phrase, that that hook for the song, everybody wants to rule the world, something that in some sense feels pretty True, doesn't it? Some way in which everybody wants to be in charge of their life. Everybody uh wants to be able to call the shots, to have control over their life. Maybe sometimes you might shy away from the idea of being responsible for ruling the world, but you at least want to be able to call the shots for your own life. A kind of funny and yet helpful element here, the title for that song. Actually was different up until the last couple of days before it released. The original title was going to be Everybody Wants to Go to War. That feels a little different. Doesn't it? At least since we begin to think about how we generally think about, consider what ruling is What it is to lead, what it is to be Lord here in this world. How is it that we naturally gain or use or express power. Often by dominating and conquering, right? By taking control. That's what ruling is about, right? It's about taking charge. It's about being the top dog. It's about uh looking down upon the minions and making them do all the work while you sit up high and get to just tell them what to do. Of course, uh when we think about being a kind of lord or ruler, it's kind of the power we want. We would typically prefer to have that position over the position Of the servant slaving away underneath the Lord, the ruler. One of the fascinating elements about the creation of mankind is that in some sense it's fair to say man was made to rule the world. There's a way in which God says we are supposed to be rulers. That's a little bit of why Why we want to rule the world. In Genesis, God told Abraham that he was charged with, commissioned with, the responsibility to subdue and rule over the world Adam was supposed to do that in a way that led not to bloodshed and destruction or war. God did not call Adam to become some kind of an oppressor. Oh, he was supposed to do it in a way that cultivated life on the earth. The problem is that sin is around. We as sinful people are often the kind of people Who are drawn to rule more by oppression than anything else? What John is going to do here in the 13th chapter of this book is show us a different kind of reigning and ruling and what we're used to. Jesus here is going to teach his disciples and us about a totally different kind of kingship and lordship. Ruling and reigning than what we often are inclined towards. In this passage, Jesus reveals how we will rule the world. In this passage, Jesus reveals how we will. Rule the world. I'm going to go through that idea in three points here. First is Jesus demonstrates his ruling. Second, Jesus offers opportunity. Opportunity to rule. Finally, this Jesus commissions rulers. And Jesus demonstrates it. He offers the opportunity for it, and then he commissions Point number one there. Jesus demonstrates his ruling. Think with me as we get into this about uh what we have seen in the text so far, what John has been showing us a lot. Along the way. John has been since the first chapter telling us, proving to us all through this book who Jesus is Jesus is. We learned about who Jesus was in chapter one, back before even the incarnation, that he is the pre-existent word of God. Command in creation. Then as we've gotten through the book, we've seen Jesus walking through the world, actually doing things. He performs many signs And wonders. He speaks many powerful truths. And there's a purpose to this. All of this is showing us, proving to us that Jesus Christ is in fact Lord. That he is the Messiah, that he is God in the flesh. Isn't that what Jesus has been saying about himself all along the way through this book? If you've been following along, Jesus says things like: if you have seen me, Then you've seen the Father, saying, Then you've seen Yahweh, you've seen God. When Jesus is asked who He is, He says, Who am I? I am. He takes on the very name of the Lord. Along that path, we've watched through and seen these things with Jesus. There's kind of another curious thing that we've seen Jesus say a few times. Told people along the way that certain things just won't or can't happen yet because its hour has not yet come You remember that phrase? Jesus said it to his mom back at the wedding in Cana. Jesus, go do this for me. Woman, do you not understand? My hour has not yet come. You said it again at the feeding of the five thousand, when the people want to come and declare him king then and there, Jesus has to retreat because his hour had not yet come. And John now brings us to this pivotal shift in his book, this pivotal shift in time, as we get to this chapter, because how does verse one begin? And before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his The hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who are in the world, he loved them to the end. And John is saying here now that Jesus knows that hour he's been telling us about, it's come, it's arrived, it's now here. And John describes to us in part here what What that hour is about, how does he describe it? He says, is when Jesus will depart from this world, when he will return to his father. He is about to fulfill his love for his people. Okay, why is it now that this time has arrived? What does fulfilling that love look like? Verse two during supper the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. Jesus, knowing that the Father had given All things into his hand that he had come from God was going back to God. You know the story of Jesus' life. You probably know the role that Judas Iscariot plays, right? He is the one who is going to betray Jesus unto death upon a cross. That is what is coming. That is what is arriving here. As we start into this whole scene. section of John's book. Note this in the midst of that, there's a connection, a link in verse 3, might feel a little bit odd. Look at Verse three with me. Jesus knows that the Father has given all things into his hands. He says that there. We actually see Jesus mention that idea A number of times. We see that idea repeated throughout the story of Jesus. Claims like all authority in heaven and earth belong to him. All things belong to Jesus. He is Lord over all. That is the final thing that Jesus reminds his disciples of, the very end of the whole hour when Jesus ascends back to Now that development is all underway because Jesus' hour has come. Go to the beginning of that hour. Jesus is headed to the cross At the hands of his betrayer. So this whole hour, as movement is in motion. This movement where Jesus goes to the cross, then to the grave, then to The resurrection. Then he ascends, moving through this whole movement that John calls Jesus' hour, and it culminates. With Jesus being seated and enthroned as Lord over all. We typically like that part of the idea, right? Jesus being king over all It's a very normal part of the story for us to think about, to love, to praise, to sing about. If you were to open your Red Trinity hymnal, we got a whole lot of hymns about Jesus' King and Jesus enthroned and his kingdom. We sang a couple of them already tonight. We've sung a lot of them over the past couple of weeks. Was about too, right? We just got a lot of these hymns. We love to sing about Jesus reigning over us and for us. His lead Rewind to the part that's gonna not quite make so much sense To us. Go back to verse 3 here. Think about what's said. Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, that he had come from God and was going back to God. Okay, so Jesus is thinking about something here, right? Jesus has in his mind, he's thinking, I am the one Ruler. I am headed to my throne. So I am going to do something. I am Lord over all, and so therefore I'm going to act in a certain way. And what is that act? Knowing, thinking all this. Verse four, Jesus rose from supper, he laid aside his outer garments, taking a towel tied it around his waist, and he poured water into a basin, began to wake Wash the disciples' feet to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. Because Jesus here knows that he is Lord King over all, going to his throne. Jesus does what? Takes off his outer garment, gets on his knees, and he starts washing feet. Not exactly the kind of thing that we would immediately. immediately expect given the context we've just been given of what Jesus is thinking, right? We don't typically go, I am so great, so worthy, Lord Supreme, therefore I'm gonna get on my knees. Now, if I said that myself, I it would be pretty arrogant. Jesus is those things, so if he says it, it's not that arrogant. It's still humble. But even still, that's just not the way we think. I am so high and exalted. Therefore I'm going to get on my knees. This is not how lordship or being ruler and reigning works in this world, right? And the meaning here gets even heavier as you understand what all is happening both physically and symbolically in the text. Physically. The physical context here, these are not clean feet. These are feet that are walking the streets in open toed sandals, feet that are covered in the dust of their dirt roads and whatever has fallen from the animals walking on the road. If you are one of those people who today thinks Feet are very gross. Praise God you live today and not then. His feet were a lot worse back then. There were no socks. This is a messy situation. Symbolically, what's happening here? Think about this. You know who is supposed to go about cleaning someone's feet when they arrive at the home? It's the servant who's supposed to wash your feet when you get back to the home. What you would never see in this day and age is say a teacher, a rabbi, washing the feet of his students. You would never see a leader washing the feet of his followers. There's never a situation where the greater person, the superior, is going to wash the feet of their inferior. That just is makes no sense. Maybe there's a context where the son washes the feet of his father, but you're never gonna see it the other way around. So much so that when you look in the Jewish writings of the day and you come across them talking about this practice of washing feet, they see this job, many of them, as so low, so degrading that not even your Jewish servants should really be doing this. You should leave this for the filthy Gentile servants to do instead. It's just a to them a very degrading idea. Very shameful, very demeaning. What happens in the text? It's just so odd. So awkward. Uh think about this element. We arrive at the scene here. What seems awkward as well is that the disciples are already seated around the table, yet their feet haven't been washed yet. So they're sitting around the table with their dirty feet. And uh we can be pretty confident. It's not like they all forgot. You know? It's not like they all collectively just forgot the idea that we have really dirty feet and they need to be cleaned before We start tromping around this house. So we're in a situation where it seems that all the disciples have probably thought to themselves, someone needs to wash these feet. Seems like the servant isn't here to do it. I don't know that I'm so low that I'm the one who should do this though. And someone needs to do it, but I don't think that it should Be me. So what happens? But verse 4. Jesus rose from supper, laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around him. His waist. You know what Jesus does here essentially? The servant seems to be missing, and Jesus here puts on the garb of a servant. That's what it is. He dresses himself as a servant. He takes off his outer garment, he takes the towel and wraps it around him waist. He's he's dressing here as the missing servant. Then Jesus grabs the tools of the servant here, right? The basin and the water. And he begins doing the work of the servant. Probably imagine a little bit here the disciples at this scene awkwardly thinking, oof. Uh, maybe I should have volunteered. You've been in that situation. If you're a kid did this too many times, you jump into the front seat of the car thinking, you know, there's no way I'm gonna sit on the hump in the back row and then suddenly grandma has to get back there. I made a huge mistake. This was that's an awkward scenario, right? That's the kind of thing that you have to imagine the disciples have realized here. Now put this all together now. Jesus says dressed as a servant as doing the grotesque work of a servant. Why? Because Jesus knows that he is Lord. Because he knows he is going to sit on the throne and rule and reign over Because he is exalted to the highest. He becomes a slave to his people. And that just isn't what ruling the world and reigning is supposed to be. To look like, right? Certainly isn't what the disciples are expecting from their Messiah King. It isn't what lords and rulers are supposed to do. What is happening here? What is Jesus doing? You could say in some sense he is totally redefining what it is to rule and to reign. He is showing a radically different way of going about this. Point number two: Jesus offers opportunity to rule. John continues here: who opens his mouth but Peter? Do you know anything about Peter in the gospel? You can count on him opening his mouth. Most of the time, it doesn't go so great. Verse six, he came to Simon Peter, Jesus, who then said to him, Lord, do you You wash my feet? In some sense, that's actually your exactly the right question. The disciples are getting their feet washed by the rabbi They're all thinking, I probably should volunteer to do this. Jesus shouldn't be the one who is doing this. And Peter is willing to actually speak up and then say it: Lord, this isn't right. Jesus responds to him verse seven. What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand. What does Jesus mean there? Peter, you don't get it right now. But there is a point in time when you will. Eventually you will understand what's happening. Peter replies, verse eight, Lord, you shall never wash my seat my feet. There's a real sense in which Peter's motivation here is kind of good, right? We can sense that. He's trying to preserve his rabbi from this shame. Verse 8 Jesus answered Peter, If I do not wash you, then you have no share with me. What is Jesus saying here in totality? Peter You don't understand yet what is happening here. But if I don't wash you, then you have no share with me. There's something else going on here Something else than what Peter sees on the surface. When is it that Peter will understand? It's this referent within Jesus' hour Jesus is saying to Peter, if me washing your feet is shocking, wait till you see what I do next. Wait till you see what Judas here has cooked up for me Peter. He says, Jesus, rabbis are not supposed to wash their disciples' feet. He says, Yeah, Peter, you probably think lords aren't supposed to suffer and die on a cross for their enemies either. But just wait. Here's what's happening. Peter doesn't understand what is happening now, but once he sees the cross Then it will start to make sense. Once Jesus has moved through this hour, when everything starts to click for the disciples, the king has come Serve. What is it that the king's service does? What does the king do in his service? Here, he's washing his people so that, verse 8, they might share in him. That idea there to share in, it's a kind of term that's used in the New Testament to talk about about an inheritance. And that makes sense to us too. We talk about your share of the inheritance sometimes. So Christ tells Peter, look, if you don't let me wash you, then you can't have your share of my inheritance. Think about what the other side of that, if we flip that around, is. Look, if you let me wash You, Peter, then I have this inheritance for you. Jesus is here with Peter saying, You need to be a part of this washing. Trust me, Peter, this is good for you. is tied in with that here in the whole concept of this mismatched footwashing. In some sense, Peter, you need to be here with me in this kind of humiliation. This kind of shame leading through the story. In some sense, Peter, you need to share in my crucifixion. You need to be connected to me, tied to me in such a way that this is happening for you. He's showing Peter if he cannot embrace, if Peter cannot embrace Embrace the humiliation of his Lord here. He's not going to be able to embrace the inheritance of his Lord. He's showing Peter as we look through the whole story of the gospel. That the cross must be embraced in order to embrace what it is that Christ offers. The cross, Christian, we say this all the time. It is your hope and your joy and your power and your salvation. We could look at a cross and say, what is it at the same time? Well It's also shame, isn't it? It's a sign of weakness. And yet at the same time, we use words like power, glory, salvation, resurrection. By definition This feels oxymoronic, right? Like how could you ever reconcile those two things together? Put them together. That's exactly why Paul will tell the Corinthians that uh the cross is a stumbling block to the Jews and falling. To the Gentiles. He's trying to put these ideas together. The same way as we look at Jesus putting service and ruling together, it just does not make sense to us. And yet, Paul also tells the Corinthians, the cross is the power of God unto salvation. How is this for Christ? Christ says and shows here. How is it possible that these things could actually be fit together? It's because here Jesus is breaking apart and then reforming Our very definitions, our very concept of what power and glory and reigning actually are. And in that, what does he call us to do He's calling Peter to embrace all of who he is, all of what he does. Not just accept the fact that Jesus is his Lord. Also to receive and embrace the way that Jesus is his Lord. The way that Jesus is Lord through humility, through suffering, through suffering. service. Jesus is telling Peter here, if you cannot embrace that, the truth is you cannot really embrace me. If you cannot embrace it, that's what me being king and ruling and Reigning here really looks like you aren't really embracing all of who I am. Okay, take all of this together now and think about what was promised to be Peter here or extended as an offer to Peter. Who has this share of Christ's reign? It's those who embrace him and his ways So what Jesus is doing here is asking Peter, do you want to share with me in my kingdom? Do you want an inheritance, a part in what I have, in what I am gaining? Do you want a part of that? Do you want to be in that together with me? It's the same thing that is offered and extended to you, Christian. He extends, Jesus extends, as we come to him as our Lord, the opportunity. That's why we're talking about an inheritance. Jesus is ascending to the throne and saying to Peter, You want to come with me? You want to be a part of my kingdom? You want to be one of my princes or my princesses here in my kingdom with me? That's the share that's offered to you. That's the kind of That's exactly why Paul will tell Timothy in 2 Timothy, this saying is trustworthy. For if we have died with Christ, we will also live with Christ. And if we endure, we will also reign with There's an opportunity for those who follow Jesus to reign to rule with him. And isn't that what was offered to mankind all the way back in the garden anyway? That opportunity to be rulers over the world. Jesus here is re-extending that offer, in a sense, to Peter. The opportunity to rule with him. To do that, Peter must embrace all of who Jesus is and all the way that Jesus is doing. Point number three here, Jesus commissions his rulers. And John picks up in verse twelve with this question from Jesus. When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garment. And resumed his place, Jesus said to them, Do you understand what I have done to you? It's a rhetorical question, but Jesus keeps on going. Verse 13. You call me teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you also should do just as I have done to you. What's Jesus saying? If your Lord expresses his ruling, his reigning by washing, guess what you all are going to do? Jesus is saying, I'm your model. I am your example of what it is to rule and reign in this world. Here Jesus is calling his disciples. To follow him in that. To walk the path that he has walked. To move how he has moved. Here Jesus is calling his disciples to follow him in this path To serve how he's served, to rule how he's ruled, to reign how he's reigned. So Jesus is not here just redefining what it is for he himself to rule this world, But also, Christian, for you too. He's saying, you want to rule the world with me, you want to share in my inheritance? Then you too, get on your knees And wash feet. And Jesus, in calling you to reign with him, he is commissioning you, Christian, to go out and reign. And how do we do that? By following what Jesus has showed to us, by walking where he has walked, kneeling where he has kneeled, washing how he has has washed. On the surface, that can feel like a little bit of a bait and switch, right? Here is this opportunity to rule and reign. And what I really mean by that is get on your knees. knees and surf. I hear that. I I understand how that might feel on the surface. The way that that can seem a little bit of a bait and switch. Rich. You could be saying, hey, I definitely bought into this because you said rule, and that sounds like promise of glory, joy, power. I wanted to rule the world. I was down with you for that. Now it feels like you're saying something that's totally different. Step back into 1985 with me. It's a little similar uh to what you might remember of uh when Dave Daniel LaRusso, the karate kid, comes to Mr. Miyagi's house. Have you seen that? And and he says, Mr. Miyagi, you're going to teach me karate, right? Mr. Miyagi says, Yes, Daniel Son. Here's your rag. Go wash the car. Okay. That doesn't sound like karate to me, right? Is it just total bait and switch? The reason that it feels like a bait and switch is because we are still often bought into our old earthly idea of what it is to reign and to rule. We fall Back into that. We think glory and joy and prosperity today, and that ruling and reigning today is not supposed to look like getting on your knees and cleaning filthy feet. And we read the scriptures and what do we remember about what our king came to this world and did, right? It makes perfect sense when we begin to think about it in terms of terms of what Jesus says. This is what I have done. If you're one of my people, won't you do this too? It's that framing that we need. Isn't that what Jesus has said? Said over and over in this book. Follow me. Follow my life. Even through the service and the pain, through the crossing. to the grave. And it's only after those things that then resurrection and ascension come. We become glorified like him. The path is going somewhere. It is. The experience of this world is not the end. There is something even greater waiting on the other end. You have to follow through the whole path. I'm going to pick up the karate kit example again, right? Daniel is waxing the cars. Wax on, wax off. That's what everyone knows. He's getting a little sick of it, and he asks Mr. Miyagi, okay, when are we going to actually start doing karate here? Come to find out as he blocks the punches from Mr. Miyagi Oh, he was doing karate all along, right? I get, that's kind of a cheesy analogy. That's fine. I think it makes the point. And what are we doing as we are serving how Jesus has served? We are ruling and reigning the way that He did here when He came to this world. Jesus tells his followers, verse 16, Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. If you know These things. Blessed are you if you do them. Jesus is reiterating: this is who I am. What I have done. Are you greater than than me, so much so that you can't follow me in this here in this life, here in this world? Ask this now. Who does Jesus commission his followers to be Go out and serve. Whose feet does Jesus tell these disciples and his followers to wash? The pattern of this world and its expectations of service is often that things are reciprocal. What does that mean? Easy phrase. I scratch your back, now you scratch mine. What we define If we have to think about trying to serve someone, right? I did this for you, now you go ahead and do it for me. Is that the way that Jesus framed this here? Did Jesus say, I washed your feet, now you wash mine? No. No, he actually commissions them to wash one another. others feet. It's not coming back to him. Jesus tells them to go out and represent who he is and what he has done for them By serving one another, by serving those in the world, by serving their neighbors. And that framing, if we could embrace that, actually very much so begins to Resolve a lot of the tension that we find serving one another like Jesus served others. We so often revert to the expectations of receiving Reciprocal action. And that's not what Jesus instructed here at all. How does that play out? Uh easy, not so easy example. Husbands, when you are called to love Your wives is that call to lovingly serve them so long as they you know are doing their part of the job too There's some kind of reciprocity that's baked into there. Let me simplify it. Have you ever read Husbands Love Your Wives if they respect you well enough? Of course not. Of course not. Now, of course, we make that excuse all the time, right? Well, how can I be expected to love well when they just won't? That's that demand for reciprocity. I scratched your back, now you scratch mine. We want to serve if we get served back. Um sometimes we could substitute that for uh high praise for our service. That can fill in the gaps sometimes. Husbands, what you actually read in that case? Let me remind us, love your wives just as Christ loved the church. Oh, and gave himself up for her Thankfully, God doesn't always press that all the way to us having to die for our wives, right? So if he did, uh that is certainly an honorable position to be in. There's no reciprocity here. Love as Christ love. What point did he love to? To death It goes the same way for wives and for children. We do not get to say, you didn't do this good enough, so I'm just not going to reciprocate. As much as we want to make that excuse, no. It just isn't what was presented to us. I hear this disclaimer with that. Of course there are limits to what is truly loving or submissive. You could easily jump in this case to the example of a beauty Abuse. Abuse is not uh some simple excuse to get out of a responsibility. Abuse is a breaking of a vow that is held Dearly. And so, in no way is there some kind of command here to go back to an abusive hand or voice as might be sometimes pressed. That's not what is being said here. What is being said Being said, we have to see very clearly that we are called to serve without expectations, reciprocity. That's what Jesus has sent us out to do. Jesus commissions his fellow rulers to go out and represent his rule and his reign in this world. How? By serving One another. And from that definition of rain, it becomes all the more clear why Jesus has told us things like to love our enemy, to bless those who curse you. To pray for those who persecute you, to get on your knees and wash the feet even of those who betray you. It isn't someone there in the room. With Jesus, whose feet he washes in this moment, who's going to do that to him anyway. The whole of what Christ presents here in this text is a radical redefinition of what it is is to reign. And in this picture, Jesus shows us so tangibly how he reigns, what that looks like. And in that Jesus reveals to us us what it is for us to join him in his rule over this world. The question that's left for us, Christian, is can you embrace it? Can you embrace what he says it is to rule this world here in this age? Can you trust in this kind of king? Can you look upon the one who we're gonna sing in a Moment was rich beyond all splendor. Think about that. Jesus had no need to come to this world. All glory All-powerful, rich beyond anything that we can imagine. And what does he do? But stoop down to this world too. Suffer and die for us. Why would he do that? And isn't it what's written in the beginning of this chapter because he is fulfilling Christian has love for you. How will Jesus' story go on? He will suffer and he will die. Follow him in that. Because it is that path which leads towards Jesus' resurrection and his ascension. Everybody wants to rule the world. That's the song from the beginning, right? Everybody wants to rule the world. You know how that song ends? All for freedom and for pleasure. Nothing ever lasts forever. Everybody wants to rule the world. If you live for freedom and pleasure today, and that's what you're conquering, taking over, you try to rule this world, then of course it's not gonna But there is something that will. If you embrace the path of Jesus, who he is. will get to put on the garbs of kings and queens, princes and princesses with Jesus reigning over his world. Hope in that Look towards that. Because that is what we trust in as we rule this world through our own service, as Jesus taught us. Amen. pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the sweet truth here that you have made us in some sense to rule the world May not feel it. May not feel that way as we walk through this world, often suffering or in servitude to others Often feeling depleted of what we want. Yet, here we look to the example of your holy and perfect Son. Who is the very picture of a servant, who in this passage puts on the garbs of a servant, who lives as the lowliest of lows, even though he came from The highest of places. Why? Because the way that he chose to express his rule and reign here on this earth was as a servant. As the servant who would suffer and die for his people because he loves his people. Father, may we embrace that truth to such an extent That we are drawn to live how Jesus lived, suffer how he has suffered, follow his path set before us To mystery, this idea that we are as Christ's people in some way united to him. May we embrace all of what it is to be united to Christ As we follow the path of his life, his death, his resurrection, even his ascension. And we look forward towards that day when we join him in Glory. Tin Jesus' name which we pray. Amen