Our Old Testament reading takes us back to the book of Deuteronomy. So if you turn with me in your Bibles to page 151 of the Pew Bibles, Deuteronomy chapter 6, as we continue our study through this book. We're going pretty much chapter by chapter. Here we uh we find the beginning of the exposition of the Ten Commandments. Moses' teaching of what the Ten Commandments mean. We'll start with chapter 6. We'll read the whole chapter, starting with verse 1. Hear now the word of Almighty God. Now, this is the commandment, the statutes, and the rules that the Lord your God commanded me to teach you that you may do them in the lands to which you are going over to possess it. That you may fear the Lord your God, you and your son and your son's son, by keeping all his statutes and his commandments. which I command you in the days of your life, and that your may and that your days may be long. Hear therefore, O Israel, and be careful to do them, that it may go well with you, and that you may multiply greatly, as the Lord the God of your fathers has promised. Promised you in a land flowing with milk and honey. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and you shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down and we When you rise, you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your your gates, and when the Lord your God brings you into the land that he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob to give you? With great And good cities that you did not build, and houses full of all good things that you did not fill, and cisterns that you did not dig, and vineyards and olive trees that you did not plant. And when you eat and are full, then take care, lest you forget the Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. It is the Lord your God you shall fear, him you shall serve, and by his name you shall swear. You shall not go after another after other gods, the gods of the people. Who are around you, for the Lord your God in your midst is a jealous God. Lest the anger of the Lord your God be kindled against you, and he destroy you from off the face of the earth. You shall not put the Lord your God to the test as you tested him at Massa. You shall diligently tested Keep the commandments of the Lord your God and his testimonies and his statutes which he has commanded you, and you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord. That it may go well with you, and that you may go in and take possession of the good land that the Lord swore to give to your fathers by thrusting out all your enemies from before you as the Lord has promised. When your son asks in time to come, what is the meaning of the testimonies and the statutes and the rules that the Lord our God has commanded you? Then you shall say to your son, We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and the Lord showed signs and wonders great and grievous against Egypt and against Pharaoh and all his household before our eyes, and he brought us out from there that he might bring us in And give us the land that he swore to give our fathers. And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes to fear the Lord our God for our good always, that he might preserve us alive. As we are this day. And it will be righteousness for us if we are careful to do all this commandment before the Lord our God as He has commanded us. With these words on our ears and on our hearts, let us go before God in prayer and ask that he might plant them deeply. therein and change us by them. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you do give us the gift of your word, that this is your word by which you not only spoke, but by which you speak to us Today, we thank you that we can encounter you in this word. We thank you that it is a good word, that it speaks truth to our minds and to our hearts. Lord, we confess that it exposes the darkness that remains there and causes us to shy away from it because of that. And yet we thank you that it also Heals and cleanses, that it washes us and sanctifies us, even as Jesus prayed it would in John 17, we thank you that your word is living and active and that it does that work of not only convicting us of sin, but as but of comforting us with the truth of your grace. Your goodness to us in Jesus Christ and all your promises that are yes and amen in Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, who or what do you love? Maybe we could ask that question a little differently. We meditate on Jesus' words in Matthew 6. 21. Where is your treasure? Jesus says, where our treasure is, there our heart will be also. What we treasure, what we love, says something about us. To get at how we might answer that question this morning honestly, we could ask questions like this. What fills my mind when I'm not focused on anything else? What do I sacrifice great things for? What do I sacrifice time for? Money. Money for energy for? What do I most fear losing? What do I love? The Bible gives us the answer we should give. And it's one simple word. You shall love the Lord, your God, with all your heart, with all your soul, with all Your mind with all your strength. That's what we get here. That's a summary of what we get here in Deuteronomy chapter six. Now, as a reminder, we've entered into this section of Deuteronomy, which we've talked about, is a covenant treaty document. That's the form in which it's presented. God is the great king. Israel is his vassal servant. So great suzerain king, vassal servant. And this is given to us and presented to us in This form of a covenant treaty. That's how ancient Israel did their politics, because Israel is being treated as a little nation before God. They're going to be a theocracy. nation uh that is led by and and ordered by God as their great king, and yet he's going to do it through human mediators. And so he gives this covenant. In fact, what Deuteronomy is in in very many ways, it is a covenant renewal ceremony. Israel is standing on the border of the promised land, and Moses is leading them through, reiterating their understanding of and their commitment to the law of God. And as he talked about, a covenant. Has different parts. We've talked about the preamble, we've talked about the historical prologue where it it speaks of who the parties of this treaty are and what relationship they have based on their history together or so far. And then a a bulk of these treaties. Treaties and a book of Deuteronomy are stipulations, laws. Chapter 5 all the way to chapter 26 are these stipulations, these laws, these commands of God. Last week we looked at a summary of the law, and that's what the Ten Commandments are. Those are a summary of really God's moral law, his character, but in many ways. Deuteronomy, uh the way ancient books worked, uh, you know, you couldn't take a book like this and turn to a certain part. With our books, we we look at the table of contents and then we find Find where we're going. Uh ancient scrolls were more like cassette tapes versus CDs. I thought that would be a good contemporary illustration. I realized, no, I was born back in the 70s. Most of you don't know what a cassette tape is anymore. But with a cassette tape, right, it's actually like a scroll. It's a reel of tape. And so to listen to it, you have to click play and then you have to listen from the beginning or fast forward and wait until the whole thing spins to the end. That's how a scroll was. And so the way scrolls were written would be that the first part would actually give you a little summary of the whole. That's what that chapter 5 of Deuteronomy was: a little summary of all that's coming. Now we get into the meat. Now we get into really Moses' exposition of what the Ten Commandments mean. And he's going to take each commandment in turn. Uh- the first commandment, right? We saw that in chapter 5, verses 6 and 7. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. That commandment is unpacked for us, not just in one chapter, not just in two, actually, in many chapters, chapters 6 to 11, are all going to explore what does it mean to have no other gods before God? And it begins here in chapter six by actually rephrasing that command And summarizing that command as loving God. Verses 4 and 5 here. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might. And what Moses is going to do now in the next few chapters is he's going to think have us think about what does it mean to love the Lord our God with all of our heart? What does it mean to love the Lord our God with all of our soul? What does it mean for us to love the Lord our God with with all of our might? And then what does it mean to really love the Lord our God in a few more chapters? So you our heart here is in chapter six, uh our soul is in chapter seven, our our uh Or might is in chapter eight and so forth. So he's going to be unpacking this for us. So that means that here, chapter 6 Which is one of the most well-known passages in all of Scripture, verses four and five. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might This is what Jesus says is a summary of the commandments. A summary of the great first commandment is to love the Lord our God. And this is What Jewish, pious Jewish people would recite twice a day. It's their confession of faith. And it is really the beginning of a summary of what it means to have no other God. Before the Lord. So as we look at chapter 6, what we're going to see is this chapter 6 that we can, you know, I've titled it Remember Your Redeemer, Whole Heart Love, Whole Heart, rather than Whole Soul. We'll talk about whole soul later, whole might later. This chapter is answering the question: what does it look like to have no other gods before the Lord by loving him with all of our heart? And the Lord, through Moses, instructs Israel and now instructs us here in this passage. To have no other gods before him by loving him with our whole heart. And that looks like, and here are the three points we'll consider: a loving orientation. A listening occupation and a living obedience. Orientation, occupation, and obedience. First, a loving orientation, and we see This in verses 1 to 5. Now, as I said, chapter 5 is sort of the title and the table of contents of all that comes after us. And then chapter 6 begins this exposition of the Ten Commandments. And so look, it has another title or introduction, verses 1 to 3. Now, this is the commandment, the statutes and the rules, that the Lord your God commanded me to teach you. that you may do them in the lands to which you are going over to possess. Now what Moses is doing here is he's distinguishing. The Ten Commandments were the summary of God's law, and that was directly spoken by God to Israel. They heard him speak those Commandments. But then remember, they said, okay, that's enough. For the exposition of the Ten Commandments, which is going to be a lot longer. Why don't you you hear from the Lord and then bring those to us. Moses says here, this is what the Lord commanded me. It's divinely inspired by God. It's God's word. That's why I said let's listen to God's word, even though it says Moses spoke these things. And yet Moses is the The mediator, the conduit, the one who conveys this teaching to Israel and to us. And he says, here the purpose, that you may fear the Lord your God, you and your son, and your son's son. And all the girls in here are like, what about me? Well, okay, this is Hebrew idiom. You could translate this to your children, your children's children. Because in Hebrew, son means children. So they just sort of lump them all in. So for you, and that that you may fear the Lord, you, your children, and your children's children. So that's kids and grandkids. I think he means all the rest that come after as well. But usually we don't see much further than our own grandkids. By keeping all his statutes and all his commandments, which I command you all the days of your life, that your days may be long Hear therefore, O Israel, and be careful to do them that it may go well with you, that you may multiply greatly, as the Lord the God of your fathers has promised you, in a land flowing with milk and honey. So he's introducing now the whole rest of the book of Deuteronomy in these words. It's worth us keeping in mind as we go through these laws. What we're going to see is we we need to, along the way, we're going to need to distinguish types of laws. You may be familiar with this, but as we look at the study the Old Testament, scholars have recognized That there are really sort of three major types of laws. There are moral laws, there are civil laws, and ceremonial laws. Moral laws are the Ten Commandments. That's a good summary of the moral laws. These are things that everyone should do just because we're made in the image of God. God and reflect his character. Moral laws, and this is summed up in the Ten Commandments. Then there are civil laws. These are laws that were unique to Israel as a nation in the land. They weren't actually laws that were in force before Israel became a nation, nor afterwards. Once they go into exile, these laws were not really enforceable because Israel was no longer a theme. But when Israel was living as a nation in the land, they needed laws to govern their relationship with each other. And so God gave them some of those civil laws. Those are ended actually after Israel goes into exile. And then we have ceremonial laws. These are also unique to Israel. These are laws for how Israel, as the Old Testament church, was to worship God. They were given specific commands about building the temple, about sacrifices, specific ways of keeping the Sabbath. And and here's the reason we need to have these categories out there. is because when we look at these laws, we don't see it quite as much in Deuteronomy 6, but even here at times we'll see this, that they often get intertwined. And so you have a moral law, moral command in the Ten Commandments to keep the Sabbath. Part of the Ten Commandments, part of God's moral law. But in Israel, that meant specifically, do not pick up sticks to light and to kindle a fire. And so Numbers 15, we have a man who went out and picked up sticks. And so that was ceremonial law. That's how they would follow that moral law. And then they find this man picking up sticks, and the Lord says he needs to be executed. Execute it. That's civil law. And that's not any longer how we enforce or encourage people to keep the moral law. Instead, we Exhort Sabbath uh observance as our confession outlines. Anyway, it's helpful to have those categories separate because in Israel they're kind of all mixed together. That as introduction, the first words of Moses' exposition of the law code of Israel are verses four and five. And then when you see that structure, you realize, oh, that's why these are memorized. These really are the beginnings. These are like the I am the Lord your God. You shall have no other God before me for the Ten Commandments. This is like for the exposition for the rest of Deuteronomy. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. This is called in Hebrew terms the Shema, because here in Hebrew is Shema. Listen, here, O Israel A more literal rendering of this verse is, here, Israel, Lord our God, Lord one. In English, we have to insert little things to try to understand what it's saying, and they're they're probably correct insertions. These are probably verbalist clauses, we call them. The Lord our God, the Lord is one. But you can kind of understand it's super terse and tight and It leaves us asking, okay, what is meant by that? What is meant by that? Scholars debate. Some say, well, it's clearly. Primarily, maybe simply, a statement of monotheism. This would have been utterly unique in the ancient world. The belief that there is really only one God. The ancient world was filled with polytheism, the belief in many gods. And Israel was called out and said, No, actually I'm God, and there is no other. Deuteronomy 435 has already told us that. To you it was shown that the vision of the Lord's might and appearance at Horeb. To you it was shown that you might know that the Lord is God, there is no other besides him. And then verse 39 of chapter 4. Know therefore today and lay it to heart that the Lord is God in heaven above and on earth beneath, there is no other. So this statement is a statement of monotheism, call for Israel to be distinct from her neighbors in that. But I think scholars are right when they say, but it's it's a little more than that. It's not just saying that there is only one God, although it is saying that, but it's also saying that God is utterly unique. That God is not on a continuum with us. That it's not like, well, there's only one God at the top of the food chain and we are somewhere on the way up. It's saying God is God and there's He's unique in his being. Utterly unique. God is God and there is no other. There's no other being in heaven or on earth or anywhere else who can claim true likeness to God. is unlike any other. Paul, I think, says the same thing when he is uh discussing food offered to idols. I think this is that debate in the early Corinthian church. Should we eat food if it's been offered to idols? And some people say no, participating in pagan religion, and others say, come on, it's it's just food. And God gave us food, and what are these idols anyway? And here's what Paul says: He says in verses 4 to 6, we know that an idol has no real existence, and that there is no God but one. Echoing Deuteronomy 6. 4, his point is we know that any idol and claim to divinity is just false because there is only one God. There's uniquely only one God. For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords, yet for us there is one God. And listen to what he says: the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist. And one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we exist. And this is where we get the sense that biblical monotheism, one God, is actually Trinitarianism. One God in three. Persons. Here, Paul says, God the Father and describes him as creator. And one Lord Jesus Christ and describes him in the exact same way. Creator. So, given that there are no other gods besides the Lord, how do we have no other God before him? Or literally in his face? Upon his face. And the answer is we read on and find out we do so by a loving devotion or a loving orientation to this one and only truth. True God, to God as our only true and living God. Verse 5: You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might. These three terms are worth reflecting on for a moment. Maybe if you have a trans well, actually it's not common in Most English translations. There are a couple that translate the word heart with mind. You may have seen that if you had the NIV in last chapter, because where it says heart in some places it's That's because in the Hebrews did not conceive of things like we do, with a head where our all our thoughts are, and our heart where all our emotions are. The Hebrews actually had a heart, or it could be translated mind, that embodied both the thinking and the emotions, the the the feeling, the will, and then they had a gut which was more like the appetites and those sort of internal drives. So they distinguish it a little bit differently. So the call to love the Lord our God with all of our heart is not just to have an emotional feeling about him, but actually to have our minds engaged as well. To love of the Lord our God with all of our soul, that term is also interesting. We often think of soul as the non-material part of who we are, right? That's not the way a Hebrew person would have heard this word. This word means it can refer to our bodies, our whole beings. We can translate it our ourselves. And it seems to uh reference uh our our our living uh our our bodies that are animated with life, so our spirit bodies together. So it's Love the Lord our God with all of our heart, heart and mind, with all of our self, our our whole life. And then the last word is really interesting. It says, Love the Lord your God with all your might. To find translation, that's based on the Greek that says literally lovely Lord our God with all of our dunamis, our power, where we get dynamite from, right? All of our power. Literally, in Hebrew, it's all of our very. That's an adverb. That's not a noun. How do we do that? Well, maybe you can make it into a noun. All of our variness. Oh, that's not an English word. Okay. Okay. All of our muchness. The idea here is all of what we have possession of. So it's sort of an outward expansion. Our heart-mind, ourselves, and our stuff. Love the Lord your God will follow your heart, your soul, and all your mind. It's all to be oriented toward God in love. And remember, What we mean when we're talking about love here. We talked about this last week. Love in the Bible is not mere feeling of affection or mere emotion. I don't think it's It's it's less than that. It it it includes that, but it's it's more than that. One commentator describes it this way: he says, Speaking biblically, love is not merely an emotion, a pleasant disposition toward another person. But a covenant commitment demonstrated in actions that seek the interest of the other. Again, this doesn't doesn't not include feelings and affection, but it's so much more So having no other God is this loving orientation toward the triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, as holy unique, as holy other, as creator and redeemer. It is a committed devotion of heart and mind and all of life to recognize, worship, and honor God with our whole mind or heart, our whole soul-self-life, and our whole muchness. Our own our whole might. It's like the chief end of man. Glorify God and to enjoy Him forever This loving orientation. I spoke recently, I think we have an illustration of this. We can understand why this call to love is a loving orientation toward the other. I was talking to a husband uh not long ago who was sharing a little bit about uh hi his wife and and the fact that she had expressed to him that she didn't always feel love uh because She said, I don't feel like when you're not with me that you think about me. She's like, could you just maybe send a text during the day and say, hope your day's going okay? This idea that even when we're apart, you're oriented toward me in love. Don't we want that? Don't we love that? Isn't that what love in some sense is? Here I think we're called to have that sort of loving orientation toward Almighty God. What might this look like? Well, it might look like having our heart and mind devoted to God by having Him constantly in our thoughts as we engage the world and our life around us, maybe even as we dream. When you think five years, ten years out, and you think of the hopes and the aspirations you have, does God factor in? Is He present in those thoughts? Are we orienting our life for his glory? We think about loving God with our whole soul and self, and we'll talk more about this next week when we have to the in the next pa uh chapter. But uh I think here we're getting at are are we are we caring for our health not just to maximize our pleasure in this life? But in order to maximize our ability to serve God in the callings He's called us to. This is this whole new new thing out there these days. And I started reading younger next year, Peter Atya and Outlived, this whole idea of longevity, trying to maximize our, not just our lifespan, but our health span, the amount of life we can live. I think there's a reason the reason it it's it's it's taking hold is because we have so much. We have so much blessing in this land. We're we're so comfortable and happy now. It's like, okay, well how can I how can I maximize my enjoyment of this by extending it as long as I can. It's not bad to care for our bodies and ourselves and try to live long. That's certainly a blessing from God, but why? Are we seeking to maximize our ability to serve God as He's called us to in the calling? How do we love God with all of our muchness? Well, again, maybe considering how we can maximize our resources, wealth, and potential, not just to try to live our best life now, but so as to maximize the glory we can give to Almighty God. Having no other gods besides the Lord, by loving Him with our whole heart, begins with having a loving orientation towards Him. How do we cultivate this loving orientation? And that's answered in this passage and in our second point. We cultivate it by, number two, a listening occupation. And this we see in verses 6 to 15. How can we cultivate a loving orientation or devotion to anyone? And the answer is. To do this for anyone, we have to get to know them. We have to learn about them. And since we can't know or learn about God fully by just looking around at the world, although as we sang already today, right? And as the the choir will sing in a moment, uh all creation does in some sense teach us about God and his glory. But ultimately, we can't understand him fully unless we listen to his word, because that's where he's revealed himself most clearly. And so if that's true, if God has told us who he is and what he loves and what his purposes are for this world, If he's told us that in his word, then we need to occupy ourselves with listening to his word in order to love him and be oriented toward him in love. And this is not just something we do once and we're done, one and done. This is a whole life listening, a whole life occupied with listening to his word and teaching it to us. Others. Because we want others to love the Lord just as we do. And we see that in verses six and following. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. How can these words be on their heart? I imagine part of the way is first by listening and hearing them, and then by setting them to heart, memorizing them, and then meditating upon them. And that's what he says as he goes on. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise, you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between This is this idea that these should be everywhere in our lives. Now it's interesting, uh a lot of uh Hebrew people, a lot of Jewish people uh have taken these verses quite literally. They literally tie what they call tefilim uh uh little uh scrolls with uh these words in them around their head so that they can be frontless between their eyes and tie them on their hand. And there's certainly a a great desire for piety that's expressed in that. I think that is not what this passage is calling us to. Sort of literally trying to fulfill the law. without actually hearing what the Lord is saying. Because I think the the command here is metaphorical. In fact one commentator says it this way. These words must be taken metaphorically with the meaning that the memory of the Exodus must be part of everything the people people do and think. They shall fill their lives with God's word, and that's the whole idea of when you when you are in your house. Or when you're walking on the road or when you're lying down when you rise, it's like all the time. That's the idea. So not specifically to those actions, but all the time. And they shall be on your f uh you know on your forehead because they should be in your mind. They should be in your hands. When you're doing things, you should He's not saying you should write them all down and put them there. He means that they should be Laying upon your heart. They should be present with you at all times. And I think that we see evidence for the fact that these should be taken metaphorically, not literally, by how Moses. Warns against the opposite, right, as we read on. So you shall write them, verse 9, on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. And then note what he says. He doesn't go on and say, and you shall not not write them. in these places. He says, and you shall not forget them. He's saying you shall attend to remembering these Verse 10. And when the Lord your God brings you into the land that he swore to your fathers to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give you with great and good cities that you did not build, and houses Full of all good things that you did not fill, cisterns that you did not dig, vineyards and olive trees that you did not plant, and when you eat your fill, then take care lest you forget. The Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. And what is it Israel might forget? Well, that the Lord is one, that he's single, that he's given these instructions for who for them to know who he is and how he is to be worshipped alone. And that's what it says next, right? Lest you forget the Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt, it is the Lord your God that you shall fear. Like the first commandment. Him you shall serve. Actually, that's like the second commandment. Him you shall worship. By his name you shall swear. Oh, it's kind of like the third commandment. Commandment. You shall not go after other gods. The gods of the peoples who are around you, for the Lord your God in your midst is a jealous God, lest the anger of the Lord your God be kindled against you, and he destroy you from off the face of The earth. When you find a passion, something that you love, a new devotion, isn't it just natural? To make it your obsession, your occupation. To try to learn as much as you can about it by listening, by hearing, by seeing, in any way you can, so that you can devote it. yourself to it. I'm a serial passioner. Gratefully not with wives. One wife, I'm still passionate. Twenty years I'm still trying to learn how I can love her well, it's taken that long and it will take some more time. But other things, for a while I got into computers. I've long been into studying the Bible. For a short a short time, short nine years, I got into the Akkadian Which we can bore each other with later if you'd like. Typewriters, I get into a lot of things. And when I do, I occupy myself with studying them, with researching about them, learning about them. When we're interested and attracted to things or to people, let alone we love them, it's only reasonable for us to occupy ourselves with studying them We come to the matter of the Lord and loving the Lord, we must learn by listening. We must occupy ourselves with attending to Him by listening to His word and teaching it to others. How do we apply this second point? Well, friends, this is why we are called to be a people who know the word. Because we're called to occupy ourselves with listening to it so that we might lovingly orient our life towards the world. Almighty God. Read it. Study it. Love the word. Not simply because it's useful for learning some information, but because it's how we know. How we grow in knowing, in loving, in our devotion to our triune God, Father, Son, and Spirit. How are you engaged with God's word? How are you occupying yourself with listening? To it. That's important for all of us, those of us who've known the Lord for a long time. It's easy to begin to think, oh yeah, I know what the Bible says. I know the Lord. I love him. And yet, what is it that's So often happens when when difficulties come along. Is God sovereign even over that medical diagnosis? Is God sovereign even over that car accident? Is God sovereign even over that calamity that has entered us? Entered into my life, do we really know the Lord? We can be tempted to forget the Lord in those hard times. We can be tempted, maybe even more so, to forget the Lord in the good times. We begin to slip into going after other gods, not literal idols like Israel. Israel went after literal idols because they represented something. The God of water Wealth, the God of health, the God of fertility, the God of a future, the God of rain when you needed rain, right? These were these were ultimately idols of the heart that were expressed or manifest in physical. Physical ways and idols of the heart are things we still struggle with today, things, activities, the stuff of the earth that we can orient our lives toward and our love toward in the place. That God should have. So the challenge is how are we engaged with God's word? And let me put this out there for you young people and kids. For you, it's even maybe as important, if not more, to occupy yourself with listening to God's word. Let me put this challenge before you. Before you grow up and leave home for college or wherever you go, how about committing yourself to having read the whole Bible? Maybe not just reading it, maybe actually studying it enough that you could take any book of the Bible and give a basic outline of its content. That would both serve you well. As you go out into a world where there are many words vying for your attention, and there are many people who are going to try to distort your understanding of who God is in order to Help just try to make you reject him and knowing God through knowing his word, that would be worth your time, worth your occupation. But maybe let's just start with this. Maybe before even committing to that, uh you know it's so tempting to take two hours here and distract ourselves. Leave our phone on. Check our notifications. Maybe step outside and see. Check in with whatever we're engaging with there. Friends, the world is full of words Wants you to hear, maybe just let's turn off our phones for two hours and occupy ourselves just for an hour and a half. With listening to God's word. So, how do we have no other gods before the Lord by loving the Lord our God with all of our heart? How do we do that? By first of all, orienting ourselves to loving God. Occupying ourselves with listening to God, and third and finally by obedient living for God. Living obedience. This is verses 16 to 25. When you're in a loving relationship, With a spouse, with a boyfriend, with a girlfriend. Part of the way you show that love is not just feeling it, not just telling them you feel it. But doing things to show it, right? So we talk about the five love languages, the five ways we can do things to show, things like gifts, things like acts of service, things like affection. But you know what's even more important than any one of those five love languages, I would argue, is by actually responding and and And attending to what they've told you they like. Right? Uh early on in my relationship with my wife. You know, it's interesting. God I probably knew this would be good for our marriage, that most of our life we have not had to share the same bathroom sink. So, yeah. And we learned out how valuable this is, actually, because we did have to share one for our first year of marriage. And I learned That uh one of the ways I could demonstrate my love for my wife is making sure if I ever stole a little bit of toothpaste in the sink, that I didn't leave it there to dry and get c crusty and hard so she had to come in and scrape it out. Make sure to rinse that down immediately, please. And I think, I think I've been pretty good about it. that a little way that I can love her. Now other things I'm not so good about leaving out the decap coffee. I'm still working. Why I don't know. I just somehow I can't seem to put that away. But the same is true for our loving the Lord. What does loving him look like? It looks like living in obedience. Like Jesus says in John 14, 15, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. If we love God, we want to hear what does He want from us? What does He desire from us? for us. That's how the Lord, through Moses, goes on to teach Israel here in verse 17. You shall diligently, oh, oh, actually, let's see. Verse 16, you shall not put the Lord your God to the test as you tested him at Massa. You shall diligently keep the so that's disobeying him, right? You shall not disobey him, you shall diligently keep Keep the commandments of the Lord your God and his testimonies and his statutes, which he has commanded you, and you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord. Now, in many ways, this sounds like what a king might call us to do. And the Lord is the great king. He's presenting himself in that way here. He's the great suzerain king. giving this his engaging in this covenant relationship with his people. But notice that while there's an analogy here to how kings give commands, It breaks down. Kings give commands for a variety of reasons, sometimes for the good of the nation, sometimes for the good of one of their friends, sometimes for their own good. Look why God gives his commands. His commands are utterly altruistic. And you shall love, you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord, verse 18, that. So that what? So that it may go well with you, and that you may go in and take possession of the good land that the Lord swore to give to your fathers by thrusting out all your enemies from before you as the Lord. Remember God's law in this Mosaic covenant that is being renewed here in Deuteronomy. It did have a conditional typological element that's built in here for Israel as a people, as a nation in the land, that it as they obeyed God in the land, the blessing of the land would continue. To flow. But if they failed, if they broke God's law, and literally if they broke it outwardly in obvious ways, then they would lose access to God. It's a sort of a a warning of that in verse fifteen, where it says, Lest the anger of the Lord your God be kindled against you and he destroy you from off the face of the earth or the ground, literally from the land in which you're going. Into. But even with that, as part of what's going on here in the life of Israel, God says, even with that, God reminds them that obedience to him is not ultimately the ground or the basis of their relationship to him. Instead, it's always been and always will be his redeeming grace. And we see that in verses 20 to 25. He says, when your son, don't worry girls, when your child, really. We should translate that maybe. When your child asks you in time to come, what is the meaning of the testimonies and the statutes and the rules that the Lord our God has commanded you? Then you shall say to your son or child, We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt. And the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and the Lord showed us signs and wonders and great and grief great and grievous against Egypt and against Pharaoh and all his household before our eyes, and he brought us out from From there, that he might bring us in and give us a land that he swore to give our fathers. And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes to fear the Lord our God for our good always, that he might That's one way to translate it. I like the CSB, the Christian Standard Bible. Its translation is a little bit more wooden, if you will, and it says this. This way. Righteousness will be yours if we are careful, uh, will be ours if we are careful to follow every one of these commands before the Lord our God as He has commanded. commanded us. And in a very real sense, Israel had a double motivation to live in obedience. They had the motivation, first, to fulfill these commandments and to earn the right to remain in the land in some covenantal sense. Second of all, they had God's generous grace. This history of God redeeming them and creating them as a people for himself. But here's the rub: Israel had this double motivation, and we don't have that conditional element anymore. Israel broke that and they were exiled out of land and from then on it's all simply God's grace. That's emphasized over and over in so many ways. But here's the rough, even with this double motivation that Israel had, what did she do in the land? Over and over, did she love the Lord their God, or did she love the Lord her God wholeheartedly? If they, and the answer is clearly no. And if they couldn't, with this double motivation, what about us? Who only have the motivation of God's redeeming grace? And then that asks it raises the question: why did God offer this conditional element in the Mosaic Covenant? And the answer is to set up the criteria for us to recognize true Israel. as the true remnant when it came. The true people of God. And the true people of God, true Israel, was not first a people, but was first A person, the person of Jesus Christ. As one commentator said, Jesus is Israel reduced to one, the very barest remnant, but the one faithful Israelite who did. What God commanded. And he truly did love the Lord wholeheartedly, like we know we should, but never do perfectly or as faithfully or as fully or perfectly as As we should. His whole life was oriented toward the Father in love, doing all for his glory in utter submission to him. John 6 38 says, For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. His whole life was occupied with listening. To God's word, kids. He's a great example to us. Chapter 2. At 12 years old, it says this. His parents found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers. Listening to them and asking them questions, and all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers He occupied himself with listening to God's word when he's out in the wilderness, clearly meditating on Deuteronomy, because as Satan comes to tempt him, all he can do is quote Deuteronomy over and over. Jesus says in John 12, I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. He occupied himself with listening to the Father before he went out and taught, and his whole life was lived in obedience. To the Father, perfect, holy, righteous obedience, not just to God's law, but obedience to his own commitment, Christ's commitment to be the substitutionary sacrifice. In our place as our Redeemer, as our Lamb of God, who is slain to take away the sins of the world, to take away the just penalty that our sin, our lack of loving God, deserves. He took it with him to the cross and nailed it there that it might no longer be a burden on us, on our hearts, on our souls. So that when he said it is finished on the cross, it meant our sin. Our sin is finished. Past, present, future is finished in Jesus Christ as we simply acknowledge it, repent of it, trust in him, turn to him. Him in faith and follow him. And when we do it in Jesus, Deuteronomy 6:25 is fulfilled for us. It is righteousness. His righteousness is ours because he Was careful to obey, and by the grace and power of his Holy Spirit, he begins to empower us to obey in similar ways, more and more, as we're conformed to his image. Day by day, making us careful to do all his commands before the Lord our God as he commanded us. This is the gospel good news, not a do-good religiosity. Just be a better person. That's religion talking. That's not gospel faith. Instead, the gospel brings us a word of salvation. Sin. A word of transformation. Israel failed to love God with their whole hearts, and we fail to love God with our whole hearts day after day. We don't love God as we ought, but Jesus. Did. Jesus did. The Son loved the Father with every thought, breath, and heartbeat, and then he gave that perfect life for us so that we could be counted as those who have loved God. As we talked last week, so that this this verse twenty-five could be read for us as a promise of what we will one day before. Those who do are careful to do all this commandment before the Lord our God as He has commanded us, and that is our righteousness. He is Our righteousness. On the cross, Jesus shed his blood for us, bearing God's wrath for our failure to love, and then rose on the third day and has sent his spirit to give the blessing of the covenant of grace. You know what the blessing of the covenant of grace is? So this is the covenant of grace that God revealed after the fall. The blessing of the covenant of grace is obedience. It's the promise that one day we will be like Jesus, perfect obedience to the The Father. And that is a gift of God to us through faith in Him. As the Spirit comes into our lives and woos and wins our hearts, enabling us to love God, not just with our actions, but with our very Affections and devotions to enable us to begin to follow God fully and wholeheartedly, not to earn his favor as our creator and redeemer, but because in Jesus Christ He has already given us His favor forever. In promise through faith. Thanks be to God. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this good word. We thank you for this call of your law. To love you with our whole hearts, our whole minds, devoting ourselves to knowing who you are that we might love you more and more. Lord, we confess that we don't do this Ever as we ought, as fully as we know we could and should, forgive us for that. And yet we thank you that Jesus did, that He did that for us, and that through faith in Him we We have the blessing of being those who are looked upon by you as devoted lovers of God. May we live into that reality more and more as we're conformed to Christ's image by the work of your spirit in our lives. Do this for the praise and glory of your holy name. In Jesus' name. Amen.