Well, if you are maybe someone who does not often get to church, but gets to church on Christmas and Easter. Maybe if you're somebody who has been brought today by someone who brought you to church and is going to have lunch with you later on today, you might find our sermon text this morning a little odd. It's not the usual text from which you get Sermons on Easter Sunday. Usually you get a sermon that is on a passage that recounts for us Christ Jesus' resurrection from the dead. And it is certainly that which the church broadly commemorates today, which Which really the church commemorates week after week as we gather as God's people. But this morning we're going to look not to a New Testament account of Jesus Christ's resurrection from the dead. But we're going to look back hundreds of years before Jesus to a vision to one of his prophets that helps God's people or is intended to help God's people understand the significance. And this passage is from Ezekiel chapter 37. It's verses 1 to 14. If you don't have a Bible, we have Bibles provided for you. Bibles, Ezekiel 37 is on page 724, and I invite you to turn with me there. Ezekiel is a prophet sent to the people of Israel in exile. So if you know the history of Israel, Israel was a people saved initially out of Egypt. Out of Egypt, which represented sin and suffering. They were saved and brought into a land of blessing and promise. A land flowing with milk and honey, a land where God was their God, and they dwelled with him through his special presence, through the tabernacle and then the temple. And all through their time in the land, God said, I will be with you, and you will be blessed as long as you hold fast to my laws, as long as you do what I have commanded you to do. Which, in many ways, outwardly at least, were very doable, his laws. But if you know the history of Israel, you know that time after time they failed And God would send his prophets to bring them to repentance, to bring them to faith, and they refused time and time again until finally God said, I'm going to now come in judgment. And that's what exile was. He brought in the Assyrian armies first and then the armies of Babylon and led his people out of Their land, in bondage, in suffering, into the exile in Babylon. And Ezekiel is a priest who becomes a prophet to God's people, and he's one of these exiles. He's dragged out to Babylon. And God, through Ezekiel, explains what has just happened. He says, this is a judgment that is ultimately a foretaste of final judgment. This is what all human beings who reject God's law, and that's all of us, because we're in sin. That's what we all deserve. And yet, in Ezekiel, the first half of Ezekiel is mostly an explanation of God's judgment, what it means. And that judgment would be universal. The whole world would experience it, even as Israel has just experienced it in their history. But then in Ezekiel 33, the tone changes. The second half of the book are promises that God would eventually save his people through faith. And this is just one of the many ways in which God describes that promise, describes that hope to his people. And it's in this vision that he gives to his prophet Ezekiel. of a valley of dry bones. So let's look at this text, starting with verse 1, reading through verse 14. Hear now the word of the Lord. The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. And he led me around among them. And behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, Oh Lord God, you know. Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones, Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live, and I will lay sinews upon you, and I will cause f<unk> flesh to come upon you and cover you with skin and put breath in you and you shall live and you shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied as I was commanded, and as I prophesied, there was a sound. And behold, a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to its bone, and I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them. But there was no breath in them. And he said to me, Prophesy to the breath, prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live. So I prophesied as he commanded me. And the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet an exceedingly great army. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones are dried up and our hope is lost. We are indeed cut off. Therefore, prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people, and I will bring you into the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. and I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the Lord I have spoken, and I will do it, declares. Here ends the reading of God's word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing on our time as we meditate on this text further. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. That it continues to blow upon us, that by your spirit you continue to use it as we just sang, to create in us. Sadness for our sin, conviction, that you use it to create life in us as it creates faith. In the one who died and rose first, as the first fruits of all who would follow him. Lord, build that faith in us today. Open our hearts to hear your word, to apply it to our lives, and may we be changed with the world. By it in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as I mentioned, uh today is the day when around the world the church marks in a In a special way, with some special focus, the resurrection of Jesus Christ. As I mentioned, this is something that really we do week after week as we gather around God's Word and His sacraments, and we reflect on Jesus Christ as the one who is crucified, dead, and buried, but who on the third day rose from the grave and came out of the tomb, leaving it empty. As we note week after week and year after year, and met with his disciples and then ascended to heaven. And sent them around the world to proclaim this news. That's the story that is reflected on week after week, and especially Easter after Easter Easter, and usually we look at an account of that story in the life of Christ. And if you've ever been to church on Easter Sunday, you've heard that story. You've read those texts of Jesus The empty tomb appearing to his disciples and promising that one day the same would happen to them as they follow him This morning we're looking at a different passage, Ezekiel 37. Really a profound and incredible vision of resurrection in and of itself. I mean, what is resurrection other than death? Coming to life. That's the claim of Jesus rising from the dead, that he truly died, that he truly was buried, and that he truly rose to new life afterward. And that's what we see in this picture here of this valley of death, a valley of dry bones. You can't get more dead than that. Coming to life, to become living, breathing human beings. Here in his prophecy, Ezekiel is actually giving a picture to Israel of what God had promised to them, which was a return from exile. Then, in a sense, this picture of resurrection is a metaphor that Ezekiel is painting for their return to the promised land. And just like exile was a picture of final judgment, so this is a picture not just of return to the fine to the promised land, which it was a picture of, but as you know, if you know the story of Israel, they return to the promised land and it's not This great. In fact, it's actually less great than it was before. This picture is of something greater. And so we begin to realize that this picture, although it is on the one hand, a A vision to encourage the Israelites that they would be returned to the land, on the one hand, it has far greater meaning. It's actually pushing them beyond that to see that actually there's a far greater Return from exile that is going to happen. And that is on the last day when Christ raises all human beings. to new bodily life. And this picture here is what happens to those who are raised to new life as his people. His people. And so in this sense, what this passage gives us is not necessarily a description of Christ's resurrection per se, although it anticipates that in a sense. But it actually gives us a picture of the significance of Christ's resurrection for his people who will be raised like him, as he says in Philippians chapter 3. Where Paul says, just as Jesus rose from the dead with a new body, so also we will one day be raised with a new body if we follow him by faith. And so as you look at this passage, I want us to see what it means, what it looks like, the significance of being a resurrection people, what we could call a new creation people. That's what Ezekiel is driving home to Israel here. And friends, in a very real sense, Israel and its story is meant to be a microcosm or a miniature of our story, not simply as human beings, but especially as human beings. Who are in relationship with Almighty God, called to faith in Jesus Christ. And what we see here is what it means to be a resurrection people of God. It means, first of all, that we are found ruined by sin. Second of all, that we are raised by the Spirit. And third, that we are rallied to be soldiers. Ruined by sin, raised by the Spirit, and rallied to be soldiers. Those are the three points I want us to consider briefly this morning. First, what does it mean to be a resurrection people of God? It means that we are By nature, left to ourselves, ruined by sin. That's the whole point of this picture of the valley of dry bones. Ezekiel is given this, it's a striking, vivid image. In many ways, it seems like this is a passage ripe for CGI. Right? You can sort of imagine this, it could never be done well with old-fashioned effects. You need CGI. It it only could sort of capture what's going on here. But it's it's first i it's we're introduced to this picture of a people completely ruined and decimated. That's verse one. The hand of the Lord was upon me. And he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley. Now you read that and you say, why this definite article? What what valley is this that Ezekiel is referencing here? And if you've been reading in Ezekiel, it seems as though what he's referring to is the valley of chapter 3. Now that doesn't mean anything to you, it doesn't mean anything to us. We haven't read that passage, but That passage is an interesting passage where Ezekiel sees a vision in the valley of the Lord on his chariot throne. And it's this image of the Lord coming out in battle, and specifically the Lord tells Ezekiel that he is going forth in battle against his own people. He is going to go in battle against his people. In a sense, he's going to be siding with Babylon in their bringing judgment and exile upon his people. Because of his people's sin, disobedience, idolatry, and rebellion against him. And so what Ezekiel sees here is the next part of that story. God has gone forth in battle against his people, and what's the result? The valley was full of dry bones. It's a picture of what happens when God's judgment comes for sin. It's complete. It's final. You're left as dry bone. And verse 2, and he led me around among them, and and this is this vivid description, right? There is not a bit of flesh or life left. He led me around them, and behold, there were very many. On the surface of the valley, that's significant because that means they were unburied bones. They were on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry, and that's significant because it means that they've been left there, that no one has attended to them, that they have been eaten by the birds and the beasts. And the sun has dried them out completely. And why is that all so significant? Well, it's because in the ancient world, there was something worse than death. To be dead and then buried with your ancestors in a tomb where your flesh could decay in privacy and in sort of a sacredness. That was a picture of anticipating afterlife or having something that went on from you. But to be one whose bones were left to rot and dry out in the sun was utter curse. One commentator puts it this way, to be an unburied meant the perpetuation of suffering into the afterlife in the ancient Near Eastern world. It was a destiny fit only for the truly cursed. Indeed, it was one aspect of the fate decreed for Israel under the covenant curses. These bones, then, he's talking about Ezekiel 37, are not just evidence of death, but death under curse. These bones proclaim that their owners had been the victims not only of a battle. But also of divine judgment, ruined by their sin And so these dry bones are people slain in battle, bearing covenant curse, left for the vultures and the maggots to bake and bleach in the hot Babylonian sun, people utterly ruined by sin. And who are they? Well, we're told, right? We're told in verse 11 whose bones these are. Then he, the Lord, said to me, Son of man, these bones are the house of Israel. These aren't the armies of Assyria, these aren't the The battalions of Babylon, these are the house of Israel, the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost. We are indeed cut off. God is actually here giving a visual representation of what the people already are feeling. They're feeling their sense of judgment They're feeling their sense of condemnation. They're feeling as good as dead. They're saying, we feel like a valley of dried bones. Our bones are dried up. In a sense, they're feeling what David describes as that sense of guilt and shame for sin in Psalm 32, where he says, When I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer On the one hand, the Israelites are saying we feel this way, and God says, you know what, not only literally is there a sense in which you are that, but it's far worse. You're not just dried-up bones, you're not just dead, you're accursed. That's the picture he gives them through Ezekiel. A people under the curse of the covenant, covenant breakers. Not quite literally dead. They're still sitting along the canals of Babylon, but they are spiritually dead in sin. And that's the reality of all of us. As God finds us. As human beings, this side of the fall. Human beings, this side of Genesis chapter 3, where we learn about our first father Adam has fallen to sin and how that affects all of us. The Bible's assessment is that no one is righteous, no not one. All have sinned. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Doesn't that describe our culture and society today? No fear of God before their eyes. And the Bible says the wages of sin is death. This dry bones picture is a verdict that is upon all humanity, spiritually speaking. Sometimes we feel this ruin, right? Like Israel here. Sometimes we we feel like dry bones. Maybe it's because of our sin, or maybe it's the suffering that sin has caused. Our bones are dried up, our hope is lost, we are indeed cut off. You get a certain diagnosis and you feel that, don't you? You grow on in age and death is closer and closer and you feel what Israel is talking about here. That we are sort of the walking dead in this life if we're honest about it. Kids, I know it doesn't feel like that. I know you're still growing. You can still absorb a lot of injuries and things without a lot of pain, but get a little older. And you start creaking and you start wearing out and you realize this dry bones verdict is on all of us. Lifelessness, the death curse, the ruin caused by sin is a spiritual reality for all of us, not just God's people, actually, not just Israel, not just the church, but all human beings made in God's image who have rebelled against him. And that's why The message of Easter, the message of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and the good news it is, is a message for everyone, not just for Christians, because the problem that Easter solves is all of our greatest problem, and that is the problem of sin. And its consequences, primarily death. Now this may sound harsh, but it's only just if we realize that actually we owe God everything. He is the creator. All good that we have is his, and any good that we are not truly thankful for to him, any good that we actually ascribe to ourselves, any good that we think we deserve is all an affront. To him, because he has given it, and we do not deserve it, having rebelled against him Nowadays, it seems like almost anything is up for grabs. Anything is can be claimed as ours, whether it is uh the stuff we own. Our gender, what we think that should be, whatever the case may be, we think we can decide for ourselves, and in a very real sense, there is no God, fear of God, before our eyes That's what sin is: a disregard, a disobedience, a rebellion against God and His law, and the consequence is the curse of death. We read about that in Ephesians chapter 2. This reality that this death that's pictured here in this Valley of Dry Bones is spiritually already true of all of us. Where Paul writing to the Ephesians says, You, you Ephesians, who are now Christians, So that means us who are here, who are followers of Christ, and it means it goes beyond us, right? You were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. This valley of dry bones is a vivid picture of us. Spiritually speaking. And so new creation people is a people who are found first, ruined by sin. That's the bad news, but is that the end of the story? God's people left, lifeless, cursed forever? No. That's not the end of the story. That's not the end of this vision. The vision doesn't end with bleached bones sitting there vaking in the Babylonian sun. No, the good news is, into this reality. God steps forward and acts to save his people. And he does so as he continues to speak To Ezekiel. The second point: that God's people are the resurrection people, are not only ruined by sin, but are raised by the Spirit. The same God who acted to judge. And who judges is also the God who acts to save by his almighty power. And that's how we're And as we look at the second point uh raised by the Spirit, what we're seeing here is how resurrection happens. It is a supernatural work of the Spirit by the Word. You know, a lot of people will object will object. to uh the idea of resurrection, they're saying people don't rise from the dead. Once you die, you stay dead. And that's true. Science shows us that over and over again. That is true. And the claim of Christianity is not that dead people rise from the dead regularly. Actually, the claim of Christianity is that one man rose from the dead supernaturally, and that that one had promised that he would, and he also promised that all would one day. But that this is not a normal event. This is not a natural event. This doesn't just happen as a way the world works, you know, the rising and dying cycle of life. It's not It requires a supernatural intervention of God by his grace. I love God's question. For Ezekiel here in in verse three. It's almost humorous, isn't it? He he drags uh you know he brings uh Ezekiel out into this valley and he shows him all these dry bones. He's you know Ezekiel's a priest, so he knows anatomy and biology, right? Priests knew the difference between skin and flesh and sinew and bone because they were regularly sacrificing animals in the temple. They were the guys with all the medical knowledge in the ancient world. They knew how to use a knife and to do some serious surgery on flesh and bones. And God says, all right, look at all these bones. He takes him around. And then what does he say in verse 3? And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? Can bones live? No, of course not. We know the answer. Ezekiel knows that bones don't live. But what does he say? And I answer, I love how one commentator says, he he answers uh cautiously And returns the ball to the God's court. I answered, O Lord, God, you know. Why? Because Ezekiel knows something profound when he's talking to Almighty God. While he knows that bones themselves cannot live, he also knows that the God who created all things Is the God who can make bones to live. It is the God who can do what Luke over and over in his gospel drives home: that our God is the God that does the impossible. And so humanly speaking, scientifically speaking, by our ordinary standards, bones can't live, but with Almighty God on the scene, bones can live And that is the message that God drives home as we read on. Right? And notice that he does this New creation work. It's pictured as new creation because it takes two stages just like creation took two stages. In creation, there was this whole two-stage Work of God where He forms and then He fills. He forms light and darkness and then fills them With the sun and the moon. He forms the earth and fills it with creatures. He forms the man and then fills him with the spirit of life. And the same thing happens here in verses 5 to 8. And when we read through this passage, one thing that is hard to see, and I want to bring it out to us if I can. can. In in the original language in which this is written, in Hebrew, there's only one word that can be translated wind, um, breath, and spirit And so it's a little tough when you come to this passage because that word is used over and over again. And contextually, based on what's being said, translators have to make decisions: which one of those words in English will you use? So I want to bring it out to us. I think in some cases our our our translators are a little bit more reticent to use the word spirit when than I think they should be. And it really just kind of all reads like a very Spirit work going on here, raising the dead. Look at verse 5. Well, verse 4. Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones and say to them. I mean, that's remarkable, isn't it? Go chat with some bones, Ezekiel. Now preachers know sometimes it feels like that. When you look out and you see people nodding off, preach to the sleeping, right? But isn't that what preaching ministry is? Preaching to us is dry bones. It will create life as the Spirit attends the word. Preach to them and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. When God gives a command, he also empowers the ability to obey it. To follow it, right? We can't obey as dry bones, but he can make us obey his dry bones, which he does. Verse 5: Thus says the Lord God to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath or spirit. To enter you, and you shall live. And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put spirit in you. And you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord. So Ezekiel does what he's told. I prophesied as I was commanded, and as I prophesied, there was a sound. And behold, a rattling. That sounds kind of creepy. Rattling bones together. That's what it is, right? A rattling and the bones came together and bone to bone And as I looked, behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them, but there was no spirit in them. Then he said to me, Prophesy to the Spirit, O prophecy, Prophesy, Son of Man, and say to the Spirit, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four Spirits or winds, O spirit, and breathe on these slain that they may live And so I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath or the spirit came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet an exceedingly great army. Here's that CGI of Hollywood, right? You can actually see layer upon layer of life being forged, but even when the body is whole, there is no life until the spirit. Enters in and animates the corpses. It's interesting It is a little ambiguous throughout this passage which what spirit is intended. Is it just sort of the spirit of life in all of us, or is it the Holy Spirit? Seems like the The answer comes in verse 14, where God says, in the end, I will put my spirit within you. And you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the Lord, I have spoken, and I will do it. Resurrection people of God are not only ruined by sin. That are raised by Almighty God, by the power of His Spirit, the same Spirit which raised Jesus on the third day. This is a picture of hope. Maybe, just maybe, those who are by nature enemies of God Who are slain by him in judgment, in battle, and judged by him to be accursed, can somehow be raised to new life and relationship with Almighty. God. That is the offer of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And this is the hope for God's people, as God explains in verses 11 to 13. Then he said to me, Son of man, These bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones are dried up and our hope is lost. We are indeed cut off. That's curse Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves, and I will raise you from your graves, O my people, and I will bring you into the land of Israel, and you shall Shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. Now, this initially on the surface is a promise of return from Exile. That happened in 536 BC when Cyrus, the king of Persia, decreed that Israel could return to their land. And yet there weren't literally graves being opened. You know, that's just a metaphor at that point. But fast forward about 500 years. And when Jesus Christ went to the cross, Matthew in his gospel tells us when Jesus cried out, it is finished, and gave up the Spirit, that graves were opened. That saints were raised from their dead, from the dead. That others came to new life as an anticipation of Christ's resurrection from the dead. Now, those who are raised, Lives for a time, just like Israel went back to the land, and yet that wasn't the hope they were hoping for. So also those saints who were raised at Christ's death were raised only to die once again. But all of this, all of this was simply a foretaste, first fruits, of the final resurrection of the dead on the last day. which is promised to all who, like these bones in deadness of sin, hear the preached word of God that says to us, Repent, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, who hear that word as dry bones and become living flesh. Having our hearts of stone, changed by the Spirit, to have hearts of flesh which believe and say, Yes, Lord, I am a sinner. I am hopeless without you. And yet Christ has promised. That as I hold fast to him, he will be first fruits of my resurrection, through his resurrection from the dead. And in a sense, this is a A multifaceted, a multi-part process, just like Israel returns to the land and realizes that's not the true hope. It's still coming and it comes in Jesus Christ. So also for us who believe in Jesus Christ, it says that we are already, in a sense, raised by the Spirit. Ephesians 2 talks about that. Already we have new life in us, and yet our final resurrection is not just to have new spirit in us, but to have new bodies, resurrection bodies that like Christ will last forever. Have you heard this good news of the Word of God's gospel? Have you heard it proclaimed to you? And have you responded in repentance of your sin and in faith in Jesus Christ? Christ. Have you been made alive by the Spirit? If not, don't delay. Don't delay. The great hope of God's people is everlasting life with God and glory only because of the work of Jesus Christ. And it can be your hope too. If you simply repent of your sin and trust in Jesus Christ and follow him by faith as your Savior. Let me read you these words from Colossians chapter 2 that describe the profound work of Jesus Christ on our behalf. In verse 12, it says. In Jesus Christ, having been buried with him in baptism through faith, in which you also were raised with him through faith in the powerful working It's legal demands, this he set aside, nailing it to the cross. The great promise of forgiveness of sins. Why is it Israel felt like dry bones? Why is it that we Live under this pall of death. Why is it that we can live under this dry bone feel of guilt for sin? It's because sin really does bring guilt. And it needs to be cleansed, it needs to be removed, and yet it's washed away by the blood of Jesus. It's nailed to the cross if you simply repent and Put your faith in him. Maybe you're not sure about the resurrection. Because the resurrection is central to the Christian faith. Romans 10, 9 says, if we confess with our mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Saved. Maybe you're here this morning and you're not sure if Jesus truly rose from the dead. I would argue, look into it. Study it carefully. Of all the historical facts out there, it's one of the best documented ones. So learn about it. Try to cultivate a heart to believe. Maybe you're one who has believed, but you still have questions and doubts. Look into it. N. T. Wright has a whole tome, a big thick book called The Resurrection of the Son of God. of God. And he there he just basically digs deeply into the historical case for the resurrection of Christ. Highly academic, highly thick, hard to read. It might take your whole rest of your life to read it. But it probably would be good. Tim Keller, the famous uh pastor from New York, said reading that book took him from having a certain amount of doubt and basically cut his doubt in half or something like that. Look into it. Read about it. And as you rest and become to begin to rest in this promise of God that it is his Almighty power raise raising us by his spirit. Listen to what the Heidelberg Catechism says, the resurrection of Christ profits those of us who are his people. First, by his resurrection, he has overcome death, that he might make us partakers of that righteousness which he has purchased for us by his death Secondly, we are also by his power raised up to new life. And lastly, the resurrection of Christ is a sure pledge of our blessed resurrection. Resurrection. And friends, don't let this incredible idea of resurrection and the fact that it already is bearing fruit in us by the Spirit, don't let that let you denigrate its power. You know, it's so easy to sort of say, well, I would really believe, I could really believe if I just saw a dead person come to life. And yet, week after week, the Bible says as the word is preached and people are brought to faith and are built in their faith, that's the same power. At work. Here, it's just the preaching of the word. Martin Luther, the great reformer, said, I simply taught and preached and wrote God's word. Otherwise, I did nothing. The word did it all. And he's talking about the transformation that happened. At the Reformation. Resurrection doesn't just happen, but God can make resurrection happen. May this be true of you and me and us today and forever. The new creation people, the resurrection people, doesn't just recognize that we're ruined by sin, that we're raised by the Spirit. Third and finally we'll close with this. It shows us a purpose for the resurrection, and that is that we are rallied as soldiers. Rallied as soldiers. Already we've seen the battle imagery in this valley of dry bones. We've talked about that, right? But notice how the risen people of God are described in verse 10. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet. An exceedingly great army. This is a people not just raised to enjoy life. Sitting around enjoying its blessings, certainly there was there would be that as well, but specifically raised to be a s a group of soldiers. An army no longer fighting against God in this purposes, but now fighting with God against evil and the power of darkness. The victory in the war would Would not be won by God's people alone. It's always the Lord fighting on behalf of his people. In chapter 38 and 39 of Ezekiel, it talks about the final battle, and it it it shows us there. The final battle is God doing all the fighting. But we as his army come along for the ride and participate with him in the victory. In many ways, this is like David and Goliath. I love that passage there. David is the king of Israel, is a little picture of Jesus Christ. And facing the great enemy, Jesus faces death, David faces Goliath, this great giant, formidable foe. And when he defeats Goliath, the battle is pretty much over. But it's not Quite done. Israel, the armies of Israel, have to go and pursue the Philistines until the victory is complete. That's what we are as the people of God. Raised to new life by the Spirit. To engage in a spiritual battle on behalf of the enemies of good, on behalf of the forces of good, God's Almighty forces. Becoming soldiers of the cross, fighting alongside Jesus Christ. He's defeated our great enemies, Satan, sin and death. He defeated Satan by his holy life, resisting temptation. He defeated sin by dying on the cross in our place, crucifying our record of debt, as Colossians two speaks of. He defeated death by rising again and transforming death from the consequence for sin into a command. commencement of everlasting life for God's people. Jesus has done the great victory, but we're called to be soldiers, not of an earthly army fighting some nation with guns and nuclear weapons or something like that. But we're called to be a spiritual army of faith, standing against Satan's sin and death's curse. 2 Corinthians 10 says, We walk in the flesh Although we walk in the flesh, we're not waging war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not the weapons of the flesh, but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We don't fight by picking up rifles and shooting people. We wage war as God's people by holding fast to Jesus Christ. I love how Paul says in First Corinthians fifteen, where he's about to tell the Corinthians or remind the Corinthians of the gospel of resurrection, he says, This is the gospel in which you stand, by which you are being saved if You hold fast to the word preached to you. Ephesians 6, Paul says, we're to put on the whole armor of God. What is that armor? It's nothing less than Jesus and his God. So we hold fast to that. That's how we fight. That is our armor. That is our weaponry. The gospel of Jesus Christ that we cling to and that we share. And that is how we are rallied as his soldiers. We fight. And here's the remarkable mind-bending reality. As God's people, we fight as his new army. We fight by loving our enemies. Loving them into the kingdom of Jesus Christ. Doing that so that we can steal from Satan some of his people. So that they too can become dry bones raised. We do this by not only loving our enemies, but extending gr God's grace to those we think undeserving, just like we who are by nature undeserving have received His grace. We go forth speaking his word, and that word has profound power because of the Spirit to awaken hearts and minds to new life in Jesus. Jesus Christ. We go forth sharing the love of Christ in all that we do, loving because we've first been loved in Jesus Christ. Are you part of the Lord's army, soldiers of the cross, waging? spiritual war in this life. The war is a battle for hearts and minds and souls who will be devoted to Christ alone. And that's why Paul says in Second Corinthians 10,000 We destroy arguments in every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and we take captive every thought to make it obedient to Christ. That's the hope secured for us in Christ's resurrection. It's not only an individual salvation, it's a corporate resurrection glory. Thank God he gives us a picture here, not of one person raised up. But of a people raised to life. And that is a picture that goes on and gets expanded, not just the people of Israel, but people from every nation, tribe, and tongue that will reign with him in the new heavens and the new earth. That's where Ezekiel's vision ultimately leads. Not just a return from exile, but a people raised to dwell with God forever, as we read about in Revelation 21 and 22. And all this, friends, is why the resurrection of Jesus Christ is so central to the Christian faith. Why we celebrate it at least annually, but really week after week as God's people. Because in the cross of Jesus Christ, in the resurrection from the dead, this incredible picture of Ezekiel 37 begins to come true and assures us of its truth for those of us who are God's people through faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. In Jesus we recognize that we are by nature ruined by sin, and yet he entered into the valley of dry bones. In fact, he became one of the set of dried bones when he went to the grave. And he did that not because he deserved that judgment from God and that curse. but because we do. And he did it for us, so that as he was raised to life, so also we could be raised to new life through faith in him. In Jesus Christ we recognize that we are raised by the same Holy Spirit who raised him from the Grave. Already we have new hearts and we have the promise of new bodies in the age to come. We remember and recognize that we are rallied as soldiers of Christ, suffering like Jesus did in his life. Confident that he's leading us through suffering to glory that awaits. And isn't that what he described there in the last two verses The very purpose of all of this is what? That you shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people, and I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the Lord, I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the Lord. So because Christ is risen, we who trust in him will one day be raised to everlasting life. His empty tomb is a guarantee that Ezekiel's vision will come true, not as a poetic, beautiful vision, but as a reality. This is our hope. That we who are ruined by sin have been raised by the Spirit and now are rallied as soldiers of the risen king. And we'll one day see him face to face and dwell in the land of the living forever, all because Christ is risen. He Is risen indeed. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this word and this reminder from From your word of Ezekiel's vision and how it does point us forward not only to Christ but beyond, to Christ's second coming, his return. When the dead will be raised, when graves will be opened, when you will put flesh on the bones, on our bones, rotting away due to our sin and misery. It will raise us to new life, to reign with Christ in glory forever. How we thank you for that promise of the resurrection that we remember and celebrate week after week as we think on the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christ and its profound meaning for us. May you encourage us and comfort us with these truths in Jesus' name Jesus