Our New Testament reading comes from John chapter 11, verses 1 through 53. That can be found on page 897 of the Pew Bibles. It's almost all of John 11. We will move. We'll get through. It's one story. John chapter 11 begins this way in verse 1. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill So the sister sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this he said to the disciples, Let us go up to Judea again. And the disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you. You're going there again? And Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he's fallen asleep, he'll recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought he meant taking rest and sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your sake I'm glad I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him. So Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him Now, when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him. But Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. And Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he dies, yet he shall live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she, Mary, heard it, she rose quickly and went to him Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with her, in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. And when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. And Jesus wept. So the Jews said, See how he loved him. But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. And Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead for four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around that they may believe that you sent me unto me. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips. and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered in the council and said, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him. And the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. You know nothing at all. Nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not but the whole nation should perish. He did not say this of his own accord, but being the high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, not for the nation also, but also for the nation. Also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day they made plans to put him to death. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we see here a beloved story, a familiar story of Jesus. We ask that you would give us here, by your Spirit, eyes to see and understand who Jesus is and what he is saying to us through this word. We've read again and again here that these things happen so that we might believe. May we be people whose faith is strengthened and encouraged by these words as we see Jesus and who he is. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Here in John chapter 11, we're reaching a kind of bridge point between the beginning and the end of John. You might say we're only halfway through, Kerris. It's chapter eleven of twenty-one. How could we be getting to the end? But we really are here crossing over from the story of Jesus' life and ministry And into what we call the passion narrative, the story of Jesus' death. We're about to step into the story of the very end of Jesus' life. And we can see that even at the very end of our passage here. Because what do the Pharisees say? I mean, sure, they've been talking about wanting to kill Jesus for a while, but here at the end of the passage, they actually start putting the plans in the mind. We're reaching the end game. This story in particular, Lazarus dying and rising, is one that is well known It's moving and a powerful story. And it contains what are many children's very favorite verse in the Bible, simply because it's the very shortest one, right? Jesus wept But that also speaks very deeply and truly to many adults, right? Because it shows who Jesus is, that he is There are many things that we could learn and see about Jesus here in this text, but part of what we have work to do in this subject is to ask not just what is there here to learn, but what is the point that John the author is making to Us. Why is John telling us this story this way? What particularly about Jesus' person and works is the author John trying to bring to life here? Part of how John has structured this book is that he's given us these signs. Pharisees called it out, right? Here are these signs of Jesus. Many times in John, those signs are accompanied by a particular kind of statement, an I am statement. There are these actions that Jesus does, and then Jesus or John in the text tells us what the meaning is. And here in this text, it's in the midst of a man's death. That Jesus says, I am the resurrection and the life. That's a big claim and an important one What is critical to see here as we look at this miraculous event and these bold claims is how the miracle and the meaning intersect with one another. Understanding that intersection between the miracle and the event is really one of the only ways to endure the burdens and hardships of this world. Part of what is brought to light here with how John tells the story is uh this very fact of life on earth that there are constant dark and destructive realities in this world with which We just need to grapple. There are. There are things in this life which lead us to despair, which will lead us to dis trust, which bring about, which result in destruction. And on the surface of the story is what? There's this man, Lazarus, who gets sick and he dies, and his family is left around him in tears. is somehow we all know we live in a world where that is incredibly sad. Or that kind of story, when you see it in the world, it's the kind which can move us to death. Tears. What's true at the same time is that it's an incredibly normal story, right? It's the kind of story that no doubt you've experienced in some way. When a grandparent, a parent, a sibling, a child, a friend, someone in this world dies, happens every day There's this tug in that kind of experience to assume or to say, I mean, if this experience is so normal, does God really care? He must not. Uh wouldn't a good God do something about this to stop these things? Wouldn't he help me escape having to face this reality? Wouldn't God just step into these moments moments and act and change them and make it not this way. And that tug, uh that impulse to respond, to ask that kind of question is exactly why we need to see the beauty in this miracle and how it intersects with it meaning. Where do the meaning and the miracle mean? Meet. John is going to teach us this tonight. The Lord of the resurrection does not evade death. He defeats it. The Lord of the resurrection does not evade death. He defeats it. We're going to see that in three points today. They're this first Jesus' delay, then Jesus' confrontations, and then Jesus' triumphs. His delay, his confrontations, his triumphs. Join me in that first point. Jesus' delay. Look with me at how the text here starts. In the previous chapter, at the end, Jesus left the Jerusalem area. We read that Jesus, after the Jews attempt to stone him, he goes across the Jordan and he goes to this place where he has this sweet ministry And many people come to him, and many people it says believe. And then as we start chapter eleven here, we get to verse one, it says, Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sister sent to him Jesus, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. There's a sort of assumption here from John that we're a little bit familiar with these people already. We'll get more acquainted with them throughout the end of John here. But what's true of them? They live in Bethany, and that's right next door to Jerusalem. These people clearly know Jesus well, and they send to him when their brother falls ill. Now, how does Jesus respond to that news? Verse 4. When Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. That's kind of a confusing statement on the surface, right? It doesn't seem to make much sense. It's it's kind of surprising. And yet, think about what we know about the timing with which Jesus acts. Jesus is very particular with his timing throughout the book of John. We've seen ways that he's very careful. Sometimes it may feel like he's not, but he is. It's felt like he's not careful when he keeps healing people on the Sabbath. And that causes problem after problem. And we say, Man, Jesus, could Would you have waited a day? But he couldn't. He couldn't because he's very intentional with his timing. He's careful about it. We learn each time. Jesus, say with the Sabbath, he heals those men for a particular reason. He's teaching us something in that timing about himself and about the Sabbath Then we get to this and here Jesus learns his friend is sick and so he decides to stay home for two days. That seems odd. It feels odd. It's in Intentional though. Verse 6 tells us the result of this news. Jesus decides to delay for two days. Now we do get the rationale from Jesus in verse 4, but it's an odd one. He said, this illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. So there's kind of this impression there that maybe the sickness just isn't a big deal, and that's how the disciples will take it too. And Jesus said this won't lead to or end in death. And so maybe we can just send out our good wishes and move along. But he does hint that there's a purpose in the sickness. in the illness. This is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. How is that going to happen? Think about this in the story for a moment. If you're one of the disciples and Jesus says, we're not going to get back on the road and go back to Jerusalem, that's good news to the disciples. 'Cause this is ninety miles away. We don't want to we just we just left that place. They were trying to kill us there. It's great that we left. We're having a nice time here. Do we really want to turn around and walk all the way back to Judea, to Bethany, right next to Jerusalem. Staying home sounds great, but staying home doesn't last for long. It lasts two days. And Jesus says what? He says, it's time to go see Lazarus. Let's go to Judea. And the disciples, this is kind of typical for them, groan, Jesus, are you sure? Do we have to? We get this proverb from Jesus there. There's twelve hours in a day we walk by light, not the night. He's saying we gotta get moving. We gotta go. Because verse eleven Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. Per usual, the disciples don't quite understand what Jesus is saying. Verse 12, they said to him, Lord, if he's falling asleep, I mean he'll recover. People fall asleep and wake up every day. You said this is not going to end in death. What's the problem? John makes clear to us, Jesus meant Lazarus died. They don't get it, so Jesus will clear it up. I love the way it's written here in verse 14. Then Jesus told them plainly. Lazarus has died. For your sake, I'm glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him. It's here that we pick up on why Jesus delayed, why he waited for two days. He was waiting for Lazarus to die. He's waiting for Lazarus to die. Does that feel a little heartless? I mean, sure, there's a a purpose. His glory will be displayed apparently, but Really have to wait for that. It's a fitting place to take note of the difficulty we experience here because we often do not like Jesus' delay. We don't like when God implicitly calls us to be patient on Him. We don't like being in a situation where we know He could act. Where he could heal, where he could intervene, where he could rescue. And he seemingly doesn't. When you pray for days or months or years, you know God could just get up and come. There's this sensation, you know, that he's just waiting at home. Maybe just waiting at home for you to die, so that that problem's over for him. It's actually a continual refrain in the Old Testament, right? God's people asking, How long, O Lord? How long will you wait? How long until you come? How long until you make things right? It's the kind of experience which can lead us to be pessimistic, uh to a despairing perspective. It's the kind of thing which can lead many people to fatalism, right? I this is just how it is, I guess. And that's even kind of what we get from Thomas here, right? You seriously want to go back to Judea now? Verse 16, Thomas said, Let us also go that we may die with him. There's a purpose to the delay though. Point number two, Jesus's confrontations. If you thought things were dark, just wait. Jesus and the disciples arrive, and Lazarus has been dead for four days already. That timing is significant because Uh you know, though one day being dead to us isn't that different from four days being dead, uh in this context it communicates to the audience that Lazarus is Very dead. Not just kind of dead. Very dead. There's many here who have come, you someone you got that. Thanks. Many have come to console the sisters. There's mourning and wailing all around. There's sorrow on display. And finally, Jesus has arrived. Here comes Martha to confront Jesus in verse 21. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. She doesn't really say that much, does she? She acknowledges in there that Jesus could have healed her brother, but now it just seems like it's too late. For that. We've Jesus, we've we've seen Jesus heal people. We know he has that power. It's kind of this tension in understanding then what Martha says next here, verse 22. She says, even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. No matter what we understand of this, it's clear it's a remarkable statement of faith She knows who Jesus is. She knows that he has power. Some say here that Martha is kind of slyly asking Jesus for a resurrection. Jesus, you could do it. Come on. I don't think that's what's happening here, though. The way that she asks this expresses a kind of sense that she doesn't know what to ask for. The way that she'll respond shows us that too. Whatever you ask from God, he will give you. Jesus, I don't know what to ask for. I just know to come to you. I know who you are. Jesus' response, verse 23, he said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha immediately there takes this as a recognition, not of an immediate resurrection. But of a far future resurrection. The Jews believed in a resurrection on the last day. There's some debate amongst the Jews in their time about that. That's where we're We get this whole conflict between the Sadducees and the Pharisees, right? The Sadducees are politically on the inn because of Rome, but they are uh uh theologically, religiously on the outs because they deny the resurrection. Meanwhile, Pharisees have power religiously because they affirm the resurrection. Martha isn't a Sadducee. No, she's here thinking to certain messianic promises, like in Psalm 118. in Isaiah 26 and Deuteronomy 31, she's knowing there is a day when resurrection will come. What is Jesus do? And Jesus says here, you know, that far-off resurrection, it's coming closer. It's coming closer to you. And she says, Jesus, if only you had come earlier. What does Jesus say? Who is He? He's come to her He says in verse 25, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? Another one of these I am statements. I am that resurrection. I am the life. That means something. Jesus explains what it means here. It means that for those who believe, death somehow is just another kind of life It's for those who believe there's no real death. He's saying here, resurrection isn't just far away. No, resurrection, Martha, is come to you. In some way, it is here before you now. So do you believe that? That's what Jesus asked her. Isn't that the very reason that Jesus waited? Isn't that why he said, For your sake I'm glad I was not there, so that you may believe Verse 27, Martha responds, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. She hasn't seen her brother resurrected yet, has she? But she sees before her the very embodiment of the resurrection. It leads us then to the second confrontation with the other sister with Mary. Martha privately goes off to Mary, who then comes to Jesus, and she seems to try and uh Mary seems to try and privately come to Jesus to marry. meet him, but there's these mourners and they follow after her. Uh i it's a thing in that age to have mourners who follow along With those who are mourning, the sad family. They follow Mary. They come to what? Mary comes up to Jesus. She falls at his feet weeping. And what she says, the English portrays us a little bit here. It's actually very close to what Martha And if you read it in the English, it'll look identical. Verse 32: Mary fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. There's this very similar kind of expression there, right? She knows about the power of Jesus. If you had only been here. There's actually a difference though between what Martha says and what Mary says. And sorry, you only know it if you read Greek. There it is. There's a few of those out there sometimes. When Martha comes, she uses the same exact words. But she says things correctly. She says things in the order that we would expect. She says the word order properly. When Mary comes She uses the same exact words, but she actually changes them up. She she fudges them up a little bit and she brings to the front, she brings priority to the possessive pronoun there. What that shows to us is that she's got some heat. She's got some passion behind what she says. She's saying, Jesus, my brother. He would not have died. Bring priority to that. It's very similar and yet it's different. Whereas Martha's response is put together. Mary's brings a particular Kind of passion. She's not speaking straight. And Jesus picks up on that. Whereas with Martha, what does he bring? He brings this conversation of Truth and hope and belief. How does Jesus respond here to Mary? It's in the very same place that he spoke to Martha. He says, verse 33. When Jesus saw Mary weeping and the Jews who had come with her also, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. It's actually in this moment that we almost get a third kind of confrontation. Jesus sees what's happening and he is deeply moved. It's actually a little better there to say or to impress that he's moved to some kind of frustration, maybe moved to some kind of anger. And the way John writes it is indicating to us this movement, this frustration, this anger, Jesus is not going to let that stay bottled up within him. John is saying there is something about this reality that has enraged Jesus, and he isn't going to stay quiet about it. Okay, now what would Jesus be angry about? Mary? No? The crowd? I don't think so. Do you remember what we saw back in the last chapter in John 10? There was a story that we had seen. We were reminded, we were shown how God the Father has given Jesus a flock. Jesus had been given a people and he was sent in the earth to the earth to do what? To go and get them, to gather them together into his fold. To get them, to protect them. And now why does Jesus have to do that? Because he's the good shepherd, and these are his flock. But his flock are where? They're in a dangerous, treacherous place, a place where there are robbers and thieves looking to kill the sheep. Who's here? Here is the Good Shepherd, who says he's the very embodiment of the resurrection and life. And what are those? Those are the very opposite of death And what has come to attack in this story? A death. Dear death has come to take Jesus' friend. And Jesus is enraged. What's he enraged at? About? It's death. He hates it. What is he going to do about it? In verse 34, he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. And Jesus So the Jews said, I see how he loved him. Some of them said, Could he not have opened the eyes? Uh could he not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? That is kind of the question here, right? I mean, Jesus, if you hate death so much, why did you even let it happen? If you care this much, why didn't you show up earlier? Why didn't you do something? What did you just forget? Point number three: Jesus' triumph. The story continues with Jesus arriving at the tomb. He calls for them to push the side as uh the stone aside. And Mary's a little worried about that. You know, hey, my brother, he's He's been dead for a bit. It's around this time of year when it gets really cold that mice try to sneak into your house, right? They're trying to escape the cold. We learned that the hard way our first winter here because somehow at some point in time down in the basement this stench started to emanate. From the closet. I open up the closet, I pull stuff out, I don't see anything. Let's just ignore that and try that later. Day by day the stench increases and increases until finally I decide I gotta take care of this, right? So I cut a hole in the wall and the stench just pours out. It starts flooding into the room. Why? Because this silly little Mouse had snuck into our house and he had crawled between the walls and he couldn't get out and he fell down and he died. And he starts decomposing. Why does he start smelling? Because his body is falling apart. He's decaying And he starts to stink and smell. So finally I carefully I see him and I get him out and I put him in the trash. How long does it take for a dead, decaying human body to start really reeking? It's about four days actually. Then the body decays. It starts literally falling apart. Martha basically says here. Jesus, there there isn't anything to do here. Don't make me smell that. Definitely don't make me see that. Jesus says, verse 40, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? Isn't that what Jesus said at the very beginning of the text? That Lazarus' illness was going to lead to what? To the glory of God on display. What What does that look like? Verse 41, so they took away the stone. Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I know that you always hear me, but I said this On account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you have sent me. When he said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The man who had died came out. And Jesus has a purpose in his words, in his coming, even in his delay. There is a purpose. What is Jesus doing? Jesus goes beyond the very edge of this man's existence into death. This man should be physically falling apart, his body falling apart. Jesus goes beyond his existence into death so that you might believe So that you might see the glory of God, so that you might know who He is and what He has done And what has he done here? What actually triumphed over death? He has proven in resurrecting Lazarus that death is not the end. That he is the resurrection and life. He is not in some kind of foot race with death and you know, edge in edge here. No, he has triumphed over death. He is not equal with death. He is greater than it. He is its conqueror. Why do all these people need to see and believe in it? Why do we need to see and believe that? Jesus has said it. It's because for those who believe, for those who believe Believe that, he will do this also for. Those who believe, he will resurrect and give life There's a tragic element to this triumph over death. It's that it's going to cost Jesus everything to accomplish. Cost him his own life. What happens here in the story, but again, some people go to the Pharisees. They tell the Pharisees about this miracle. And it's there that we enter into Jesus' end life. Because upon hearing this, the leaders do what? Verse 53: So from that day on, they made plans to put That's what it's going to cost Jesus, his own life. But this is what Jesus comes to do. This is what he is Committed to his resurrection power. Here in the text, Jesus does not evade death. He doesn't skirt by it He doesn't even come in the nick of time to make sure that his friend doesn't experience it. No, Jesus meets death. He faces death head on, and we know how the story will go. He will hang on a tree, dying an excruciating death. You know what that word excruciating comes from? It comes from the word crucifixion itself, what Jesus will face, what Jesus goes through on the cross, it defines that kind of pain. Where is it in the text that Jesus weeps? It is in anger and sorrow over what death. Has done. And where is it that God has chosen to reveal the grandeur of His glory? It's in undoing death, calling you Christian to life. Christian, that's his promise to you. That by facing death he has defeated it. Such that though you may experience all the pains and sorrows of this world today, One day you can trust those things will be made nothing because he will resurrect you. What's so special about the resurrection is that it grapples with both uh the idea and the reality. It grapples with the story and the meaning. It's an event which happens, which physically happens, which historically happens. It is a real truth thing in that way. It's also one which was imbued with incredible truth that pierces through to our souls. So much so that when Jesus says, I am the resurrection and life, Or whoever believes in me, though he dies, he shall live. Jesus isn't saying by that that physical death and sorrow do not matter. He isn't saying that he does not care. He cares deeply. But he is saying that he is the Life. And he proves through his life. And the truth which he says, that he has both physically and spiritually overcome death and all of its demons. That's how the story and the meaning intersect. The resurrection is a true historical event. It is something that really happened and will really happen for you, Christian. It also has incredible, beautiful meaning. Meaning which speaks to our souls about the hope that we have in this life And Jesus comes in the fullest sense of the word. He comes to give up his life so that his death for his people might result in. in their resurrection. We know that truly because, sure, we see Lazarus resurrected, but who else will we see resurrected at the end of this book? It's Jesus Himself too. And there is no doubt this the stories of life that God writes, they are confounding at times. But these are true stories, just as the stories of your life are true. They are good promises for us who believe. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the truth of the resurrection and that Jesus is our resurrection, Lord. That we see here these stories about how He is life and that He has come to His people. To save them from their sins, to save them from the death that they have brought upon themselves through their sin. What an incredible, glorious truth for us that as we see Jesus lives, we know because of his life and death and resurrection. Though we may face death, we too shall live. That doesn't necessarily make everything in this life easy. It's clearly not easy in the story here. What a beautiful picture of hope we have, Father. And we cling to that truth and follow Jesus' call here to believe in him. It's in Jesus' name that we pray.