Let's continue our worship this morning by turning in our Bibles to Deuteronomy chapter 16 on page 159 of the Pew Bibles provided for you. This is our Old Testament reading and sermon text. We're going to read not the whole chapter of Deuteronomy 16, but Deuteronomy 16, verses 1 to 17. As this really wraps up the section here in Deuteronomy, where God through Moses is elaborating on, expanding upon the fourth commandment, the command for Sabbath rest. Deuteronomy 16, starting at verse 1. Hear now the word of the living God. Observe the month of Abib and keep the Passover to the Lord your God, for in the month of Abib the Lord your God brought you out of Egypt by night. And you shall offer the Passover sacrifice to the Lord your God from the flock or from the herd. at the place that the Lord will choose to make his name dwell there. You shall eat no unleav no leavened bread with it, seven days you shall eat it with unleavened bread, the bread of affliction, for you came out of the land of Egypt in haste. That all the days of your life you may remember the day when you came out of the land of Egypt. No leaven shall be seen with you in all your territory for seven days. Nor shall any of the flesh that you sacrifice on the evening of the first day remain all night until morning. You may not offer the Passover sacrifice within any of your towns that the Lord your God has given you. But at the place that the Lord your God will choose to make his name dwell in it, there you shall offer the Passover sacrifice in the evening at sunset, at the time you came out. of Egypt. And you shall cook it and eat it at the place that the Lord your God will choose. And in the morning you shall turn and go to your tents. For six days you shall eat the unleavened bread And on the seventh day there shall be a solemn assembly to the Lord your God. You shall do no work on it. You shall count seven weeks. Begin to count the seven weeks from the time the sickle is first put to the standing grain. Then you shall keep the feast of weeks to the Lord your God with the tribute of a free will offering from your hand, which you shall give as the Lord your God blesses you. And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son, and your daughter, your male servant, and your female servant, and the Levite who is within your towns, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are among you at the place that the Lord your God will choose. to make his name dwell there. You shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you shall be careful to observe these statutes. You shall keep the feast of Booths, seven days. When you have gathered the produce from your threshing floor and your wine press, you shall rejoice in your feast. You and your son and your daughter, your male servant, and your female servant, the Levite, the Sojourner, the fatherless. And the widow who are within your towns, for seven days you shall keep the feast of the Lord your God at the place that the Lord will choose, because the Lord your God will bless you. In all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that you will altogether, so that you will be altogether joyful. Three times a year, all your males shall appear before the Lord your God at the place that he will choose, at the feast of unleavened bread, at the feast of weeks, at the feast of booths. They shall not appear before the Lord empty-handed. Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord your God that he has given you Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's ask His blessing on it as we turn to a reflection and a deeper study of it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you've promised that this is your word to us, that it is instructive, that it is meant to instruct us in who you are and in what we are called to be and to do as your people. We pray that this morning you would use your word to convict us anew of sin, of our need for your great salvation, and comfort us again with how that need has been met in our beloved Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, we are coming off vacation season. In fact, as I mentioned, the fix six. Our family has just come back from two weeks of vacation. Thank you to Chris. Calvi for holding down the fort. And so it's that time of year when we're all walking around characterized by a deep feeling of rest, isn't it? Maybe. Oh, but how quickly that feeling fades. Why is it? Why is it that rest never lasts? That no matter how long, how deep, it's never enough. You can have the greatest night's sleep. I didn't know how I slept. Before I had uh an Apple Watch that tracked it. And I could wake up every morning and look at the app and see how did I sleep last night? Oh, good. It was rated well last night. Ooh, bad night. I don't know. I feel about the same, but my watch is telling me. Anyway. We can have the best night's sleep, all those green bars on there, or whatever it is on your app, and still be exhausted by the end of the day. We can have a long weekend or a day off. But even in that short week, we're still counting down the hours until the end of Friday. We can have the greatest vacation of all time and be so rested when we get back and then open our email box and see. And all of a sudden, the rest flies away. Rest never seems to last. Why is that? Well, the Bible offers an answer. It says, the earthly rest and Sabbaths we enjoy in this life are never enough. Because they weren't meant to be. They were meant to point us to something beyond this life, a greater reality, a rest that isn't just physical, but a rest that is Spiritual, that is cosmic, that is lasting, a rest that only God A rest that is not just about our muscles and joints being revived, but a rest for weary souls. A rest that lasts. And that's what we're seeing here in Deuteronomy 16, especially in these verses 1 to 17. Here God is showing that beyond the weekly rhythm of Sabbath in the life of his people that was meant to teach this This need we have for an everlasting eschatological, meaning future fulfillment, consummation, rest. Beyond just that weekly pattern of Sabbath, there were Sabbaths of Sabbaths. There were more extended times of deeper rest, week-long festivals that teach us about the rest that we are to long for, that were made for, that only God can ultimately give. And that he has promised to give to his people. And we see that in these three festivals In this passage. There are three festivals, three pilgrimage feasts that are unpacked in these laws here. The feast of Passover that's combined with the feast of unleavened bread, kind of as one thing. The feast of weeks, as it's called here, and the feast of booths, a booth was just a tent or a tabernacle. a temporary dwelling. And we see that these are often longer and they're kind of presented as Sabbaths of Sabbath. Verse 8, for six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be in a solemn assembly to the Lord your God. You shall do no work on it. This idea that the Passover was to be actually it the beginning of a weeklong celebration of rest that culminates in a seventh-day Sabbath rest. Often that was not on uh the the the ordinary Sabbath day, but it was an another Sabbath rest given, showing that need for For more rest for God's people. Then verse 9. You shall count seven weeks. Literally, it is seven sevens, and begin to count the seven weeks from the time the sickle is first put. the standing grain. Again, this festival emphasizing this idea of Sabbath of Sabbath, seven of sevens, if you will. And then verse 15. For seven days you shall keep the feast of the Lord your God at the place the Lord your God will choose, because the Lord your God will bless you in all your produce, in all the work of your hands, so that you will be altogether joyful. All of these driving home that point that we need more than just a day, a week. We need something deeper. We need something better. We need something longer. We need Eschatological, culminating, consummation, fullness of rest, that these Festivals all point to. And specifically, I think these festivals are driving home the point to God's people, to Israel and to us, that Despite what it may seem, it is not a continuing circle of life. You know, Israel's neighbors all had festivals at many of the same times as this. The Feast of Unleavened Bread was Right after winter, right at the beginning of spring, the feast of uh of of uh weeks was right at the first harvest, the feast of booze is at the end after the final harvest. These were times when Israel's neighbors would often celebrate a feast, but In their estimation, this was simply part of the circle of life. It was an annual cycle that began who knows when and will go on until who knows when. The same thing over and over, never going anywhere. For Israel, these festivals are given and these laws are given to show that time is not an unending cycle, but it's moving toward a goal. Toward an end, where we get the idea of eschatological, means the doctrine of end things. Toward an end. Ultimately, this end is described in the Bible as a Sabbath of Sabbaths, a Sabbath rest that lasts forever. The goal of all creation, the goal of God's people, the goal of his salvation. And so in this passage, we see a lesson teaching in what this ultimate Sabbath will ultimately be like. And it shows us that this ultimate Sabbath through these festivals, it shows us this ultimate Sabbath will be three things. First of all, it will be a corporate feast. A corporate feast. We'll talk about what that means in a moment. Second of all, it is meant, it will have a climax. It will have a climactic focus. And third, it will be won by a covenantally federal head. Again, big words. We'll talk about what they mean in a moment. Corporate feast, climactic focus. Won by a covenantally federal head. And we'll see that in this passage first. Ultimate Sabbath rest will be a corporate feast. Now that doesn't mean it's going to be um run by a corporation. Corporate means communal, gathered, more than one. And we see this throughout the passage in the reiteration, I don't know if you noticed it, in that repetition that now that Israel is about to enter the land, which They're standing on the border of the Jordan. They're in the plains of Moab. That's what Deuteronomy, that's where Deuteronomy is is spoken, is presented to God's people. Now that they are entering the land, these festivals. Have to have have a clarity on where they'll be celebrated. In the wilderness, they're all gathered as a corporate body in the camp, all centered around the tabernacle, all dwelling in their tents around it. But when they enter the land, they're going to spread out and fill the land. And God says, when you have these festivals, I want you to come back and gather to one place. Look at verses 1 to 2. Observe the month of Abib and keep the Passover to the Lord your God. The month of Abib is uh uh the uh uh basically around March, April in our calendar. Also uh Also called the month of Nissan in other parts of the Bible. For in the month of Aviv, the Lord your God brought you out of Egypt by night, and you shall offer the Passover sacrifice to the Lord your God from the flock or from the herd. And here's an addition. See, all this so far is pretty much from Exodus 12, but then it says, Where? At the place that the Lord will choose to make his name dwell there. Now, this feast of the Passover is not just given to us or commanded to Israel here. It's commanded elsewhere in Exodus, in Numbers, in Leviticus. When they enter the land, they're going to be spread out. But the clear instructions are that in the future, the Passover and the feast of unleavened bread is to be a corporate Look at that in verses 5 to 7. You may not offer the Passover sacrifice within any of your towns that the Lord your God is giving you, but Only at the place that the Lord your God will choose to make his name dwell in it. There you shall offer the Passover sacrifice in the evening at sunset at the time. And it's interesting. It goes on and says, and you shall cook it and eat it at the place that the Lord your God will choose, and in the morning you shall return and go to your tents. Basically turn and go home. Then you can leave. But the celebration is to be a corporate feast. And that's not just of the fat Passover, but it's also of the feast of weeks. So we see in verses 9 to 12, the feast of weeks is elsewhere called the feast of harvest. The feast of first fruits, probably because of when it takes place. Look at verse 9. You shall count seven weeks. Begin to count the seven weeks from the time the sickle is first put to the standing grain. This is sort of the early harvest. The harvest of wheat was the first harvest that you'd have. And so as soon as you start the harvest, count these these uh these uh seven weeks, 49 days total, and then on the 50th is when you keep the feast of weeks. Then you shall keep the feast of weeks to the Lord your God with a tribute of a free will offering from your hand, which you shall give as the Lord. Your God blesses you. And this all happens on the 50th day. That's why in the New Testament, this is called the festival of Pentecost, meaning 50. The 50th day after counting seven sevens, seven weeks, 49 in total for you math buffs, right? I think I got that right. Check your calculators. This festival was probably originally meant to commemorate the giving of the law at Sinai, because it sort of maps out the same timeframe of the Passover. And then these seven weeks until they reach the Mount of Sinai and God gives the law. And it coincides with this initial early harvest of the wheat. So after Israel comes out of the winter when things don't grow as well and they they plant, the first harvest is the wheat harvest, and that's when this festival was to take place. But again, notice it's to be a corporate or communal festival. Verses verse 11. And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite who is within your towns, the sojourner of the fatherless. And the widow who are among you. Everyone corporately is to be part of this. And you should do it at the place that the Lord your God will choose to make his name dwell there. And also the Feast of Booths, also called the Feast of Tabernacles or Feast of Tenths, also called the Feast of Ingathering, because it takes place right after the final harvest at the end of the year, later on, September, October-ish in our calendar. Verse 13, you shall keep the feast of booth seven days when you have gathered in the produce from your threshing floor and your wine press. That's the final harvest that's described there. And this marks the end of the agricultural year, which is a time of feasting and celebration in many cultures, even in ours. We have Thanksgiving around this time because that was when the early settlers of America actually had, finally had a good Harvest a good crop, and so what do they do? They celebrate, they eat. This was done in many of the cultures around Israel. But for Israel, it was also meant to be a reminder of their wandering in the wilderness because the first festival, Passover, second one, Sinai, and then wandering in the wilderness, and how God provided manna. Just like he would in the future provide his people with food through the crops in the land. But again, notice. It's to have a corporate character, verses 14 and 15. You shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son, and your daughter, your male servant, and your female servant, the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your town. Who's left out? Of the people of Israel, the people have got nobody. It's to be a corporate feast. For seven days you shall keep the feast. That the Lord your God will uh I'm sorry, for seven days you will keep the feast to the Lord your God at the place that the Lord will choose, because the Lord your God will bless you in all your produce and all the work of your hands, so that you will be altogether joyful. So all these festivals were meant to be corporate feasts, corporate celebrations. Why? Well, it's because, friends, while we are called as individuals to personal repentance of sin, personal faith in God, a personal relationship and walk with God. That is true. Each of us needs to hear the call of the gospel and needs to respond individually. And yes, when we're called, we're called into. A people, a family of faith. And that's so important for us to hear and to have driven home to us regularly as Americans because we tend toward an individualism. Even in and maybe especially in our faith. We tend to be to think that really ultimately true Christianity is just about me and God, me and my Bible, and my communion with God on my own, and that is a good thing. I want that. I want us to be going throughout the week and going to God's Word and communing with God as individuals, walking with God individually by faith, but That is not ultimately the picture of God worshipers, God followers that we have in Scripture. We have a picture of God's people as gathered, as a corporate feast. Worship is a corporate event, a gathering of God's people, because it's a picture of where God is ultimately leading us in our salvation. Think of the end of the Bible Think of the book of Revelation, and what is the picture of the ultimate goal of salvation? It's not me. Out of nature with my Bible, with Jesus. Although that's a great thing, it's of people of every tribe and nation and tongue gathered around the throne of God and of the Lamb. Feasting together as the bride of Christ That means that we need to maintain fellowship in the body of Christ. Hebrews 10, 24 and 25 basically says the same thing in a passage, right? Right before the one we just read a moment ago, the author of Hebrews says, Let us consider how to stir one another up to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as some are in the habit of doing. But encouraging one another, and all the more as we see the day drawing near. Kids, this is a challenge to you as you grow up. As you leave home, many of our young people are getting ready to set off to college and to careers. Your parents won't bring you to church when you're out there in the world. You'll have to come. So you need to find a good church and you need to go. You need to be part of that corporate fellowship of the body of Christ because that is where God is leading us. his people. Ultimate, final Sabbath rest is a corporate affair, and it begins with a corporate feast, the banquet, the marriage supper of the Lamb we have recorded for us in Revelation 19. John Calvin, a great reformed theologian, he puts the point very strongly. But I think it's good for us to hear. In his institutes, he says this, the Lord esteems the communion of his church so highly. That he counts as a traitor and apostate from Christianity anyone who arrogantly leaves any Christian society, provided it cherishes the true ministry of Word and Sacraments. He goes on and says, separation from the church is the denial of God and Christ. Because ultimate rest is a corporate feast. But second, we learn here that there is a climactic focus to the Sabbaths of Sabbath. that they are intended to drive forward and focus us on their ultimate climax. Israel's feasts all look both backward and forward and in so doing they make Clear that God's people's history is not simply cycle after cycle after cycle. Day and night, day and night, week and week, week in, week out, week in, week Year in, year out, no. It's moving. It's a forward-facing line. It's moving toward a goal, toward a climax, toward what we could call an eschatological end. Theologically rich terminology that maybe way over all of our heads. But we see this in both the commands here to remember and to rejoice. First, notice the calls to remember in the Passover, in the Feast of Weeks, in the first two festivals. Verse 3, you shall eat no leavened bread with the Passover. Seven days you shall eat it with unleavened bread, the bread of affliction, for you came out of the land of Egypt in haste, that all the days of your life you may. Remember the day when you came out of the land of Egypt. Note technically that this This feast of Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Breads are sometimes talked about distinctly. Here they're lumped together as two parts of the same week-long festival. The festival that was sort of meant to mark that initial deliverance from Egypt, the Passover, which happened on the night Israel was freed from Egypt. were there to sacrifice a lamb and put the blood on the doorpost, and then the Lord's angel of death passed over the land. The Egyptians' firstborns died, but Israel's firstborns were spared and saved so that they could then be freed from Egypt and then they were meant they were told to take unleavened bread because you're going to be on a journey. And leavened bread doesn't doesn't sustain you for the journey. You'd eat unleavened bread. And so they are reenacting this year after year through the feast of the Passover and unleavened bread, they're reminders, looking back. That there was a past out of which they've been saved. A slavery in Egypt. God has delivered them, and they're meant to look back and remember that. Look at verse 12. You shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you shall be careful to observe these statutes. But the climactic focus in these festivals is not just in the call to look back and then sort of compare that to where you are, but also to look forward and rejoice both in what you have now and where the Lord is leading. This is evident in how the festivals align with the seasons And that's noted here in this passage. I don't know if you noticed, but especially in verse 9 and verse 13, these festivals are linked to the agricultural calendar. The Passover and unleavened bread take place in the spring as you're coming out of winter. And that way they're at a time when most of the world recognizes there's sort of this feeling, this sense, this recognition that while there has been the pall of death on creation in winter, fruitlessness. Deadness. In spring, everything is abounding in life. There's sort of this picture of life coming out of death. What a great illustration of exactly what happened. In the Exodus. Israel in bondage and slavery in Egypt, dying, a slow and horrible death, and God redeeming them out of that, bringing life out of death, leading them out. of the promised land. The first festival of weeks, or the second festival, the one of weeks, is after the first harvest. In a sense, it's sort of a taste of the blessing that the harvest has begun, but there's more to come. They're to rejoice in what they have, but also kind of rejoice in what they know is still coming. Look at verse 11. And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite who is within your towns. the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are among you, at the place the Lord your God will choose to make his name dwell there. You shall rejoice. And then in the feast of booze there's the the clearest sense of this climactic climactic focus of looking ahead to to the realities that are to come. It's interesting for Israel here on the plains of Moab Uh the feast of booths wouldn't look back to living in tents. They're living in tents right now But there's this sense that Moses is commanding, God through Moses is commanding that when they enter into the land, they're going to have this taste of glory. The land bearing fruit, milk, and honey. But they're to remember that that is still just a foretaste in anticipation of a greater rest yet to come. We see that in this command in the command in this section. To rejoice. Verse 14. You shall rejoice in your feast. You and your son and your daughter, your male servant, and your female servant, the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who is within your towns, for seven days you shall keep the feast of the Lord your God. at the place that the Lord will choose, because the Lord your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that you will be altogether joyful There's this future orientation, this climactic focus that this final festival, that all these festivals in some sense are leading Israel to recognize. The point was for Israel, these feasts, these festivals are calls to look back and to remember God's redemption and salvation in the past, but also a call to look forward and rejoice and anticipate the ultimate fulfillment of God. That is still to come in the future. And in this way, these festivals, these Sabbaths of Sabbaths, had deep spiritual significance for Israel, as they do for us. Because these festivals were a constant reminder. Of the already and not yet of salvation. You know this terminology, this reality that There's a certain sense in which we are already saved in Jesus Christ. But there's also the sense in which there is a not yet. There is still a future fulfillment that is to come. And for Israel, that's so clear in this passage. They're called to remember. They're already saved out of Egypt. They've already been brought to the promised land. Eventually, they'll be in the promised land. But as they are called in this passage, year after year, to leave their stakes in the promised land and to go to one central place, Mount Zion. A picture of what Hebrews 12 talks about, that holy hill, a picture of the New Jerusalem that comes down out of heaven, that picture of where God will dwell with his people as they're called to leave their homes and gather together, they're called to recognize that there is still a final consummation glory that awaits And ultimately this is to draw their focus forward to the climax, to the Sabbath of Sabbaths, when As J. R. Tolkien in his book says, when everything sad will come untrue. Or as Sandra McCracken Who we had here just last year and who's coming back. Isn't that great? And her song says, if it's not okay, it's not yet the end. Israel's history is to be an archetype, a a pattern of salvation Showing us that we by nature in our sin are in bondage, our slaves like Israel was a slave in Egypt, and yet God has called us to freedom as we are called out of sin, out of bondage to sin, to repent. to confess our sin and to turn in faith to Jesus Christ who sets us free. We have the first fruits. Of the harvest in the Holy Spirit, who enters into our hearts, who convicts us of sin, who is beginning that work of sanctification, of preparing us for an eternal weight of glory. That Paul says is beyond our imagination, who's enabling us more and more to live according to God's law. It's interesting, Pentecost commemorated Sinai, when God descends and gives his law to his people. It's interesting, Pentecost is when the Spirit descends, is poured out on the church, as both the one who inspired the law and then the one who builds law-keeping into our lives. As he changes us from the inside out. But there is still this sense. We have so much, and yet There's still a not yet. The full final harvest of salvation is something we're still looking ahead to. That day when we will be finally sanctified and glorified. That day when everything Sad will come untruth. That day when we will dwell in the promised land of everlasting life and eat a feast of our a feast in our glorified everlasting bodies. A feast In those bodies that will be a lasting feast, rather than the feasts here, which are all in these perishing tents, as Paul calls them. Do you see how these feasts all have a climactic focus? They're driving home that there's an already to God's salvation and redemption, but there's also the not-yet. Especially for Israel, that not yet would have been. Would have been so apparent because as they enter into the land, Deuteronomy is actually establishing for them a unique relationship to the land. Their remaining in the land would be conditioned on how they obeyed God's word. So year after year, as these festivals would come, there would be a question, will it come again? And we know how the story unfolds, don't we? Not only does Israel not keep the laws of God in Deuteronomy, they don't keep these laws of God, which Seem like they should be laws that we all welcome. God says stop, rest. Actually have a week of rest. And yet we have little record that Israel ever. Celebrated these on an annual basis. All of which drives home the point of this climactic focus, of this future orientation, with the great question: how? How will God's people who struggle in persistent sinfulness and seem to always be going back to Egypt, back to Babylon in slavery, Israel who Doesn't keep these laws and eventually goes into exile to Babylon, how will God's people who are so beset by sin ever reach true and ultimate Sabbath? That leads us to our third and final point. See, we've seen true Sabbath rest is a corporate feast, has a climactic focus, and the answer to the question of how How does this true Sabbath rest come is through the third and final point. It comes through a covenantally federal head. A covenantally federal head. Covenant theology is often called federal theology because it's often through the covenant faithfulness of one federal head. That the covenants are fulfilled. We see that in Adam, in the covenant of works. He was given this law And as he broke it in covenant disobedience, what happened? We all fell in him, in Adam. Or like Israel's kings, as the king goes, so the people go. And we don't like this idea of having a federal head who can fulfill the covenant because we know Adam didn't, and we wish he had. But in other contexts we we we like federal headship. I think it's really great. That I can vote on a representative who can spend all of their day arguing laws and legal things into place and do that work for us. I think it's great that we can send off somebody to do a certain work and represent us well. In many contexts, we like that. And the reality is, friends, that the Sabbath rest that all of these festivals are pointing to will be Brought about by a covenantally federal head. And we see this in the last two verses. I don't know if they struck you. But look at those, verse 16. Three times a year, all your males. Shall appear before the Lord your God at the place that he will choose. I thought it was a corporate feast. I thought it was everyone who's going to be feasting, and it is. But here it focuses on the males. All of them shall appear before the Lord your God at the feast of unleavened bread, the feast of weeks, and the feast of booths, the three feasts we've just talked about. They shall not appear before the Lord empty-handed. Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord your God that he has given you. What's the point? Well, friends, for these festivals to be the feasts that they were intended to be, They had to have food. They had to have bread and wine and oil and meat. People had to bring their tithes and offerings for the feast. And what this seems to be saying is not that only men enjoyed the feasts, but that men were the covenantal federal heads responsible for making sure the feasts were well apportioned. That they were responsible for making sure that the households they were federal heads over had brought the tithe of what the Lord had given them so that everyone could enjoy the feast. as a grand celebration and as a celebration of the free gifts of God. We've seen that over and over again That in Sabbath we we bring a portion of what God has already showered on us and lavished on us by his goodness. We bring a portion and then God gives it back. And says it's for you to enjoy and to feast on and fellowship with me by means of it Remember, Deuteronomy is a covenant doctrine. We've talked about this before. It's a Suzerain vassal treaty. Right? The suzerain is the great king, the vassal is the lesser king, and that's Israel in this context, and God is the great king. And in those i in ancient uh in the ancient Near Eastern economies The lesser kings were called to appear regularly before the face, which is what it says here in verse 16, literally, before the Lord your God, before the face of the Lord. They were called to appear before the face of the great king and bring their tributes. So it seems like that's what this idea is here in these two verses: that God is showing his people again what he does with his tributes. They must bring them, but they must bring them so that I Can give you a feast and fellowship with you in the place where I have said, that's where I'm to be found. The point of these verses is that feasts cost something. And the covenantally federal heads of households are the ones to bear that cost. And even as they bear it, they're actually bearing it with Stuff that is already given to them by God's goodness, a gift of his grace. So why this little note here? Why these two little verses at the end? I think friends, they're a subtle reminder. Again, pushing us forward in our focus to the one who will ultimately be the true covenantal head, who will prepare the ultimate feast. The ultimate Sabbath rest giver. None other than our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Because he's who all these feasts ultimately point to and in whom they're all fulfilled. You know, Passover is the time when then Jesus celebrates it for the last time for God's people in the Last Supper, when He institutes the Lord's Supper So that we gather around this, and what do we say? 1 Corinthians 5: Christ is our Passover lamb sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep that feast. The Feast of Weeks and Pentecost is when Jesus ascends and pours out his Holy Spirit as lawgiver who enters into our hearts to enable us and strengthen us to keep God's law and to live in obedience unto him. He is the first fruits of salvation, like the wheat. Of the first harvest. The Feast of Booths is a reflection of Jesus who tabernacled among us to endure the wilderness with us and for us, and to assure us of one day ultimately entering into the final harvest feast. On the day of the Lord. And isn't Jesus the one who ultimately does for us what the males are commanded to do in verses 16 and 17? He appeared once for all before the Father in heaven. And he did not appear empty-handed, but he brought the harvest of righteousness, his perfect righteous obedience. And what did he do? He laid it before the Father, offering up his very own self as the ultimate sacrificial lamb for the feast. To assure that one day we will feast in Zion As we repent of our sin, as we put our faith in Him, as we're reconciled to God by His grace. Friends, that's why we celebrate one feast, week after week after week, and that's the Lord's Supper. As we gather corporately around the Lord's table, remembering and looking back on how He has accomplished our salvation once for all, two thousand years ago, on the cross of Jesus Christ, where he frees us from bondage to sin by his sacrifice of his very own holy self. In order that our sins may be covered. Where he rose from the dead on the third day to prove that our new life is assured to us as we come to God through faith in him. And where we rejoice, looking forward to when he will come again to call us to ultimate perfect rest that begins with a feast, the marriage supper of the Lamb. Friends, vacations end. Emails pile up. Even a great night's sleep can't reach the ache in your soul, in my soul, for true rest. But God has prepared a rest that never ends, a rest that satisfies not just your body. But the deepest recesses of your soul and your whole very being. And it's in Jesus Christ, your loving Savior. Jesus Christ, your Passover lamb. Jesus Christ, your Pentecost provider, Jesus Christ, your tabernacling redeemer, he has provided the rest that we can never earn with our efforts. He gathers us into a community, his bride, the church. He brings salvation to its climax and fulfillment. That all these feasts point forward to. He bears the cost of the feast, not with bringing grain or animals, but by pouring out his precious own blood. So that we never come empty-handed to the Father because we come in Jesus Christ. The rest we long for has already begun. Every time we gather, we taste it. Every time we take the supper, we rehearse it. And one day, friends, we will enter it fully and finally. Not because we have been so good and faithful. But because Jesus has been and is. So receive his rest. Come to his table with joy. As you go out this week, carry that rest to others, inviting the weary, the guilty, the burdened to come join the feast, because the Sabbath of Sabbaths is coming, and the Lord of the feast is calling. Come. Follow me home. Let's close on a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for These festivals that you commanded for Israel, or we don't celebrate them today because their purpose, their point of driving us forward and seeing the fulfillment of them in Jesus Christ is fulfilled once for all. at the foot of the cross, how we thank you for our beloved Savior. And that He has brought all of these festivals and these feasts into One foretaste here of the final feast that we get to celebrate and gather around week after week. Lord, help us to long. For the true rest. Help us to rest well in the Sabbath that you've given us here on earth. And help us to do so with joy as we anticipate the final rest that you've purchased for us. In her Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. In His name we pray, Amen