That last line of the security of the ones who've are loved by the Savior more secure than the bird in homest hiding is an interesting segue to the passage before us, if you've read it in Preparation for today, you know what I'm talking about. We're going to look for our sermon text this morning at Deuteronomy chapter 22, verses 1 to 8. This is another little set of sort of short laws that I hope when you read through them, if you did to prepare, you said, how in the world Are those united in any way together? And how can they be the subject of one sermon? I think we'll discover that together this morning. I hope and pray that we will. Let's turn in our Bibles to Deuteronomy chapter 22 for that reading, starting on page 164 of your Pew Bibles. Deuteronomy 22, and just Eight short verses, one through eight. Hear now the word of the living God. You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep going astray, and ignore them. You shall take them back to your brother. And if he does not live near you, and you do not know who he is, you shall bring it home to your house, and it shall stay with you until your brother seeks it, then you shall restore it to him. And you shall do the same with his donkey, or with his garment, or with any lost thing of your brothers, which he loses and you find, you may not ignore it. You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fallen down by the way and ignore them. You shall help him to lift them up again. A woman shall not wear a man's garment, nor shall a man put on a woman's cloak. For whoever does these things is an abomination to the Lord your God. If you come across a bird's nest in any tree or on the ground with the young ones or eggs and the mother sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young. You shall let the mother go, but the young you may take for yourself, that it may go well with you and that you may live long. When you build a new house, you shall make a parapet for your roof, that you may not bring the guilt of blood upon your house if anyone should fall from it. Here ends the reading of God's word. Let's ask his blessing on our time as we meditate on it further. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you that you've given us your word, that you've given it for our instruction, for our instruction in this life, and we pray that as we look at these laws that were given to ancient Israel, and in many ways are directly applicable to them, in a way they aren't to us. We pray that you would enable us to think through how they do apply, how the principles therein are principles that we as your people ought to live by. And how that calls us to a recognition of our need for a Savior and a rejoicing in the provision for that need in Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Don't sweat the small stuff. Seems like good wisdom, doesn't it? Good advice. In fact, it is the title of a book that some of us who are older in the room might remember all the way back to 1997. Yes, last millennium. And I was there. I was there too. It's a self-help classic by Richard Carlson and his His point, I haven't read the book, but his thesis is very clear. His thesis is, his point is, many of the problems that we get all wrapped up in are too small. They shouldn't really bother us. If we just Put them into perspective and stop sweating the small stuff we could live a stress-free, happy, and healthy life. 1997 is what almost 30 years ago. How are we doing with that? Anxiety levels are at heights never known. Stress is up over the last 30 years. Doesn't seem like it's really working all that well And on the one hand, while there may be some truth in that title, that we shouldn't stress the small things that wrongly steal our peace. Maybe it's too much of a blanket statement. When we turn to God's word, we find that actually we should sweat the small stuff. If it means protecting human life. If it's small things that in the end lead to future human life and flourishing. And that's what Deuteronomy 22, 1 to 8 is all about. These are all lies, and if you want to find a common thread through these laws, it is that Well, first of all, it's that these are continued, these are laws that are continuing to elaborate on and to think through how to apply the sixth commandment. Deuteronomy 5. 17, you shall not murder. And we've talked about, we've already been meditating on this commandment. We've talked about how this means more than simply don't murder, which it means. Don't get me wrong. Don't murder, right? That's clearly God's law. But it goes beyond that. It also means don't do anything that would unnecessarily take human life unjustly And it's more positive in that sense too. It's do things, live a life that is a life of love and care and protection and preservation of human life in all its capacities, especially where it's vulnerable. And one of the most vulnerable human lives is one that comes in the future. One that doesn't exist quite yet. And here as we wrap up, these are the last few laws that are summarized under that sixth commandment heading. And They all relate to the sixth pharaoh in the way in which each of these laws calls us to, in small ways often, protect and preserve and watch out for future human life. Now, but when you were reading through these laws, when we were just reading through these laws, probably some of them seemed like they didn't fit under the Sixth Commandment. Looking out for your neighbor's ox and donkey, that seems more like What the the the the ninth commandment? You shall not steal. In um we are We are in the last section of the sixth commandment, and so we're anticipating the eighth commandment, which is about adultery and honoring the God-given boundaries to sexual purity and to life itself. And some of these laws seem like they might be getting onto that law. And there's a reason that actually all of these laws seem like they touch on a number of the Ten Commandments. But I would argue that they're here because the common thread through them all is their application of the sixth commandment to this idea. We as God's people are to love human life because he loves it. Why does he love it? It's because he has set his image on us as his image-bearers. It's a value that we have not inherent to ourself, but a value that He has gifted to us in making us in His image. And that therefore, because God loves human life in these ways, we ought to love it, and we ought to do whatever it takes, in small ways or big, to preserve and protect future human life. And so as we look at Deuteronomy 28, here's how we're going to work through this passage. First, we're going to look at the specifics commanded and how they all tie together. Then we're going to think about how The corruptions forbidden are they spread. Sin is a spreading thing. It's not easily contained. And I think we begin to see that in these laws too. So specifics commanded Spreading corruption, and third, the satisfaction completed. Where do we see these laws ultimately wrapped together? So, first of all, the specifics And this is a little like last week. Last week we had five laws, sort of different laws. They're all kind of packed together. This week it's four. Actually, last week it was five and a half. This week it's four and a half. There's sort of a half-law, but we'll we'll count it as four because really that's the major themes. And all of them show how we honor human life and how we We are to work in small ways to protect and preserve future human life, specifically through honoring people's stuff. The distinctions in sex and gender, that's two. The future food supply and future human safety So four S's, three S's for the points, four S's for the subpoints. It's we're in the S section today, right? S section in buoy right here. All right, so first, uh Honor your brother's stuff. This is verses 1 to 4. Look at verse 1. You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep going astray and ignore them. You shall take them back to your brother, and if he does not live near you, and you do not let sorry, and you do not know who he is. I think this might be better translated. If he does not live near you, or you do not know who he is. So these sort of different Possibilities that you really don't have a way of returning it easily. You shall bring it home to your house, and it shall stay with you until your brother seeks it. Then you shall restore it to him, and you shall do the same with his donkey, or with his garments, or with any lost thing of your brothers, which he loses and you find, you may not ignore it. Literally it says you may not hide yourself. What does that mean? I think it means you can't try to not let him find it out. Basically, this is God saying no no finders, keepers, losers, weepers, right, kids? But you know, as we read this commandment, as I mentioned a moment ago, it seems a lot more like it's addressing the ninth commandment about not taking something that belongs to somebody else. And yet, if you think about it, stealing, you are going out and grabbing something that doesn't belong to you. This one is a little different. This is sort of wandering into your way, right? Something that's lost and you happen to find. But notice the things specifically mentioned. At the end it says anything that is your neighbor's, but it's specifically mentioned an ox. A sheep, a donkey, or a garment. The first three you say, well, that's never going to happen to me, so I don't have to worry about this law. No, because what's the principle? W why is it so important that we care for and honor The stuff of our brother, especially an ox, sheep, or donkey, and garment. Each one of these things in the ancient world, in ancient Israel, would have been things necessary for future life. The ox to plow your field so you can make grain for the next year. The donkey to transport your stuff so that you could sell it in the marketplace and provide for your family for the next year. The garment itself, you can't survive a night in ancient Israel. It gets freezing cold if you don't have a garment to protect you through the night to the future next day. This is all stuff that is That is endangered. Taking it would endanger future life. It would be like taking someone's car, finding it and taking it, so they can't get to work and provide for their friends. Finding someone's paycheck lying there and saying, oh, I'll cash it. They won't need that. Well, they won't have food on the table. It will it will rob them of future life. And so while on the one hand The Bible affirms personal property rights. That's implied even here. That's not, I don't think, what this is about. This is like saying, don't be like Mr. Potter, and it's a wonderful life. Right? Who finds that wad of cash, what, $8,000? It was a lot for the time back in the 1940s. And he he finds it and keeps it. And what does that do? That threatens and endangers the whole life of the Bailey family. That's the idea of this law. And notice that he's like, it's not just if something's lost, but even if you run across your brother's stuff that's endangered That you have an ability to protect and care for. Look at verse 4. You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fallen down by the way and ignore them or hide your face from them or hide from them. You shall help him to lift them up again. So how might we do this in our context? Well, kids, maybe you find your friend's backpack full of his homework for the next day. Find him. Give it back to him if you can. Little things like that. Things that our life depends on, our house, our car, ways in which we can honor this stuff in our neighbors. I think here of the contractor who lives by the work of his hands, whose tools are his means to provide for himself. You find those tools, those are worth a lot. They might look good in your garage, but he needs them to provide for the next paycheck. So that's the first one. Honor your brother's stuff. Second of all, God calls us to honor distinctions between sex or gender. And here, this is not God arbitrarily restricting people, but but showing that honoring the way he made us is a protection to future life and community. Look at verse 5. A woman shall not wear a man's garment, nor shall a man put on a woman's garment or a woman's cloak, for whoever does these things is an abomination to the Lord your God. Now this comes right after Halloween, when we do sometimes dress up as characters that do not match our gender. Is that wrong? Personally, I don't think that is what's being addressed here. I think it is more of what we see going on in our society, where we are denying that two genders exist. That really biological sex is actually an expression of God-given gender, male and female. That are meant to be kept distinct. And this is forbidding ways in which people might blur those distinctions. And this temptation to blur these distinctions and work against them, it is a very present reality in our world today. Through cross-dressing, transvestism, which is what this is probably literally forbidding, through a lot of the gender bending that is going on. But this is not that new Pagan societies have always been enamored with this idea of overcoming the distinction, the God-ordained distinction between male and female. And why? Well, maybe because in our sin we don't love that we have been given a great task as God's image bearers. And that we bear that image in our genders. Genesis 1:27 says, God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female. He created them. Men are not the image of God. Women are not the image of God. Men and women together as a whole humanity Are the image of God. But beyond how this law calls us to honor this image-bearing aspect of human life and to love it. I think part of the reason it's here is because friends, when we mess with gender, it endangers future life. People who have gone through gender surgery today usually cannot actually bear children anymore or participate in bearing children the way they're designed. Continuation of human life and procreation is dependent on the biblical biblical prescription of one man and one woman in their distinct complementary design who can come together in marriage and continue human life and procreation. Flourishing into the future. I would argue this is where there's a certain absurdity to societies sanctioning or celebrating so-called gay marriage. Because it's like societal suicide. Two men, two women cannot procreate, cannot actually continue the life and health of the society. That's why marriage has been protected. for societies or in societies throughout all known human history. And that's why I think we're foolish to Try to think that we can preserve and pass on society and community and life and flourishing the way we love it by messing with God's design for marriage. Now you read this law, and of course it you know it can be expanded upon. It can We can recognize that it addresses not only sort of this behavior of cross-dressing, but it it applies to all forms of homosexuality and gender bending. These are all sinful distortions of God's intents for creation. And he makes that sort of clear by adding that line at the end of verse 5, whoever does these things is an abomination. And we should recognize this that these things are sad parts of sin's misery. However, we should also recognize that they are real struggles that people engage in. In a room this size, there are at least a few. Who have struggled with same-sex attraction, with gender confusion. It's a real struggle, and we want to not simply condemn it. As sin. There is a sinfulness of it. There's an aspect of it where it is sin and misery. And so we ought to have compassion on those who are struggling in this way, just as we have compassion on every sinner who's struggling in the same way we are, right? Struggling in some form or other with the sin and misery of this life and the way in which we have our own propensities to sin. And yet Scripture calls us to seek to honor how God made us, male and female, to walk together and support and encourage one another in a pursuit of holiness. Scripture calls us not to shame those who struggle, but to remind us that God's design gives life and flourishing. That's its intent. So These commands to protect and preserve future human life are to protect other people's stuff, to honor the distinctions of sex and gender God has created, and third, to honor the future human life. food supply. Now this is how I understand verses 6 to 7. How in the world does the law about birds relate to honoring human life? And I think it's in this way. On the one hand, it does show God's care for creation. His care for life itself, that is something that he we have as his image bears as human beings, but he cares for life he creates even in the birds. And Jesus makes this point, right? In the passage we just read. Does the Lord not care for sheep? How much more for a man? Jesus in Matthew chapter 6 says God cares for the birds of the air. And if he cares that much for them, how much more for us? The lesser to greater. But ultimately, I would argue that the details of this law, the specifics of this law, seem oriented toward protecting future human life by preserving the food supply. Look at verses 6 and 7. If you come across a bird's nest in any tree or on the ground, With the young ones or eggs and the mother sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young. You shall let the mother go, but the young you may take for yourself, that it may go well with you, and that you may live long. It seems like what's being forbidden here is don't be so greedy to take it all and make it probably food, right? Eggs. For an omelette and some chicken wings to go with it, right? Uh you can take the little babies, but probably you wouldn't eat them. You'd actually probably raise them and grow them till they were A bigger size. But the idea here with the mother, why do you let the mother go? Well, probably because she has shown herself to be able to bear children, bear future, life? And if you let her go, that means she can lay more eggs, have more chicks, and provide for human life to flourish in the future. Don't be so greedy. Don't be so greedy to destroy the food supply in only thinking of yourself. While we may not have lots of direct application, if you find a nest of birds, I don't think you're going to be tempted to eat them anyway. We get our birds that we eat at the grocery store. So and it's nice. They're all ready for us. The wings are all prepared and the chicken breasts are cut up so we can just cook them. The principle of this law that still applies is beware of using earthly resources in a way that's not sustainable. As Christians who know the creator of this world, we ought to desire to steward it well. And to pass it on as life-giving, the life-giving blessing it is to us to future generations. We ought to seek to protect and preserve future human life and flourishing in that way. God wants us to steward. The world's resources for others who will need it for life in the future. So stuff, sex, supply, fourth, safety, verse 8. God wants his people to work to attend to safety in the things that we build and make and own, and that's we see in verse 8. If you come, if you uh verse 8, when you build a new house, You shall make a parapet. This is a fence or a guardrail. You shall make a parapet for your roof, that you may not bring the guilt of blood upon your house if anyone should fall from it. Now kids, you're sort of imagining, well, we don't have fences on our roofs, and people don't usually fall off them, right? Because we don't spend a lot of time up there. Well, that's how we're different from ancient Israel In ancient Israel, the houses were basically square blocks, pretty much. They had two stories inside. The bottom story was where all the animals lived when they would come in for the night. The next story was where the people would live a lot of the time. And then the roof was flat. And you could go up there, and it was a great place, not during the heat of the day. You wanted to be un in the shade during the heat of the day. But at night The cool ancient Israelite air would blow around, and it would be a great place to sleep. So often families would go up on that top roof and sleep there. There was like an added room in the right time of day. And you can imagine if you're up there on the second story and you're rolling around in your sleep and you don't have a protecting fence. Easy to fall off, right? Or you're up there and you know you've had a little wine with dinner and you're a little less stable on your feet. Easy to fall off the roof. Now, this law is much more obviously related to the sixth commandment, right? Negligence in your roof structure is a danger to human life, to people's safety. And this is why we have certain building laws today. We don't have roofs that we live on, but we have things like pools. It can be very dangerous. So for kids, that's why we build fences around pools, around playgrounds. All of these laws Seem to be getting at this idea of God calling us to honor human life by protecting and looking for small ways to preserve human life in the future. From the birds' nests to the building codes. God cares about life down to the very details, and that's what the specifics of these laws teach. Saving life in small ways, like keeping track of other people's lost stuff, not blurring sex distinctions. preserving the food supply for the future and attending to safety in the things we own. How are ways we can apply these principles in our lives today? I'll give us some ideas. Obviously, we can't literally apply these laws, and we're not meant to. These are civil laws for Israel. The principles yet still apply. We can do things like Care for ourselves physically, what we eat, what we drink, care for ourselves spiritually, how we invest in our spiritual life and growth for our future flourishing. Now that's very self-focused, self-interested, but we can do so in ways for others as well, living on less than we make so that we can save and put some away and care for our future lives and the future lives of others. There are all sorts of ways we can apply the principles of these laws. But let's move on. Let's move on to point number two, the spreading corruptions of sin and law-breaking. And here's what I'm getting at here. James chapter 2, verse 10 says, when you break a single law, you've broken the whole. And what is James's point? Well, his point is very simply that as soon as you break one of the Ten Commandments, you become a lawbreaker by definition. So it's not like, well, I broke this one, but I didn't break that one, so I'm half good. No. You break one, you're a lawbreaker. You're a sinner. But there's another sense in which you could expand what James is saying there and say Often, when we break just one commandment of the ten that God lays out as sort of a summary of his moral law, breaking one is never alone. Often breaking one inherently is a breaking of many others of the Ten Commandments. We can see that here as we walk through these laws once again. Like, think about the laws about stuff preserving future life. By honoring our neighbor's stuff. Yes, this is a fulfillment of the sixth commandment, thou shalt not murder But it also is an application of the eighth commandment, you shall not steal. It's also an application of the ninth commandment, you shall not bear false witness if you hide yourself, literally, right? If you hide this stuff, you're not bearing true witness. It's an application of the tenth commandment. You shall not covet your neighbor's ox or donkey or anything that is your neighbor's. By definition, why would you keep it if you weren't coveting it, right? So you see the spread of sin's corruption as each one of these laws actually hits on so many different of the Ten Commandments. Or the law against blurring the lines between two genders or two sexes. This is also an application of the seventh commandment, you shall not commit adultery, which we know expands to really all ide all ideas of sexual purity and the boundaries that God has set up for sexual expression and health and life. It's also a breaking of the eighth commandment, trying to steal the blessings of someone else's gender that you don't enjoy because you don't share in that gender. It's also breaking of the ninth commandment, bearing false witness. If you pretend to be a gender that you are not, it's false witness. And it's breaking of the tenth commandment, coveting another person's gender. Right? You can see how all these all these like sin is insidious. It just spreads and breaking one part of the law often leads, or by definition, is a breaking of many parts. of God's law. Or the law about the bird's nest. This one's not so obvious, but it's very interesting how this law has these echoes of breaking the fifth commandment, which is to honor parents, right? And that final promise that it may go well with you and that you may live long. And then um and then there's sort of this echo of of that application of the third commandment in not boiling the young goat in its mother's milk. And I know that at that point we're way afield. We can talk about that some other time. But it seems as though all of these laws are sort of Hitting on multiple levels. Like we saw in David's life when we were working our way through 1 and 2 Samuel, when he fell into sin and committed adultery with Bathsheba. He ended up breaking almost all the Ten Commandments, lying, right, stealing a wife, uh murder of Uriah, right, let alone coveting. Sin rarely stays in one lane. It multiplies, it spreads. And when we twist one command, often others fall with it. When we break one thread in God's design, soon the whole fabric tears. Sin is insidious, it festers, it spreads its corruption. We think we've cut a small corner, neglect some minor duty. Sin in a small way, but sinning in small ways spreads, and the next thing you know you've broken all of God's law. And if we're honest None of us escape these small failings, and Jesus reminds us that actually it's even worse than just small failings like these enumerated here. Even anger is a breaking of the sixth commandment. 1 John 3:15 says, Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding. in him. And this is how these laws are such a challenge. On the one hand, these laws seem doable. Now build a fence. Let the mother bird go. Give back your brother's stuff. I mean, they're all doable, but how did Israel do with them? Israel struggled. Israel failed. Even their kings who were meant to be models of living according to God's law, they were themselves directly disobedient to some of these. And when Jesus presses these laws to our heart, And says, you know, it goes deeper to the motives of your heart. Even anger, even lust is a breaking of God's command. Then friends, we are all found guilty of breaking God's good and holy law, and every one of our sins ultimately is an attack on future life. Think about that. Romans 6. 23 says, the wages of sin is death. So every sin is an attack on our future life. That's not all Romans 6. 23 says, is it? Romans 6. 23 has bad news, but also good news. The wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is what? Eternal future life in Christ Jesus our Lord. That's the good news of the gospel, and that's the third point. We've seen the specifics of the commands to protect future life, the spreading corruption of small sins that destroy future life, even at their smallest level, And third and finally, the satisfaction completed to guarantee future life. Friends, the good news of the gospel is not that we can keep the law if we just try harder. That's not the gospel. That's religiosity. The gospel is that Jesus came as the perfect lawkeeper, Israel reduced down to one perfect man. And he perfectly fulfilled and satisfied even these very laws. And think about them, right? Jesus fully and perfectly keeps them, not just on a literal level, but on an Spiritual level on an eschatological level, to use that terrible theological term. It's a great term, but it's so hard to grasp. It means future. He he fulfills them in ways we can't even fathom. If we think about it, think about this. He okay, the lost ox, some of your possessions go wandering out, and they're going to endanger your future life. What is that for us? Well guess what? In sin we we've lost the image of God. What does Jesus do? He takes on true humanity Which we have really forfeited in our sin. We've marred and lost the true, full image of God, and yet Jesus comes as the very image of God incarnate. in order to redeem us from sin, to save us, to sanctify us, and to restore to us the status of image-bearers forever. He takes that lost image and he brings it back. And in Jesus' own metaphor, he says, I'm the good shepherd. And I don't just wait for someone to bring my sheep back. I go out looking. I go out seeking my lost sheep until all who belong to me are found. And saved. And that's you, that's me, if we're looking to Him as our Savior and King. He found us fallen in sin, like the ox and donkey in verse 4. And he didn't ignore us and walk by, but like the Good Samaritan. He stooped, stopped, and lifted us out of our sin and And Jesus honors both men and women while still clearly distinguishing and honoring both genders. So that together male and female can image God fully and perfectly. And you say, how did Jesus do this? Well, he came as one gender, man. But why did he come? He came in order to perfect his church, to be the true image of woman, as the bride of Jesus Christ. And like the law of having compassion on the mother bird, Jesus cares and spares lives, not consuming other people's lives in order to feed himself and robbing others of future life. No, he gave his life, sacrificed himself on the cross as our substitute. To free us from sin's curse and to give us an everlasting supply of life. In him, future human life is secured forever. Do you see how Jesus finds us like the fallen ox? Helpless in our sin and lifts us up. Do you see how he honors both man and woman as God's image? Do you see how he spares life not by keeping his own but by giving it on the cross? And when Jesus builds his kingdom, He builds it like the safe house that is commanded here. A place of perfect safety designed for everlasting future human life I love that picture in Revelation chapter 22, verse 2, where it says that the city where his people are gathered to him, where Christ is center at the throne, at the center is also a tree of life. Interesting. Kind of a picture of Jesus on the throne being the tree of life. And what does it say? It bears its fruit in every season, and its leaves are for the healing of the nations. Because of Jesus and his substitutionary sacrifice of himself on the cross and his resurrection on the third day, friends, we are called to repent. to believe and to seek God's glory by loving human life as He does and by honoring and And protecting human life into the future. And so if you are not a follower of Christ here this morning, trust in Jesus today and find your future life. guaranteed as you follow him by faith, through this life, through death itself, into the glory of the age to come. And if you're a believer, if God has so loved life that He gave His own Son for our life Then every small act that protects life now and future, every kindness, every restraint, every repair is a reflection of his heart. May we go. May we do likewise, loving. As he has first loved us. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these laws. We thank you for how they give us a vision. For future human life and flourishing, and how, in so many small ways, we can contribute to it being blessed or being minimized, cursed. Lord, we pray and that we would be those who would be able to respond to your love well. That we would be those who love human life, not just as it is in the present, but into the future. As we go forth with that love, as we go forth sharing that love, the love with which you have first loved us, a love that leads us to eternal life in Jesus Christ. your son. How we thank you for that and praise you and ask you to sanctify us completely, to restore to us the image, your image. May we bear it well as we are renewed in it through faith in Jesus Christ. In his name we pray.