Our New Testament reading, our sermon text today comes from John chapter 12, verses 36 through 50. If you're using the Pew Bible, that's page 899. We just finished last week looking at the triumphal entry, this proclamation from the people of Jerusalem as Jesus arrives into the sea Hosanna, this is our king. Come save us. What we saw in the midst of that was this glorious Example, this glorious perspective of Jesus coming as King is clouded in the shadow of death. Because Jesus is approaching his death. We pick up here with John chapter 12, starting in verse 36, which goes this way. While you have the light, believe in the light, Jesus says, that you may become sons of light. And in the next paragraph, when Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. Now though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him, so that the words spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. And Isaiah said, Lord, who has believed what he heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? John says, Therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah said He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him. Nevertheless, many, even of the authorities, believed in him, Jesus Christ. Jesus, but for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so they would not be put out of the synagogue, for they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. As Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. Sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge them, for I do not come to judge the world. But to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The words that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we Praise you for your word in elements of it that are sweet and beautiful and clear to us, and even in the parts that are more complex. That take our use of our minds to grapple with, to wrestle with, parts of your word that stress our own human senses of what may be fair or what may be right. rights. Father, we pray as we approach this word that we would see clearly that you are good and true and sovereign and just Even when we may not feel like you are necessarily all those things. Ah, Father, through this may we see the glorious gift of salvation in your Son Jesus. Jesus. Respond is those who believe. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. One of the themes that uh nearly every recorded civilization has grappled with a question. That many civilizations have grappled with is the theme of pitting fate against free will. It's fascinating as you study various cultures, as you look through mythologies of all different kinds of cultures. So many of them have developed these stories or myths trying to reconcile those two ideas. The idea of fate, on the other hand, free will. In 2002, two mighty storytelling forces joined together to craft their own Fate vs. Free Will Myth. It was Tom Cruise and Steven Spielberg. I'm talking about the movie Minority Report. The whole setting of that movie is this world. Where there are these three prophetic type people who can predict that a murder is going to happen. And of course, when they predict that murder, Tom Cruise jumps into action. He's always running, isn't he? And he rushes to wherever the murder is going to happen and he stops it and he arrests that person who would have murdered someone Now there's a kind of philosophical question that's baked into that event and what happens there, and it's really what the movie is about. Can you really arrest someone? for a crime that they never actually committed. Well, why didn't they commit it? Because you stopped it Uh you start to see the difficulty there a little bit. It's uh that question of fate versus intervention. There's a scene which emphasizes in the movie uh this whole quandary really well. Colin Farrell, one of the actors in this, uh his character, poses that exact kind of question. Is this really fair that you arrest these people? And Tom Cruise strolls into the room and he grabs this wooden ball and he He rolls it across the desk and it uh as it moves to the end of the desk, it falls off the end, and Colin Farrell catches it. And Tom Cruise asks him. Why did you catch that? Barrel says, well, because it was going to fall. Tom Crows goes, Are you certain about that? Yeah, of course. But it didn't. It's all this tension that our human minds try to resolve between, say, cause and effect, predetermination and intervention. Fate and responsibility. It's a big question. It's a difficult question. No doubt about that. And John this evening is going to bring us in some sense into that particular kind of difficult question here. We are in some ways here taking our very last breath of the end of the first half of the book of John. This half of John is what many scholars refer to as the Book of Signs. And John here is intentionally re-examining an idea that he presented to us all the way back at the beginning of his Book in John chapter 1. In his introduction, John mentioned this. When talking about the arrival of Jesus, he said, The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him, and he came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. It explains there that Christ came into this world, and for some reason, his people do not receive him. The question that we're left with then is: well, why don't they? Receive him. Why won't these people believe in Jesus? You reflect upon all that John proceeds to say through the first half of the book That becomes a very real and pressing question because Jesus has given people all throughout this book numerous reasons to believe in him I would see all of these signs. He made water to wine. He's fed the hungry. He made the blind to see. He's healed the sick. He has even raised the dead. As we look Aren't those all the things that the Messiah was supposed to be? We see all these things and we see that Jesus has done all these things And as we reflect upon all of those signs and wonders, they are making it blatantly clear to us that Jesus is the Christ. That's the only reasonable response to looking at seeing all that Jesus has done, all that Jesus should have done, and all that he has done should lead these people to believe in. Him. But what do we see when we get to our passage here today? Verse 37. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. And that kind of bookends, what we saw back in John chapter 1, right? It's bringing us full circle. Why won't these people believe? I mean, isn't it just so obvious to them who Jesus is? We live in a world with many tough questions like that You can see it every day in your life. Something may feel, may seem, may be so obviously true to you. And other people just blatantly reject it. Sometimes that's because genuinely there isn't enough evidence for them to believe it. Sometimes there could be all the evidence in the world to prove it, and that person just will not accept what you know is true as true. It all goes to show that there's more at play than mere cause and effect. We aren't strictly rational creatures. We're not mere robots. We are living creatures. We have some kind of agency, the ability to, say, reach out and catch the ball At the same time, we don't have absolute control, do we? We don't have absolute knowledge to truly say, yes, that ball was going to fall And the whole conversation becomes really tense and difficult to grapple with when we introduce the idea of someone who actually does have absolute concept. control, who does have total sovereignty. That's the reality which Sean brings to us here, that God is very different from you and from me That he is truly sovereign, that he is good, he is just. At the same time, he is merciful. John is going to show all of this to us within the scope of reflecting upon what? The unbelievable rejection of God's own son. This morning oh I'm sorry. This evening. This evening we're gonna see this This Messiah must be rejected because he is the Messiah who saves. This Messiah must be rejected Because he is the Messiah who saves. We're going to explore that idea in two points. There is first the rationale of rejection. And then second, the offer of redemption. The rationale of rejection and the offer of redemption. Let's look at that first point, the rationale of rejection. As we get into the text, we see John is uh remarking on this blatant unbelief. And that feels a little counterintuitive in a couple of ways. People, on the one hand, have seen all this evidence which should lead them to believe, and yet they just don't. You might ask there, I mean, if these people won't believe, why even do all the signs? Um they're not going to believe anyway. Why have we stepped through this? Why do these people reject the evidence? Now, on the other side, uh it's a little awkward and we know John has told us there's a reason he's writing these things And it's so that we would believe. When John gets to the end of his book, he says, I've written these things so that you might believe. Why then would John tell us about it seems to be a failure of that, right? I'm telling you these things so that you could know them, so that you could believe, but these people knew those things and they well didn't believe. Seems like a failure of that. There's a hint here in verse 36 to start to put these things together. When Jesus had said these things, He departed and hid himself from them. Jesus, after the events of the triumphal entry, hides from the people And that physical act here, it hints at something that's happening spiritually too. There's a way in which Christ has hidden himself from these people. People. Now, at the same time, there is a very real sense in which Jesus has revealed himself to these people. We see that in all of the signs that he does. But he says here there's also a kind of hiding. And that starts to make sense of what we've seen along the way through John. Because again and again there is this Message that is taught through the signs that Jesus does. And yet, what happens to that message? Again and again, it falls on hard hearts and blind eyes and deaf ears. John, in bringing this up, is actually being very thoughtful. Think about who John's audience is. This gospel is going out into the world to teach people about who Jesus is. It's working to convince people, to call people to believe in Jesus. Think for a moment if you were a Greek or uh even a Jew, especially a Jew, out in the grand world, who's one of the first people reading this gospel. you would probably begin to question and ask, why do so many of these people who actually saw Jesus reject? Doesn't that seem odd? Were not these people around Jesus the Jews, God's people? Were they not being prepared for a thousand years to receive this Messiah? And if they won't receive him, then Why should I? Isn't that kind of an evidence that maybe they they messed up and this isn't really the guy? What John is doing here by bringing this up, he's preempting that motive. He's preempting that thought. He's getting ahead of it here, and he's solving that problem. Look with me at verse 37. Though Jesus had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. So that the words spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. What's John saying there? He's saying that this rejection is actually all part of the plan. This had to happen to fulfill what God spoke previously through the prophets. Actually, what we're going to see as we step through this passage is this kind of sequence of causation here. If you just glance through the text, you're going to see a lot of cause words. So that, therefore, because for. This chain of causation that John is leading us through. Now that gets particularly difficult as we unroll the chain. Because ultimately here, what we're going to see is that Something or someone is causing this disbelief. There's two different pieces of Isaiah that are quoted here in John. Now the first is Isaiah fifty three verse one. And John relays it this way Lord, who has believed what he heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Why did Isaiah originally write that? And what did Isaiah mean by that when he said it? It's because in Isaiah 53 the prophet actually faces what it's going to feel like a very similar predicament to what's here in John chapter 12. Who is Isaiah? He is one of God's messengers. He is a prophet who is sent out by God. And in Isaiah 52, we get this message that he is supposed to deliver to the people about who the Messiah is, who the Messiah is going to be. It's this promise that the Messiah will come. And he will rescue the people, and he will lift them up from oppression. He will proclaim the good news that our God reigns and all of the nations are going to bow down to us. And that's just that sounds like great news, right? Actually, that sounds like exactly the kind of news that these people around Jesus are wanting to hear. That is the kind of Messiah that they are looking toward That is the kind of Messiah who they're saying, Hosanna, come save us now. Sign us up for that. Isaiah 52 doesn't end so cheerfully, though. Uh it ends this way. Uh verse thirteen. Behold, my servant shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted. Great, we love that. That's great. Verse 14. As many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind. So shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him. For that which has not been told, then they see, that which they have not heard, they understand. Your Isaiah in that moment, you're going, Whoa, okay, buddy, hold up there. Uh we weren't with you, we were with you for most of this until you started saying things like, our messiah is going to be Marred and disfigured, and he's going to be bruised and bloody, and his blood is actually going to be shed and sprinkled over the nations. That does not exactly sound great. And that's eg exactly the kind of and response that Isaiah is anticipating. The people will have when he's going to go and tell this to the people. We know that because of the very next verse, which is Isaiah 53:1, and what John quoted here. Who has believed what he's heard? From us. To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Isaiah there, he's saying, God, nobody is going to believe that. Nobody is going to want to receive that and God if I go and say this the people will not listen they are going to reject it in some sense that That's actually just the story of Israel and their prophets, right? God's people continually love to reject God's messengers. You look through the history of the Old Testament, they do it with Moses, they do it with the judges, they do it with, I think of so many prophets, Elijah, Jeremiah, Hosea, Amos, Isaiah. It's actually kind of a trademark of Israel. So much so that in Matthew 23, in a parallel kind of context, Jesus says to the people of Israel there, You all say, Woe to our ancestors who shed the blood of the prophets. If we had lived then, we would do no such thing. And then Jesus proceeds to say, oh yeah, okay, give it a week. We'll see if you finish the bloodshed your ancestors started. And what is going to come in a week? It's his crucifixion. It's a trademark of Israel. Isaiah knows, of course, the people will reject this message from God. A bruised and bloodied Messiah? That kind of savior? Isaiah has actually known that whatever his message is The people are going to reject it. Isaiah has known that since his ministry started. We read Isaiah 6, we've actually read it a couple of times now. Because it was our Old Testament reading, and it's what is next quoted by John. When Isaiah is commissioned as a prophet of God to proclaim the truth, what did God tell him? God said, Who will be my messenger? And Isaiah says, send me. And then God proceeds to say, Isaiah 6, verse 9. Go and say to this people, keep on hearing, but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, or hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn to be healed. God's saying, go, Isaiah, and proclaim this message, and it is going to make the hearts of these people hard. They will reject it. Isaiah follows up. He says, How long do I have to do that, Lord? And God says, until the cities lie ruined and the people are desolate. Note in there what is promised is not merely that the message will be rejected, but the message will actually cause, it will generate rejection. Isaiah has known that his message is going to be rejected. He proclaims it, he says it, because God ordained it And what does John say here? Verse 39. Therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah said, he is blind Their eyes and harden their hearts, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their hearts, and turn, and I would heal them. What is true here? God has known that the people would reject Jesus. If we boil that down, he knew it because he ordained He actually instructed the message that would lead to it. And in some sense, we can follow the chain to say that he has caused it. That leaves us with a number of questions. And chief among them, for me at least, would be Why? Why? It's actually a spark of why back in Isaiah 6 at the very end. The destruction foretold of God that God would bring upon the people. It concludes this way in verse 13. And though a tenth remain in it, it will be burned again. Like a perebinth or an oak whose stump remains when it is fell, the holy seed is its stump. There is something in what God has ordained and in what God is doing that is bringing us back down to this seed, to this holy seed, this promised seed. then it's going to be what will sprout from it. There is some kind of seed here which is at work God's plan is not merely for destruction, but a kind of destruction which is going to enable and lead to something else, which is going to lead to redemption. Somewhere in this, God has a redemptive purpose. Okay, but when we look at it, it's still a little frustrating, isn't it, to grapple with? It might not feel fair. It might feel very strange. And if you feel that way, know that you are not alone. Isaiah struggles with it. He says that this feels strange. In Isaiah chapter 28, when talking about God's judgment against Israel for their hardened hearts, He describes it this way, Isaiah 28, 21. The Lord will rise up as on Mount Perizim, as in the valley of Gibeon. He will be roused to do his deed. Strange is his deed. To do his work. Alien is his work. Isaiah says, This is awkward. This is strange. This is not what we expect. This does not quite make sense to me what God is doing. We know in the New Testament Paul wrestles with this somewhat too, right? In Romans 9, as he talks about Israel's hard hearts, he reminds us, even there, that God hardened Pharaoh's heart. He does that as he asks Romans 9:22. What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath, prepared for destruction? But there's a purpose, in order to make known the riches of his glory, for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory Paul is asking, what if that really is what God has done? At least it was for his glory. There is here this seed of redemption. There is something in this destruction that is leading to God's mercy. We don't get to necessarily escape for us what is a difficult reality here, that God does harden hearts. That God is the one who actually has absolute sovereignty. That God's freedom, though it does not usurp ours, it does supersede ours. What do we see along with it? He is working all things together for his redemptive purposes, for the purpose of his holy seed. They may feel strange, his deeds, the way he is working, but they are his deeds. They are what he is doing. And if that is true, then they must be good. Pull all of this back into the context of John here. What is John saying as he puts this before us? He's saying to you, readers, do not worry that Christ was rejected Do not worry because this is part of God's plan of redemption. This is how God is bringing redemption into this world. Along with that, I do not want to shortchange or just skip over the difficulty of it. We could, in some sense, summarize what's being described here. God's acts as what? It seems like God is saying, I'm going to preach at you, Israel, so that your hearts get hard, and I'm doing that so that I can judge you for being hard-hearted. There is a very human impulse there to look at that and ask, I mean, isn't that just cruel? God, you knew what this message would do to these people, and you did it anyway. That feels in a human way a little cruel Are you just a god who plays with his food before crushing it? Doesn't this just sound like all the gods that other men have invented and dreaded in their myths? You have to take, you know, perfectly fine me and Joshua over here and harden our hearts. And there's where there's a little bit of a misnomer in what's happening. here. Because you know what God never does in all the places that we see Him speak of hardening hearts? God never comes to good or even just neutral people and harden their hearts. I think about what we've actually seen along the way. Israel and Isaiah, are they all good and dandy? Perfectly holy, right? No. Um they are worshipping Baals and murdering their children Pharaoh, he was a great and just ruler over the people, right? Oh no, he had enslaved the people to suffer and die under him. Oh, we can track through all the events along the way and we're gonna see the Same kind of thing. God comes to sinful people. God comes to people who have earned for themselves judgment and wrath. Now, what is nevertheless true True for all sinful people. Is it not that their only hope is the very message that this sovereign God comes and proclaims To them. What is the message which God proclaims? Verse 41. Isaiah said these things because he saw God's glory and spoke of him. Do you know who Isaiah saw back in the throne room? And we're going to use a little bit of our theology here to think through this. In Isaiah 6, the prophet seized the glory of God and spoke of him. God is spirit, right? You You can't see spirit unless God took on the flesh, unless the light of lights and the glory of God made manifest and the image of the invisible somehow became visible. What John is actually telling us is that Isaiah sees Jesus. And the message he proclaims is about Jesus. That's what Isaiah proclaims. And what is the message that Jesus Christ comes and offers Point number two, the offer of redemption. When Jesus enters the scene here in the text, he comes with a message. He comes and he just starts speaking. We pick up with that in verse 44. Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. Jesus announces here that he is the perfect representation of God the Father There are plenty of people in his day that would say, you know, if only I had seen what Isaiah saw in the throne room. Then I could believe. And John is telling us, okay, here he is. Here is Jesus. He is the perfect image of the Father. He is exactly what Isaiah saw. It's no wonder we often get a similar kind of refracted response today. Oh, if I saw Jesus raise someone from the dead, Of course I would believe in him. And yet what John has made perfectly clear along the way is that plenty of people did see that and yet did not believe. And yet, Christ has come so that those who would believe may believe Eve. He shines into this world as a glorious light and reveals what God has come to do. He shines into this world to bring people out of the darkness. And what does he do? call them to do. It's to believe. It's to have faith. Listen to how Jesus continues. Verse 47. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. Someone who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The words that I have spoken will judge him on the last day For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. When I say therefore, I say as the Father has told me. This is in some way a summary of so many of the things that Jesus has said throughout his ministry in John, leading up to this point. Notice in that too, Jesus expresses that he He does not come here to judge, at least not this time. No, he comes to save. Where we may be tempted to see God as cruel, what is it that He has actually done here? He is the God who commissions his only begotten Son to come into this world. Why? To come and to save who It's sinners. To speak these words of salvation to people who reject him Jesus comes to offer up himself for them, to be rejected for them, to live the life of the suffering servant. For them to be beaten and marred, for them to die on a cross, for them. Sinners who through their life continually reject Him And Jesus comes to the world to offer this to the world. A world filled with people who are sinful. A world filled with people who reject him. A world filled with people who, if they would just believe, would receive his commandment, eternal life. Part of the equation we have to remember in all of the difficulty here is this. God does have total sovereignty And that means he does call. He elects. That also means he can harden hearts But nowhere does the sovereignty of God reject human responsibility. We do genuinely act. We see that in our daily lives We see that throughout the scripture that people genuinely act. We are not robots. We are not merely subjects to our hyper-extended thoughts of a fatalistic world. All who here are genuinely extended this offer of salvation from Jesus believe in The problem along with that is that we are the kind of people in sin who by nature reject the Lord. Light. We see the light and we reject its truth. We are the kind of people who again and again prefer to wallow in the darkness And here is where God's sovereignty speaks a very beautiful word. Because even though we are those kinds of people The same God who hardens hearts, He is the God who softens hearts. He is the God who softens the hearts of wicked people. So that they might trust and believe in his Son. A few brief notes on what this belief from Jesus calls us to look like. Noticing what Jesus says about himself, notice what Jesus says about himself in relation to the Father. He says he is the exact imprint of the Father. He represents the Father. What does that mean? It necessitates that those who reject him reject the Father. There are plenty of people who want to make belief in Jesus just a subset of the category of those who believe in God. Jesus leaves no space for that here. In his own day, that was a tough pill to swallow. Think, here are all these Israelites around him. Who are they? They are people who have grown up in the community of God's people. These are children of Abraham by blood, and of course they worship God. And Jesus tells them here. It's me or it's nothing. If you reject me, you are rejecting God. And why is that? He says, because I am the one who he has sent, because I am his messenger, and I am his message. In Deuteronomy 18, God talks about the prophet, the Messiah prophet he's going to send. He said he would put his own words into the mouth of that prophet to speak. Does that sound like something Jesus just said about himself? God said there through Moses, anyone who rejected that prophet would be called to account, would be cut off. It's the same discipline for those who reject God. Because Jesus is that prophet. He is God. Now that reality isn't just difficult for people in Jesus' state. It's difficult for people today, right? It's hard for people to accept. I mean, so often the refrain is, well, Jesus is just a path to God. Jesus is who you see God through, and I go another way. Now we all worship the same God. There are just different routes up his mountain. What Jesus makes blatantly clear here is: no. There is no generic God. To reject Jesus is to reject God Himself There's another way we catch this kind of false belief warning in this passage. Before Jesus starts speaking, what did John say right before it? Verse 41, he reminds us, Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke to his glory. spoke of him. Nevertheless, many, even of the authorities, believed in Jesus, but for fear of the Pharisees, they did not confess it. So that they would not be put out of the synagogue. They love the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. He's saying there are people who believe in some sense, but they're too afraid to come out and say it. And there's good reason for that amongst those. People. We saw what happened to one guy who did that, right? The man who Jesus healed, who then said, I am one of Jesus' disciples. Do you want to follow him too? And the Pharisees responded to him by cutting him off. from his family and from his community and from all the culture that he's known by making him into a total and utter outcast. John is writing to people who will face the same kind of thing in their own lives. He's writing to Jews out there in the world who, when they confess, that Jesus is Lord will be cast out of their communities. He's writing to Greeks in the marketplace who will be scowled at and rejected for confessing faith in Jesus. John is writing to us. He is writing to Americans in their workplace who will be laughed at for believing in a God who actually came as a man and died and was resurrected for sinners. It's a stark warning here, not just about outright rejection, but also the kind of implicit rejection. It comes with a heart that says, Jesus may be true, but he just isn't quite worth it for me. Because what is What does John say that is? It's a rejection of God's glory. It's exchanging God's glory for man's. What is true of God's glory here in the passage? What do we see about how God's glory comes and is revealed? What we see is that Jesus has come for the sake of God's glory. And what does that look like? What does Jesus say he came to bring. It's to bring salvation. All of this news, though it may be difficult, though it may be hard, Christian, to you, it is a Comfort to any who would believe in Jesus. It is a comforting word because how is God's glory revealed through the work of Jesus? It is through bringing salvation to his people. And so of course rejecting God's glory is a rejection of salvation. But here, what is spoken to you, Christian, is that God's glory is revealed to you by Jesus coming to save you. Think of what's spoken here. You may be rejected by the world for believing in Jesus. Christian, do you know what is true? Your Messiah was rejected too. He has also walked that path But what did him walking that path mean for you? The glory of the gospel of grace is what? Is that the incredible providential plan of God is that your Messiah would be rejected, that your Messiah would come and be crucified on a cross. That's where his rejection leads to, right? And Jesus comes, and the people say, No, we don't want him, so we are going to crucify him. What does that crucifixion do? Is that not the crucifixion which saves you? Which rescues you? His rejection Christian, that is your very hope and salvation because at the cross Jesus came to be judged. Not to judge, he said, but rather to be judged on your behalf. Sinners. He came and he was cut off. He was despised and ashamed, also that he could save you from having to face that in eternity. Because what was he commanded to bring to you? It's eternal life. What was the trajectory of your life apart from the grace of Jesus' intervention? It would have been that you would roll off the end of the table of life and crash and die. But how sweet that the Father has sent Jesus to intervene To come and to rescue you. It is through that rejection that Jesus saves you. And it was all part of God. Of the plan. It was all part of the plan so that you might see God's glory in salvation. Is that a comfort to you? It should be. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, in the midst of difficult and hard truths, that you are sovereign. We thank you that you are sovereign. We thank you that you are good. Because what we see here is the truth. Fit apart from you. Our trajectory in life is one that will crash and burn. And yet, here, Father, you have sought to intervene by Sending your son. Oh, but your son was rejected. And yet, Father, you even planned that If Christ had come and was received and never died, what would the story mean for us? We would still be in need of Salvation. Someone would still need to pay the price for our sin. And yet, you so beautifully have crafted this story where Jesus Christ came and he was rejected. Though he proved perfectly who he was, and because he was rejected and died upon a cross, his blood was sprinkled over us that we might be cleansed. And washed and rescued. Father, thank you for this. May we respond by following what Jesus has called us to. Belief in Him. May we hear this word and believe in who Jesus is for us. May we look upon the rejected Savior, the one who is marred and beaten and broken for us. And say hallelujah, what a savior. Pray this in the name of Jesus