In no way does this mean it's unimportant. And I hope that if anything, our time together wets your appetite to hear and listen and read Colossians. um o o over and over again. And I found that as as I age in particular, my eyes aren't what they used to be. I listen to a lot of Books and listening to the Bible has been a huge blessing for me, and maybe some of you feel the same. And I don't know why it is. Listening is different than reading in terms of the impact it has. So I want to just encourage you that I if nothing else, you walk away from the weekend saying, you know, I'm gonna I want to read through Colossians a few more times. Um and it doesn't take long, less than thirty minutes to go through through all four chapters. But if you if we began at the beginning, I want to draw your attention to the end. And then tomorrow we're going to come back to uh chapter three. in the morning service. But as we talked about before, how do we who are in Christ live in this world faithfully has been the The continuing question that Paul is asking. We talked about prayer. We tuck talked about trusting in the Lord even in the midst of suffering. Now I want to talk to all of us about community obliquely, I think, approached to us by Paul, especially in the latter half. In chapter 4, verse 7 is where I want to read until the end of That chapter. We're going to spend some time hovering over those words there. Hear now the word of the Lord. Tychicus will tell you about all my activities. He is a beloved brother. And faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord. I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your hearts and with him onisimus our faithful and beloved brother who is one of you they will tell you of everything that has taken place Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, and mark the cousin of Barnabas, concerning whom you have received instructions, if he comes to you. you welcome him, and Jesus who is called justice. These are the only men of the circumcision among my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they have been a comfort to me. Apophoras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers, that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God. For I bear him witness that I That he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and in Hieropolis. Luke the beloved physician greets you, as does Demas. Give my greetings to the brothers at Laodicea and to Nympha and the church in her house. And when this letter has been read among you, have it also be read in the church of the Laodiceans, and see that you also read the letter from Laodicea. And say to Archipus, see that you fulfill the ministry that you have received. I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand, remember my chains. Grace be with you. So far the reading of his word. I realize it seems like the least enticing section of the book as you see a list of uh names um it's kind of like romans 5 uh 16 where he goes through a bunch of names, about 36 in total. Not having social media, I I don't. I just I'm a lurker. I look at my wife's once in a while. But social media is not a distraction I want to live with, so I've stayed away from it. But it's a way for Paul to indicate the people he knows and to remind them of the people that ought to be prayed over. And this is the section we see. And oftentimes he ends this way, doesn't he? He sends greetings, he sends notes of what's going on, and then he says, Grace be with you. And then he asks for their prayer is what Paul often does. As we see a structured opening, we see this structured ending. And we want to spend some time in this structured ending. here because the names mentioned as well as what's being intimated here is not as simple as it perhaps may seem because there's an important point that he wants to drive home with us as we think about these passages. So let's turn to the Lord and ask for his guidance as we approach this text. Father, we we love your word. Sometimes we don't get to spend time in reflection and prayer over your word, but we thank you for our opportunities. like this for us to sit, listen, hear, and to think upon your word. But we recognize, O Lord, that our minds are too small and feeble unless you guide us, unless you teach us, unless you illuminate the words to us, we cannot fully comprehend. Would you lift us up, O Lord, that we may be able to discern your mind mind and will so that we may see and experience and have perspective in the way that you desire us to be, reflecting reflexively your priorities as well as your So be with us now, Lord. Instill these words deeply into our hearts that we may not just hear them, but that we may apply them to our lives. For we pray these things in your son. because she was driving up on Thursday. We drove up and we kept reminding one another, that is Sharon, my wife and I, hey, this is a good day. She's only moving about two and a half hours away. She wasn't moving far, far away. And we said, we're going to rejoice, be thankful. There are lots of regrets we had as parents. I'm told that reliably 93% of all the conversations you have in life with your child So when you think about that silvering statistic, you wonder, oh man, maybe we should have had more conversations, though many of us have talked quite a bit. And so as we're driving up, we're trying to remind ourselves that she's in the Lord's hands now and we trust that the uh the Lord will take care of her. We moved her stuff in, uh we went out to dinner with some friends who lived in the area, had a wonderful time came back and it was already sunset dropping her off uh my son Simeon gave her a hug uh very little reaction or emotion al along the way. I gave her a hug and and I'm usually emotion free. And so I I was somewhat sad. She is most like me in terms of personal personalities at home. Um and so I gave her a hug, but when her mom hugged her, it was pretty much over. It was a faucet at that point in time. They wouldn't let go of each other for uh what seemed like minutes and it's only a two and a half hour drive down from her dorm to our home but my wife was weepy the whole time and then she wept the whole night and the next morning she was sad and then she found a basket of cookies that our daughter had left behind and she grabbed one and ate one. Have you ever heard of Ugly Cry? Uh that for about half an hour. Just it's a loss. I mean I think many of us who Um who uh sent a child off in many ways perhaps me understand what that feels like. When we were sending her off, uh somebody else told me that It when the kids are in their uh single digits, we're like managers of a baseball team. We we do everything for them, organize their lives. When they're in their teens, we are like uh coaches. We show them what to do, we cheer them on. Right. We can't play for them, but we we get engaged on a uh on a very big level. But when they become college students and adults or mere consultants, um we come in when they ask you to come in. We don't engage the way we used to engage. These are things that we're learning. So I was trying to take my moment as a final coach, just to say, Anna, when you go off to college, there was only one non-negotiable. And the only one negotiable was you have to go to church. Now we trusted that she will. It's not that we had doubts that she would. But college is an interesting place. Many distractions, uh many things that tug at you both in terms of time as well as in And so I wanted her to hear from us that there are lots of things and we want you to do well, but grades aren't the most important things to us. We want you to enjoy, but your pleasure is not the most important thing. to us. And we wanted to remind her that there's one thing that we prayerfully hope that she will do without really uh uh uh negotiating there is about attending church. Everything else, gravy. If you want to attend a Christian group on campus, great. Enjoy them. But that's not what's non-negotiable. Attending church any given week weekend. is a non-negotiable. That may sound old and arcane in some ways, but it's actually a very important part of what Paul seems to describe in terms of There is a huge taking uh change taking place around us. Ryan Burge is the author of a fairly well-known book called The Nuns, and then there is a recent book he published with another author. Author named The Great De Churching is the title of the book. Recently he wrote a piece online on his website titled simply I'm an Evangelical. But I rarely go to church. Evangelical here he means not necessarily politically. I realize we're in an environment where that word gets thrown around with different the idea. I'm an evangelical, but I rarely go to church when religious belonging and religious behavior don't align. I think that subtitle is very telling, right? When religious belonging and religious behavior don't align. The point that he's trying to make is that there were statistics covered between 2008 and 2023. And one of the changes that we'd see is that Christians who call themselves genuine believers attend church less and less and less. And this is accelerated by what we now refer back as the COVID period. And sometimes the change has occurred in the church as well. To give you a flavor of what he's looking at, in 2008, about 16% of self-professing evangelical went to church less than one time a year. Believers who believe in the name of Jesus But attended church less than one time a year. That's startling. That number has only increased. So over a quarter of the self-professing evangelicals now. Attend church less than one time a year. Just imagine that. 52 Sundays, right? Where you have corporate body gathering together for worship. You believe in Jesus. Jesus Christ as your one and only Savior, but at the same time, you don't believe in the church, the organization, or the institution. institution, therefore you don't attend church, is representative of a quarter of all believers who uh call upon the name of Jesus. as their Lord and Savior. This is true not only in America, this is true also in South Korea now, where there is an interesting word that I I realize that uh most of you don't don't speak Korean. But hear me out when I say the word for Canaans, which is a region obviously, is Kanaan. That's the Koreanization of the name. If you reverse the characters of that in Korean, it translates to roughly, and so obviously this is not the word reverse, but it's a meaning changes, the word means I don't go, is what the word becomes. 33% of Korean Christians attend church less than 1% in a given year. Similarly, in terms of statistics. comparisons. And what we see here taking place is the understanding that people have said a lot. I'm spiritual, but I don't believe in the church. I believe in the individual faith, but the institution of church is something that I do not believe in. Nor do I participate in. And this is the question I want to ask this morning that I think Paul is bringing up. Is this disembodied life of a believer ever possible? Is the disembodied life of a believer possible? To this, Paul answers with a resounding no Resounding no. He does this in multiple ways, but I want to focus on this particular section toward the end of his letter to Colossians to remind us. Throughout Colossians, Paul has consistently pointed the readers to Christ Jesus, reminding us that Jesus is enough. This is why we turn to him in prayer. Jesus is enough. In the moments of suffering, Christ is there with us, we are told. He alone is enough, we're told. Yet Paul, in writing to the church in Colossae, reminds his readers That we are saved by Christ alone, but not to be alone. We are saved by Christ alone. But not to be alone, for Christ brings us as we lift up the name of Jesus Christ into the body. The church, chapter 1, verse 18 reminds us, and later on verse 24 and 5. Following. We belong to the church, the body of Christ Jesus. We are saved by Jesus alone, but not to be alone, but to belong in the body of Christ Jesus. The church. Though not the most traditional way of ending a study in any given book, we want to focus on this and reflect upon this teaching of Paul in the writings here because We get the sense right away. Paul never ministered alone. Paul did not do life alone. F. F. Bruce, who was a fairly well-known New Testament scholar in the UK, summarized the people surrounding Paul this way. Paul attracted friends around him as a magnet attracts iron filings. I don't get the sense that Paul would have been a um kind of a chit-chatty small talk kind of a guy. I don't know why. We get the image of his uh uh uh you know his presence as being somewhat shorter with a bit of a hunchback, not the best speaker. among them um and you're looking at me like oh kinda like you is what you're thinking. I know. I know what's on your mind even as you think of it. It may have been true to a certain degree, but as you remember what he's talking about, I don't think Given the intensity he exhibits, that he would have been, as you and I would imagine, someone who sits down and talks about weather generally. in terms of what takes place. But what's amazing is that when you see throughout his uh the writings, not only his writings, but in the book of Acts, he was surrounded by people within the church. The total number of Paul's co-workers, co-laborers, and co-servants have been placed variously between 81 to 95, depending on whether they are actually named or not. When names mentioned only in the book of Acts, because obviously Acts is a secondary account written by Luke, who ministered alongside Paul, but it's not Paul's own account of himself. So let's say you take away the names found in the book of Acts that Paul worked with, and with specific categories being in mind, Paul mentions 36 co-workers. With nine designations in terms of his 13 letters. Given the fact that there are only a few books, 13 letters of his, these are high concentration of names Right? He's mentioning a lot of people that surround him, even in his life and Christian life in particular. Colossians is no exception. That's why we read that passage, right? Almost the whole chapter, verse 7 and on, in chapter 4. It's only a four-chapter book, mind you, friends. But in chapter 4. From verse 7 on, he's mentioning name after name after name. I need to remind you during this time that Paul was also still imprisoned for the gospel of Christ Jesus. So this is not one of those things that people can easily visit, but he is incarcerated for Jesus' namesake, but he is surrounded by people. People who are Christians and co-laborers with him. We see this in chapter 4, verse 7. Tychicus is a beloved brother, he says. And mind you, notice what Paul does oftentimes when we are. When he's referring to others, he talks to them as brothers and sisters. And in fact, Colossians and Philemon, which is a companion letter. And the reason why we know it's a companion letter is later on in chapter 4, one of the names mentioned is Onesimus, who is the subject of the letter of Philemon? If I can just refresh your memory, Philemon is one of the leaders in the Church of Colasse And the understanding that we had was his former servant Onesimus ran away, generally speaking, and as Paul led Onesimus to Christ, he sends him back to his previous master. uh Philemon to the church in Colossae. And you what you come to recognize is that they're taken hand in hand, but there's a high concentration of family language. Sister, brother, children. And the reason for that is as soon as you know Christ Jesus to be true, You no longer are separated by boundaries of culture, region, language, or families. Here, those barriers have been broken and you are brought into one family. You In fact, our baptism is baptism into the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Though my earthly name is Kim, here I bear the name of my father in heaven, and though you do not share my last name, you are now my brothers and sisters. We don't get to see each other as often as we would like, but yet I have family members in Bowie, Maryland, because of Christ Jesus, to whom I can say simply, brothers. Sisters, and we're united by the very blood of Christ Jesus our Lord. So it's not insignificant when Paul refers to persons like Tychicus as my beloved brother. faithful minister he is referred to as, and even a fellow servant. It's assumed that Tychicus is the one who carried the letters. Back to the church, bringing it back from Paul. In verse 8, he is joined by Onesimus, right? Our faithful and beloved brother. One thing you have to keep in mind is that Onesimus Was under someone else as their slave or a servant. It's a complicated issue in the first century, but historically quite a bit different than the chattel slavery that you and I are aware of in the US and the Western world. We recognize that this is a complex issue that has to be untangled. But just to make a point here for us as we carry on, Onesimus. His name means useful. When he was born into the family as a worker, as a slave, they named him with a desire that he be useful. But you might remember in the book of Philemon, we are told that Onesimus was useless to Philemon. He couldn't even live up to his name. But after he found Christ with Paul, he's being sent back to his master Philaeman, and we are told that he may be useful to you now in Christ Jesus. But what's amazing about it, as uh Philemon receives him back, it's amazing. Paul begins by pointing out, receive him. Which is unthinkable in the first century because you don't want runaway slaves, so you exact punishments that are shocking, even death on the cross. But it's not only that Paul asks him to receive him, he goes on to say, receive him as you would receive me. Philemon owes his life, spiritual life, to Paul, and he says, don't receive him back like he's your subject. You receive him back like you're seeing me. Which means a person with a lower status is received with a high status by another. And then he further goes on to say, if he has wronged you. or taking things from you, which he likely has in in the process of running away. He says, count that on my account. Which is amazing. That is, I will repay it because Onesimus cannot. That great exchange is what we see throughout the writings of Paul to describe what Jesus does in our life. He who knew no sin became sin for us. He who was rich became poor, so that by his poverty we might become rich, Paul argues. Do you see that great exchange? That great exchange that has taken place in Christ Jesus as we believe upon him means now when Onesimus returns back to his hometown, to his former master. Paul says, you receive him back no longer as your servant, but as your brother. Just imagine this. Six days he worked the field on any given day on Sunday as they sit together. No longer are you seeing each other as the world sees one another. You see each other as God sees one another. My brother and sister, and here he is, Onesimus, our faithful and beloved brother is how he's referred. And verse 10 goes on to talk about Aristarchus. Apparently sitting in prison with Paul as he says he is a fellow prisoner. Fellow prisoner. It's a single word in the original and found only in Paul, in places like Romans 16 and Philemon verse 23. Paul sometimes makes up words. And all you have to do is to add a prefix, soon, which means together, right? And here he talks about we're together prisoners. about Aristarchus. And then even sitting there, he recognizes the people that God has brought into his life. And then he mentions in verse 10, Mark the cousin of Barnabas. I want to come back to that later on. So I won't spend time on that at all. In verse 11, Jesus, who is called justice. Of these men, Paul refers to them as fellow workers for the kingdom of God, with the phrase fellow workers again being a single word. He just talks about the workers, just with a prefix, soon. These are people that God has placed in his life so that there is a community and fellowship that's built in Verse 12, he brings up a name he brought up in chapter one that you and I read about, the one who brought the gospel to them, as the gospel and the word of God is being proclaimed throughout the world. A prophoras makes another men change here, a servant of Christ Jesus. Paul particularly highlights the ministry of Apophoros among Colossians. Chapter 4, verse 12 says, always struggling on your behalf in his prayer. that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God. For I bear him witness that he has worked hard for you. And for those in Laodicea and Hieropolis, two cities nearby where the church is being built up. This is after he had seen Singled him out as the messenger sent by God for the church for the proclamation of the word. We saw this in chapter 1, verse 7. Just as you learned it from Apophoros, our beloved fellow servant, he is a faithful minister of Christ on the your behalf and has made known to us your love in the spirit. I love it when when Paul highlights these people set aside for the work of the proclamation of the word. It's glorious ministry. Every work we do is important. But I really think we need to prayerfully engage our young people about the possibility. That the Lord may be calling them into full-time ministry. It is kind of intriguing to me that when I go to different places, most adults have no problems asking and telling younger people what they should be. You should be an engineer. You have some aptitude there. You should be a doctor. Maybe you should be teaching because you're such a good speaker. And the list goes on in terms of what they say they ought to do. But no one ever says you should be a missionary. Or you should be a pastor. So I've made it my point for the last two or three years to create crisis points wherever I go because I've come to realize Last, I I I don't I don't know if I ever shared this. I'm not very good with youth. Uh meaning I love them, but I'm a cynical guy, and I can't make them I'm not cool enough to be light. And so youth ministries, not something I ever did, uh at least not very long, anyways. I went straight to college and above is what uh the ministry I got engaged in. But here, whenever I see young people now, uh, especially in front of the parents, not to offend anyone, say, hey, have you thought about ministries? Even the most faithful brothers and sisters who are parents, often I find them getting upset. Yeah, bothered minimally and saying, oh, yeah, no. Maybe you could do that later on. Uh Be a doctor first. And then one day you can be a missionary abroad is basically how they, you know, correct and and and bring that back. So I made it my point to bring that up. And I I I bring this as a self confession in some sorts, because when it when our son was young, uh Simeon, we were at Target one day. Um he must have been like three or four. And then as we were walking hand in hand, which we don't do anymore, he looked up and he said, Daddy, I want to walk here. Is what he said. I want to work here. And working at Target is a beautiful thing. Let me just reemphasize that and reiterate that. But as an immigrant My son working at Target was not what I was thinking or hoping for, if I say it. So I turned to him and said, Simeon, um Do you want to own Target? Because I'm thinking if you own Target, it's fairly legitimate, right? Um he said no. I said, uh Simeon, do you do you want to be like a regional manager? He goes, no. I wanna be a scanner is what he said. He loved the sounds. He wanted to be a scanner. But I think he saw my disappointment Um because what happened was when he was about seven or eight now, walking out around the block of our house here, and then he looked at me and said, Daddy, Daddy, I think I I know what I want to be. I said, What? He goes He looks at up uh looks up at me and he says, Daddy, I think I want to be a doctor? And he looks up at me with the question at the end And then I must have reacted in something like, yeah, that sounds like a good plan, or something of that nature, because he reacted by saying, Yeah, yes, I want to be a doctor. is what he said. And he thought that that was data-proofed job to have in the future. I see that as my own weakness and struggle. There is a fine line between our desire for the best for our children versus our own aspirations, many ways, coming in. But I've come to realize that perhaps there is no greater thing that I can do in terms of the work that I do and my hopes is than to simply encourage my son who wants to be an engineer. I regularly say him, you know, I think you You have some gifts in the direction of ministry. Have you thought about it? No dad. No dad. We're working on it. We're praying on it. But simply the reason I bring this up is here, the gospel is proclaimed. And I pray that uh the church here at Bowie would join us in praying for many young people. Whom the Lord sets apart like this to be toiling on behalf of the church and bringing the gospel to places where the gospel is direly needed, and we need more workers for the field. The field is big, but we have fewer and fewer workers for the field. And as someone who comes from a seminary, I just want to ask you to pray, not just for our seminary, but simply workers. people whom the Lord sets apart and convicts to this end. Just to finish this section with a few more names here, verse 14, Paul mentions Luke the physician. who actually writes the book of Acts and then Demas, he briefly mentions. Verse 15, he also greets brothers at Laodicea, many that we don't even know. So these are not even counted among the people that he considers fellow walk walkers in terms of the journey of life. And Nympha who opened up her home for the church, most of these churches Met in the home of someone anyways. In verse 16, he leaves a special instruction for Archipus, reminding him of the ministry that he has received as my guess, a push. or perhaps a tug, that he may remain faithful in terms of what he has given. Though not mentioned in chapter 4, we also cannot forget Timothy. who in chapter 1 verse 1 he mentioned uh the fellow brother Timothy with whom he sends this letter. Brother, servant sister, ministers, fellow workers, and fellow prisoners. Some were teaching along with Paul, some were local church workers, some wrote letters with Paul, and others accompanied Paul on his journeys, others were just simply present in Paul's life, including pr prison, which is where we find himself. Paul never ministered a Alone and Paul did not journey life alone. Here he had lots of people, and we see evidences of this as the body, the church of Christ Jesus is being a very good idea. Built up. We are saved indeed by Jesus alone, but not to be alone. And Paul exemplifies that. Nowhere does he say you need to surround yourself with people. But what he does indicate by life and action, reminder is that your life is attached intimately to all those God brings into the family of Christ's seat. Jesus, the church, visibly locally in this way first, but universally as all of us call upon the name of Jesus Jesus as our Lord and Savior. Pastor Fix had to bring you back from the outside. That's where the food is, I know. But at the same time, that's where the rich fellowship was taking place. We almost feel embarrassed tugging you back. Obviously, we have schedules that we're following, but the buzz of people conversing and fellowshipping, I don't know if you ever felt that, right? You enjoy that as a pastor. Because you know people are together here, now brought together by Christ Jesus, one in him, enjoying one another's company, is what Paul not only teaches, but exemplifies. For us. But it's not because life together is easy. Would you agree with that? You know, maybe buoy is different. We Reformed Presbyterian Church, only peace, unity, contentment, laughter, overflowing fellowship may be experienced here. And I pray that that is the case. But in my experience of church, there have been some difficulties. As Luther once said, if it weren't for the debt outside of the ark, most people could not tolerate the stink inside the ark. Stink is amazing, but if you jumped off the ark, you die. So you choose to stay in. We recognize that the church itself is difficult. Sometimes overwhelmingly so. But this is the vehicle and institution that Christ has himself begin to carry us home. one day. And we know the difficulties are present because we see the name Demas here. You may be thinking, Joel, I think you're overanalyzing names, probably. But I want to overanalyze names here with you a little bit because I think there's something to be gained from here. Here, Demas is mentioned as one of the individuals who was present with Paul even in prison. He was a close partner of his. It was a close circle, obviously, who kept continuing ministry with Paul, despite the fact that they could have run away. They could have thought that this is too difficult. for them and they couldn't carry on because Paul is sitting in prison and his future was unknown. We believe that it's about the time, this time, that you see things like Philippians where he talks about to live is Christ and to die is game. I don't know what's going to happen. As some scholars say, maybe those are suicidal ideations of Paul. I don't think that's what he's talking about. He genuinely loves being with Christ Jesus. Who's been his prayer that dying means he will be with Jesus. But living means that the Lord has given him extra years and time. For him to continue his labors on his behalf. This is the time where the earthly tribunal has not yet spoken in terms of Paul's life, but the heavenly tribunal has. And so he knows that his life is in the Lord's hands, but he's uncertain about where he will go. But surrounding him were like these band of brothers. Who are there, including a person not uh named Demas? But not only in Colossians was he named, he's also mentioned in Philemon His name is mentioned twice as someone who is a close partner, ministry partner, co-laborer with Paul, as we see in Philemon chapter 1, verse 2. 24, so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers, he mentions them. It's a shorter list, yet Demas made the list, right? In terms of the ones and the names known. But friends, not much else is known about demons. So he's mentioned twice, Paul sitting in prison as individual who was there with him. Except that he abandoned Paul at the end. I don't know if you noticed that. In Second Timothy chapter four, verse ten, which we believe to be the last book Paul wrote before he was eventually Executed. He talks about Demas. So only three times he's mentioned, twice positively, as someone who was there in imprisonment with Paul. But in 2 Timothy 4. 10, this is what he says about Demas. Seemus, in love with this present world, has deserted me. Do you see the personal pain? that is indicated there for Demas, in love with this present world, has deserted me and gone to Thessalonica. Now there are a lot of conjectures as to what happened here. We don't know the details of what led to such a separation. But the fact that he leads with in love with this present world. seems to indicate that this could not have been a positive parting. And then when he further adds that he's the one who did Deserted him. And he uses the word deserted twice because in sitting in prison now, standing before the tribunal now, that he's about to receive the sentence of death at some point point here, which is the last book that he writes where he talks about his life being poured out as an offering, a euphemism for him about to die. Here he talks about abandonment again in chapter 4, verse 16, only a few verses after Demas, when he says, At my first defense, no one came and stood by me. Which is intriguing. No one came and stood by me, but all deserted me. You might have noticed as you think about the Passion Week and about Jesus on his journey to the cross, what you see throughout the gospel writings is everyone falling off. At the end in in uh on the cross as well as In the tomb, not that many were peop were around. Hundreds were following at one point. And only a few remained with Jesus. And the same thing is true of Paul here Many had abandoned, and he reminds us of that abandonment and the sadness that resulted when he says, No one came to my defense. but all deserted me. And Demas is singled out as one particular individual whom he names as someone who has deserted him. The pain is deep. It cuts deep. And I wonder, many of you who have been in church long enough about people and names that you can recall that you no longer see here. Perhaps faces that you run into in the local marketplace and you try to avoid the same aisle. Individuals who have pained you And certainly I think there are many ways that we can recall some of the difficulties of life together, partnering together Ministering together. This is why it was so important for me, having grown up in a pastor's family. My senior year in college, I remember taking my mom and out for lunch. This is right before final decisions were made for me to inter seminary and I sat my parents down and I asked one question that was bugging me and on my mind and the question was simply this Mom and Dad if God were to give you another chance would you do ministry again? And as a young Joel, I needed to hear this from them. And they, without a beat and unequivocally, both said, we would do this again. We've had difficult journeys, and I've seen them, especially as I was aging, I've seen some of the pains and tears my parents had experienced. But what they said as a follow-up was to say, but the Lord really has blessed us. In times of joy as well as difficulties. These are mere words in many ways, but hearing it from your parents, it was very meaningful for me, which allowed me with greater confidence and contentment. to pursue something that I felt was something that was placed on my heart in the first place. And we recognize sometimes the difficulties that we see And I think Paul is not oblivious to the difficulties of life together in this way. Here, he abandoned him. The term used here only indicates to us the pain that he might have felt. And perhaps we can see in 2 Timothy again, he talks about a life that enjoys this world too. much and so I can't say with confidence that when Paul says demus in love with the world too much means exactly what Paul defines for us in 2 Timothy Timothy 3. 1. But I wonder if there is a correlation here we should be aware of. This is what Paul says, but understand this: that in the last days there will come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, obscure Abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good, treacherous, reckless, Swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people Paul has given vice lists before, meaning these are lists of things that you ought not to do and you ought to avoid. We have not seen a list this long. where he goes on naming names, not names of people, those things that ought not to characterize believers. Believers. Avoid such people, he says. And as someone who's reading this and seeing the pain Demas' departure caused him, one of the closest intimates For Paul, I wonder if there's a tie here in terms of loving the world that led to Demas's departure and his description of love of the world here. Those things that we consider to be priority. But our job right now is not to define these vices, but to simply say life together is hard. Life together as family is hard. How many of us are under stress relationally as married couples with our children? children, sometimes with our in-laws, our parents. I sit as a perfect sandwich generation. The Lord has blessed us. We still have all four parents with us. Anywhere ranging from about 75 to 82. But we also have kids who are going through life, and we find ourselves sometimes struggling to juggle. And oftentimes with great guilt on both sides, juggling well what this means for us to be able to balance life together. And what's amazing is when you extend that family and you have I'm one of five kids, girl boy, girl boy, girl. girl. I was explaining to Mac this morning that having grown up in a a family of five kids, I never had my own room. Um because Rock's about to graduate and so we're just talking about the potential. I don't know what the parents will do, but the potential. Um I had my brother who's seven years younger that I always shared a room with, and my sisters all shared a room until we got four bedrooms and then my older sister uh had her own room. You know that's that's the peck order that we have. And then I went off to college and I had roommat roommates. And then I went to seminary I had roommates and afterwards I got married. I had a permanent roommate uh where you never actually had a chance to use And so when we had our uh daughter Anna and she was pregnant and she was getting ready, we had a three-bedroom home where one was designated for her. But I had my own room and which I can consider it my study, until we got pregnant with a second. And then she decided that it was a perfectly working office in the home. But she needed a different room for the second kid. I'm thinking we don't need two rooms for kids. No, no we did. So seven months before even the baby was born, all my books were removed. Desk removed, turned into a nursery. The big difference being with the first one we bought everything new. With the second one, everything was used. He doesn't know that, that's fine. But you know how that actually works out. I'm not sure exactly where I'm going with this, but even with family, when you think about the extent I remember even with big family of four siblings and their spouses and kids. Every week I feel like some flare-up happens. And as the older son in an Asian family, it's my responsibility to engage, kind of like I'm the Presbytery moderator in terms of how this ought to actually happen. I I I say it with a smile and facetiously because I know you know when I say life together is hard. And Paul is not oblivious to this. But the importance of being together and the joy of a journey together is what Paul wants to emphasize. And may I do that this way? And I I know you you you know that I'm gonna be cheating here, where I jump off of the name mentioned to us in Colossians. But bringing in the rest of the picture of the book of Acts to kind of fill in details that perhaps helps us to see how much effort has been placed. Here, one of the names mentioned in Colossians. is Mark. And he goes on to say in verse 10, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas. Concerning whom you have received instructions. If Mark comes to you, welcome him, is what he says. This is a throwaway verse, almost it's seems like and Mark seems like a common enough name. Maybe you don't have to worry about it, but there is a whole history behind that name. Because that person that we hear, Barnabas, is someone that you and I know relatively well. Well, he appears in the book of Acts and at some point appears in the writings of Paul. If I were to briefly describe who Barnabas is, he was first of all a faithful Christian. When he's introduced to us by Luke in the book of Acts, we're told Barnabas, which means son of encouragement, is how he's introduced to us in Acts chapter 4, verse 36. He, like Stephen, was likely a Hellenistic Jew who's ethnically a Jew, but lived among the Greek culture and language. overall. And likely what happened was that he is from uh a s uh what what is that location of Cyprus. You might notice later on when uh when and Barnabas and Paul leave for their first so-called missionary journey. Do you know where they went first? Cyprus. Here, they're going back home to where he's from in order to minister among the people who are there. The second thing we ought to note in terms of his introduction is that he had a name that's like a nickname to him Identifying who he is, kind of like Onesimus as being useful, Barnabas was the son of encouragement, we're told. We acknowledge the fact that he probably was someone who was a huge encourager or exhorter is another word for it. While certainly we understand what's all going on here, his understanding and his demeanor must have been such. He was recognized by many. to be a man of great character who is an encouragement to many around. In fact, part of the ways that we see this being reinforced is that the introduction of Barnabas in chapter 4 of Acts is followed immediately by the narrative of Ananias and Sapphira. Sometimes what biblical narratives do is that they juxtapose things. They juxtapose the dark and light, the good and the bad, so that in relief we can see the distinction between the two. So here is Barnabas, who is a son of encouragement, who seems to have sold at all he had. So Acts 437 says, sold a field that belonged to him. and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet so that it can be shared and used for the church. Immediately following is the narrative of Ananias and Sapphira. Do you know what they did? They promised to give all that they had and what they sold, but they gave half. And kept the other half for themselves. Do you remember what happened in the book of Acts for those of you who read Acts recently? They both were struck dead. at different times by God. I recognize that there's some theological questions there in terms of what God does that's important, but for the narrative of Acts, it's an important comparison. Here is Barnabas, who is uh called the son of encouragement, who gave up all that he had for the church, and here, immediately following is Ananias and Sapphira. See the contrast the author is telling us. us and understand which is to be commended. And Barnabas is to be commended. But he's not only someone who is a a a mature Christian, we also come to see that he is one of the respected leaders in the Jerusalem church. Jerusalem church is the mothership. And what happened in Jerusalem was, along with Stephen, the church was persecuted. And some were martyred. And when they were martyred, what we find out in Acts 8 is that when persecution began, do you know what Christians in Jerusalem did? They scattered. They went to different parts, and there is this diaspora of the Jews returning or going to places in order to be protected and be safe. But guess who stayed? Barnabas stayed at home at the church. How do we know this? In chapter 11 in Church in Jerusalem, they found out that there's a church among Gentiles in Antioch. And from what they heard, the church was doing really well. And so they wanted to make sure that they find out more about the church in Antioch, and they chose someone to go there and see and represent the mothership. Do you remember whom they sent? They sent Barnabas. Barnabas was in the church of Jerusalem. in the midst of persecution among the respected leaders of the church, and when they saw the workings of the spirit in different parts, He was the one who was sent. And when he went there, do you remember how Luke accounts for who he was and how he reacted? One of my favorite verses. And he we see this in 1123 of Acts when he says When Barnabas came and saw the grace of God, he was glad. Not because the church was perfect. It was perfect. Small. Not because the church was doing well in some ways, it was still struggling in many ways, but he saw the flame of God at work within the church. And he was glad. And he exhorted them all to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose. And goes on to say, Luke says, For he was a good man. He was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. When he says a good man, he doesn't mean socially good. He doesn't mean he's a cool guy When he says he was a good man, he defines it by saying he was a man full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great many people were added to the number. voices who obeyed when he was called, proclaimed faithfulness of God, and rejoiced in seeing God's gracious work in the lives of many around us. him. To Paul in particular, not only was he a faithful Christian as well as one of the Christian leaders, he was a mentor. If I can use a mentor Modern term to Paul. He advocated for Paul to the leaders of the church. Remember, Paul was a persecutor of the church, but he wanted to see the Jerusalem leaders. No one wanted to see him. I wouldn't either. Who knows what he might do? Who stood as his character witness? Barnabas. Barnabas brought Paul in touch with the leaders of the church so that Paul can better understand what the Lord is trying to teach him. He called also Paul to minister alongside him in Antioch when he went to Antioch and recognized that this was a Gentile church and they needed more workers. to serve the church, he went looking for Saul. But this is not one of those times where you put out a church ministry form and then you ask people to apply. He was back in Tarsus, his hometown where he was born, and so he started looking for him. And so the phrase goes, so Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul. He brought him to Antioch. The word to look for is the same word that Jesus' parents were doing when they were looking for young man Jesus in the temple because he got lost somewhere. And they started looking for him and they found him as he was teaching the teachers within the church. That means it's like a needle in the haystack is the point that we're trying to make here. Barnabas had to go out of his way. to find Paul and to place him in a place where God can utilize him for his church and for his glory. He along with Paul were commissioned by the church in Antioch in chapter 13 of uh Acts to be sent off. It was a first missionary team. And in this team, the composition was Barnabas and Paul, and the distinct leader was Barnabas. And not only because he was the one who carried the weight later on when they were being persecuted out of church, people thought Paul was just a speaker and Barnabas was Zeus. They lamented that they misunderstood what was going on. He must have been a man who commanded the kind of appeal to other people. And here, who did they take along? They took along. Mark. And you may be thinking, oh man, this is a meandering way to get back to where we were before in verse 10 of Colossians. Mark was on their first missionary journey. And later on, when the church wanted to know what was happening among the Gentiles, it was Paul along with Barnabas who defended the work of the Lord among Gentiles beyond the Jews. and rejoicing at what the Lord was doing. This was the best team ministry we have ever witnessed in the first century. Yet it broke up. Do you remember this? They parted ways over the conduct of John, who is also called Mark. Mark. In chapter 15, as they presented before the Jerusalem Council and they were getting ready to begin yet another journey, This team that was composed, the greatest team, it's like the the the magic team of the Lakers during the 80s. I don't know what team you follow here, but yet it was broken up. The reason for that is John called Mark, part of us wanted to take along. Again. But Paul, we're told in chapter 15, thought best not to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia. And have not gone with them to work. That is to say, as they were on their first journey, at some point Mark left them and did not continue the journey. And so Barnabas wanted to take Mark, but Paul said, I don't think so. This is not someone that I could actually work with. And there arose a sharp disagreement. Sharp disagreement so that they separated from each other. I don't know how painful that might have been. I think it would have been, especially in a journey together Barnabas then took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus, again the place where Paul and Barnabas had begun, and Paul choice chose Silas, and they departed, having been commended by the brothers to the grace of the Lord. From this point on, Barnabas disappears from the book of Acts. His name doesn't appear again. I don't know if you notice that Because for Luke, he's keeping an account of Paul, not Barnabas. This doesn't mean that Barnabas disappeared from ministry. He disappeared from the account of the ministry of Acts taking place here. Luke does not take sides as to who was right about this. He just accounts for the fact that Paul is on this journey and his camera as he directs the narrative follows Paul. Not Barnabas along the way. Lots of people have conjectured. Why would Paul not take Mark along in here? anymore. And many have conjectured different things. Two probably likely stands out, one probably being the right answer, my guess is. F F Bruce that I mentioned earlier provocatively wonder whether Barnabas playing second fiddle to Paul at some point was too much for the family member Mark to handle. And then if Bruce the scholar brings up a little ditty, he says, that the UK children sing when it says, It takes more grace than I can tell to play the second fiddle well. Maybe that was it. It was simple as that. That here, Barnabas, who was the leader of the church, that became the kingmaker for Paul, and this Paul started to outshine Barnabas. I don't think Barnabas mind that that at all. But it is kind of an interesting conjecture to say maybe this was too much for a family member and thought, okay, I'm not going to take this in. anymore. I'm gone. More likely in terms of the answer might be, as one scholar says, fickleness in ministry. But you just thought no longer. It was more difficult than one might have anticipated. There are dangers here than one would have anticipated. There were beaten, they were stoned, they were incarcerated. If you're a young man, would you want to do that for a living? My guess is. My guess is that he no longer had the nerve. But these are all conjectures. Only we will find out in heaven one day when we see these brothers, but as one scholar says, fickleness in the service of Christ was to Paul's bold and decided strength of character and firmness in his vocabulary. So they separated. It's brokenness among the people who journal. Journey together. But yet, Barnabas comes back later on in the writings of Paul. In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, he commends Barnabas this way. In 9 3, he says, This is my defense to those who would examine me. Do we not have the right to eat and drink? Do we not have the right to take along a believing life, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and see them? He's defending himself against the charges by the Corinthian church. Why would you take money, they're saying? Or is it only Barnabas and I? Interesting. Interesting, isn't it? Only Barnabas and I, who have no right to refrain from working for a living, who serves as a soldier at his own expense, which Barnabas seems to have have been, who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit, or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk. Paul here anticipates and expects the Corinthian church This is why we know his ministry had not ended. It continued without the spotlight that Luke placed upon Paul. And you know that he continued to minister faithfully. because the anticipation is that not only does Paul respect Barnabas, the church is expected to bar uh uh what is it, respect Barnabas. There's ongoing ministry taking place that Paul recognizes, and Barnabas is continuing in his faithful labor on behalf of But this is where I want to land this plane. Because toward the end of Paul's ministry, Barnabas reappears, but indirectly. Here, as we read Colossians 4:10, Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, concerning whom you have received instructions, if he comes to you. you welcome him. Do you notice the change? Mark was the reason why the greatest early team separated. But yet, toward the end of Paul's life, sitting in prison, he not only mentions Mark as his co-laborer, But someone when he comes, that is Mark goes to the Colossae Church, he's to be welcomed and well taken care of. What changed? This is a publisher for me. What's the difference here when we saw in the book of Acts the brokenness that resulted from someone? But now the unity that resulted in the same very individuals that are present. Mark reappears. In this scene. And here, Mark and Barnabas, as we saw in Acts, went on the missionary journey together And they continue to labor side by side. And now Mark is back with Paul, reconciled and certainly, and one of the most prized and respected co-laborers that he wants to have around. Barnabas, who mentored Paul with quotes, I think had a lot to do with Mark reappearing with Paul. Here is someone who worked with Paul to be accepted and later on embraced by the apostles of the church. Continue to labor alongside someone who had weaknesses, brokenness, shortcomings, certainly not an ideal. But Barnabas had this gift of encouragement that allows him to work with those who are broken, who have shortcomings, perhaps not ideal. Because the way he sees Mark is the way God sees Mark. And the way God sees Mark is through the bloody lens of Christ Jesus our Lord. And therefore that child is a bearer of the image of God, perfect in his sight, not because of his or her perfection, but because of the perfection of Christ Jesus. And Barnabas continued to labor alongside Mark, to the degree that later on Paul, who might have been more short-fused, kind of like me. Later on not only accepts him back, but embraces this laborer named Mark, and he makes his appearance before us in the book of Colossus. Just to end this scene, contrary to Demas, who reappears, who was close in Colossians, and then later on in 2 Timothy, he disappears from the scene as someone who abandoned Paul. In 2 Timothy 4. 11, the verse right after Demas being mentioned, who loved the world and deserted him, he says this. Get Mark and bring him with you to Timothy. He's sitting in prison. He's about to die. He just spoke of Demas loving the world and abandoning him who was very close to him in such a way that he was with Paul in prison. Now he says, Demas is gone But Mark, who was the reason for the brokenness with Barnabas earlier on, and certainly the brokenness between Paul and Mark, says, get Mark and bring him with you, for he is very useful to me. For ministry. He was someone he desired as he faced death, as someone that he wanted to be with and labor together with till the end. What to me, what a beautiful picture of life together. Paul is not naive to think that brokenness difficulty Difficulties, sometimes harsh words and estrangement escape the church or our families. But he also recognizes, despite the burden and the pain of being together. Being together is exactly what the Lord wanted. Because we're not only saved by Jesus Christ alone, we're saved together into a family of Christ Jesus. We are meant to be. Together. The tendency in the present church to see our faith individually with Christ Jesus as the sole importance of what we do. is to misunderstand where the Lord leads us through his word. For we are saved into a community And we see Jesus in one another as we serve with one another, care for one another, lift each other up, become the filler of those weaknesses. And be filled by others in areas of shortcomings and pain. This is what we hope for and pray. That as we think about what it means to live in Christ, in Colossae, We do not do it alone. We certainly pray. We certainly have perspective of God's presence throughout our suffering. But we are able to do this Because we're doing it together, not alone by ourselves. May I leave you with this quote from John Calvin. So, John Calvin, when he wrote a commentary on Titus. Titus is where Titus, another mentee, if I can use the uh the modern word again, uh uh was left behind on the island of Crete. And so he's leading words of encouragement and instruction to one of his students, Titus, and he includes these words as an introduction. In his dedication, this is what John Calvin says as he begins his conversation. commentary where he says to William Forrell and Peter Virey, two workers in Geneva, along with him. I know that there is a child of the church whose name is is Geneva, right? The city where Calvin actually ministered. And you might remember William Forrell's story. He's the one who convinced John Calvin, who was on his way to Strasbourg, just laying over one night in Geneva. To stay in Geneva. And the story is told in the commentary in terms of the introductions in the book of Psalms, where Paul says, I mean, not Paul, Calvin says, I didn't do this because I was courageous. But I was scared not to, because William Pharrell appeared to him one night and basically like Nathan and saying, May the Lord not give you peace. Because you're abandoning your post where you ought to be. He says, Out of fear, I stayed in Geneva to do ministry. That's the brother he's talking about, William Pharrell and Peter Virini. And this is what he said. says when you had made some progress in rearing this church with vast exertions, and at great risk after some time had elapsed, I came first as your assistant, and afterwards was left as your successor. That I might endeavor to carry forward to the best of my ability that work which you had so well and so successfully begun. This work I and my colleagues are endeavoring to perform, if not with so great progress as might have been desired, yet heartily and faithfully according to our small ability. Funny phrase to me. To return to you in consequence of holding the same relation to you, which Paul assigned to Titus. I have been led to consider this similarity as a good reason Meanwhile, to the present age and perhaps to posterity, it will at least become evidence of that holy union and friendship. Friendship which exists between us. I think that there has never been in ordinary life a circle of friends so sincerely bound to each other as we have been Been in our ministry. With both of you, I discharged here the office of pastor, and so far from there being any appearance of envy that you and I Seem to be one. What a beautiful picture of living and laboring together. Union and friendship that's whole holy, brought together and bound sincerely by Christ Jesus to one another, knowing that if the other is not around, we We cannot, but together the Lord ministers to us and with us and through us. May that be the experience of Buy Church here. That indeed the community built here by Christ Jesus and his blood. Become so rich and necessary for you. You cannot imagine a day away from this community that's brought together in holy union and friendship. That together You may lift up the name of Christ Jesus on high in this area and be able to live each other with encouragement until that day he brings you home. Let's pray to God Together. What joy it is, O Lord, for us to sit together as brothers and sisters, not strangers, not people with whom we share common Common interests, background, or area or zip code, but people who have been brought together by the blood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, bound together in this holy union and Friendship because of him. Seeing each other no longer as anything but brothers and sisters in Christ Jesus, co-heirs of Christ Jesus, adopted as your sons and daughters. into your family. We are grateful for Bowie Reform Presbyterian Church here because we know that at such a time as this you have brought us together by your prophet. Providential leading. Would you unite us, O Lord, by your blood? Would you continue to encourage us to have eyes of faith as we see one another? Would you lead us, O Lord, that our desire would be To not only lift each other up, but minister among each other, considering others to be more important than we are. Would you allow us to see weaknesses and desire to fill those weaknesses in one another? As we encourage one another, would you help us to spur each other on in our gathering? As some are in the habit of not gathering together, but this community and family, may we encourage one another. To see and seek you in this gathering as church, so that we may not only be blessed individually, but Lord, together we may be blessed as a corporate body. So Lord, thank you for this time. Thank you for this visible picture of the church being together under the banner of the cross of Christ Jesus. Jesus and Lord, enrich our relationships for your sake and for your glory's sake. We pray all these things in the unifying name of your Son Jesus Christ.