Chris began by pointing out that the topic that I had initially given to Fix and the Church was about theology that sings, but I actually reached out to Pastor Fix and it's in your bulletin this way where I did change the topic a little bit. Part of that is a reflection of where my mind is. Like many other speakers where your mind is is where your thoughts go in terms of how you want to go about preparing. I think you'll understand why my mind has been here. And so the text for this morning is actually from Colossians 1. 24. As I indicated last night for many of you who are here, uh chapter one, verses one and two, where Paul introduces himself, also introduces us to the broader theme of column. Where it talks about the recipients of the letter as being identified by two prepositions. They are faithful Christians. In Christ, in colasse. I realize in English the preposition is at colasse, but in the original it's same preposition in Christ in Colossae. And what we tried to make the case for was the whole book is about how one who is in Christ then lives out his faith in Colasa or for that matter fill in the blank with any other location, whether it's Bowie or Escondido where I'm from or any other cities that we have around the globe. And this is why we are engaging this as Paul's explanation of how Christians ought to live in the place where they find themselves, Paul's practical theology of some sort. Last night we said the one characteristic of a believer living in these times is a life of prayer, and that's what we focused upon. This morning we have two sessions where we can talk about two different topics. One has to do with suffering on this side of glory. And then the third topic, this uh after this one is dealing with community. Community. And as I mentioned last night, tomorrow morning, we want to look at Colossians chapter 3 and speak about identity as our final topic of conversation. So this morning, we want to turn to Colossians 1. 24 and read until the end of that chapter in verse 29. So friends, hear now the word of the Lord. Now, Paul says, I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake. And in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is, the church, of which I became a minister according to the steward. From God that was given to me for you to make the Word of God fully known. The mystery hidden for ages and generations, but now revealed to his saints. To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom that we may present everyone mature in Christ. For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works in me. So far the reading, let's turn to the Lord in prayer, shall we? Lord, how contrarian it is for us as your sons and daughters to gather on a Saturday morning, not enjoying the things that the world says are our priorities, but enjoying you and your word. For us to sit together as brothers and sisters, to enjoy company of one another, and to also recognize that, O Lord, O Lord, our lives are built upon your word. We're voting with our feet as we sit under your word to learn and grow. So, Lord, by your spirit, come near us. Teach us. Be present among us. Lead us. Guide us, O Lord, that all that we endeavor to do and desire to do may bring honor and glory to your name. We thank you, O Lord, and pray all these things in the gracious name of your Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. I mentioned that I grew up in the Christian world. Reformed churches. There was a controversy that took place in the middle of the 20th century where they changed from what is now commonly known as the blue Psalter Hill. Hymnal to the Grace Alter Hymnal. For those of you who grew up in the Dutch Reform background, you may know something about this, where they changed the composition of the songs that were included as well as the forms that were included in the back of these hymns as well. So you recognize for a church folks, both men and women in the churches, These changes, however slight they might seem, are actually quite drastic because you recognize that these tug at the hearts of the people who are participating. And you don't like changes that occur in the midst of what you are used to at the moment. Well, this was a fairly significant change, and there was a lot of controversy, an ongoing controversy. controversy as to which hymnal you used in the pews on any given Sunday. Well there is one major change that occurred where they took out some phrases from the forms of infant baptism. We may have brothers and sisters who disagree on this issue, but I don't think you would disagree with me in terms of the content that's being provided. The Blue Psalter hymnal includes these words for infant baptism that ends with these words. And it simply says that they, that is the baptized, daily following him, may joyfully bear their cross. cleaving unto him in true faith, firm hope, and ardent love, that they, being comforted in thee, may leave this life, which is nothing but a constant death. Hear that phrase. That they may be comforted in this life, which is nothing but a constant death. and at the last day may appear without terror before the judgment seat of Christ, thy son, through him our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, who with thee and the Holy Spirit, one only God, lives and reigns forever. Amen. That phrase was taken out in the revision of the hymnal. Nothing but constant. Just as much as we don't like to talk about sin in us and perhaps one another as well, to see this life on this side of glory. In these stark terms, as nothing but constant death, seems harsh. But for those of us who know the word, those of us who've lived somewhat in life also know that it's true. It's true. We've experienced a lot of these recently, and part of my own reflection revolves around around the fact that I've probably been to more funerals. in the last six months or so than I've ever gone in any given year for for as far as I can remember. There are a number, but there are a number that stands out. Beginning of December, my aunt, who's a pastor's wife in Korea, died after struggling with cancer for about a year. She was 63 Her husband is retiring this year, my uncle, and she had been planning for years what they're going to do in retirement. But suddenly she was struck with this disease. And she died and representing the family that lives in the US, I flew out, I found out, I flew out uh two days later, representing the family at the funeral. We had a wonderful time of gathering as family. But you can't you can't deny the sadness that comes. Life that seems to have been taken away way too young in many ways. Week after I got back, I was at the funeral of a classmate of mine from seminary. She was 51 and she struggled with brain cancer for about two years and then she succumbed to it uh toward the beginning of December. So we had a memorial service at her PCA church where she was attending. where she was loved and many cared for her. And so I was up there attending this particular funeral and memorial service, celebrating a life a way too short in many ways from my books. but at the same time the Lord's faithfulness in her life. Well, even today, um, we know that the Pope was buried Or at least there is the funeral having taken place, and here this is all the discussion and chatter, but there's a funeral I'm missing while I'm here. Another student of mine who is 38. Died of cancer just two weeks ago. Leaves behind his wife Esther and three kids, nine, seven, and two. As a father of two, who are now more grown, I can't even begin to imagine uh what it feels like not only for his parents and her parents, that is husband and wife, but also for the children in terms of That I think many of us have faced, dealt with, and thought about. Nothing but constant death does seem like what I often see, at least around me. Maybe it's my age now. But certainly this has become much more common than I'm used to. And this is the question. As Christians who are in Christ, On this side of glory in Colossae or wherever we may be, how do we reckon with and live In the context, we recognize sin and the results of sin and death are constantly around us. What do we do? Paul talked about prayer as we discussed last night, and Paul gives us perspective as he shares with us what we ought to understand. about life on this side of glory that's not rosy always, but oftentimes cobblestoned and difficult for us to take the next steps on a day daily basis. And he begins here this morning by pointing out what we ended with last night, which is simply God is in charge. God is in charge. I realize that this is hard for us to remember and to think about in the midst of those dark and gray days. But here Paul reminds us that in all things God is in charge. This is a repeated theme over and over again, not only in Colossians. But throughout Paul's writings, he not only, that is, God, not only ordains the ends, but also ordains the means. Only uh we one only has to look at our own lives to see God's fingerprints, and Paul for himself in particular, he knows this to be true because he explains this as he explains his own life to us in the first place. Everything happened under the providential care of God according to Paul. And you see this in the way he begins by talking about the call. He is called to what is do uh what he is currently doing, not based upon what he strove to do on his own, because as you know the history and life of Paul, completely contrary to what he thought he would do. There was no choice for Paul. Remember how he introduced himself at the beginning of the letter in chapter 1, verse 1. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, he told us. And in verse 25 in chapter 1, he goes on to point out, of which I became a minister according to the stewardship from God that was given to me for you. This is not something that he planned out with pen and paper. It was given to him for them by God to make the word of God fully known. The word translated here, stewardship, can variously translated commissioned or tasked with something, but at the end of the day, the result is exactly the same. He had no control over what he became. God is the one who called him, we're told. No other explanation was possible. Given The person that Paul was. Elsewhere in his writings, he describes himself this way in 1 Timothy when he said, though, in describing his pre-Christ days, though formerly I was a blasphemer. persecutor, an insolent opponent. Even more simple is his description as sinner in First Timothy one fifteen when he says that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost. And what's intriguing there, he's not saying that I was the foremost of sinners. He says, I am the foremost of sinners. Here, the worst, chief of sinners are various ways that we've translated this, and this repeats the pattern of the greatest apostle expressing his understanding of his spiritual state. prior to Christ in these dark terms. He says it in 1 Corinthians 15 when he says, For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle. because I persecuted the church, he said. Ephesians 3. 8 goes on to say to me, though I am the very least of all the apostles or saints, This grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of God. And the only reason he is where he is is because of God's grace. He goes on to explain in 1 Timothy, and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. Jesus. Here, apart from the grace of God, we cannot be anywhere, is the basic point that Paul wants to make. But it's not only about what he does that he is called into this role, but also the message he proclaims has been predetermined. The message he proclaims cannot be something he concocts on his own. It's not a testimony about one's life. It's not even about those things that he considers to be priorities in his own mind. Not only was he called to be something, he was given the message that he is to proclaim. To the Colossian Christians who were presented with philosophies. human traditions, plausible arguments that seemed to add to the gospel and message of Jesus Christ. We said yesterday one of the internal issues was something akin to syncretism. Where you take Jesus, which they believe in, but at the same time adding something else to it for your security and satisfaction of some sort. Here, all these things may have been added by many who believe in Jesus Christ yet. Paul simply points out that not just the call. But the message itself is dictated by God. This is why he goes on to say in verse 25 in the chapter we just read, I became a minister. according to the stewardship from God that was given to me for you. To do what? To make the word of God fully known. How does Paul make the word of God fully known? By explaining, according to his writings, the mystery of God now revealed. Now, this language of mystery is found in Colossians in Ephesians, and oftentimes mystery has a ring to it. But this is not some esoteric knowledge, but this mystery according to Scripture is a person. This mystery is not denoting something mysterious, that which is beyond ordinary human comprehension, but indicates divine truth. Once hidden throughout the ages, but now revealed, now revealed in the Son of God who came to be among us. This is why. He takes pains, that is Paul, to explain to us in verse 26 when he says, the mystery hidden for ages and generations, but now revealed to his saints. To them, God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you. The hope of glory. Look at what he says. To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery. And what is this glory of mystery? Which is Christ in you. Who is this Christ? The hope of glory, Paul declares. This mystery now revealed, is now revealed, and has been revealed to be a person. 127 says, this mystery, which is Christ in you, is followed up in verse 2 of chapter 2. The knowledge of God's mystery. Which is Christ, he says, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Him we proclaim He says, This mystery now revealed, who is Christ Jesus? Him we proclaim. Perhaps you can even say, only Him we proclaim. There is no other proclamation. Jesus Christ is enough, Paul says. To this wisdom and mystery craving generation, Paul simply says that in Christ Jesus are found all wisdom and mystery. And to another people who are seeking wisdom and knowledge, he proclaims in First Corinthians, For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. Ordinary is not a word that people like anymore. As you can imagine. In fact, one of the questions I detest the most is when people ask me What's your hobby? What is your hobby? I don't like it. And the reason I don't like it is I don't have that many hobbies. It may be because I grew up in a pastor's family with limited means. It may also indicate the fact that perhaps there weren't opportunities as you were seeking them, or perhaps just simply mean I had an in curious mind that didn't care about various things. Hobbies are not things uh I seek. It doesn't mean I don't have hobbies. Certainly I do have hobbies, things such as I love to read books. Love to hang out with people over a good drink and be able to discuss life. I love to go out and watch sports in particular because I can't run as fast as I used to. In fact, if I I don't mean to brag, but when I was in junior high school, eighth grade, I was voted athlete of the year in my junior high school. When I told this, when I was dating my wife, her question was to me was were you homeschooled? Uh because then you could you could win right away. You could see that We have a way of humbling one another that works uh uh various ways. But here, though I enjoy all of those things in many ways, it doesn't sound all that exciting. I'm not a triathlete. I'm not climbing Mount Hood. I'm not figuring out some kind of mechanics of a car and rebuilding one. The list can go on at all those hobbies that people do have that you wish you had, because they seem extraordinary. They seem to stand out. They seem to be exciting in many ways. And certainly I think many of us who are preachers and teachers, many of us who lead churches or are engaged in churches, being ordinary church seems unexciting. Being extraordinary is what we need. But one thing that I try to remind our students and fellow pastors, as well as churches, Is that for those of us who are ordained into the ministry, we are ordained into the ministry of the Word and Sacraments. And the scripture speaks of ordinary means of grace. Where God is near his people through these means. And what is it primarily and chiefly? It's about the proclaimed word God in his word is present among his people. And as extraordinary things, the better things The new and improved things always constantly distract us from where we ought to be. Paul comes to us unequivocally when he says, it's Jesus we proclaim. And it's only Jesus we proclaim. That may not sound exciting. That may not be with it in terms of the trends of the culture and the world around us. That may not turn heads in terms of what we think we do. Yet, yet, this is what the word teaches us, in season and out of season, declare the name of Christ Jesus on high. For under no other name can dead lives come to life. This is why we sing hymns like My Hope is Built on Nothing Less. Then Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name On Christ a solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand. This is really hard to convince ourselves of these days because there are so many competing elements that everyone tells us all the gurus and experts tell us that we need to start focusing on and investing our time and resources on on. And here, brothers and sisters, I'm just here to remind us what Paul says. We proclaim Jesus. Nothing more. Nothing more. Part of the reason why this is important is he says not only the call, not only the message proclaimed, but the power that goes forth in the word comes from God. As he's talking about the overall suffering of life, how do we as Christians live on this side of glory? He talks about not only that God ordains all things for us. Not only that he is to be proclaimed in the name of Christ Jesus our Lord, but we are to remember where the power is that comes to us. Colossians one twenty-nine says this about himself. For this I toil, he says, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me. Now notice all the personal pronouns there, and I want to unpack that for just a bit here, where you can more literally translate this, I toil. In accordance with his energy, that he energizes in me with his power This is not Paul talking about his own strength or willfulness or his engagement in terms of his experience. He's talking about God's power at work in his life. For this I toil, he says, struggling with all God's energy that God powerfully works within me. This is no ordinary power, friends, but this is life-giving resurrection power as we're told in chapter 2, verse 12. Taking the same phrase out, this is what Paul says. Having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith, in the powerful working of God. Same words repeated here to remind us that these are connected. Powerful working of God who raised Jesus from the dead. How powerful is God's power? He gives life to the dead and resurrects those who are dead. We saw that in Christ Jesus. We see this resurrecting power here in the church, I presume. Dead hearts coming to life in Christ Jesus is a miracle that's happening among us each and every single day. And what Paul says, it's about God's power at work among us. For you see, Paul witnessed the resurrected Jesus. He saw him. On the road to Damascus, he saw a bright light, and he was heading toward Damascus, as many of you know from the book of Acts, to persecute the Christians during that time. But he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me, Jesus says, as Paul goes after Jesus' people 1 Corinthians then goes on to explain this kind of reception of the resurrection truth of Jesus, the way Paul describes it when he says, For I deliver to you as of first importance what I also received. That Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures, and that he appeared first to see us. Peter. Last of all, he goes on to say, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. I wonder how people react when they witness the resurrection of any kind. I wish I were there when Lazarus and Martha and Mary greeted Jesus after Lazarus came to life. He's been dead for multiple days. Jesus comes. And then Mary and Martha come up to him and say, it's too late, Jesus. He's been dead for days. And Jesus says, let's go. They arrive at the tomb, and Jesus says, Oh, remove the tombstone. And they reply immediately, Oh Lord, we cannot. He stinketh, they say, because he's been in there for days. When they remove the stone, it's not Lazarus saying to himself, I think I can, I think I can, I think I can Let me just start with my pinky and then I could move my ring finger and the list goes on. No, it was the voice of Jesus that gave life. Lazarus, come out When you see that, how does that transform your life? Is the question. In his defense before King Agrippa, Paul speaks of his hope in the promise made by God. then asks his accusers in Acts 26, why is it thought incredible by any of you that God raises the dead? That's his question to them. Why is it surprising to you that I would say that Jesus rose from the dead? What is impossible? To our God. Paul realized that his ministry was sustained and his life was carried not by his might nor by his own power, but by the power and might of God. This is why he tells us in 2 Corinthians 1, verse 8, for we do not want you to be unaware, brothers, of the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself. Can you imagine the greatest apostle saying this? That we wondered whether we can carry on anymore. Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death, but that was to make us rely not on ourselves. But on God. And do you know how he explains who this God is? But on God who raises the dead. Of all the things he could have said, but on God who created the heavens and the earth, but on God who gives us the word and declares the truth. No, no. But he specifically talks about this greatest miracle witnessed by many of the disciples when he simply says, Bot on God who raises the dead. He delivered us from such a deadly peril, and he will deliver us. On him we have set our hope that he will deliver us again. I love these but God moments. I can not, but God can. When God appeared before Moses in a burning bush and said, Go, go save my people from Egypt, he did not say, You know, God, I've been waiting for you. for 40 years. I've been training hard and I think I'm ready. It's not what he said. He did not say, you know what? My mom thinks I'm great. And I think I can do this. And if I put my will to it, I will manifest my ability to lead God's people out. Do you remember what he said? I cannot. Nobody will believe me, and I cannot even speak well. Did God say at that point in time, here, don't worry. I am told by people that I trust you're great. You think very little of yourself. You should have more confidence in yourself, is not what God said. God said, I know you're not ready, but I will go before you. I will go before you. I cannot, but God can. This is why we remember from last night what Colossians 1, 5 and 6 said. It's not we and our proclamations. It's about the word of God, the truth that's going forth. The word of the truth we're told, the gospel. which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world, is bearing fruit and growing, as it also does among you, since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth. It's the word with the power of God that goes forth. And the power of God is far beyond our imagination. The resurrection of Christ and the hope of the resurrection provide confidence in both life and ministry, not because the circumstances are cooperating with us by any means after his beautiful exposition of the resurrection of Christ and our hoped-for resurrection with Christ and our glorious body at the end, Paul turns To his ministry when he says, First Corinthians 15, 58, Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord Your labor is not in vain. What scripture promised is not rosy paths or easy life But what scripture promised was the presence of God in the many of the struggles that we might you and I might face. Can I tell you a little bit of Korean church history? Korean church history begins right around 1885 when the first set of uh missionaries arrived in Korea. They landed in a city called Incheon, which is where I was born. It's a port city in South Korea now. It was made famous because of the Inchen Landing during the Korean War, where Douglas MacArthur divided the North uh North Korea Korean army in half in terms of the battle plan that they had. It was a daring move that actually ended in success saving half the country in terms of uh the inevitable destruction that was to take Take place. If you go to Incheon, there is a park that overlooks the ocean called the Freedom Park, which is where I grew up when my grandfather pastored. And in the middle of it is one of the largest statues I've ever seen of Douglas McCoy. Garth. And then underneath it is a sign that simply said Liberator of Korea, uh, just because of his heroics during that time I realize after Korean War his esteem in the US changed quite a bit, and there's a lot of reasons why that might have happened in the US history. But at least in the minds and memories of many of the older Korean Koreans, his role was an amazing blessing of God that Korea is still saved at the moment. But you might have heard that Korea experienced a rapid growth in Christianity. Since 1885, you realize that the very first seminary that was built in Korea was done by the Presbyterians. You may be wondering, how come there are so many Presbyterians? Biggest denominations are Presbyterians. So in fact, the biggest uh denomination is about 12,000 churches with a little over two million Christians. In a denomination in which I grew up and the seminary at which we have 2,000 students, where my dad was one of the students Part of the reason why that was the case was it was the Presbyterians who ended up in South Korea first. Horace Underwood is the name of the Presbyterian minister who is recorded to be the first missionary that ended up there. So here, initially, Pyongyang, which is now the present North Korean capital, was called the Jerusalem of the East. Because 1907, that's where the first Presbyterian seminary was built. 1912, that was where the first Presbyterian Presbytery took place. as the church was being built. It's an illustrious history that we look upon with some bit of pain because you recognize that country is no longer under the name of Christ. Jesus. But here, these things happening, really a church built on the blood of many, because during the Japanese occupation where Christianity was opposed, and during the war between uh North and South in 1950, fifty to fifty three, many of the killings took place against uh Christians during that time period. We recognize many faithfully lived, but it was difficult times. To give you one example of that is a person named William Davis Reynolds, who was a Southern Presbyterian with roots that goes back to what is now the present PCA. Who left Virginia and ended up in South Korea primarily because he heard the preaching of Horace Underwood, the first Presbyterian minister in South Korea In this missions conference in 1891, he heard Horace Underwood's call for more missionaries in South Korea. He ended up in Korea with his wife in 1904. With a new Korean name, Nurson Li, was what he called himself. He taught systematic theology and biblical languages for over 20 years at Pyongyang Theological Seminary that I mentioned. to you briefly earlier. His most lasting accomplishment was his part in translating the Bible into the vernacular. So into the Korean language, completed in 1910 and published, for many to now have access to both the Old and New Testament. However, this was not without great cost. Soon after their arrival, the Reynolds gave birth to their first son, William Davis. Their joy was soon followed by grief as little William died the very same year he was born, now buried alongside many other children of missionaries who died while their parents were serving there as missionaries. There's a cemetery in the middle of Seoul, the city. It's called Yanghua Jin International Missionary Cemetery. About 150 of the missionaries who died in Korea. Are buried there, but if you go to the corner of that cemetery, you have smaller headstones, often without names and just dates. These are cemeteries of babies who died. Babies who died there as parents were faithful in their desire to serve the Lord, but yet sacrifices were great, and the results of sin are everywhere. Yet they persisted. And to them who see these things face to face, Paul simply says, Your labor is not in vain. Your labor is not in vain. The resurrection of Jesus Christ encourages, emboldens Empowers us in our daily life because we know what's happening here is not the end. Beginning of something anew is what the Lord is doing. doing among us. This is why Paul says in the midst of what he says here, I rejoice in the midst of my suffering. I rejoice in my suffering. He is not saying that he rejoices because of his suffering. He's not saying that he rejoices uh uh seeking suffering, but he is saying that he rejoices in the midst of his suffering Because he knows that in the midst of his suffering, God is at work among us. God is at work among us. Charles Spurgeon says this, remember this. Had any other condition been better for you than the one in which you are, divine love would have put you there. Had any other condition been better for you than the one in which you are, divine love would have put you It's a silvering reminder of not only the reality of life around us, but yet God's furious and persistent love for his people. And that he does not forsake nor forget, but he's there amidst us. And this is the point that Paul tries to remember. mind not only to those who listen because he knows that the church is under great pressure but for himself to remember as well as he says I rejoice In the midst of my suffering. I was told that leadership, Chris was kind enough to kind of share some of the journey. I've been at school for 20 years now, eight of those years. serving as president, I heard that leadership is the art of disappointing people at a rate that they can stand. I'm a firm believer of it. And I I I I do that very well. Disappointing people is something I do on a regular basis. And you wonder, and Paul is as he's saying this, he's speaking to his congregation, but he's preaching to himself. He's thinking about this. It's not in vain, because the Lord is in the midst of it. This is where we get to pause a little bit as we kind of uh run toward the finish line here by pausing on verse 24. It's in this context, I think, we get to understand a little bit better the difficult words of 124, where he says, Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake. And in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is the church. Filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions. Have been a controversial set of words for some time. But friends, Paul is not speaking of deficiencies in the word. He's also not talking about additions to the incomplete work of Christ Jesus. We know this is true because Paul uses even different words here. Afflictions for Christ and sufferings for himself. In fact, he is not speaking of redemptive sufferings at all. That's not what he's referring to. These are sufferings associated with an active participation in the ongoing work of Christ in this world. Until the day of Christ's return, when the kingdom of God will be consummated, those who participate in the proclamation of the gospel is expected to suffer. A sure sign that we live in between the ages, though we live with the anticipation of the end to come, and the victory is certain. Revelation teaches us this, even as we dispute over all the details of words and images, the message is still the same of Revelation, simply that Jesus wins. And because you know that Jesus wins, it's watching a sporting event that you care deeply about with the end result already known. You can sit back and relax and watch with great joy because you know where the Lord is leading you along the way. Here we recognize that there is a day to come where victory will be seen and God's name will be vindicated. But this in-between stages where we recognize that suffering works And walk side by side with the blessings of life that God has given to us, we recognize that this is not a permanent state, but a temporary condition of all faithful believers. While living in and hoping for the kingdom to come, the kingdom of this age, the wicked and sinful age, continues alongside it. And what the Bible does not promise, contrary to some of the teachings that are out there, is that God will take away our suffering and difficulties and make every life easy. No, that's not what he says. What he promises is what he reminds us here, that in the midst of these sufferings and difficulties. God promises to be there. As Revelation later on points out, in a father-like image where we're told that in heaven, our Father in heaven will wipe away our tears. Is a beautiful imagery that we do see. The paradox of suffering for Christians and joy that accompany all believers is possible because of God in Christ Jesus. For you see, for Paul's opponents, his suffering, that is Paul himself's suffering and the church's suffering, was an indication of his and the church's weakness. And they used it against him. They said Peter broke out of jail. How come you're staying in jail? Here, if God can save the world, why can't He save you now? People might say. But for Paul, Suffering was a testimony of God at work in his life. And let me try to unpack that this way. First, it highlights the weakness of the messenger. And points hearers to God as the all-sufficient Savior. Oftentimes as someone who preaches up here. Can I uh ask for your uh uh understanding and patience even as I explain it this way it takes a bit of thought for you to take up people's time to say what you have to say may be important. For you to sit and listen for an hour. I mean, who thinks that way normally? Yet we're compelled to do this, and sometimes the burden is great. I was telling some people last night, my mother is a pastor's daughter, pastor's wife, and a pastor's mom. Twice over, because my brother-in-law also is a ministry, which basically means no one earns money in the family is basically what it turns out to be. But I remember when we're getting married, my my mom was talking to my wife Sharon. And said, hey, I don't have that much that many advices for you, but there's one thing that I might want to share with you. That is, if you have concerns about your husband's preaching one Sunday, wait until Wednesday. He will listen better. Because on Sunday, preachers know when the preaching has gone bad. And Monday is recovery time. You're curled up somewhere wondering, woe unto me, I should never do this again. And then Tuesday you wake up and saying, I have another preaching to do Sunday. I should start preparing. And by Wednesday you forgot how things went. The Lord's very kind in allowing us to forget. By Wednesday, he might listen to you, my mom said to my wife. And I think that's true. At least that's true of me. Maybe it's all my own insecurities, but I think that's true on uh on all accounts. But I dare say in many ways we've gotten used to a scenario where the message and the points point to a charismatic leadership of some kind. kind, the person. And that can also be true of us. Even as we share about Christ's work in our lives, it becomes primarily about us How many times have we heard, and having grown up in a pastor's family, I hate those kumbaya moments of retreat fireside, where all the boys who said, I had this real addiction to A, B, and C, but Jesus found me. And then now I were I was able to go back on all those things and kick that out of my lives. Girls love that. But my life was really boring. I grew up in a pastor's family. Um really never ran away, never smoked, never drank. Nothing really can I can speak of that I can speak in an extraordinary way. I say that in a facetious way to point out sometimes We confuse the message that we desire to proclaim and live out and replace it with our own message, where the pointer is to ourselves. And here, suffering on this side of glory highlights the weaknesses that we hide from others and points the hearers to God as the all-sufficiency The power does not belong to Paul nor to us, but to God. It makes sure that the glory does not come to the proclaimer, but the proclaimed. And this is where we come to remember that by our suffering, the world will see that we are not the Messiah. Here, when uh when uh Jesus, uh John the Baptist was approached by the leaders of the Jews, and they asked him, Who are you? How do you testify about yourself? He did not answer in a way that was usual because he began by saying, he testified by saying, I am not the Christ. I am not the Christ. And I think often a reminder to many of us who desire to share the gospel is to simply remind us Daily to say, I am not the Christ, but we know Christ who is in charge, and we are simply pointers to that person. And we hope to be that signpost that makes clear who Jesus is. Second, suffering reminds the messenger. Who is prone to exalt his own importance that this is ultimately not about us? Let me say it this way: we believe that it's about us because we think too much of ourselves. I mean partly that we think too highly of ourselves. But I don't even mean just that. We think too highly of ourselves, but even more problematically, we think of ourselves too much. Constantly on our minds and our hearts are about me, even the best of us. You can see this diagnostically in your prayers. What percentage of your prayers is about you and your needs? I'm not saying don't bring these things to the Lord. But simply there is one way to ask yourselves, how much of me is on my mind all the time? It's not just that we have a high regard for ourselves, but if you're like me, we think of ourselves too much. in many ways. And the Lord has a constant way of reminding us that this is not about us. Uh my son is Simeon, he's a fairly decent athlete. And uh when he was about three and a half, he played soccer, indoor arena soccer, and I think he really uh thought he was great because one day he came out, he scored two goals. We proud of him. Came out, I was changing him. And he's like three and a half. Daddy, he didn't know how to say D's and Rs very well at that point. Said Daddy I awesome is what he said. Because he scored goals. Um and what he was saying was to say he was doing really well. And I'm thinking to myself, humility is good uh for a Christian. The other son was, I wish it was complete. Sentences because that would make it even better. Uh I am awesome or I was awesome. But he wasn't done. He went on to say, Daddy, those guys no good. It was an amazing amazing thing to behold that a three and a half year old was just like a thirty-five year old, except he says it. I'm socially not uh what is it uh sophisticated enough not to say those things, but to be very honest, I think the same. And what's amazing is that it's cute for a three and a half year old, not so cute for 35, let alone a 70-year-old among us. And here the Lord is reminding us that these things are not about us. Our minds and our hearts should be preoccupied But the preoccupation is not us, it's about God. And he reminds us to see him on a daily basis Third, suffering forces the messenger, like us, to rely upon Christ and Christ alone, and find adequacy and sufficiency in Christ Jesus To be able to say Jesus is enough. Friends, I don't mean to minimize all the difficulties that are out there Just simply at the end, as people who are believers of Jesus, here it's alone in Christ Jesus we can find Contentment and peace, even in the midst of many other challenges. That is the lesson that Paul learned as he struggled with the thorn in his side. Do you remember his struggle? His conclusion, Second Corinthians 129 says, But God said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in you Oftentimes, weaknesses and struggles force us to recognize that all we can lean upon is Jesus Christ. All we can lean upon is Jesus Christ. Fourth, sufferings and weaknesses allow the messenger to participate in the sufferings of God. Christ Jesus. That is, it teaches us to suffer with those who suffer. You may remember the words of Paul in Second Corinthians 1 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, all comfort, who comforts us in our affliction. so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. There is a result clause here when he says, who comforts us? In times of affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in affliction. He allows us to participate in the sufferings of Christ Jesus. Jesus so that we may be the hands and feet of Jesus to others who are suffering. Recently a friend of mine lost her mom, and I hesitated for a day or two before I gave her her a call because I wasn't sure what to say to her. Few days later we all got together, husbands and wives, and as we were sitting down talking, I said, may I ask you, I know this is a very pointed and personal question. What did you find to be most comforting for you when you found out your parent died? And she said, there is another friend whose parent And she called me minutes after the announcement went out. Not to say anything, but to simply be there with her. She said there was nothing more comforting to her. to her, to have her on the phone in silence, just to cry with her at the grieving and the loss that's there, but not alone, but together. Sometimes the lessons of life, as difficult as they are, allow us to serve others by participating in the sufferings that the Lord has Handed our way. It allows us to become better servants and better ministers. For us to be able to approach others in our congregation, to weep with them, weep with those who weep, and rejoice. With those who rejoice. We recognize that the Lord uses all things, for he never makes mistakes, allowing us to serve his people in a way that affects them in the most powerful of ways. And finally, here, Paul wants to remind us that as we think about this uh life up on this side of glory That sufferings and weaknesses force us to say, Maranatha. Maranatha is not just the song word that we sing. Maranatha simply means it's a prayer of the early church that's simply says, Come, Lord Jesus. Come, Lord Jesus. It reminds us that this is not our home. And that our home is not made with human hands. And that awaits us one day a home that God has prepared for all of us in Christ Jesus. Jesus, and his promise is that he will bring us home one day. And this is why Paul reminds us in places like Second Corinthians 4. 16. sixteen. So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory. He's not trying to minimize what we face, but compare to eternity There is the weightiness of what awaits us in our home. As we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. For we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. So we are always of good courage. He reminds us. This good courage is possible simply because he who began a good work within you and me will sustain us to the end. And in fact, Paul, who said these words about sustaining us to the end, he ends that and follows that up with these simple words: For God is faithful. For God is faithful. Here, as we reflect upon all that's happening around us and circumstances of life that are beyond us. For those of us who live on this side of glory in Colossae or wherever the Lord has placed us, suffering following where we are is an inevitable result of the fallen world in which we find ourselves. Nothing but a constant death. But yet Paul reminds us, in the midst of this suffering, we rejoice. We rejoice. Not because things are easy. But the promise, nor the promise to take away, but the promise that God has given to us in Christ Jesus is that wherever you are in the midst, He is there with you. And he is faithful. I want to end with these words, again going back to um one of the scholars I enjoy, as I mentioned to you last night, D. A. Carson, this time, as I mentioned, was from another book of his called Memoirs of an Ordinary. Pastor. Man, this book made me cry forever. Just because it reminded me so much of me as a young child watching my dad. minister being a PK, I know we have some PK sitting here too, is a huge blessing. May I just say that? As a PK myself, and I realize a lot of PKs turn out to be really good or really bad is what they say. To me, being a pastor's kid was an amazing blessing. I never knew that always, but really was. And I hated living in the parsonage. Because everyone kept uh account of what you were doing. I felt like I was in a fishbow. But I share what he says here because he understands what the priorities are here when he says the life and reflections of the way. Tom Carson, D. A. Carson's dad. He ends the biography with these words. When he died, that is when Tom died, there were no crowds outside the hospital. No editorial comments in the papers, no announcements on television, no mention in parliament, no attention paid by the And from what he tells, uh Tom, his dad, uh toward at the end of his life was filled with a lot of disappointments just because the ministry was difficult and he didn't taste the kind of success. That I think many pastors pray for and hope for in many ways. And this is from this perspective, he writes as a son. In his hospital room, there was no one by his bedside. There was only the quiet hiss of oxygen, vainly venting because he had stopped breathing and would never need it again. But on the other side, all the trumpet sounded. Dad won entrance to the only throne room that matters, not because he was a good man or a great man. He was, after all, a most ordinary pastor. But because he was a forgiven man. And he heard the voice of him whom he longed to hear, saying, Well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of the Lord. Lord. Well done, my good and faithful servant. May the Lord bless you, friends, that even as you daily face life Life, some days filled with sunshine, other days filled with clouds and rain, that in the midst of it you will experience the powerful and wise presence of the Lord. And that you will ever remain faithful to him. That one day when he brings us home, as we pray, Lord, come, come, Lord Jesus, you'll hear him say, Well done. Good and fine. faithful servant. Come in to the eternal joy of your home and time with your master. May that be the experience of your life each and every single day. Let's pray together. Shall we? Thank you, O Lord, for this time for us to reflect upon your word. These are difficult things for us to ponder and even more so to believe in. Lord, may we see you daily. May we hear you through your word as it's proclaimed and read. May you by your spirit powerfully move in us that our perspective Perspective of life will be as you see life. Even when circumstances are difficult, we find ourselves in the midst of a swirl of things around us. May we see you being in the midst of that. May we trust in your nearness and presence as you have promised. May we look up with hope, for we know that you are faithful to your people. And may we find rest and comfort, thankfulness and joy in your presence in our lives. For we pray all these things in your Son's name.