Well, friends, it's nice to meet you. Thank you for the opportunity for me to join you to have a delicious meal and also to have wonderful fellowship and conversation. I hope that our time over the weekend will be enriching and encouraging, not just because we get to talk about the Bible, but our time together will mutually encourage one another. We may walk away. seeing the Lord's presence among us as well. It is a bit embarrassing to kind of get a sense of what it will feel like to read your obituary As you go through the years of discussions of what happened in your life in some ways. And many of you are thinking, who is this guy in the first place, anyways? Just to give you a brief history of our institution. Westminster Seminary, California, where my dear friend uh Peter and I went through school together as was mentioned, and then uh Pastor Fix and and Chris uh Pastors uh And Chris have gone through uh in schooling as well. The school's been around since 1980. Uh we've been very grateful for many of those who have walked before us in terms of establishing the institution and blessings. the institution with their gifts. But we've had three successive Bobs, what we called our three Bobs as presidents. The first president was Robert Strymple, Bob Strymple. The second president was Robert Dendulk, Bob Dendulk. And the third president is the one who came and spoke here before, Bob Godfrey. Robert. uh Godfrey and so as you can see we've had Bob, Bob and Bob. And when the search committee determined that I would I would step into that role, um, Bob Godfrey who was making the announcement suggested that I change my name. He thought it might be appropriate for me to change my middle name to Robert so that it could be either JR or JB, depending on how long I want to go with this. And thought that that might work out well. He further suggested, given our ties to the Dutch Reform churches, that perhaps I would consider changing my loss. Same to Joel Vanderkin or Joel Joel Kimsma. None of those things actually did happen. Um so my my name rema uh remains as boring as it sounds, Joel Kim, but I've been privileged to serve the institution that many of you have prayed for and have supported. We're grateful for you. So whenever you remember, this is what happens when you invite a guest. The guest leaves with a homework. Leaves you with a homework that whenever you remember us, priest please do pray for us. These are changing and challenging times for seminaries and higher ed in particular. And we recognize, apart from the grace of the Lord being upon the institution, And his blessings, we cannot even take one step without fear. And so we covet your prayers, we covet your remembrances, we covet your prayers as you remember us and think of us. Well, I have the uh immense privilege of sharing God's word with you this weekend. We want to focus on Colossians in particular, though short. We can't hid every verse here as you can imagine. So we're taking snippets of it, but as we do so, I hope we can walk away saying, hey, there is a cohesiveness here that allows us to understand Paul better and to give us a sense of what that cohesiveness. might be, we're going to title it simply Colossians, Paul's Practical Theology. Now you may be wondering what does that mean? Does that mean that it's practicable? In in many ways it could be. But perhaps I can put on my seminary hat for just a sec and say when you look at the disciplines within seminaries, there are multiple divisions of study You have the biv studies or biblical studies where you have students who study the Old Testament as a Pastor Fix has, or the New Testament. You also have systematic theology, which takes the teaching. You have church historians who teach us about the ways that church has grown and the Lord has blessed the church and the ways that the church has grown. Has understood the word in terms of teaching it, propagating it, and being able to consolidate for us an understanding of the word that you and I ought to have. But there's a department that's often neglected, and it's called practical theology. These are not the only people who are practical in seminaries, but it's a discipline that focuses on not just about learning the word, but but applying the word. This is the department under which you have preaching, you have Christian education, you have things like counseling. And the list can go on in terms of areas of expertise that later on as a pastor is minted in his ordination that he can go away having experienced some elements of what these things are. And so before I went down to a seminary in 2005, I spent five years in pastoral ministry where we were able to kind of practice what we learned in the classrooms. Here, classroom learning is wonderful. And you get to be stretched in many ways. But there is nothing like being in the real classroom of life where you can apply these things. And I think that This is true not only theological students and seminarians, but also for all of us as well. And I think Colossians is our master teacher, Paul, teaching us to understand God and Jesus better so that these things can be apply to our lives in a more full way. And that's what we hope that we can gain during our time here in the next few sessions. So this tonight I want to draw your attention in it to Colossians chapter 1. In Colossians chapter 1, we want to start with verse 1 and we want to read all the way up to verse 14. Those are the verses that we want to focus upon. I may wander off and on at different stages. I'm not that usually the longest a speaker. So I I'm not sure if that's reassuring to you or you feel like you're going to get shortchanged. But all that to say, as we look at Colossians, this is where we want to hover and and roam around for a little And here now is the word of the Lord. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother, to the saints and faithful brothers in Christ. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the Word of God. the truth of the gospel, which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit increasing, as it also does among you since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth. Just as you learned it from Apophoros, our beloved fellow servant, he is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf and has made known to us your love in the Spirit. And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual. wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy. Joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. So far the reading of his word, shall we pray together as we spend begin our time? Our Father in Heaven, what a privilege it is for us to even begin by saying, Our Father in Heaven, no longer sitting in sin, no longer seeing you as judge over our sinfulness. No longer in fear, but Lord running to you as sons and daughters, being invited into your very home, for us to hear your word proclaimed, for us to experience and hear you teach us directly. So be with us now, Lord. As your spirit works among us, make these words come alive to us. That these things will not just simply become intellectual exercises. For us, but that certainly we may learn and grow and understand. But these things may be applied to our lives daily. Allow us to know you more and to grow in our love and affection for you, Alord. Lord. As church, we desire to serve you well, and we pray that, O Lord, you equip us even tonight as we hear your word proclaimed and as we fellowship. With our brothers and sisters. We pray all these things in the powerful and matchless name of your Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Verses 1 and 2. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother. I love how we introduce one another. often and perhaps there are ways that you introduce yourself as well. But Paul identifies with his task, a vocation given So here he is, beginning with simply the notion that he is someone set apart for the proclamation of the word. And then he goes on to say To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Calasse. Grace to you and peace from God our Father. Many of you who are familiar with the writings of Paul, he begins with a pattern, right? Many of us now text mostly, and here I try to buck the trend as much as possible and do the thing that annoy my children as much as possible. That is, I still use capital letters. Whenever I mention someone someone's name or proper nouns, I capital everything. I'm not capitalizing everything because I'm told reliably that's screaming. So I use capital letters when they're appropriate and I also punctuate everything. Which means that someone recently told me, I don't know why you do this. Why do you end your text with a period? And I said, because it's the end of the sentence. It deserves a period. And I realize that this only indicates how old I am and how incorrigible I am. So you're gonna have to forgive me along the way when you say it this way. But when you're primarily writing via emails and text, you don't follow patterns of writing as much. But in the First century, here as people are writing letters, there was a pattern. You begin with a greeting. You introduce yourself as to the primary author. You also point out the people to whom you're writing. And then you begin next by turning to a greeting of some sorts as he talks about grace and peace to you from God our Father. And then if you begin with a prayer or a blessing. And this is what we just read. a prayer and a blessing. But what's intriguing to me and and and intriguing for all of us as we highlight the book of Colossians in particular there is an introduction to the theme of the whole book right in the first two verses. Oftentimes people don't think of much of these introductions. You glide over because a bunch of names are involved here. But he says simply to the saints and faithful brothers in Christ, in colossae. Those prepositions are actually the same one in the original, in Christ and in Colossae. And technically speaking, in the original, those two prepositions are separated and it envelops the sentence. That is to say, when you talk about the recipients of the letter, certainly there are people in Colasse, and certainly there are people who are Christians in Kalasse, a church. But what characterizes them are two prepositions. They are people who are in Christ. Who also happened to be in Colossae. And throughout the book of Colossians, it's about the relationship between the two. That is, how does someone who is identified with Christ Jesus as people who are in Christ Jesus, believing in the name of Christ Jesus our Lord, live In a place like Colasse. And you can change that Colase from the first century city to perhaps the 21st century city of Escondido, where I hail from. Or Bowie, where you hail from, or at uh the environment next to it. How do the saints and faithful brothers and sisters in Christ Live in Bowie, in San Diego, in Colase. This is his dominating question throughout the letter. How does Paul, the apostle, the teacher, the missionary, teach the Christians of Colossae to faithfully live out their in-Christness in the location where they find themselves. And this question was necessitated by the situation in the Colossian church as far as we can tell. Knowing that Paul at this point in time is sitting in prison, Colossians, along with many others, is a prison epistle, meaning that he was writing these things when he was already incarcerated because of the name of Christ Jesus. And people were opposing Christianity was a commonplace happening around the first century. And we can assume struggles outside the church that were taking place. But what seems to be true within the letter is that there were some struggles taking place within the church as well. You recognize that outside pressures were one, but perhaps related to that outside pressure. Chapter 2 verse four. Those who take others captive by philosophy and empty deceit, chapter two, verse eight. People who are judging others, chapter two, verse sixteen. People who are disqualifying themselves, chapter 218. And the list can go on of all those things that seem to be occurring within the church where there seems to be tension among the Christians. Some scholars even like to talk about the Colossian heresy, as if there is one particular problem that the Colossians were dealing with that had to be opposed, though this is almost impossible. in many ways for us to figure out. But I think the word syncretism perhaps gets at some general categories of what we're talking about. Not that there is coherently one singular problem that the church was facing in terms of its teachings, but there was a tendency in the church in Colossae and in that time period. where Jesus should be the only person you believe and follow. But the tendency was to say it's Jesus plus fill in the blank. whatever extra religion or beliefs or practices that are added on as needed for our sufficiency, satisfaction, as well as our security. Perhaps you know what that feels like in the 21st century as well. Sometimes we have used words like idolatry. To indicate the fact that though we confess with our mouth that Jesus is our Lord, the only Lord, yet in terms of our practice and living, oftentimes we're competing with multiple idols. that require our attention and our time and our belief and our conviction. You probably aren't surprised that in the first century Same things were taking place, not just in terms of our factory of idols, as Calvin pointed out, but real idols that people had to actually bow down to in terms of belief. And here, they're hedging their bets. Perhaps Jesus is good, but is he enough? Maybe there are these things that we can add on just to make sure we cover all our bases. In this context, as Paul talks about faithfulness in the midst of faithlessness around him, what are the things that he wants to highlight as he talks about the practice of faith? with the believers in Colossae. And these are the four things that we want to talk about in our four sessions. Tonight, two tomorrow morning, and then Sunday morning as we have worship together. And these are four things that indicate to us that ultimately, as Colossians wants to say, simply Jesus is enough, brothers and sisters, is what Paul wants to say. Jesus is enough. But in that, I'm just gonna select and choose because I'm I guess as a speaker, I get to choose whatever I want to talk about or the sections. There are so many different ways you can go with this, but the four sections I want to talk about are prayer tonight, suffering, tomorrow morning, session one, community, tomorrow morning, session two. And then Sunday morning identity. Prayer, suffering, community, and identity. And as we read this tonight, the text that we read is the introductory prayer of Paul. This is where he begins to not only show us what to pray for, but how to pray. And as he introduces prayer to us, Perhaps I can summarize our time together in terms of what he says and what he teaches in verses 3 through 14 under these three headings in particular. Thankfulness, mindfulness, and then prayerfulness. I'm not trying to advocate that there can only be three But it just turns out that there are three points for us to ponder over. In verses three through fourteen, as Paul begins his practical theology in the book of Colossians. He reminds the believers, not just the Colossians of the first century, but the Christians of the 21st century, that we ought to be thankful, we ought to be mindful, and certainly we ought to be. Prayerful. We begin with thankful because he certainly is thankful. Paul often begins his letter with words of thanksgiving. And you see that here. And despite never having met, and this is important for us to remember, isn't it, that Paul, though he was on many mythsological journeys, he didn't visit every place, nor was he the church planter. for all the churches to whom he writes. No, he's writing to the Christians in Colossae whom he's never met. Yet with an affection of a father, right? With the concern and care of a pastor, he writes to them. them. And as he begins his writing, here you can see that the introduction changes based upon what he knows and what he wants to emphasize for the church. he begins with a Thanksgiving like he does here. He doesn't always. You might be reminded that Galatians are not happy with Galicia. And so as a result, he doesn't really begin with Thanksgiving. He's got other things that he wants to point out. And he was in a hurry to point those things out. But that's not the case here. He begins with deep appreciation for what's taking place in the Colossian church. And the way he explores this is the introduction of what you have commonly seen throughout his writings. There is a triad of virtue here, isn't it? Because he knows that all the reports that he received Indicated that Colossians were growing in their knowledge and affection for one another. And the way he summarizes what he's heard is found in verses four through five, when he says Since we heard of your faith in Christ and of the love that you have for all the saints. Because of the hope laid up for you in heaven, heaven. Have you heard those virtues before? Faith, hope, and love? You might have heard this in a wedding somewhere. somewhere where they remind you that the greatest of these is love, is what he says. What's intriguing here, and we're going to talk about this more on Sunday morning, is that the founding, the grounding of these triads here for Paul is actually hope. Hope that doesn't change. hope that's not just conjured or wished for, but hope that is objective and hope that is given to them. And your familiarity with this triad allows us to see why Paul is so happy to be writing to them. He changes the usual order. The greatest of these love is to remind us of the truth that Colossians should now know He instead posits that their faith and love were the products of their hope. The proper order is best expressed by the NIV. Nearly inspired version is what we used to say in the Christian Reformed Churches, because they had a hand in translating it this way. NIV, which states, the faith and love that spring from the Hope. Do you see the verb they use? Right? Love, faith, and love that spring from the hope. What is this hope? It's not something subjective or the product of wishful thinking. But they hope for something that is objective, laid up or reserved for them in heaven. Pastor Fix mentioned that I have two kids, Anna and Simeon. For those of you who are familiar with the Gospels, their names are taken from Luke chapter 2 When baby Jesus was presented, nobody knew that he eventually will be the savior of the world except for two And the two witnesses who recognize Jesus as the consolation of the world were Anna and Simeon. And our humble hope as parents is even if the whole world denies Jesus We pray, we pray that our two kids will continue to be testifiers of the names of Jesus. We love the name so much. That we chose the names before the kids were born. Which means that if we had two boys, they would have been named Anna and Simeon. Um if we had two girls, they would have been named Anna and Simeon. hearts, he decided to give us one each, which works out really well. You know, for those of you who raise kids, the wishful thinking of kids. Um when we were especially when the kids were young, we didn't have a whole lot of money. And so whenever we would be at a mall, our daughter would say, Daddy, Daddy, can I ride that? Little circular rides you put a you know fifty cents in or something. And I would say, No, no, Anna, I don't have money. And they should be very disappointed, but I thought, you know, life is disappointing. I should start early. And uh is what I thought. But the next time she quickly caught on. And she go, hey, we're gonna go to the mall and she'll say, Daddy, do you have your wallet? And I didn't know why she was asking. I said, Yeah. He go, Daddy, do you have money in your wallet? I said, Yes. And then she go, Daddy, can I get on that ride? Uh you can't you can't get away at that point in time. You're cornered. You can see how kids are always thinking about the wishes and desires they have, sometimes to be realized. Sometimes to be forgotten, sometimes unrealized. But this is not the kind of hope that God speaks of here in Colossians. It's objective, And it cannot be changed. It's hope that came to them and is the result, according to Paul, it's the result of the word of the truth, the gospel proclamation among them. By this turn of phrase, he introduces the readers to the main subject of the book, which is about the gospel that came to them in Christ Jesus. He in fact reminds us in summary 4 in chapter 1, verse 13, when he says, God has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of The gospel is the grace of God in truth according to verse 6, because God is the reason for this good news in the first place. The gospel is in the person of Christ Jesus, verse 4, because it is the death and resurrection of Christ Jesus that has accomplished once and for all God's plan of redemption and forgiveness of sins. The gospel is for us because we receive the benefit of such sacrifice of the Son of God by God's grace to us in Christ Jesus, received by faith. And here what we're told in Colossians 1 is that this gospel of hope came to the Colossians. Apophoros is named in particular. There is a reason why many of us are involved in theological education in various institutions I think you know this well here, especially at this church, but you know that good Christians belong to good churches. That is, healthy Christians belong to healthy churches healthy churches have healthy pastors and good pastors and good pastors do not drop from trees We recognize they're brought up, trained, prepared upon there's a practice and it can allow them to come. And here we hold out hope that what we do on a day-in and day out basis as teachers. is that we're investing in the lives of many in order that they may go further to invest, be launched in the service of Christ Jesus. our Lord. And this is what happened. Here, God has sent a person like Apophoros here to the Colossians. He came to them and brought them the message of Christ Jesus. Our Lord. And as a result, the Colossians learned. They heard. And they understood. These are the verbs that Paul uses in Colossians 1 to remind them of what happened to them. They heard it, they learned it, they understood this gospel that was accomplished in Christ Jesus. And this gospel truth The grace of God in truth, which was received rather than acquired, bought, or grabbed, has transformed them. Leading them to faith in Christ Jesus and the love for all the saints. To the believers in Colossae who face opposition and unexpressed difficulties. Paul reminds them the most important thing that they must remember. The gospel was delivered to them They heard it, they believed it, they understood it. As a result, they stand now belonging to Christ Jesus. This is why the summary statement in verse 2 can be said simply: they are people who are faithful in Christ Jesus, belonging to Christ Jesus, and identified. with him. Now, I heard that there might be some uh Christian Reform background folks here. My catechesis growing up was not the Westminster standard. standards, but Heidelberg Catechism and the three forms of unity. And to remind us of the very fact that you and I belong to Christ Jesus, Heidelberg Catechism begins with this question: what is your chief comfort? Do you remember that? For those of you who grew up with the Heidelberg, it simply says this I am not my own, but belong. I love that. Of all the verbal forms that the catechism could have used. Right? I am not my own, but belong body and soul, life and in death, to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. Christ. I am not my own, but belong, body and soul, life and in death, to my faithful Savior Jesus Jesus Christ. When we come to recognize that we do, we cannot help but be thankful. Paul reminds them of the most Important possession they have. That is simply that we are sons and daughters of God belonging to Christ Jesus. Even if the world swirls around us, we cannot help but be thankful. Because we belong to Him. We are His. And the gospel proclamation allowed us to come into His very presence, having the hope that cannot change belonging to Him. But there's a second thing he wants to say. As I indicated before, he not only reminds us that we ought to be thankful in his prayer. He says we should be mindful. Paul is not only thankful, but he is mindful. All this is true because God is at work and he is still at work among them. He's mindful of the fact that as all these things are taking place, in the midst of it, is not God's hands that are apart, but he is right in the middle of it, is the point that he wants to point out. You ought to be mindful. We are thankful because we're mindful of the fact that God is among us and is at work among us. Look at verses 5 and 6 in particular. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, which has come to you. Remember what we said? Notice the personification of the gospel message. It came to them. It didn't say later on, it talks about the agent who brought the message, but it talks about the gospel now flying all over the place, as he points out, as indeed. in the whole world, it, what is that it? The antecedent is the gospel. The gospel is bearing fruit and the gospel is growing. as it also does among you since the day you heard and understood the grace of God in truth. Paul wants all of us to see that God is at work and God continues to work. He emphasizes That this very same gospel that has worked in them is the very same gospel that has been moving not just among the Colossians, but throughout the world. There seems to be multiple points that Paul wants to convey to the Christians in Colossae, and I think relevant for us here in Maryland as well. Here the point that he seems to be making initially is that the gospel that came to the Colossians is itself continuing to move. It's moving forward. Gospel is bearing fruit and it's growing. It's growing and it is bearing fruit. Sometimes we seem to think that we are the ones who are at work. And we get discouraged by the level of our engagement. We get discouraged perhaps by the successes or failures of our engagement. But what scripture reminds us is that God is at work and his gospel is being proclaimed. church. I mean there was a great church growth taking place and you see many people who are preaching. In fact, Acts has a concentration of number of preachers and preaching that takes place in the book. And oftentimes you may you and I may assume, oh, it's the faithfulness uh under persecution of the church. It's the eloquence and wisdom and the conviction of the preachers who are engaged in terms of persecution. preaching. But that's not how Luke the author summarizes what's taking place in the early church in the book of Acts. Whenever he pauses To give us summaries of what's taking place in places like, for instance, chapter 6, verse 7 of Book of Acts, it says, And the word of God continued to increase. Increase. The word of God continued to increase. I mean you have to hear the word of God continued to increase. To increase. Chapter 12, verse 24. But the word of God increased and multiplied. Who who what's doing the work? Not you, not me. It's the word of God which has power is going forward, is what he says. Chapter 19, 20 summarizes again. So the word of the Lord continued to increase. And prevail mightily. Gotta love that. The word of the Lord continues to increase and prevail mightily. Friends, it's easy for us to think and assume That it's really our eloquence, our knowledge, our wisdom, our persuasiveness that affects people's hearts. But it's really the gospel of Christ Jesus that we We're not smart enough to convince anyone. We're not powerful enough to make people who are dead come alive. Right? We're not persistent enough to be able to bring hearts back to God in any way, shape, or form. The only one who can bring death to life is God through his word proclaimed. And we are told in Colossians For the Colossians who receive the word, you have to understand, you may not see him, but you see him. For the word is being declared, and it's bearing fruit among them. And we recognize that this gospel of Christ Jesus is prevailing throughout the world. Stuck between the sea and the chasing Egyptians, remember what Moses said when he said, fear not. Stand firm and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will work for you today, for the Egyptians whom you see today. You shall never see again. The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be silent. You get to watch what the Lord is doing as the word which is powerful to overcome death continues its labor. You may remember what happened, right? When the Amalekites were battling against the Israelites in Exodus 17. Here, the camera lens did not focus on the general or for that matter the kind of number of the army personnel or the kind of weaponry or strategy that people were using. In fact, the camera, instead of focusing on the valley where the battle was taking place, focused on top of the mountain where Moses, who's now aging, lifted up his arms in blessed prayer and when his arms were lifted up Israelites were winning. When his arms tired and he lowered them, Israelites started to lose. The two young friends who went up with Moses, Aaron and her, decided, we're gonna do something here. Sit him down. And we're going to keep one arm up each. And as he continued to pray, what happened? The Israelites won. And you know what the conclusion was Exodus 1716 says, I, the Lord says, will blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. The Lord will have war. Oftentimes we seem to assume that we are the ones who are engaged, but we're thankful because it's the Lord who's at work. Hearts that are dead, coming alive, transferred into the very kingdom of his son, Christ Jesus our Lord, is taking place not because of you, not because of me, but because the Lord at work among us. This is what we believe in. So we're thankful because we're mindful of the fact that God is at work and his word is powerful to save. We proclaim Jesus Christ regularly here in the pulpit, which I know is taking place here, because we believe in nothing else than in the name of Christ Jesus and his word proclaimed. Nothing else can transform, nothing else can save, nothing else can bring life. And this is what he wants us to recognize. Even if there is a swirling of opposition and problems, you come to recognize, you hold dearly to the word that continues to increase But the second thing he wants us to understand as he's telling it talking to us about God at work, here its way of reminding us not only of the power of the word as it continues its march, It's a way of reminding them that the gospel is not just for them or for us, but it's a dare our word, use a 21st-century word, a global gospel. It's a global gospel. Such a global perspective does not seem significant to us who live in a time when words like globalization has become so common. But remember that many in the time of the first century, you were born, you raised, you lived, and you died in the same town or city in which you were born. You don't move much to begin with. Nor did they have the kind of access that you and I have of information of various things happening throughout the globe. Whether it be through the medium of news or social media or any other ways of sharing communication with one another in terms of the information being shared. This was not possible in the first century. Oftentimes you look at your church, you look at your people, and you wonder how this small gathering of people can be meaningful in the eyes of God. But yet what Paul reminds us is that there's a perspective here that they need to understand. And the perspective of the gospel that goes beyond the walls of their particular church and their own gathering in the first place. And this very same gospel that came to them that has affected them, that has saved them and transformed them, is spreading, verse 6, in the whole world. In the whole world, he says, the gospel is bearing fruit, producing a crop of good deeds, and growing, attracting an increasing number of believers. Throughout the world. Sometimes we forget how big our God is. We when we were young, my grandmother used to sing to me to us, Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. Little ones to him belong We are weak, but he is strong is what we heard. But our brains get bigger. We know too much. Because that's a child song you see We no longer believe that to be true. I mean, there are so many caveats we can bring in in terms of what's taking place. But the truth of that simple song remains true in the word. We are small and weak, but he is strong, the scripture reminds us. You know when I see things like this? I see it in places like this. So about 2018, uh our school being in a global gateway location in San Diego. Uh when you drive twenty miles miles west, you fall into the ocean. But but before falling into the ocean, you see the east, you know, you're looking west, but you're seeing the eastern parts of the world, as we call them, right, in terms of corruption. You drive 40 miles south, you hit Latin America, you hit Mexico. So we're bordering these uh countries in that way. And so for us, being engaged with these countries, And churches and denominations was part of who we are. In fact, our initial model for the institution was simply uh uh serving the West and reaching the world. That was the model that the school began with, nearly forty-five. Years ago. I was in Japan in Tokyo sitting with two of our alums. One's name was Mark Bocanegra. He is a Filipino American. Went to business school School at Stanford, went out to work in Japan, found his wife, and then decided I want a pastor instead of working in finance. Came back to our school, got educated, went back to Japan and to serve a city. He's fluent in Japanese. His wife is Japanese. Makes it even further easy for them to serve in that capacity. Second gentleman that was sitting with me was Rui Wang. Rui Wang, as the name suggests, he is a Chinese national. And he came to the University of Nagoya to get his PhD in civil engineering. And he started teaching at the Yokohama University. But at one point he and his wife decided, I don't want to teach engineering. anymore. I want to teach the Bible. So he came to our seminary, got his Mdiv, went back to Tokyo, and is now pastoring a Japanese uh Mandarin bilingual church in Ginza district. of Japan, Tokyo. Three of us are sitting in the morning praying because that evening we had a gathering where I was to speak and we're We're supposed to have a gathering of many of the missionaries who are here from the U. S. hosted at this Japanese Mandarin Church were Rui Wang pastors. Now, just imagine with me. If you were to ask who were the three country what were the three countries most brutalized by the imperial ambitions of Imperial Japan in World War II Asian theater? Countries would be China, South Korea, and the Philippines. Yet their generation next and the next generation are sitting in the heart of Tokyo. Praying for the gospel message to be lifted on high in Japan. If that's not what the gospel does In not only in breaking down barriers that human beings have lifted up, but that it has a perspective that goes beyond where we are, because God is big and he is strong. We are told. And he is at work. And to this itty-bitty church in Colossae, struggling with the external pressures of all those who are in opposition to Christ, even knowing that their super apostle Paul is sitting in prison because of the gospel itself, and struggling among themselves even, trying to figure out what the Lord is trying to teach them. Here you may wonder, is this worth it? And here he tells them, Paul does, this same gospel is powerfully at work among you, as it does throughout the world. You don't see it, but yet it's there. You come to also recognize God is all over. And so I recognize in many ways 21st century Christian In Western countries, we recognize some of the passage of time and the weaknesses of our churches. And I hope that as churches we can sit, understand where we are, reflect and repent, and go forward with confidence. In terms of where the Lord leads. But in terms of where we are now as church, versus where things were when the Colossian church existed, it is about the Lord working among them and marching through. Out. You come to recognize the graciousness of the Lord as well as the powerfulness of his work. And here we are told and reminded. You should be thankful because you're mindful of what the Lord has done. Reminding us of what 1 Peter 5, 6 seems to say. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God. hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you, Peter says. Thankful, mindful. Because the word is at work and God is at work among them through his word. What was the third one I mentioned? Prayerful Because we ought to be thankful for God at work. And because we know that God is at work, we ought to be prayerful. It's he who does the work. You know what's interesting is when the world seems to say that our indication of maturation and maturity is when we become So when a child is able to tie her own shoes, he's able to ride his own bike, she's able to drive, he's able to go off to school. She gets married. He has children. These are all markers of independence. And you say those are markers of maturity. But what the Bible says is the complete opposite. The marker of maturity is growing dependence. Many of us are getting older. Here I'm I'm on the second half century Here we are able to say in many ways that I know now there are things I do not know. There are things I cannot do. And there are things I used to be able to do I cannot do anymore physically to begin with. You realize when you get older and hopefully slightly more wiser, you come to realize there are things that we cannot. We do not we won't be able to do because we are limited in terms of our ability and our knowledge. So w while the world says Maturation process is growing independence. The Bible reminds us, maturation is growing dependence. You grow more and more to depend upon the Lord in all that we do and say. This is why Paul reminds us if indeed we are mindful of what God is and what God is doing, therefore thankful, then we ought to be Look at what he says in verse 9 through 12. And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you. Let me pause here for a sec and just remind, I'm told that the church here is a praying church. You have a weekly prayer meeting where you gather together to pray about church, I'm sure one another, as well as the church abroad. in terms of your desire to lift them up to the Lord. What a wonderful example. Paul simply is not only indicating what he did, by implication he's indicating to us, you also ought to do the same. I have not ceased to pray for you, saying, and then he tells us what he prayed for. Asking that, that's the content clause following. Asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. with the result that they may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. Bearing fruit in every good work, increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious mind, for all endurance and patience with joy. Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. What does Paul pray for? Paul prays simply that the Colossians may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and honor. understanding. He later on explains this even further in chapter 2 verse 2, that their hearts may be encouraged. That their hearts may be encouraged. being knit together in love to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery. And guess what? This knowledge that he keeps praying that the church has, you know what the content of that is? He says it here. This knowledge is which is Christ Jesus, he says. that they may grow in their understanding and knowledge of Christ Jesus, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom. Now, why does Paul pray this in particular? So that, he tells us why. They may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. They may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. And then he goes on further. How does one live a life worthy of the Lord? And he tells us to us in four participles. These are active verbs here. He says, There are things where you are bearing fruit. You are increasing in your knowledge and trust. You are strengthened in your faith, he tells us, and you grow in giving thanks. You grow in giving thanks. Now are these the only markers one has? Certainly not. But Paul is highlighting some of these things because of its importance, that you bear fruit. You increased in knowledge, strengthened in your faith, and you give thanks always, he says. Giving thanks in particular here as we began is a mark of life worthily lived. John Calvin pointed out a marker of one's spiritual maturity is the person's thankfulness and the ability to be thankful daily for what they they have. I wonder where you guys are. I'm only getting to know you. I like to think I'm a happy Presbyterian if there is such a thing. I'm a pretty happy guy, uh, overall. And the Lord's been very kind to us in many ways. And and to be honest, we could have fun fuddy duddy Presbyterians, but I think what I'm seeing here is generally joyful. uh Presbyterians. We know that God has been good to us. Not because everything has been easy, but because He has been present among us. continuing to guide. So Paul prays because he knows who is at work. He knows who is at work. As he says in 11 and 12, Be strength being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might. Notice the turn of the personal pronouns there. Being strengthened, which is already a passive, which means you don't do it to yourself. You are being strengthened by someone else. But in this he tells us who, with all power, according to God's glorious might. And when his might is with you, for all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to him. Later on. We're going to talk about this tomorrow morning. Colossians 1 twenty-nine picks this very theme up about, hey, the strength that is at work among us. He says, For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works in me. I love that verse. Because it confuses us. Because notice what he does. Look at the pronouns. He says, I toil daily to be faithful. But guess what? I'm not the one who is strengthening me to do this. As he says, struggling with all God's energy, that God powerfully works within me. He is the one who works in us, through us, around us, as we continue to seek him prayerfully each and every second. Oftentimes we are incredibly independent in terms of our prayer life. And oftentimes it involves the fact that you may not say it. But here, there are ways where our abilities, our wealth, as well as our connections can solve problems more easily than prayer can. It makes us independent of God because we start believing we are self-sufficient in terms of what we're able to do. But here the Lord reminds us. At the end, the one who is at work is the Lord in our lives, and it's to whom we turn in prayer. And you'll come to see that later on. Later on that in chapter four, which we're going to end with, here Paul not only begins his book with prayer, he ends his book with prayer. Do you know why that's important? Um it's usually the last things that are very important to us, isn't it? When it's repeated for us. I I know we have some teenagers that are Here. I'm not trying to single you up, but I am. But we all we also have teenagers at home as well. It's it's amazing. Um we have a small home where in the living room When we yell at our kids to wash the dishes, and I know you can judge me, we shouldn't yell, uh, but even when we yell, uh they don't hear us. Or or they hear us or they ignore us or they just tell us we just don't want to is basically what happens. But when we sit on the same couch and we turn to one another as husband and wife and whisper to another, criticizing our child, they are right there in front of our faces in a quick 10-second runout. Basically saying, how dare you talk about us behind our back is what they say. It's amazing how selective the hearing of the team not not you guys. Just my children, in terms of how they uh tend to be. But I keep reminding our kids, when parents repeat, you have to understand there's a reason for this. Bible loves repetition. And the reason is we often don't hear the first time. We hear and we choose not to hear. And we hear and we forget. And here the repetition is, we have not ceased to pray, we're told, because we recognize that indeed the Lord is at work. And it is powerful among us. And it's in whom we have our life and our being. from afar and he wrote a little book about the prayers of Paul where he includes a picture of his own father. And part of he also wrote a book that I think I'm I might mention at one of the talks about memoirs of an ordinary pastor. which is talking about his dad, who was also a minister in in French-speaking Quebec. My dad being also a minister, there was this identification where in reading these two books, I found myself crying a lot because there's Canadian, remember that because you're gonna see some Canadian stuff here. He has never served a large church, never written a book, never discharged the duties of high denomination. Denominational office. Doubtless his praying, too, embraces idioms and stylistic idiosyncrasies that should not be copied. But with gratitude to God, I testify that my parents were not hypocrites. That is the worst possible heritage to leave with children. High spiritual pretensions. and low performance. My parents were the opposite. Few pretensions and disciplined performance. And sometimes when I look at my own children, I wonder if, should the Lord give us another thirty Years, they will remember their father as a man of prayer, or think of him as someone distant who was away from home rather on lot and who wrote a number of obscure books, that quiet reflection often helps me to order my days. I think all the parents I grew up with parents because of Korean American churches who got up at five to pray and go to church because they had the early morning prayer. Services. I must say, my prayer life is nowhere near. It's not about gaining or occurring favor from the Lord. It's about the recognition being a good idea. mindful. He's doing the work. Therefore, we ought to depend upon him always. And the way we express our dependence is To turn to him in prayer, and lay at his merciful and kind and hearing feet that all these, both praises and thanksgiving, as well as supplications and Needs, we place it in his care, is what Paul says we ought to do. So as we Paul began, how do Christians who are in Christ live in colossae? Being mindful of what God is doing, thankful for what He is doing, prayerful, Independence Daily. That ought to be our flavor. as will as well uh our um characteristic. May I end it this way. I I cannot help myself. I I I do love studying the catechisms. So I'm gonna uh leave you with these two catechisms at the end from the Heidelberg. I I I promise you I am PCA minister, duly ordained, but I do love the Heidelberg. And these are the questions 26 and 27. What do you believe when you say, I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth? You know what that is, right? That the eternal Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, who out of nothing created heaven and earth and everything in them, who still upholds and rules them by his eternal counsel and providence, is my God and my Father. For the sake of Christ his son. I trust God so much that I do not doubt he will provide whatever I need for body and Soul and will turn to my good whatever adversity he sends upon me in this veil of tears. He is able to do this because he is almost Almighty God, he desires to do this because he is a faithful father. I love that line. Because he is Almighty God, mindful of his power. He desires to do this because he is a faithful father. May the Lord, through his spirit, daily Remind you of his love poured out in his son Christ Jesus, that it you may be full in your mind of Christ Jesus and what he is. That we may May be thankful daily, not because of the circumstances, but because of the hope for us in heaven by Christ Jesus, that we may be prayerful. Prayerful to our Father in heaven who cares. Who is powerful enough to do cares as our Father in heaven because of Christ Jesus? May this guard and guide you as you serve the Lord. Let's pray together, shall we? How good you are to us, O Lord. We as sons and daughters lift up our thanksgiving to you, O Lord, for the life that we have in your Son, Christ Jesus our Lord. We thank you for his coming, living and dying, and resurrecting, something that we just all celebrated, the Lord's resurrection recently. We're grateful, O Lord, the reminder of your presence in our lives. Teach us, O Lord, that our minds may be full of Christ Jesus, that we may not only know, but see your powerful hand upon us each and every single day. Not only for us as Individuals, but also as church, as you continue to go before us and be near us. Teach us to be prayerful, Lord. Be found on our knees, not depending on our own ability. Our history, or for that matter, our resources that we might be able to garner together. But Lord, that we may come before you on our knees, depending on our Father who hears us. us and loves and cares for us. Allow us to find confidence and trust, not in our own abilities or who we are, confidence only in you, because you have Displayed the power as well as your love for us upon that cross with Christ Jesus who hung there. So thank you, O Lord, for this time. Thank you for the reminders. Thank you for the next few days and hours today. Come. Allow us to love your word more. Find the richness by the leading of your spirit, O Lord. May these things by your spirit be applied daily to us. For we pray Say all these things in the loving name of your Son, Christ Jesus our Lord.