For our New Testament reading, let's turn our Bibles to page 855 of your Pew Bibles, where we have Luke chapter 1. We're going to read these verses from Luke chapter 1, verse 26 to verse 38. And then what I'll do is I'll flip over and read just Matthew 1. 1 that we read last week as part of that genealogy of Matthew. Both of these passages introduce to us this idea of Jesus. having been named the son of David. So Luke chapter 1, verse 26, this is the announcement of the angel Gabriel as he comes to Mary and he tells her uh of this uh birth that she's going to have, this virgin birth, uh, and who her son will be In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary. And he came to her and said, Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with you. But she was greatly troubled. at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And Mary said to the angel, How will this be since I am a virgin? And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy. The Son of God. And behold, your relative Elizabeth, in her old age, has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren. For nothing will be impossible. With God. And Mary said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. And then Matthew 1:1 introduces Jesus. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Let's go before God in prayer and ask his blessing as we meditate on this idea further. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for all that it reveals to us, ultimately about your Son, Jesus Christ. How we thank you for his willingness that though he was rich, he was willing to become poor, that he might lift us out of our true, utter spiritual poverty in our sin. In our rebellion against you, in our destiny of judgment to lift us up and make us rich through faith in His perfect work in our place. May you enable us now to reflect on these truths further, to know Jesus better as we think on what it means for him to be Jesus the Son of God. David. In his precious name, the name of Jesus we pray. Amen. Well, how famous do you have to be To not need ID. Story is told apparently in 2016, Ellen DeGeneres. You know who she is? Anyone my age or older probably does. She was a famous TV personality from way back in the 90s or something like that. Right? For you kids. She was a famous person. We would all recognize Ellen DeGeneres if she walked in the room. She was invited to the White House to receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom. And when they got her, they wouldn't let her in because she'd forgotten her photo ID. She couldn't prove she really was Ellen DeGeneres. I'm sure they worked it out, right? Nobody else has that face. But you need ID to move around, to travel, to make big purchases, to do all sorts of things in this world in this world. You have to have your identity verified by a driver's license, a passport, a birth certificate. But in the ancient world From what we can tell, we have not dug up any DMVs or identification cards from the ancient world. Instead, there you had to prove your heritage. whose son or daughter you were, what your lineage was, and that is why genealogies were so important. So that you could trace and prove I am who I say I am. And that's why Two of the Gospels, Matthew, which we looked at last week, and Luke, which we looked at a few weeks ago, when Pastor Chris preached from Luke chapter 3, they begin and present Jesus' genealogy, his proof of identity, so to speak. And it's in that genealogy that we begin to learn Who are in the line of the Savior Jesus Christ. And what what that tells us about who he is, what his names tell us about who he is. And so we started as as we we mentioned, we started with the whole idea of Jesus being son of God. So Pastor Chris started off with last week we looked at Jesus as son of David, as he's introduced in Matthew's gospel as really the son of Son of David, the son of Abraham. Last week we looked not at son of David, at son of Abraham, and what that told us about who Jesus is. Today we conclude by looking at this other name, this other last name or surname of Jesus. Jesus, son of David. What does that last name of Jesus tell us about who he is and what he does? And very simply, it tells us that he's king. That he's king. That he's king, and he's the king promised to David. 2 Samuel 7 and 1 Chronicles 17 promises, God there enters into a covenant promise with David, saying, You will have a son. Whose kingdom shall never end. And Jesus, as he comes and he is introduced as son of David, he is introduced as the fulfillment of that promise. You might have noticed that in the angels' words. He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, verse 33, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And then earlier in verse 32, the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. Son of David, Jesus, son of David means he's king. And that's highlighted in Matthew's genealogy as well. If you remember when we read it last week, I won't read through all those names. But we we read through all these names and we're we're tracing the genealogy from Abraham, Isaac, and then down, we get to verse six, and it says, Jesse, the father of David. And there's the first title, the King. So Jesus, son of David, means he is the king. The king promised. The king, the son of David. But I would argue that just like when he's called the son of Abraham, and we can look at Isaac and think about who is the son of Abraham described as, so also when we think of Jesus as Son of David is king. We can look at David and say, what kind of king does this name mean Jesus is? And what I would argue is that as we do that, and we recognize that Jesus in his kingship is called not the son of all sorts of other kings in his line, but the son of David, it shows us that Jesus is The Shepherd King, the Sovereign King, and the Servant King. Shepherd, Sovereign, and Servant are what Jesus, son of David, tell us about who he is as king, who Jesus is as king. First of all, he's shepherd king I mean, it is interesting to ask the question, why was the Messiah given the title son of David? Why is it that David is promised a son, and that Jesus comes as Jesus the king, the son of David. Why not son of Saul? He's the first king. Why not son of Solomon? He's arguably the greatest king. The kingdom under him reached the farthest, probably, of anyone who came after. Why son up David? Part of it is because that God had given David that covenant promise in the Davidic covenant. But I would argue Also, because David is in God's Word presented as a model of what God's idea of kingship was to be. Remember that? Saul is the first king, and he looks the part in worldly terms. He's tall, dark, and handsome. He is a mighty war. Well He was not as courageous as he looked like he could be. Even in the passage we read a moment ago from 1 Samuel 7, Saul's back there cringing. Behind his armies. He's not going forth. But he looked depart. Right? And that's why he was chosen. He stands ahead above everyone else. The big difference with David is God chose David not based on outward appearance or strength, but based on his character. God says to uh through Samuel to Saul when he rejects Saul as king in 1 Samuel 15, 28, Samuel says to Saul, the Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day and has given it to a neighbor of yours. Who is better than you? In chapter 13, it says the Lord is looking for a man after his own heart. So what we see in David is he's not just a king like Saul, who leads in battle, but he's a specific kind of king. He's a shepherd king. In fact, David is first a shepherd, then becomes king. And what is it that David, with his shepherding heart, shows us about what kind of king God desires? It shows us two things. First, a shepherd king is a courageous protector of the sheep. Second, a shepherd king is a caring provider for the sheep. First, he's a courageous protector. Then we see this in David. I mean we see it throughout his life, but especially in 1 Samuel 6:17. He's not even actually recognized as king yet, and yet what is he doing? He is courageously stepping out in front of the battle lines all alone to face an incredible foe. Goliath of Gath, nine foot tall, arms to the hilts. But he does it courageously. Willingly. We read that in those verses in verses 34 to 37. He says, look, I've been doing this all my life. I bet a shepherd of the sheep. David said to Saul, Your servant used to sh uh keep sheep for his father, and when there came a lion or a bear and took a lamb from the flock, I went after him and struck him and delivered it out of his mouth. And if he arose against me, I caught him by his beard and struck him and killed him. Your servant has struck down both lions and bears, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be like one of them, for he has defied the armies of the living. God. The Lord delivered me from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear. He will deliver me also from the hand of the Philistine. Courageous! protector of the sheep, and then as he steps into that role of king, courageous protector of the people, And that's we see over and over again. Him leading out in battle, him going forth. In fact, his great fall comes after he stops doing that, and stays home and sends his armies instead of him. But overall, David is a courageous protector as a shepherd king, and isn't that what we see in Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ, the same courageous, protecting Spirit, is what we see in him. He steps out in the power of the Holy Spirit, and yet all alone. Toward not just earthly battle lines, but cosmic battle lines, where Satan prowls around like a roaring lion, as Peter says, seeking someone to devour, seeking sheep, us. To devour. And we see this at the beginning of Jesus' ministry. We looked at this a couple weeks ago when Pastor Chris was looking at Luke chapter 3 and 4, where the beginning of his ministry, Jesus goes out into the wilderness. And confronts the great roaring lion, Satan himself. And he defeats him By the sword of the Spirit, by the word of God. And then at the end of Jesus' life, he's abandoned by his family, his disciples, his people. He's all alone, stepping forth into battle. Going alone to the cross to once for all battle Satan's sin and death, and he wins. That's how Jesus describes his own work as shepherd king, as a courageous protector of his sheep. We see this in John chapter 10. Where Jesus says in verses 11 to 15, he says, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd. who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he has a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I, Jesus says and the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me, just as the Father knows me and I know the Father and I lay down my life for the shepherd. He calls himself in this passage the door of the sheepfold. That is the shepherd being the protector, the courageous protector of the sheep, lying down in the doorway so that any wolf to try to get them to that to the sheep has to get through him. And then what does he say at the end of that passage? My sheep hear my voice, verse 27, I know them and they follow me, I give them eternal life and they never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. No one will snatch them out of my hand. Jesus is the courageous protector of the sheep, just like his father David. But he's also a caring provider. I don't know if you picked up on it in 1 Samuel 17 as we're reading about David going to bring this food for his brothers. I mean, even that it is in and of itself, right? His brothers are there on the front line and his dad says, Hey, I want you to take them some good food. And also take some cheese for the commanders to ingratiate them, I guess, to them. And what does David do? He His character comes through so clearly in how he responds. First of all, he's very quick to obey. But then it says Let's see, in verse 20, David rose early in the morning, and then it gives us this little note, kind of unnecessary. Yeah, well he it's just telling us that he got up quickly and rose early in the morning. That's a sign of obedience, right? Quick obedience. And then it says, and left the sheep with a keeper. A little note that really strikes you when you're reading it slowly, you say, wow, that's an seems like an unnecessary note. I imagine, of course, you leave the sheep with a keeper, but But it's highlighting that. No, no, he didn't just run away from the sheep. He made sure that even when he wasn't there, they were kept. And it's interesting, he not only does that with the sheep, he does that with the stuff. If you read down to verse 22, he he brings all the stuff to the front lines and and and then you know it's in the camp, and then he wants to go to the front lines and what does it say? He left the things in charge of the keeper of the baggage. He's a caring provider of the stuff, of the sheep under his care. And we see this throughout his life as he cares for Israel. As the people of God. So also with Jesus The son of David. He's not only a courageous protector of the sheep, he's also a caring provider for his sheep. And again, we we see that in that passage where Jesus is reflecting on who he is as the good shepherd in chapter 10 of John. He says, he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens, the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. And why does he lead them out? He leads them out to find pasture, to caringly provide for the sheep. Verses 9 to 10: I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved, and he will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes in only to steal and to kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. And if we go to the great psalm that we all know and love, the psalm written by David, the shepherd king, that describes the Lord as our shepherd. This Psalm that is fulfilled in Jesus Christ, Psalm 23, it describes the shepherd in these ways. The shepherd king this way, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want or lack. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He's the caring provider. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his own namesake. The caring provider is the shepherd. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For you are with me, your rod and staff, they comfort me, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. He's a courageous protector. And then it concludes with carrying provision. You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows, surely goodness and mercy shall pursue me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of my life. So Jesus, son of David, means he is the shepherd king, the courageous protector, and the caring provider. How do we apply this first point? Well, friends, those of us who are officers and under-shepherds of the Good Shepherd Jesus Christ have some immediate and direct application to this. But in some sense, all of us as we have roles of responsibility in life, especially over other people, as parents, as teachers, as bosses, as children caring for parents and families. Do we shepherd as Jesus does? Do we courageously protect? Spiritually confronting sin and doubt. Do we caringly provide with tenderness, compassion, gentleness, and diligence? And then we can also step back and say, okay, and if this is who Jesus is, as our shepherd king, Are we good sheep? Do we hear the voice of our good shepherd Jesus? Do we know his word and his will? Are we being shepherded and being part of his sheep as the community of faith, rather than running around like lone wolves all on our own? Second of all, uh Jesus as son of David means he's the sovereign king. If you have a good king, A shepherd king, you want him to be sovereign. You want him to have ultimate authority, supreme power and authority, because you know that he'll use that power for good, to protect and to provide. That's in stark contrast to our systems of government, like the United States Constitution and how it defines the office of presidency, Congress. our our state constitutions and how they define governors. We want limitations on power because power so often corrupts sinful people. But if you have a good king, a good shepherd king, like like Jesus, you want him to be sovereign. And that's what Jesus taught about himself, about his his own taking on the title Son of God, it meant that he is the sovereign king, the divine king, not just a man, but the God man. Sovereign. It's interesting, the very last mention of the name Son of David in Matthew, it's in Matthew chapter 22, where Jesus is uh debating with um the religious leaders of the day. And they've been trying to trick him with questions on taxes, on the resurrection, on the great commandment. Which is the greatest commandment? And then he turns the tables on them, and he says to them, in verse 41 of chapter 22, while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question. Saying, what do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? And they said to him, the son of David. Okay, right answer, right? And then look what he says, that name means for him. He said to him, How then is it that David in the Spirit calls him the Messiah Lord God? Saying, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. They are quoting Psalm 110, verse 1. His point is that David calls the coming son of David, my Lord, my God. And so that title means he is not just king, he's the sovereign king, the ultimate king, the king of kings. And Lord of Lords. He's not just a great king like David, he's the sovereign king of kings and lord of lords as the Messiah, the son of David. And isn't that what we see in Luke chapter 1, where he's announced? Verse 32, he, the son that Mary would bear, will be great and will be called the son of the Most High, and the Lord will give to him the throne of his father David. and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore the child to be born will be called holy. The son of God. The son of David implies not just shepherd king, but sovereign king. And so then the question for us is: are we comforted by that truth? And do we bow before that truth? Do we submit our life to the true sovereign King, Jesus? Do we submit our decisions to his word as it instructs? Do we trust in him with the details of our life, not only thanking him for the good things, but also for the difficulties that he brings as he uses them to sanctify us and to grow us more and more into his image? I think this is a really big question, a hard question for us to reflect on, but when we need to, it's easy to follow Jesus for the good things he brings. When he makes us lie down in green pastures and leads us beside the still waters, when he promises us eternal life, when he restores our soul. But what about when we walk through the valleys of the shadow of death? Jesus doesn't promise us that we won't. In fact, he promises us that we will be hated for his name's sake. That in this world there will be tribulation. And yet he says, But I will be with you. is the sovereign king, ensuring that it is all happening according to my perfect plan. Do we rest in that fact? Or do we wrestle against him? Recognizing Jesus as our sovereign King is a challenge to our sinful hearts, I would suggest. A challenge to our longing for self-sufficiency, our pride, challenge to our wanting to be our own kings or to pick our own king. And so it's good news, but it's a challenge to us as well. Jesus, the son of David, is the shepherd king, the courageous protector, the caring provider. He is the sovereign king as Lord and God. And third and finally, He is a servant king, servant king. This is, I think, a remarkable point made by Matthew in his gospel. That although David Was the servant of Saul. First, he's the servant of his father Jesse. Then he's the servant of Saul. He is a servant shepherd who becomes the shepherd king Jesus was God and King of all creation, the creator of the world who became the servant. who humbled himself and took on flesh in order to serve the sheep. And Luke introduces Jesus as the Son of David here in verse 32 of chapter 1. And it sort of left as a question. The same in Matthew. He's introduced as the son of David, and then it's like Is he? Is he really a king? Let alone the king? And it's striking when you read, for instance, if you read through Luke. After he's introduced in Luke chapter 1 as the one whose throne, the throne of his father David, he's the son of David, the only other person after this who uses the title son of David for Jesus. Is a blind beggar in chapter 18. Similarly in Matthew, he's introduced as Jesus, the son of David, the son of Abraham, and then Then you can trace, like the people who call him son of David are the lame, the blind, beggars. It's interesting, the crowds are kind of unsure. He he heals a blind man and then he he uh frees a mute demoniac from the demon oppression, and it says in Matthew 12, all the people were amazed and said, Can this be the son of David? Why the question? Because look at his appearance as a servant To the weak, the needy, the hungry. Since the very end of his life in the book of the Gospel of Matthew, That finally Jesus enters into Jerusalem and there in Matthew he's called Jesus, son of David, Hosanna! Jesus, son of David, the triumphal entry. The crowds went before him. Hosanna to the son of David. And Jesus receives the praise. That angers the religious leaders. But he says, No, I am the son of David. But then he quickly disappoints because he doesn't go and fight Israel's political enemy Rome. Instead, Jesus humbly Serves his sheep by taking on our true greatest enemy, our spiritual enemy, Satan, sin, and death The point is, Jesus is the expected Messiah, the Davidic king, who will conquer his and our enemies and free his people, yet he doesn't do it as a triumphal political warrior first. With the crowds shouting, Hosanna, son of David, he does it first as a humble servant, who comes as the son of man. Now that's another title of Jesus that would be worth reflecting on. Maybe we can do it just for a moment here as we wrap up. You know, it's interesting, he doesn't call himself son of David. He lets people call him that. He calls himself. The Son of Man. Why? Well, in some respects, because it's a very humble term. It kind of just means human, which actually is. A remarkable, mysterious truth, that Jesus is God who is human, son of man. But it's interesting, in the Old Testament, Son of Man actually also had a divine character to it, because the Son of Man is introduced in Daniel chapter 7 as a divine character. So it brings together these two mysterious truths that Jesus holds together in his one person. Truly God, truly man. One person forever. But I think Son of Man also gets at this role of Jesus as the servant, King. Because how is it that he describes himself as the son of man? The title he gives to himself. He says in Mark 10: For even the Son of Man came not to be served. Like a king, but to serve as the servant king, to give his life as a ransom for many Luke 19, 10. Luke 19, 10. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. John 10:15, I am the good shepherd. I lay down my life. For the sheep. And that's what we see him doing as he comes and he lives a perfectly righteous life in difficult circumstances. Spending time with the most broken among us, healing the sick, raising the dead, feeding the hungry, giving sight to the blind, giving sound to the deaf. Giving speech to the dumb, giving spiritual freedom to those enslaved by demonic forces which he began in his life on earth and he continues to this day. And then he gathers his disciples for the Last Supper. And what does he do there? Son of man came not to be served, but to serve. And he takes off his outer robes, and he kneels before his disciples and washes their feet. And then when everyone is overwhelmed by his humility as servant king, they begin to question his kingship, right? You can imagine the disciples seeing there, bowing, kneeling before them, washing their feet, and then when the hour comes, they flee. What is going on? This is not the king I imagined I would have. But it's at that point abandoned by all. Like David out in the wilderness, or David stepping out before Goliath, that Jesus performed his greatest service to us as his sheep. When he stepped forth, carried the cross up that mount, and allowed himself to be nailed to it for your and my sins. Have you given your life to Christ, letting him take your sins and nail them to the cross? Have you put your faith in Jesus Christ? Isaiah 53, 6 says, all we are like sheep. We have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. But the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. May this be true of you In all this, Jesus becomes not just the great king we need, the great king we have, the shepherd king, the sovereign king, the servant king, but he also becomes for us a model. Of humble service that he calls us to follow. This is in Philippians chapter 2. We read this the other night at the uh at the uh uh evening of lessons and carols. Where Paul basically says, Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. Why? Because it's the mind he had as servant king. Who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself to the point of being obedient, to the point of death, even death on the cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him, bestowed on him the name that is above every name. And that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord. This is who Jesus is, born as Jesus, son of David, Jesus the Christ, the Son of David. He is our risen King, who is reigning forever, whose character is like his ancestor David, and yet far better. Without the flaws, without the failure, but nonetheless a shepherd. Interesting that his birth was announced first to shepherds He is our sovereign king. Interesting that his birth was announced by the hosts of heaven. He is our servant king, born humbly, in a stable, laid in a manger, who grew up to love and serve us as his sheep by laying down his life For our sin to redeem us from Satan's sin and death, and being the first fruit of the resurrection life When he rose from the dead, ascended to the Father's right hand. And so, as we try to remember year after year, as we come to this time of year, and we think about that remarkable first advent of Jesus when he first came. We recognize that the same expectation that was there then, that was fulfilled then, is well, the similar expectation is ours now. Jesus says, I am coming soon. We await his second coming when he will come in glory as our great shepherd king, our great sovereign king, the great servant king. Who is enthroned in glory at the Father's right hand? And so let us come. Let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker Let us kneel before Jesus the Christ, the Son of David, for he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture. And the sheep of his hand. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these truths that you named, you gave the name to your Son Jesus Christ, not only Son of God. Not only son of Abraham as the fulfillment of that promised seed of Uman, but Jesus, the son of David. Our King. Lord, may we submit well to His kingship. May we follow His voice as our shepherd king. May we love him for all the ways in which he has first loved us. And may we serve one another even as he has first served us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.