Hear now the word of the Lord. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother, this is the first commandment with a promise, that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land. Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Bondservants, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart as you would Christ, not by way of eye service as people pleasers. but as bondservants of Christ doing the will of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man. Knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a bondservant or is free. Masters do the same to them, and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven. And that there is no partiality with him. Your ends of reading of God's word. Let's go to the form of prayer and ask his blessing on our time as we think about it further. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is living and active, that it continues to speak to us. For we are grateful for the great redemption that you have wrought in Jesus Christ. The great redemption that we read about in Ephesians 1 to 3, that we who are dead in our trespasses and sins can be made alive together with Christ by faith, as we're saved by grace. Yet, Lord, we know that it's often hard to live out this faith in the world. It's often hard to know what that looks like. And so as we look at this passage, we pray that you'd help us, instruct us. Help us each to see how these these verses might apply to us in our lives, how we may live lives worthy of the calling to which we've been called, lives that are reflective of the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ as we go out in the world. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The Marborough man Cowboy, rugged individualism, pulling yourself up by your own bootstraps. Every American in here is just getting a little warmer in the heart. That's so much a part of our culture, and there is a certain value to that. God gives us each uh certain responsibilities and rights as individuals over our own bodies, our own selves. And yet, that vision of rugged individualism, so central to the American dream and what it means for so many to be American and enjoy the freedoms that we have. It's not exactly the picture that Paul paints for us, is the one we are to reflect as the church of Jesus Christ in the world, primarily. Instead, throughout this whole passage that Paul has been where Paul has been spending time talking about what does this look like practically in our day-to-day lives in the home? To live out our faith, Paul says, it looks like, and here's his heading, it looks like being filled by the Spirit in Ephesians 5, verse 21. Being filled by the Spirit to be, among other things, not only worshipers together, not only those who are singing and making melody, not only those who are giving thanks always for everything to God. But it looks like those who are submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. That's the big heading here. And that's what Paul is exploring or unpacking throughout the rest of these verses, all through chapter 6, verse 9. He's going to shift to another topic in the next section. Submitting to one another out of reverence to Christ. That's the call, that's the command to all of us. And yet it looks a little different depending on what relationships we're talking about. Talking about. We've talked about wives and husbands last week. Today, Paul is going to turn to these other two relationships. And what we see is there's there's more similarity between these Two sets of relationships between these four roles that he's going to explore here. And we can really classify them as two types of roles. One is the role of subordinates and one is the role of superiors. And so what I want us to see as we go through this passage is first of all, Paul's exhortation, his call for how we live out our Christian faith as subordinates. How we submit as subordinates, then how we submit to one another out of reverence for Christ as superiors, that's the second point, and then we'll close with thinking through where do we get strength? To submit as Christ has called us to. So subordinates, superiors, and strength are the three points. First, subordinate submission. Here, Paul addresses two groups. And it's interesting, these two groups, the groups of subordinates, are ones that we all, at some point in our life, if not most of our lives. fall into, and that is children and servants or or bondservants or slaves, as you could translate that. First, Paul addresses children in verse 1. Children Here it is. Very simple. Kids, you've probably heard this from the lips of your parents all too often because it's one of the favorite verses for parents to memorize. Children, obey your parents in the Lord for this. is right. Children. This is a a term probably it it can mean children of various ages. Probably in this context, Paul is probably addressing kids between the ages of Roughly three or four to fourteen. Why fourteen? Many women, young women, got married at fourteen. And so then they would no longer be children, but they'd be wives, addressed in the earlier part. Boys, maybe got married a little later, maybe 18, uh, 20. Still, uh, they probably wouldn't fall under this category of children necessarily at the age of 18 or so. Now, this doesn't mean this doesn't have application to all of us as adults. When we're adults who still have living parents, we're still called to honor them, but not necessarily obey them. In the way this word calls us to. And it is interesting that the word Paul uses here for obey is different than the word he used for wives. Remember, wives, he says submit, and this is a ordering oneself under. Here, the word is, you could translate it hyper here. Why hyper here? It's a combination word. What he's getting at here is obedience that he's calling children to hear is the kind of hearing that leads to action. Not going in one ear and out the other, right? But listening carefully, and listening so you not only hear, but you can heed what is being said. Children, obey your parents in the Lord. for this is right. Now this is not very controversial, right? I mean in our day it's not that controversial, even though there's not necessarily There's many good expressions of this, but we still kind of get the idea that children need to obey their parents. And in the first century, this was not controversial at all, to say children obey your parents, for this is right. But notice Paul doesn't just say, children obey your parents, for this is right. He could have, and that would have been fine on the one hand. But he says, children obey your parents in the Lord. this is right. And that's where it's a little counter-cultural. Because what Paul is doing is he's saying, you kids can have real faith in Christ. You can be in union with Christ. That's what it means to be in the Lord, just like the adults here. And therefore, you, as a Christian, a follower of Christ, are called to obey God as an expression of living out your faith. in the Lord Jesus Christ in the context of your relationship with your parents. Paul says in Colossians 3. 20, children obey your parents in everything, very similar command, for this pleases the Lord. Often we think of obeying our parents as to please them. In fact, for many of us parents, we probably would be happy if we were just simply obeyed to please us. But Paul says, no, that's not why we are to be motivated to To obey as children in the Lord. Instead, we obey to please the Lord first and foremost. Why? How does this please the Lord? I think maybe because it reflects the relationship that we all are to have with our Heavenly Father. Right? We all are in the role of children. Even if our parents are not living today, what is it that we pray? Week after week, day after day, as Jesus taught us, our Father, right? So, kids, you have a unique opportunity and a privilege to model for the world. All of our creaturely dependence and deference that is due to God, who is our Heavenly Father, as you honor and obey your parents in the Lord. Of course, in the Lord also qualifies this obedience, some, doesn't it? In the Lord qualifies this obedience because it's not obeying our parents in the Lord if they're telling us to do something that God forbids. Or if they're forbidding something that God commands. So just like with all situations of authority as Christians, we're called to obey God and not man. And that certainly can apply, sadly, sometimes even in the home. With parents who maybe are not believers, parents who are maybe ungodly in some way. But insofar as parents are commanding something that God doesn't forbid or they're restricting something that God doesn't command, children are called to obey their parents. And Paul goes on to say, not only do we do this to please the Lord, as an expression of our faith, Kids. But we do this because there's a blessing in it. Paul says there's a real this world, the temporal blessing that comes from obeying parents. And we see that in verses 2 and 3. Honor your father and mother. And then what do you say? This little parentheses. That first part comes from Exodus 20. The Ten Commandments. Which commandment is it? Count to ten, right? Count to, so which one is the honor your father and mother? Five, right, yeah. Little hint here, I'm holding it my hand. Five, the fifth commandment. Honor your father and mother. But he interrupts himself. He stops quoting and he says, That it may, this is the first commandment with the promise, and then he goes on to finish the quote: that it may go well with you and that you may live long. In the land. I think Paul's point here is really the point made throughout all the book of Proverbs. The whole book of Proverbs. What is Proverbs? Proverbs is wisdom. Wisdom is how we can navigate this world well and actually taste some of the blessings of God in creation as we engage with creation wisely. And what does Proverbs say? Proverbs one eight Hear my son your father's instruction and forsake not your mother's teaching. Proverbs twenty two twenty-three twenty-two listen to your father who gave you life, and do not despise your mother when she is old. There is wisdom that we can gain from our parents. It's part of God's purpose in giving them to us so that they can help us navigate this often dangerous, often deadly, often difficult world. And that is a profound blessing. One more note before we move on to the next subordinate relationship. And that is this. Another aspect to what Paul is doing here that would have been strikingly counter-cultural in the first century is that he is addressing children. As the Lord addressing them in the context of the gathering of worship. The fact that He speaks to them means that He expects children as young as three, as young as four, maybe of all ages, to be present in the congregation. And that the preaching and proclamation of the gospel and the good news was for them. And that's part of the reason we here at RPCB love to have our children worshiping with us. We love the noises that that produces because we believe that that's exactly the model that Paul offers us here in this text, addressing you kids. That you are addressed. That's why I when I preach and when Pastor Chris preaches, we address you because you are to be in relationship with God and you are to be hearing his word as spoken, not only to the adults, but to you. And participate in worship that way. And that's also why we baptize children here and why we receive young children's profession of faith as we did last week with our sister Anna Smith. When she came forward. So that's the first subordinate relationship. There's another one, and that is this relationship or this role of bondservant in verse 5. Bondservants obey your earthly masters. With fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ Now you'll note the little footnote there in the ESV says bondservants or slaves. The reason for this is because this is a very common Greek word that we find in the New Testament: doulos. You've probably heard that word before, and it really just means slave. There are other words for servants It means slave in the context though of the first century, it was a bond service. So you could sell yourself into slavery to pay a debt. You could Be sold into slavery, you could be captured and put in slavery, but you could also earn your way out of slavery. There was a way to escape. And this was not an institution that was aligned along racial lines. Which the institution here in the United States was. So the I think the translators are trying to show us that there is a little distinction and difference between the institution of slavery in Rome and the institution that we might have seen in the Western world during the eighteenth. 19th century, especially here in the United States. Having said that, this role of this life of being a bondservant was still pretty rough. It was still pretty bad. You were considered someone else's property. They could treat you quite poorly. They could give you corporal punishment if they so choose. And often there was a fear of servants, which led masters to be harsh, to try to keep them in order. Nonetheless, Paul doesn't say, Rebel! Revolt! Get out of there Instead, he says, look, you're in this societal structure, and what what you can do to be Christ-like within that bad system is serve, obey, and honor them, and do so out of reverence for Christ. Of course, the teaching of the New Testament, when it was properly reflected on and recognized over time, people came to the realization that the system itself You can't really engage in the system and fulfill Jesus' command to do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Like who of us wants to be somebody else's property? None of us. And that's why Christians are the ones who led in the abolition movement. And gratefully Uh in much of the world, slavery is not condoned or sanctioned, and yet there are still some 50 million slaves in the world today. The sad reality. And what do you do when you're in that situation? What do you do when you're in that situation as a Christian? Paul gives instructions here. Gratefully, I don't think any of us are in that situation right now. So, how does this passage apply to us? One commentator suggested that maybe this com these commands for bondservants apply most directly to people who are in the military, where you really do have a a superior officer whom you're called to to obey or if you're in the police. But I think it has implications for all of us when we're in situations where we're employees of a boss who's Managing us and other sort of situations where we are in a service role. Maybe when we're serving a customer in some customer service situation. Notice the motivation Paul offers. He says, I want you to behave this way, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling. That's what Right, reverence, right? With fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ Not by way of I service as people pleasers. He says, don't do it to please your masters, just like children don't do it to please your parents. Instead, as bondservants or slaves of Christ. Do the will of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man, knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is bond or free. And this is the same instruction we find over in Colossians 3 verses 22 to 25. The same sort of ideas over there And Paul, and if we read the rest of the New Testament, we realize that this is not a command only for good masters. Peter will say in 1 Peter 2: Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust. Now, this does not mean that we can't try to get out of a bad situation. If we are a slave, try to find and buy and get your freedom. If you are in a situation where your boss is bad, granted, while you're there. Seek to apply these commands, but feel free to go look for a better job. My wife years ago was in a situation where she Had a boss who was just seemingly out to get her, and basically it set her up to be fired. So she said, fine, I will just I will just uh resign and put in her two weeks. There's nothing wrong with that. Or appeal to just means to hold them accountable. Nothing wrong with that. But as followers of Christ who know that God is sovereign, and that whoever is there in our lives has been put there for some reason by Him That he is ruling as king over all, that he is all-knowing, that he is everywhere present. We do our work not simply to please humans who can see But we do it before the face of God. Corum Deo. We do it to bring delight and pleasure to Him. We do it out of thanks for all that He is and has done us. For us. And so these are the instructions for subordinate. Let's think a little bit about applying these more specifically. We are called in these subordinate roles to submit, to obey, to honor as to the Lord. And though it's addressed to children and slaves, I think there is application that this has for all of us when we're in these kinds of roles. Our larger catechism, question and answer 124, speaks to this because here it's reflecting on the command, the fifth commandments, to honor our father and mother, and it says here, what are meant by father and mother in the fifth commandment? And the answer is that by father and mother are meant not only natural parents, obvious, but superiors in age, giftedness. And especially such as by God's ordinance are over us in the place of authority, whether in family, church, or government. And then it goes on to explore what we owe our superiors as inferiors or subordinates. The honor that inferiors this is question answer twenty one twenty seven. The honor that inferiors owe to their superiors is all due reverence in heart, word, and behavior, prayer and thanksgiving for them, imitation of their virtues and graces, willing obedience to their lawful commands and counsels, due submission to their corrections, fidelity to defense and maintenance of them and their authority, according to their various ranks and the nature of their situations, bearing with their infirmities and covering them in love so that they may be an honor. so that they may be an honor inferiors may be in honor to their superiors and to their government. Got that? Good. Check. We can move on. No. And if that wasn't enough, there's a whole nother answer, 128, that talks about the sins that are forbidden, and basically it's the opposite. Things like contempt and mocking our superiors, which has certainly a direct application in an election year. It's so easy to mock and deride our political leaders. Easy enough? Easy said, not so easy, easily done, right? Why is it that this is so hard? Not just as Americans, but as humans, to submit to the authorities that God has placed in our lives. Isn't it our pride? Isn't it our selfishness that it crosses our own desires and we don't like it? that. It simply shows and exposes the sinfulness of our hearts that we, because of our sin, have a An innate rebellious spirit, an unwillingness to submit to Christ's lordship, let alone human oversight, human authority. See, in every context where we're called to submit, whether at home, whether at work, whether in church, whether in our nation, God has given authority structures for our good and our glory, and yet we struggle. And in some ways, we all struggle with this because we are all in some form or fashion subordinates to someone or something. But I would argue what might be even harder than subordinates submitting to the rightful authorities in their lives. Is subordinating or submitting ourselves out of reverence to Christ when we are superiors. And that's the second point that we want to consider. Paul's exhortations for Now it's interesting that the exhortations for children and for servants are a lot longer, probably because these apply to all of us in some capacity. His addresses to fathers and to uh masters are just one verse each. But look what he says to fathers. Fathers, do not, verse four, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of Why does he address fathers and not fathers and mothers? I mean certainly what he says here has application to mothers as well, insofar as they are parents. and participate in the parenting process. But I think it's because fathers bear this ultimate responsibility before the Lord for raising our children in the Lord due to the role we have as heads of our homes. So there's a real sense in which he calls fathers out, because often we need to be called out for this, right? And he says: don't provoke your children to anger, don't exasperate them. And I know all of us, those of you who are kids, are saying, yes. Thank you, Paul. And you're thinking of how this applies to your dad. Hey dad, those dad jokes, those dad jokes, those can be really exasperating, especially when it's around my friends and it's so embarrassing. Certainly all sorts of ways that Christian dads can rule like tyrants in the home. Or call to the exact opposite of that. Do not provoke your children to anger. There's some sense in which some of our children's response, poor response to us, sometimes is due to how we are treating them. It's interesting. As Paul addresses husbands, there's a sort of a sense in which he he distinguishes that relationship and calls husbands not to treat their wives like kids, but honor them as equals and part of their one flesh. And here he says, fathers, in a sense, don't treat your kids like servants. One commentator says, how do fathers often do this? And he gives a long list, excessive, severe discipline, unreasonably harsh demands, abuse of authority, arbitrariness, unfairness. Constant nagging and condemnation, subjecting a child to humiliation. Fathers. That's not discipline. To humiliate your child is not discipline. It is a disobedience of this command. All forms of gross insensitivity to a child insensitivity to a child's needs and sensibilities. Instead, God says, don't provoke your children to anger. And children, this does not mean that they aren't to discipline you, to hold you accountable. To enforce rules in the home in an appropriate way, which is not abusive, but it holds you accountable. That's not to say that that If you get angry about that, that's not provoking you to anger. That's them doing their duty. And we see their duty. And what Paul says, he says, their t fathers are to bring up their children, to nourish them, is another way you could translate that. And to instruct them in the Lord, or discipline them. In the Lord. Dad, this means giving our kids attention first and foremost, right? In our day when we're consumed by a little screen we carry around in our pocket. It might be a challenge for us to put that down some more. And look at our kids, give them attention. Looks like giving patience, tenderness, teaching where that is needed. And not just teaching about how to do life well, and a lot of fathers are happy to do this. I can tell you the way of the world, and I want to help you get out there and be successful. That that is often natural for us as fathers. But I think Paul's admonition here is to instruct in the Lord again. So this is more than that. It's bringing them up bringing them to worship week after week. It's reading the Bible with them. It's leading in family worship of prayer and Bible reading, maybe even singing. It's teaching the gospel to our children and modeling it for them. I think one very practical way, fathers, if you aren't doing this, one practical way you can begin to do this better today is simply by being ready and willing and quick. To admit your sin when you sin against your children and say, I'm sorry, will you please forgive me? Jesus calls them to forgive as they've been forgiven. Yes, we need to forgive our children. We also need to ask forgiveness when we sin against them. Whole books have been written about how to do this well, so I won't go into tons of details. Ted Tripp has a book called Shepherding a Child's Heart. It's a great resource. That's for younger children, for older children, like in their teens. Paul Tripp's book, Age of Opportunity, is a great resource. For parents, fathers, mothers. But the principle is simple: be a father to our children, as our heavenly father is a father to us. Isn't that the principle? And what a profound privilege! as fathers, an opportunity, a challenge to be good reflections, good image bearers of our Heavenly Father in the home. What a challenge and what a privilege to try to be the kind of father that when they pray, Our Father who art in heaven, they think of one who loves them, who cherishes them, who would sacrifice much. for them, who would care for them, who would correct them, but in a way that lovingly honors them. That's the challenge, that's the privilege. Finally, Paul addresses another set of superiors, and that is masters. Now, presumably, masters have already been addressed twice. They're probably husbands, and they're probably fathers. Maybe a few of them aren't. And not all the husbands and fathers necessarily are masters. Maybe not every home had such slaves or servants, although most probably did. This is the smallest group in the church, and so it's not surprising he only gives them one verse, but it's a profound one verse from masters. And this word for master is the same word as we normally get translated: Lord. It's kurias. So I think that is a little play on words throughout this passage that he's saying the Lord, the Lord, the Lord, and sometimes he's referring to earthly lords, and sometimes he's referring to the Lord God in heaven. But listen to this: masters or lords, verse 9, do the same to them. Do the same to them? What he's just told the servants? You do the same thing to the servants? What in the world does he mean? And stop your threatening Knowing that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him. You may have a place of privilege in this world, but God doesn't credit that with much. There's no partiality with him. He sees us as all equal before him, as image-bearers who have broken his covenant to bear his image right. As sinners who are only saved by grace, as those who are equal at the foot of the cross. There's no partiality. says, do the same to the servants that I just commanded them. And what does he mean? He clearly can't mean that masters obey your servants. If this is a totally disruptive relationship, it wouldn't work in that way. I don't think he means that. I think he means masters be masters, lead, command, direct, in the same manner as I've just called servants to obey Masters, honor your slaves by exercising oversight of them with fear and trembling. With a sincere heart as you would Christ, as bondservants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, rendering service to them with a good will as to the Lord and not to man. Now that was utterly countercultural in Paul's day. It's countercultural today. What CEO would think in this way? And if a CEO won't do it, there's no way a shift manager or a lower boss would, because they they love the authority even more, right? That they have. Look at the model Paul points us to for how to do this well. He says it's it's it's the great Lord, the great master. Our Master who is in heaven, God Almighty Himself, with whom there is no partiality. This is so important in the context of the church. Because the church is to be a fundamentally counter-cultural society where we don't value people based on their earthly status. We don't value them based on their earthly status. And what they can do for me or what they can do for my life, we recognize the equal value every human being has as an image-bearer of God and the equality we all have as at the foot of the This impartiality that Paul calls masters to is really a an impartiality that James calls all of us to in James chapter 2 where he says, brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. If you really fulfill the royal law, according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. So let's apply this second point again. This is not that all of us will be in a position of superiors. This is one role we may never really have that much, although I think it's some capacity we all will at some point in some way, whether it's in the home or in the church or in the world, what do we say out in the world? Customer is king. So, being a customer, we might be able to apply some of these instructions for superiors. Again, it's worth looking at our larger catechism, question and answer 129 and 130. What is required of superiors to their inferiors? That according to the power they receive from God and that relationship in which they stand, to love, to pray for, to bless their inferiors. To instruct, counsel, and admonish them, supporting, commending, and rewarding such as do well, and withholding support, rebuking and chastising such as do ill. protecting and providing for them all things necessary for soul and body, and by grave, wise, holy, and exemplary posture to obtain glory to God, honor to the themselves and so preserve the authority that God has put on them, and another long list of what the sins of superiors are that certainly apply to us as parents and any role we have of authority. Today we're going to be ordaining Theo to be a deacon. How does all this apply to that? To be honest, it's a mess. You know, because on the one hand, Deacon is taking up an office in the church. He'll be a church officer. And in that sense, he is a leader in the church. So you say, oh, kind of like a superior, to which we as church members ought to honor and revere and serve, obey in whatever capacity of authority that he is to exercise in that regard. But he's also being he's also being installed as a deacon, which means servant in a very real way. He's committing himself to serve the church To care for us, in many ways, to exercise more of the role of a servant in the household than a superior. And so in many ways we we need to be careful that we treat him well, care for him well, and honor him even as he takes up this role. In the church, the role of leader is, as I've said before, a race to the bottom. To serve like Christ has served us. And how does he do that? He does it by taking off his own garments, kneeling down, and washing the feet of Here's the point. Whether we're subordinates as children employees or superiors, people in charge, we are all to engage in these roles in submission to our King Jesus Christ. But what does that really mean? And how can we even really hope to do that with as hard as it is and with, especially as Americans, with this culture of Marbur O'Mann and the The cowboy, the rugged cowboy out out there, rugged individualism. How can we do this? The reality is we need strength for submission, and that's the third point. Just briefly, we'll wrap it up here. Strength for submission. We've already talked about how unnatural it is, especially as Americans, we want to submit to no one. And that's true when we're in subordinate roles, but it's even more true probably when we're in superior roles. Why is it? It's because of this bentness of sin that goes all the way back to the garden, all the way back to Adam and Eve, who what did they do? They were begin to fall into sin by an unwillingness to submit to God's law. That's at the root of sin, a rebellion against God and His rule. And so ever since Adam and Eve, as children of Adam, our default is non-submission. This does not come naturally. It has to be worked in us. By the Spirit. And that's why Paul begins, saying we must be filled by the Spirit in order to do this submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. How does this bentness, this orientation toward rebellion, get cured? Not just by telling us to submit, somehow we need strength to submit. To God's rule over us and all these roles and relationships? Where do we get this strength? And the answer is we get it from the one man who actually had it himself. And that is our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Christ. See, on the one hand, Jesus is greater than any father or master. He is Lord of the universe. And yet, how does he rule? He doesn't rule as a tyrant, as an oppressive, abusive master. Instead, he lovingly nourishes us as his creatures, teaching us by his word, stooping down, showing no partiality, ruling justly, and giving himself. To lift us up. On the other hand, Jesus, as King of the universe, as God Almighty Himself, took on the humblest of roles. He took on the role of a child. Not only submitting himself faithfully all the days of his life to his heavenly father, which he does over and over again, I do this to bring glory to my Father. But he even submitted to earthly human sinners who are parents. Joseph and Mary. In Luke 2. 51, here's the place where Jesus has been just stunning the rabbis in the temple. He's been blowing their minds with his knowledge and his ability. And then his parents come and they rebuke him. And they say, what were you doing? He says, well, this is where you should expect me, in my father's house. Okay, well come on, let's go home. And it says, he went down with his parents and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. Kids, can you imagine? He's God. He's Messiah. He's going to be king of God's everlasting kingdom forever. And he's just proved to the rabbis that he's got wisdom beyond his ears. And yet he submits and obeys to sinful human Parents. Hebrews 5. 8 says, although he was a son, he learned obedience even through what he suffered. And his obedience, why did he do this? He did this because we don't. He did this because it doesn't come naturally to us. He did it perfectly so that he could then go to the cross and take our sins of rebellion, sins of lack of submission, sins of selfishness and pride that keep us. Keep us from that and take them all upon himself and crucify them in his own body, and then credit to us the perfect obedience and submission that he himself wrought by his perfect life. He takes up this role of not only a child, but he takes up the role of a servant, even though he's king A servant of poor wretched sinners like you and like me and his church. It's so well reflected in the office of deacon. Like that's the that's the part of Jesus deacon is reflecting. This heart of service where Jesus goes to his disciples, strips himself, and washes his disciples' feet. And then after doing that, then he humbles himself even further to the point of death, even death on the cross. And why did he do that? To be the perfect substitutionary sacrificial lamb, slain to take away our sin, and then rising in glory to prove that his promises that one day he will raise us on the last day. His instructions through Paul here. How can we not show him honor and the reverence that he is due as our loving Lord and King by obeying and honoring our parents, even as Jesus did his? By honoring those in authority over us, by working hard as unto the Lord, even when no one is looking. How can we not honor and reverence Him? By parenting like our Heavenly Father, exercising authority with justice and mercy, reflecting our Heavenly King Jesus in his rule and his reign over us as his beloved people and his Amen. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these instructions, very practical instructions, very hard to live out. We confess that that's because we are sinners who need your grace. But we thank you that in Christ we are washed clean of our sin. We are given new life. We thank you that we have your spirit, and that your spirit is at work filling us with the character of Christ. May you do that more and more. May we who are our children honor and obey our parents. May we who are servants serve well heartily as unto you. May we who are in positions of father or parent, may we Parent well and honor our children in doing so. And may we who are in positions of leadership and authority, may we serve in those places, reflecting the servant kingship of our Lord Jesus Christ.