Word of the Lord. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of his of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church, and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. So that he might present the church to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church. Because we are members of his body. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I'm saying it that it refers to Christ in the church. However, let each of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing on our time as we meditate further on it. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have spoken to us in it. And we confess, Lord, as we come to this passage, that is a pretty unpopular passage in our world today. It's A passage that we may not want to spend all morning thinking on, thinking about. And yet, Lord, we trust that this is your word, this is your truth, and that we have lessons to learn And so we pray that you would soften our hearts, enable us to have ears to hear the truths you would have us hear, that you'd help us to see how this passage both calls us to a a certain reality, but also comforts us. with the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Well, sadly, history, the history of the church is littered with faith leaders who have Taught a lot about godliness and holiness and called people to live godly and holy lives, and then have only later come to be found out to have not walked the talk. In their own families and homes. It's so important that our beliefs, our faith, the truths that we confess, are manifested in our lives as they are changed by the realities that we we believe and we confess to in the good news of the gospel. And that's what Paul has been calling us Through the Ephesians, he's been calling all of us to in chapters four to six. Chapters one to three of Ephesians, he's been glorying in the good news of the gospel and the grace that we have in Christ. Here in chapters four to six, he is now uh Helping us think through how does that grace of the gospel now guide us in our lives as we follow Christ by faith? Paul has shown how we as the church are made up this incredible union of people who are seemingly at odds or who are at odds in the world. Jews and Gentiles. We could add black and white, male and female, Democrat and Republican, and yet we come together in the body of Christ, and we all have this singular identity in him. Sinners. Saved by his grace. And Paul has shown us how when we come into the church, the church is actually the inaugurated eternal kingdom of God. On earth. In a sense, future is breaking in as the church becomes new, actually comes to new life through faith in Jesus Christ. And we're already tasting of the everlasting resurrection, life in that new life, through that new life, as Christ dwells among us, he dwells with us, he dwells in us by his Holy Spirit. That's the way we could summarize. Really, chapters 1 to 3. And so if we are this inaugurated new life kingdom of God, How are to we to live in the world? And he's been answering that in chapters four to six. He answers that uh in the in the last few verses right before our text, he's been warning us Against falling into the belief that our old habits, our old ways, our sinful dead behavior is something we ought to be comfortable continuing. He said, put off all this. Put off this behavior that following the course of this world and the deadness in sin that it expresses. And instead, he concluded the last part of chapter, the first part of chapter five we looked at last week. He concluded it with one imperative, one command. Verse 18, and be filled with the Spirit, it says in the ESV. I like the Christian Standard Bible better. I think it's a better translation where it says, be filled by the Spirit. Because the idea is if we're in Christ, we are filled with his Spirit, but specifically we need a continual filling by the Spirit with what? And we look at Colossians It's the Word of God and specifically not only the Word of God written, but through the Word of God written, as we meditate upon it, as it dwells in us richly, it is truly Christ who are being fed filled with, whose image we're being remade after day by day by the Spirit at work in us. That's the command. And he explains how that command is to unfold in these gerents. Okay, here's a little grammar lesson. Those of you who forget, sixth grade, what is a gerund? It's a a word that ends in what? ING, good. We haven't forgotten all of our grammar from elementary school. Right. These gerons, look at these gerons in verses 19 to 21 leading into our passage. Addressing one another. How is it that we're filled by the Spirit? Well, as we address one another in Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. And that final instruction. Is what Paul is going to now unpack for us in the rest of chapter 5, in the beginning of chapter 6. What does it look like to submit to one another? Out of reverence for Christ, well, has very immediate and direct application in our very own households. And that's where he focuses. Because the Roman household, the first-century household, was made up of husbands and wives. Parents and children, servants and masters. And that's what he's going to unfold for us and show how in the day-to-day living life The very first part of life you meet when you wake up every morning, it's that family household life, and this reality of who we are in Christ, as we're being filled by the Spirit, has implications for what that is to look like. Look like in a Christian home. And very simply, a Christian home is to be a mini-church, a mini-expression of the way we're to relate as the church of Jesus Christ, as the body of Christ. Christians who have been uh brought into subjection, submission to Christ by faith. That's what he says back all the way back in chapter in Ephesians 1 22 where it says that God put all things under Christ's feet. Literally, he submitted all things to Christ and gave him his head over all things to the church. So we're submitting to Christ. We're submitting to him, we're reverencing him. How does that look? What does that look like? And the answer in our passage is what that looks like for husbands and wives in marriage. But as I said, On the one hand, Paul is addressing husbands and wives. This will have very immediate direct application for us in our marriages if we're married. But if we're not, there's implications, there's instruction for us even in these roles. For how we all are to submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. And we can actually see that if we step back and don't just say, okay, let's look at Paul's instructions for wives and let's look at his instructions for husbands. Instead, we step back and say, okay, what is it, what is the submission called for in these two different uh instructions? Because they are somewhat different, right? And I would argue that what he's showing us here that submission to Christ means is it means a submission of our will, a submission of our wants, and a submission to his why. The submission of our will, a submission of our wants, and a submission to his why. And that we see In these instructions. Those will be the three points I want us to consider. First of all, submission to Christ means the submission of our will, and ultimately our will to his. And isn't this exactly what we see reflected in these instructions for wives? in this passage. As wives are called to willingly, actively order themselves under their husbands' headship when, and it's hopefully a rare occurrence But when teamwork and unified decision making fails, as my wife Suggested summarizing this point. Teamwork doesn't always make dream work. And it's in those times when we can't really be united in our decision making that this issue These roles come into play. Now, this is, of course, a highly controversial topic in our day. Almost everyone reacts almost viscerally to this and and that's true uh both outside the church and inside the church. At least it's been true in my estimation as I've met with people as we've done premarital counseling and people come in and it just Just rubs us the wrong way. Why? Well, it's understandable, isn't it? It's understandable because this teaching of Ephesians chapter 5, and it's not just here, it's in elsewhere in in in Peter's epistles and in Colossians, but it is often misunderstood, misused, and sadly all too often horribly abused, even in the Church of Jesus Christ. And that's sad. But I would suggest to you that when you pay close attention to what Paul actually says here He's not simply parodying a Roman patriarchal view of his day. But instead, he's setting forth a quite countercultural Beautiful, delicate vision of the possibility of how marriage can be. How it can be a marriage that delights both partners in it. And a marriage that importantly, and more importantly, maybe can bring great glory to Christ. So let's explore this idea of How in the instructions for wives we see the call for us to submit our will to Christ. And let's continu Consider specifically as we explore this first point, uh the command that's given to Wise here, the correctives to it, what it's not saying, and uh some communal application, how it applies to the broader community of faith. First of all, the command itself. And it's very straightforward. It's two imperatives, if you will. It's submit and respect. The first one, submit, is in verses 22 to 22. twenty four. Wives submit to your own husbands as to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church his body, and is himself its Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. husbands. Now you read that and the word submit occurs a whole lot in our English translation, and that's important because we need it to make sense of it. But it's interesting in Greek the word submit only occurs one time in those verses. It's uh it's right there, uh it's actually referring to Christ. Uh let's see, uh to the church submitting to Christ. For the husband is the wife head of the uh uh the wife, even as Christ is the head of church, his body and himself, as the church submits to Christ. So also wives should in everything to their husbands is the Greek. And then back in verse 22, that one, it actually doesn't say submit, it's drawing submit from verse 21. And this we can do grammatically. But very literally it says, we're to submit to one another out of reverence for Christ, wives to your own husbands as to the Lord. Why do I say that? Well, because It's true that this call is for wives to submit, but the emphasis is not so much on submit, but on submitting in this manner of Christ submitting to his church. And I think that's important. And as we think about what does that mean, what does that look like for us as the church to submit to Christ? It's worth looking at this Greek word. Submit and and how it can be translated. Some translations have it uh as obey. It's probably not as good a translation. Submit maybe is okay, but I think that term is fraught with all sorts of imported meaning, some of which is not there. Very literally the Greek for this word, and those of you who've done pre-metal counseling and have read uh each for the other by Brian Chapel will know this word in Greek literally means to arrange oneself under. Something, to arrange oneself under. And why is that important? It's important because it does not imply a passive weakness But it actually appeals to one's full agency. Right? It basically says, wives, you aren't by nature under. But we're calling you to actively use your free agency to Arrange yourself under the headship or the leadership of the husband. The command is not to let yourself be dominated, but to willingly and actively Yield and honor and respect his leadership. To conduct yourself in a way that enables that leadership, that encourages that leadership, that even empowers that leadership in a very real way. As the husband exercises God ordained headship in the home. And we could talk briefly about what this headship means. We're going to talk more about that when we talk about the commands to husbands. But it's important to recognize that when we talk about headship in Scripture, or when we talk about the authority that God grants to certain individuals, That authority is always immediately and directly related to a responsibility. The authority basically serves the responsibility. See Headship in the home, first and foremost, does not mean anything it does not imply that we are given the gift of being able to rule as a tyrant for our comfort and joy. But instead, it's a call, headship of the family is a call to say, before the Lord, husbands are responsible for the spiritual nurture and Management and care of the home. And it's specifically primarily spiritual in nature. Like Joshua, husbands are called to be those who say, As for me and my house, I will lead. We will serve the Lord. The Bible says that each of us will give an account of ourselves. Romans 14, 12. That's sort of on an individual level. But then there's this reality that in certain corporate capacities or in certain leadership roles, we also will give an account for how we've fulfilled that role or fulfilled that office. Hebrews 13, 17 to 18 gets at this when it says to the church, obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls as those who will give, will have to give an account. Husbands, as you lead your family and are exercising headship over them, that's what you're to keep in mind. I do this as a responsibility from God, and I will give an account for it And so for the home, the responsible party is ultimately husbands and wives are called to recognize that responsibility, to honor that responsibility by arranging themselves under it in some way. Notice that Genesis 2, when God creates woman, Adam doesn't say, look at this, this now is slave of me and servant of He says, this at last is bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. There's a sense of this is at last a teammate whom I can face the world together with. That's the picture. That mare of marriage that's given us in Genesis chapter two. And so really we want in marriage to not have to exercise our roles primarily, but in everything to do things with as much unity of mind as we have to do that. in heart and spirit as we can, facing the world as a team. And yet when there is an impasse, And I would say, especially when there's an impasse between you in the matter of that is of spiritual import. So not as much like what you're going to have for dinner or what you're going to paint the walls, but You know, where where are where really would God have us go to church if there's a disagreement in these sort of things? How would we properly uh be at work uh you know, feeding ourselves with the word, praying. How how is it that our s this the word would apply to our home and to our family? It's in those matters where husbands are called to exercise the responsibility they have. And wives are called to honor that and recognize that. And we do that in these sort of situations because brothers, husbands. When it's not a matter of conscience before the Lord, then the call is to sacrificially serve. We see that later on when we talk about the role of husbands. Uh in my own uh life in marriage with my wife Rachel, I'm grateful that a lot of our decisions we just find unity of mind and we work through it and it's it's delightful most of the time. I think I can count, I think I say this in premarital counseling, I can count on one or two hands. The times when we've had to lean into these roles. And I have to say, I think how we do that is so important, right? Not heavy-handed saying, no, we have different desires, and so I'm just going to say, I'm going to do what I want. But instead, whenever I've had to lean into these roles, I do it with fear and trepidation. Lest God, when I give an account for how I've led my home, lest He says, I gave you a wise An intelligent wife. Why in the world did you not listen to her wisdom, right? So it's only that's right. You can see some of the dynamics that play. Seriously, it is only those times when you say, Yeah, I've totally heard you I see the point you're making. I can see even wisdom in it. But I do think that I'm persuaded that the Lord would, I just I can't in good conscience do that. It really I am persuaded in my conscience. that we must do this for the good, the spiritual good of our family. It's so rare, I can't I can't really remember any times. But when this sort of impasse is reached, God is so good to bless us with this solution, right? Rather than leaving the decision for us to work out like through power play and manipulation and struggle, God calls the husbands. To be responsible for these decisions and for wives to honor the husband in that. It's not always easy. And I would argue, I can imagine from the own air my own areas where I've had to submit that often if you even do this It's tempting to do it poorly. All right, all right, I'll submit, but I can't believe he's doing that. And that's why the other part of this command is to do so with respect. With honor. Verse 33. However, lead each of you love his wife as himself. Let the wife see that she respects her husband. The word for respect there, literally fear. The word phobia, phobophobos in in Greek from which we get phobia, but it's not meant it's meant as something with a uh it's not meant to imply the kind of fear we have of evil or dread of evil, but it instead a reverence. And the point is that in an impasse, it's not just that we yield our decision, but that we do so with reverence, and we do so with honor to our husbands as they take up their responsibility of headship. So that's the two parts of the command. Now let's run through a few quick correctives. And these are important I think and so we're Just take take a minute to because a lot of times these instructions for women are misused and abused, and they have been through church history, especially by men who seem like they're poor interpreters of this passage. Because the way in which this is often applied by men especially, but by much of the church, it seems like you must not be reading what Paul actually says here. So let's let's get some clear corrections. And these are a bunch of not statements. What this command is not saying. First of all, this call to submit is not a statement that women are inferior to men. Now, in Muslim cultures, I get the sense that is what grounds this idea of roles in husband and wife, that women are actually considered inferior. That's nowhere in Scripture It's not that women are inferior. This is not a reflection of higher and lesser value in the church or the world. Both men and women are made in God's image and have This incredible value and glory because of that. In fact, the full image of God is realized only when in male and female who are made together in the image. So we have equal value and worth before God. That's not what it's saying. Second of all, it's not saying that husbands are to make our wives submit to us. Do you see that is a command that occurs nowhere in Scripture? Husbands, make sure your wives are submitting to you. It doesn't occur. The command is to wives from the Lord through Paul. It's for them to receive from Christ and to work through in reverence to Christ, in relationship with Christ, and it's as husbands. We may notice how well it's going, but it's not for us to try to enforce. I had a friend in seminary. Who uh would jokingly refer to playing the headship card. And uh I remember being very turned off And it's because it's sort of like, hey, I've got this trump card, I can play when I want to or feel a need to, or whatever. And that that's not the spirit. of this, right? We can't actually force or require this in a in a real sense of our wives. That's not the command. This command is to wives Arrange yourself. Use your free agency. Arrange yourselves under the headship of the husband. Another one, another corrective. This is not saying women are to submit to men. That's something we slipped into far too quickly, right? It specifically says, wives, submit to your own husbands, very limited in that sense. Now this has we're called to submit to all sorts of authorities. We'll talk about that in a moment. But this command has nothing to do with male and female relationships per se, but specifically Husbands' relationships with wives, or wives' relationships with husbands. There's nothing inherent in men and women that necessitates this relationship. Some women are far better leaders than men. That's not the point. But God has made husbands the heads of the home, as he says in verse 23. The husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of his church, his body. And is himself its savior. Another corrective, this is not the same in every marriage. It's not always going to look the same. Paul doesn't give us a lot of details on exactly how this should work in each Circumstance. This is something that we work out together in marriage, and it's going to look a little different in different marriages. I would argue that it's something we should work out, both based on the convictions and how how we understand this to apply by husband and wife together, but then it's also to be worked out in a way that speaks to the truth. Of these roles in the language that the broader culture can understand. I get that from 1 Corinthians 11, where Paul says, as we honor these relationships, we need to do so in a manner that the culture understands. As affirming the roles that God has ordained. Another corrective: this call to submission is not a call to be a doorman or to submit to abuse. By your spouse. It's never okay to abuse one's spouse. We're going to see that as we talk about the role or the responsibility of husbands Submission to a husband in leading is to a husband in leading as Christ leads his church, as Paul said. here. And this assumes sort of a free agency, an agency of the woman, that this submission is an intentional act, a willing act of respect and deference. and yielding not due to abuse and coercion. Another corrective. This is not a call to submit to sin. Or to submit to one who leads in sin. The Bible makes it very clear: in any authority system where we are in authority and responsibility relationships among human beings, When men try to lead into sin, men or women, any human, when a human tries to lead into sin, we must obey God rather than humans. That's true for the wives as well. There is a time to say no, you don't submit to that when it is a seeking to lead in sin or ask you to submit to sin. Another corrective, wives submit to husbands. Doesn't say wives submit to husbands when he is worthy of it. The reality is he never will be, because he, like you, is a sinner saved by grace. And you may struggle to respect him, especially when he's making decisions you disagree with. Especially when it is one of these areas of impasse. And yet the call here is to arrange under our husband not because he's earned it or deserved it, but because of the role that Christ has given him as a husband, as a father, as the head of the home. Finally, this final corrective: this is not actually a unique activity for wives or women. Often we sort of talk about, well, women submit and men, what, dominate? I don't know. But there's nothing uh like that here. Women are to be are to order or arrange themselves under the headship of their husbands, like we all submit to one another out of reverence for Christ, as it says in verse 21. All of us, men, women, and children, are called to actively submit. So everything we've been talking about, what submission means, applies to all of us in some sense, in certain relationships with one another. And ultimately, in our relationship with Christ and the leaders and authorities He's put in our lives. The uniqueness for wives is simply that they are to apply this submission to their own husbands. And that's it. So this leads to, we've already kind of started developing this, this leads to the third subpoint here on the first point. And the first point is much longer than the other ones, don't worry. And that is this. This leads to communal implications. Granted, the specific command here is not directly for singles or husbands. But as Paul explains it, we begin to see how it applies to all of us. Look at verses 23 and 24. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body and his itself, and is himself its savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Wives are not alone in this active engagement with the idea of submission. Actually, all of us are called to submit as wives in the context of being the bride of Jesus Christ. Christ, as we submit to him as our husband, Lord, and King. And so why is that just one expression? In fact, Wise can serve as a model for us Of how to do this well. As together we all, in the role of the wife and bride of Christ as his church, are all called to submit in this way to Jesus Christ as our bridegroom. And we do this by arranging ourselves under the authorities that he has given us. Whether there are governing authorities in the civil sphere, whether it's our our church leaders here in the context of the church, whether it's to our bosses at work, whether kids, it's to our teachers at school, whether kids it's to our parents when we're children. And maybe honoring them and learning how it looks a little different as we're adults to our parents. Ultimately, in all these relationships where we are called to exercise the submission, it is ultimately out of reverence for Christ. And deference to him who has sovereignly ordained all of these relationships for us in our lives. So, wives, how are you doing with this instruction? I know you know it. You've heard it before. How are you doing? If you're wondering how are you doing, maybe maybe ask. That would sure. You know, I'm sure your husband would appreciate that. Husbands, how are how are how are you feeling about how your wife is doing? Are you feeling respected? Are you feeling honored? And I ask this because often this is when husbands turn to this and they start saying, I need to try to find a way to enforce it. Or get somebody else to. Pastor. I think you need to make my wife submit to me. Here's what my encouragement. When we aren't feeling respected, we aren't feeling like our wives are submitting as maybe Christ would have them. Ask yourself some questions. Here's a question. Am I loving my wife well? Right? If you love your wife well, you make it easy, much easier, to submit and to follow you and to honor your Headship. And that's what we're called to anyway, right? Don't lean into is she doing her part? That's between her and the Lord. Lean into am I doing my part before the Lord? Which is, love my wife as Christ loved the church. Ask yourself, am I leading well spiritually? Leading in family devotions and being in the word in prayer? As we're doing that, that a godly Christian wife will respect that, will welcome. uh ordering themselves under that kind of spiritual leadership. Ask yourself, am I being respectable so that I make it easier for her to respect me? Right? The little thing. If we're acting in laziness, in uh some sort of uh unrepentant sin, if we're acting uh boorish Makes it harder to respect, even though, as I said, we're called to respect and honor even when we don't feel like the person may fully be honorable. And then pray about it. Again, this is Christ's call to wives. He's the one who she's responsible to. He's the one who can enable her by his spirit to do this well. If you aren't feeling like it's going well, pray. Pray for her. Pray for her not just to do this well, but to to grow spiritually, to grow in godliness, to be more and more uh intimate with in her relationship with Christ and more and more conformed to his Image. And then there's this application for all of us. Are we all submitting to Christ in everything? First and foremost. Are we submitting our wills to Christ in everything? Reflecting on all that we do. That is to be in submission to Christ, ready to pray as Jesus did for us, not my will, but your will be done. So these instructions for wives In them we see this call to submit to Christ by submitting our will to him. Second of all, second point, submitting to Christ means submitting our wants to his. Isn't this what we see in the instructions to husbands? Again, there's a command, there's correctives, and there's a communal application. The command is very simple, not easy, simple. Husbands, love your wives. Look at verse 20. 25. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Verse 33, however, let each of you love his wife as himself. In this context in which Ephesians was written in the first century, this would have been an utterly countercultural command. Most of the time in this day, girls were probably between fourteen and sixteen when they first got married. Uh husbands would usually be older, maybe 18, 20, sometimes much older, 30, 40. The life expectancy for women uh who are usually married and and then would have children and yet often die in childbirth. Uh there is apparently sort of a a a um constant anemia for lack of iron in their diets, so there's a lot of ill health. Life expectancy was like 20s or 30s, like not very long. And in a very real sense, you know, the commands to women are a little less countercultural than this command: to love your wife sacrificially, serving her. The love we're called to here is nothing less than selfless sacrificial love that reflects the love of Christ. Not saying, what do I want first and foremost, but submitting our wants, submitting that desire. To the desires of our wives and what's best for them. In many ways, we can ask, okay, what did Jesus Love like. What was his love like? John 15, he says, This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. And here it is: greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. What does the love of Christ look like? Look at John 13, where Jesus in the upper room puts on servants' clothes and stoops and kneels down and washes the feet of his children. church, his bride, by washing the dirty feet of his disciples. That's the kind of love we're called to. That's the picture of the love of Christ that is held out for us as the picture of the kind of love husbands are to have for our wives. And this call to love has profound purpose. It blesses our spouse. As it says in verses 26 and 27, I read a moment ago, it it reflects Jesus and his work for his Spouse, us, the bride, his bride, the church, as we love our wives, we can somehow participate in their sanctification, being made more and more like Christ. We reflect this cleansing work of Jesus Christ, where it says he cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, probably an allusion to baptism as the word of God is pictured in the water. And there's a very powerful way in which as we love our wives and we speak love to them and we speak affection to them, we can embody God's grace to them. The same grace that we see reflected in the instant It says here, so that he may present the church to himself. We don't look at our wives and compare them to others and note her flaws, but we love them and we direct our affections to them, and as we do, they become more and more. our delights or they are to become more and more our delight. I would argue that this is hard, maybe harder than the command for wives, because it's nothing less than wholehearted Christ-likeness. In service to another person. In service to another person who, like us, is a sinner saved by grace. That's probably why Paul spends much more time. I think he spends twice as much time. Passionately pleaing for husbands to do their role, which is to love their wives as Christ loved the church And yet Paul shows here that while this love is sacrificial, there is a self-interested reason for it as well. And that's because when a wife is well loved, we often benefit from it. From it as husbands, because we're one flesh with them, right? There's that union of husband and wife in one flesh. And so he says in verses twenty-nine and thirty, for no one ever uh oh, in the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies, verse twenty-eight. He who loves his wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. It's it's kind of weird and counterintuitive, but i if you've had experience you you may you may see how this really is true in real life. I years ago I had a friend who two friends, husband and wife, and I knew them both and I I thought very highly of the wife, I thought she was very uh uh intelligent, she was attractive, she was uh a very uh great catch. They they got married and over the course of time he continued to just can continually complain about And over time it's it's sort of like, well that's not what I remember about her, but but more and more I started reflecting on him. Like what's wrong with you that that that you can't delight better in your wife? receive her as a gift and love her as Christ loved the church. And I've seen the reverse as well. Marriage to people, and you're like, what does he see in her and yet so devoted, so loving, that eventually you say, I must, I must have missed it. Because man, she is so well loved, and she makes him look good. How does this sort of selfless love work? Well, I think it very practically looks like happy wife, happy life. I mean, seriously, okay, if you say you have a situation that's not a spiritual matter. The color of the couch, walls, car. She wants red, he wants blue. How do you apply all this? Well, the husband could say, Wives, submit to your husbands and everything. So we'll go with blue. But then she can come back and say, husbands, be willing to die for your wife. I think picking red is a little shy of death. And I think that's the fact, right? You don't have good reason to say, no, before the Lord, we need to go this way. I think our challenge, our call is really to submit our wants, our desires, serve and love our wives well. So a few correctives we we need to wrap up, and we'll just run through these really quickly. First of all, this is also not a call to be a doormat husband. To do everything she wants, especially not if it's sin or if it's bad for her spiritual health. That's not love. That's sacrificial love. And here's the point: sacrificial love is not passivity, but it's an active working for good. This is a challenge. For those of you who might want to apply this, like, well fine, I'll just play video games and let her do everything. That's not what this is calling us. To. This is not a command for wives to make your husbands love you. Again, wives, this is the command for your husbands from Christ to be held accountable to by Christ. This is not the same in every marriage. It's going to look different because different wives here love spoken differently and different relationships work differently. Again, it should be done in such a way that the world can recognize that this truly is sacrificial love. But there's a broad range of exactly how this is going to be worked out in marriages. This is not necessarily a call to have a feeling about our wives, right? Love is not first and foremost a feeling, but it is actions that we're called to, where feelings often and wonderfully often follow. But it's an acting, an active working to care, to show affection, to show interest. To submit our wants to serve her. And again, this is not totally unique to men. Men aren't the only ones who are called to love as Christ has loved the church, are we? This has communal application, the third subpoint here. We're all called at some level to love as we've been loved by Christ. Jesus says in John 13, love one another as I have loved you. Philippians 2 gives us that model of deferential, submissive love for one another as we seek to serve, as we seek to look out for the interests of others, even at the expense of our own interests. Colossians 3. 14 says, put on love. And the call of love is submitting our desires first and foremost to Christ. And as we look out, as we look out for, not first and foremost for our own interest, but the interest of others, as we see in Philippians. chapter 2, to use the authority and responsibility he has given to us to express and manifest his love for others. If you're a single man, you can start loving your future wife, if the Lord brings one, by how you behave and the habits you build now. By how you learn to sacrificially love and serve and submit to those people that God has put in your life to love. Well, now. That's true for uh for all of us who are singles. That that's a challenge, right? In some sense, uh in singleness, Paul talks about this in 1 Corinthians 7, there's a freedom to singleness. You you don't have these direct applications of this to work out. Now, uh of course, some of uh some of you want to be married and for that continue to pray for it. Seek that from the Lord, that's certainly fine. There's a blessing to marriage, but there is also a blessing to singleness, that freedom. And yet, as Paul says in Galatians chapter 5, we are called to a freedom in Christ. But we're to take that freedom, that free agency, and then use it to serve, loving others and working for their good. even as we reflect the sacrificial service of Jesus Christ. So submitting to Christ means submitting our will, our wants, and submitting to the why of submission. And here, and we'll wrap this up with this. Why is it so hard to do this? We know it's hard because it's so rare to do this well. We know it's so hard because Paul has to spend all his time talking about it and trying to help us to be encouraged to do it. Why is it so hard? Especially since it's actually what we were created for. That's the the point of Paul quoting verse in verse 31. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. How is it then so often that we aren't one flesh? Aren't one mind, aren't united in marriage. That's what it's meant to be. And the reality is this quote comes from Genesis 2, and after Genesis 2, it comes Genesis 3. I know that's rocket science, right? After two comes three. But Genesis three, that's when we get the fall into sin and the curse, specifically The curse of sin and our sinfulness specifically disorients and disrupts this marriage relationship. Verse 16, the Lord says to the woman, Your desire is going to be contrary to your husband. Your desire will be to rule over him, is a way you could translate that. But he shall rule over you. That is not a result of creation, that is a result of the fall, this messed up relationship in marriage. So if you're an unbeliever here, Which we welcome you. We're always glad to have you with us. You may balk at this biblical vision of marriage uh because it's so often actually uh not reflected well in our relationships. More often, sin is what is reflected. And in sin, our desires get twisted, we become selfish, proud, harsh, unkind, and we refuse to submit our wants, let alone our will, to anyone, not even God Himself. And this sin is an infinite affront against a holy, loving creator, God, and so that we deserve nothing less than death and hell. And this is the clear message of Scripture throughout. And the only way to deal with this, the only way to be saved from what our sin deserves, which is exactly the opposite of this picture. The only way to be saved is through a substitutionary sacrifice, and that is what we have in Jesus Christ, and that is what is on focus and on display, the why of submission throughout this passage. Verse 26 and 7, right? He says, Husbands love your wives, as Christ loved the church. And then he goes on and on about how Christ has loved us as a church. He gave himself up for us. That we might be, that he might sanctify us, having cleansed us by the washing of water with the words, so that he might present us, the church, to himself. in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that we might be holy and without blemish. That is the good news of the gospel In which Paul grounds the why of submission, and he calls it a great mystery. He says, this mystery is profound, and I'm saying that it refers to Christ and the church. There is a creational why to submission, but there's a more important one, and that is this mystery of Christ, that when we engage in these roles in marriage as Christians, We are declaring to the world the beauty and wonder of the grace of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Jesus, who looked at us, In our ugliness in sin, our filthiness, our fallenness in sin. We read about that in Ezekiel 16. And instead of turning from us, instead of rejecting us, He loved us and chose us as his church to be his bride, and he did everything necessary to make us beautiful. He gave himself up to death on the cross in our place, submitting his will and his desire to serve his Father and to serve us, so that he could die on the cross and shed his blood and give himself and die in our place to wash away our sins. By his word of promise and forgiveness, so that he might present us to himself in glory without spot or wrinkle, holy and without blemish. And that's the picture of Revelation 9. After Christ rises from the dead and when He returns, there will be a marriage supper of the Lamb, when his bride, the church, is clothed in his righteous robes, and we're finally wedded to Christ. So we can live the rest of our lives with him, enjoying his love, his leadership as our bridegroom and king, living out a lives of submission to him out of reverence for him as our bridegroom and king. And the glory of this promise that we have in Christ is mysteriously somehow wondrously pictured in biblical, God-centered marriage. Where wives are arranging themselves under their husbands' leadership, and where husbands are loving their wives, even as Christ loved the church. Friends, my prayer for our marriages is that they might reflect the picture we have here. That our submission to Christ might be reflected in our marriages. And may we all properly submit to the authorities that Christ has put in our life. And may we all love well, even as He has first loved us. Loved us to the glory of his holy name. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this vision that you've given us of marriage properly ordered by your word and according to the gospel of Jesus Christ. May you help us. Help us as wives as we we seek to submit to sinful, broken husbands. Help us as husbands as we seek to love sinful, broken wives. And may these lives, these areas of love and marriage, be restorative, be redeeming. Be reflections of the great love that Christ has for His church. And Lord, as we think about these roles, we recognize that they have broader application to the rest of life, that we all are implicated in them, as we are called to submit to the authorities you've placed in our lives. In an active, engaged way, and as we are called to love one another, even as Christ has loved us. Help us with that. To the glory of your holy name. In Jesus' name