Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness. against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God and take that you may be able to stand withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand firm, stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness. And his shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. In all circumstances, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication to that end, keep alert, with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints. And as for me, that words may be given to me in opening of my mouth boldly proclaim to proclaim the mystery of the gospel for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing on our time as we meditate upon it. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word, that as you say in Hebrews, it is living and active, and sharper than a two-edged sword. Lord, we pray that your word this morning would be effectual, that not only would we be have our hearts discerned by it. Not only would we have the sin that is there exposed, not only would we be comforted by its strength, but that we might actually take it up today as our sword as we look at this passage. Seeing how it is that we are equipped well for the battle that you've called us to in Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, what do you fear? Or what are you tempted to be afraid of? I think one way to answer this question is to instead ask: what is it that I use warfare language to describe or to talk about? We fight against illness, against cancer, against the effects of old age. Against terrorism, against failure. And of course, we as national people, identifying with a nation, we have geopolitical enemies. Whom our soldiers literally fight with on earth. Sadly, today I think we're using the kind of warfare language reflecting our fearfulness. We're using it for people who should be our friends and neighbors and loved ones. So both sides of the political aisle will now use terms like fight, threat, enemies of the other side, even though we're neighbors and we're all called to ultimately live in peace and harmony together. It's important to reflect on what we fear because it's interesting. In the Bible, the word fear often means worship. And there's real truth to the fact that what we fear, we worship. Paul talks about idols of the nations being truly demons. Demons were feared, and so they were worshipped. And you can y often we think of worship as you know, delighting in someone or honoring someone. And thinking well of them, and that certainly can be part of it. That's certainly true when we're worshiping God. But often worship is really more about what do we give our attention to? What what do we what do we w work to uh ameliorate or appease? That's what worship is. And that's why worship and f and fear are are truly related. And we've we've talked about that a bit in our discussion through Ephesus, that the one adjective, as one of my professors uh said, and I think he's absolutely right, you're adjective using his commentary through this book, so I hope he is. But one one he said he is a a student of ancient uh uh Greco-Roman culture, specifically of Ephesian culture. And he said, you know, the one word that would characterize the culture of Ephesus at this time is the word fear. There was fear of all sorts of things, fear of the pagan gods, which is why they were worshipped. They're thought to be appeased every day. There would be sacrifices, you'd have to bring gifts. Demons. If you come to a a crossroads in in Ephesus, you would spit in all three different directions so that it would ward off the demons that could Latch onto you if you hadn't done that when you're just simply crossing uh across a a crossway in the road. Evil spirits Demonic powers. These were things that were feared in Ephesus and things that were in some sense worshipped in the temples. And it's into this context that Paul writes. And he's writing to encourage the church with the glory of the and the power of the gospel of God's grace to us in Jesus Christ. And then to give instructions for how we ought to order our lives. and be guided by that grace of the gospel. That's how Ephesians is laid out. The glory and power of the grace of the gospel in chapters 1 to 3. And then how do we live guided by that gospel in chapters 4 to 1, And we looked uh last the last couple times we were in this book, we looked at chapter five, these instructions for how we're to live our lives in light of the gospel in the church. And in the outward expression of the church in the home, in the family. Here in the second part of chapter 6, Paul turns to thinking through how we're engaged in the world in light of the gospel. And he calls us to recognize that we're in a battle, not a battle like we normally think of battles against geopolitical powers, political parties, culture wars, not even old age, death, and illness, but instead something far greater, cosmic in its proportions. And far more dangerous because of that, and because eternity is on the line in this battle. And yet, despite the danger, he's not seeking to stoke our fear. Do you notice? Instead, he's seeking to give us great confidence. How is it that that can work? And to see that we have to look through what Paul says here in this passage. and how he lays out his argument. And what we see as we do that, we see that Paul offers us, I think he offers us three aspects of his argument to build us up in our confidence as we engage in this battle. First of all, he describes to us the war we wage. Second of all, he shows us the weapons we have to wear. And third, he shows us the win that we are waiting for. The war, the weapons, and the wind. Those are the three points I want us to consider this morning as we look at this passage. First of all, the war that we wage. See this especially in verses 10 to 13. See, the reality is, as we see it in this text, is that we face enemies, we face a battle far greater than anything we usually think of as enemies. In fact, if we look out the world and we have a sense of fear about anything out there, really what Paul says here should make us realize that we fear far too little. We fear far too little. Look at verse 12. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places, or you could translate that, in the high heavenlies. This is similar to what Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 10:4, where he says, the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but have divine power to destroy strongholds. The word for strongholds being this spiritual reality, these systems and structures that are part of this present age of darkness. We destroy them without weapons of the flesh. Paul's point here is what the Bible speaks about very clearly, and that is that we are in a spiritual battle between cosmic invisible powers, not just a battle of good versus evil. So oftentimes how it's described in the world, but no, we're in a po a battle between God and evil. God and evil. And what I want us to uh first note is that uh on the one hand, this is language that would have confirmed some of what the Ephesians were fearing. Right, that there are these spiritual forces, unseen realities that are deeply dangerous to us and are forces of evil. That's sort of on the one hand confirmed. On the other hand, I don't want us to think that it looks like or behaves like or is like depicted in Hollywood movies like The Exorcist. Or these other sort of horror films that try to grasp at this, they give us a caricature of evil. And the reason it's a caricature is because Ultimately it is very earthly power, earthly manifestations, sometimes of invisible, but often they become visible. And if you look at how they're dis depicted, how they're described, they're so easily recognizable as evil forces and things. Things that go bump in the night. That's not what Paul is getting at here. Ultimately, Paul is saying here that the forces are beyond our imagination. Are unknown, uncontrollable by us. They're spiritual forces of darkness, he says, in the heavenly places. These aren't just forces on earth. These are forces on earth and in heaven. And he says these powers, these spiritual forces, these demonic powers, they are beings that we would uh that would probably appear like gods to us. This is part of the reason people worship them. They have great power. They have great glory, though it's distorted glory as they are in rebellion against God. And Paul says we're waging war against these. Now there's an important caveat to mention as well here. First of all, don't think Hollywood. That comes from you know in many ways, Hollywood is just doing giving us the pagan imaginations of what this war looks like. And then also recognize that actually the Bible doesn't give us a whole lot of details. It doesn't give us All the answers to the questions we might have when we say we're involved in the spiritual battle against rulers, against authorities, against cosmic powers, against This present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Like, okay, but what does this look like? What does this mean? Are they in this room? Scripture doesn't give us an answer to all the questions we may have. And so be careful when somebody says, oh yeah, here's a demonic activity. Or there it is. I mean you can very simply say, well, if it's opposed to God and His will, sure, it's demonic. It's part of that spiritual forces of darkness. Not a big deal. It's around everywhere on the one hand. On the other hand Probably often it's where we don't see it, where we don't think it is. C. S. Lewis in Um I think it's in the uh introduction. Yeah, it's in the introduction to Screw Tape Letters, this book where he uh sort of im imagines uh correspondence between the devil and his demons. He begins in his introduction and says, there are two equal and opposite errors into which our race can fall about the devils. One is to disbelieve in their existence. The other is to believe and to feel an excessive and unhealthy interest in them. So those are the two poles that we want to be careful to ward against. And yet, Paul does offer us some details in this passage about the war we're engaged in. Not just these unnamed, unseen powers, but specifically he says, there is one who is preeminence. And that's the devil. And he schemes, and he has flaming darts or flaming arrows. That's what we see in verses 10 to 11. Finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against The schemes of the devil. And then down in verse 16: In all circumstances, take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. Now that's that that ought to be a bit of a disturbing picture. Flaming darts or flaming arrows in the ancient world were terrifying. I mean you can sort of imagine uh our uh arrows were the artillery uh or I think I think that's the right military term, right? When you go into battle and you you you stand on the battlefield in the ancient world and you look across, you know, what you what you're terrified of is the the archers. Because they're standing behind the front lines of that battle line and they're shooting, and all of a sudden you just get a rain down With arrows rained down upon by arrows that can pierce armor and that can find the holes and that can often get you if you're not properly armed. But even if you are properly armed and they're flaming arrows? They can start burning everything in sight. And it's that kind of image that Paul projects upon the way the devil fights against us as God's people. He doesn't simply target the enemy with an arrow. It's a flaming arrow because he just seeks, as Jesus says in John 10:10, to steal and kill and destroy. He's happy for it all to burn down. How does the devil scheme? That's what Paul says in verse 11, that we're able to ward off the schemes. of the devil. Again, our curiosity is not really satisfied, I don't think, by the Bible, but we can say a few things. One thing we can say is Jesus calls the devil a liar and the father of lies in John 8. 44. And what that means is that his schemes are probably not really what we expect. It's very disturbing. I don't know if you've noticed. This trend, but it seems like there's a trend that more and more in our Western culture there is a dabbling in or an enjoyment of satanic imagery. I don't know if you've observed that as well. And of course, this is evil and wicked. And it certainly is trying to align in some way with what is conceived of as Satan. But often again, these are caricatures. They certainly Are fearful to superstitious people. But a lot of the images used are not revealed to us in Scripture. They're either distortions of what Scripture says or they're pagan imaginations. I think far more insidious and dangerous to us is that Satan schemes as a liar and the father of lies. He schemes by disguising himself as an angel of light. So it says in 2 Corinthians 11, 4. How many in the world today think they are doing God's work? As they claim to affirm his love while denying his moral law. How many think that they're doing God's work? As they appeal to God-given human reason and intellect in order to doubt God's word and deny his power Friend Satan's work thrives in good moral communities, sadly, even within places called churches, where people think they are good enough that they really don't need a savior. Think that they stand when actually they are falling. It shouldn't surprise us that some of the biggest churches On the earth are where the gospel is least clear and least present. That's Satan's kind of work under the guise of goodness and morality, appearing as an angel of light. C. S. Lewis says in Mere Christianity, whenever we find that our religious life is making us feel that we are good, Above all, that we are better than someone else, I think we may be sure that we are being acted on not by God, but by the devil In the chapter on the great sin of pride, it often infects the most moral, most upright-looking communities Satan is at work often where we least expect it. And so you say, all the satanic imagery that's Satan's on the rise, well, amen. He's also on the rise in places where we can't expect it. Imagine him to work. This is a dangerous enemy. The great problem of the devil's schemes are not just that he tempts us And tries to terrify us from outside. Here's the real problem with the devil's schemes. You know how helicopters, you know, they're great if they have a place to land. You know, they need a landing pad. They need a place to alight. The problem is that Satan kind of has that with us. We have a sinfulness of the flesh that clings so closely, as Hebrews says. And so even as Satan is tempting us from without, there's a sort of a landing pad of our own sinfulness. Sinfulness of the flesh that is clinging so closely, the sinfulness that continues to often lurk in our own hearts. In sin we're bent away and against Away from God, against God, so Satan's temptations and deceptives are so much more dangerous than we often give them credit. And the point is that the war we wage is beyond our capacity to comprehend or imagine, let alone to fight in our own strength, to fight in our own power. Kids, this is an important reminder. As we uh raise you and we teach you uh about the dangers in the world, there are a lot of visible Real dangers out there in the world, and we often warn you about those. But there are also unseen dangers, spiritual realities, spiritual forces. And God says here that these are the greater ones, the more important ones. And so we need to know how to engage in battle with them. We need to know where and how we can do that. If you're not yet a follower of Christ, we can't do that. The reality is you're engaged in the battle as well. It's a hopeless battle in your own strength, and it's especially hopeless because if we are not God's people, if we are not God's by following Christ by faith, Then we're actually engaged in the battle as enemies of God, as part of the evil, even if we don't think of ourselves as such. And that's bad news. That is the bad news, and that's the first point, the war that we wage. But there's good news as well. We begin to see that in our second point, the weapons that we wear. Because Paul's point in mentioning this This grave spiritual battle and struggle that we're in is not to say that it's hopeless. We see this even in what he calls the battle. He calls it in verse 12 a wrestle. A struggle. Now, immediately right there, it's interesting, he doesn't call it a battle that would be waged with weapons of war He uses the term that means wrestle, like we wrestle today, although back in the ancient world they wrestled with no garments on at all, let alone any armor. But what's interesting is he said we're engaged in this wrestling Which is normally fought without weapons, but we're armed. We're armed to the hilt. And that's the point, as he goes on, it's not hopeless for us because in Christ we actually have strength and are well equipped not just to fight but to stand strong. Look at verse 10. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. What a comfort as we wage war, that it's a war that's impossible for us in our own strength, that we can be strong in the Lord, in the strength of his might. We have God's power at work in us with which to fight. Like it says in our hymn that we just sang, the strength which God supplies, his eternal son, strong in the Lord of hosts. in his mighty power. That's what Paul says. We're strong and we can stand strong in the Lord. And how do we do this? Well Paul Paul elaborates on that. He unpacks that for us in the rest of the passage as he exhorts us specifically to put on the whole armor of God. Verse 11, put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. Verse 13, therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand firm, stand therefore. When things are repeated in Scripture. It's worth taking note, and Paul repeats this line two times here in just a few verses stand strong by putting on the whole armor of God. Now often when we think of the armor of God from this passage, I'm sure many of us have read it before and reflected on it. There are all sorts of great studies. sermon series going through each one of uh these uh these uh pieces of the armor. In fact, one recently uh published by uh Ian Dugod, one of my professors in San Seminary, the whole armor of God, a great little little book, just meditating on each one of these individually. I can highly recommend that to you. Often, when we think of the armor of God, I think that we think that this is armor that God gives. And that's certainly true. That it's God's armor because it's something that He is the source of, He gives to us. But I would argue that Paul using this term, the armor of God, He means so much more than just that. He does mean that. This is armor that God gives to us, so that we can truly say that it's his strength to us. But this is not only armor that God gives, it's also armor that God wears. Each one of these items is something that is uh is part of the armor that is attributed to God as the divine warrior fighting on our behalf. Jesus as the great Messiah, warrior, king, and what he wears as he goes into battle. And then third and finally all of this armor, uh it's the armor of God because ultimately we are clothed with God Himself. As we're united to Jesus Christ. And he is described as this for us. So let's let's think about that as we run through each one of these pretty, hopefully fairly briefly here. First of all, the belt of truth. We see that in verse 14. Stand therefore having fastened on the belt of truth. First, this is God's armor. It's Jesus' armor. In Isaiah chapter 11, there's this messianic promise of the righteous branch. That would come out of the stump of David. It would be the stump of Jesse. And this would be a new Davidic king. And it says this about this new coming messianic Davidic king who we know is ultimately Jesus when he comes. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins. So the belt of truth is what Jesus wears as he goes into battle. But then not only is Jesus girded with the truth for battle. He is the truth itself, as John 14, 6 says. He says right there, I am the way, the truth. And a life. The end of chapter uh of John's gospel, he's standing before Pilate. He's saying, You will know the truth, and the truth will set you free, clearly a reference to himself. And Pilate says, What is truth? Even when he's Truth is standing right before him. Jesus is the truth. So how do we gird ourselves with the belt of truth? It's by being clothed with Jesus Christ, knowing Him, engaging the lies of the world around us with who Jesus is and what Jesus has done for us. What are the lies that we encounter in the world? Things like God is not in control. Things like we, we are weak. We are unlovely, we are sinful, we are failures. Certainly some truth in that, but in Christ Jesus it's not true. By faith, no, we are strong. We are beloved. We are forgiven. We are redeemed. And we are on our way to an eternal glory. Second of all, he says, put on the breastplate of righteousness in verse 14b, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, the breastplate was the This part of the armor that goes and covers the internal organs, these this part of the body that is so uh important uh to not be struck in battle or you die, right? And again, first, Jesus, as our messianic divine warrior, wears a breastplate of righteousness. Isaiah 59, 17. This is another messianic prophecy. It says, He Put on righteousness as a breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head. He put on garments of vengeance for clothing and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. But not only is this a description of the armor that Jesus wears, it's a description of Jesus himself. 1 John 2, verse 1 says, if anyone does sin, We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ what? The righteous. The righteous one. He is the righteous one. He is the righteous breastplate. So, how do we put on the righteousness of Jesus by finding ourselves in him by faith? What does this look like practically? It looks like every day. And I know this happens. This happens to me, I know this happens to you. When we struggle with sin and failure, We do our best, and yet even there we see that our heart is still marred and flawed by the sinfulness of the flesh And Satan whispers in our ear, look at that. Look at your sin. If there's there's no way you can be loved by God. There is no way your sin can really be forgiven. There's no way you have purchased In heaven. And you know how we put on the breastplate of righteousness? By singing as the hymn writer says, My sin. Oh, the bliss. Of this glorious thought. My sin, not in part, but the whole, is what nails to the cross. I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. O my soul. The hymn writer there captures that Horatio Spat. He captures so clearly so many biblical texts. Colossians 2. 14, the sin our sin being nailed to the cross. This actually takes work, this takes diligence, this takes practice, and that's why every week we gather. To put on the breastplate of righteousness, to gather around the Lord's table, the preaching of the word, to be refreshed and reminded of the gospel of grace and the preaching and the sacrament. Sacraments. We need that. To be able to wear the breastplate of righteousness. Third, the shoes, verse 15. And as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. It's interesting. It doesn't actually say shoes here. It simply says having your feet shod or fitted. But what is it you put on your feet? Shoes. So it's an appropriate translation. Having your feet shod or fitted with readiness, the readiness of the gospel of peace. Again, I think this first refers to Jesus as the preacher of good news. Isaiah 52:7. How beautiful on the feet. upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, his church, your God reigns. And isn't that what Jesus does when he comes proclaiming the kingdom of God is at hand? He is the first preacher of the good news. But not only is he the preacher of the good news, he is the good news itself, having lived righteously, having died in our place, having risen in glory and ascended to reign. So how is it we we shod our feet with the readiness of the gospel? It means living daily in light. Of the gospel ourselves, in light of the hope we have because of the gospel, and then being ready to share that hope we have in Christ with others as we have opportunity. Fourth, he says, take up the shield of faith, or we could translate that the shield of faithfulness. And I think that's important because That will help us understand how it is that Jesus wears this first. In all circumstances, verse 16, take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. Now there are two types of shields. Use in this time of the world. There were round small shields that you'd wield around, and that would be good for hand-to-hand combat and things like that. That's not the shield referred to here. Here the shield is one of those Roman shields that goes like 180 around your body and over your head. There's a little window in there. Does it view the enemy? I mean this is like i it's actually uh uh the the word comes from door because it's basically the size of a door as a shield. That's the kind of shield that Paul is talking about here, a full body. And this would be covered in leather and soaked in water so that it could put out the flaming arrows as they would come and hit it. So the idea is faith or faithfulness is the full body protection from the fiery darts of the devil. Again, Jesus wields this shield first. We see him walking by faith in his father day by day throughout his life, and then we see him living in constant faithfulness and obedience to his father. day after day. But Jesus is also the faithful one himself. Revelation 19, 11 calls him the faithful one. And this is why it makes sense, then, that God throughout the Bible will call himself our shield. When he comes to Abraham in Genesis chapter 15, he says, Abraham, I am your shield. And then throughout the Psalms, he's spoken of as our shield, our refuge in times of need. Psalm 28:7: The Lord is my strength and my shield. In him my heart trusts, and I am helped, my heart exalts. And with him and with my song I give thanks to him. How do we wield the shield of faith? By learning to trust, learning to trust in God's sovereignty. That He is in control of all things. Even when it feels like things are out of control, and learning to trust in God's salvation, knowing that He has assured us forgiveness of sin and everlasting hope in Jesus Christ. Christ. The fifth uh part of this weaponry, the helmet of salvation in verse 17. Take up the helmet of salvation. And again, this is God's armor first. We saw it in Isaiah 59, 17, I read a moment ago. That the warrior, divine warrior, messianic king, would wear a helmet of salvation. But it is also who Jesus is. He is our salvation. He is our Savior. That's what his very name means, Savior. Because he would save his people from their sins. How do we put on Jesus as our salvation helmet on our heads? I think here the head is the idea of leader. Throughout the Bible, head is used for leader. It's no wonder Jesus is called the head of the church, because the head is what controls the body and leads the body. And so how do we put on Jesus? As our helmet. It's by following him by faith, asking every day, every way, where is Jesus leading? Where would he have me go? As we face big decisions in life. What job to take, what college to go to, what what to do with the gifts that God has given us in this life at every point. Where is Jesus leading? Where would He have me go? Sixth, he says, take up the sword of the Spirit, verse 17b, the second half. Take up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. He tells us what this is. It's the Word of God on the one hand. This is what uh it says in Hebrews four twelve, it likens the word to the sword as well. The word of God is living and active, sharper than any two edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the Of the heart. Again, this is what Jesus wields, the weapon that Jesus wields. Remember when he's confronted by the devil in the wilderness? And he's tempted? Hey, make some bread out of this rock. Hey, throw yourself off. God'll catch you. What does Jesus do? He answers, he wages war, literally quoting the word of God. God. All three from Deuteronomy. Man shall not live by bread alone. You shall not put the Lord your God to the test, and so on. But not only does Jesus wield the Word of God in his war, he also is the Word of God himself, as it says in John 1. 1. And he's who the Word of God is all about. And so here, the Word of God is called the sword of the Spirit because it's through this written word that the living word Jesus Christ is applied to us, is communicated to us, through which we actually engage with him and are in his very presence as Jesus works Through the Word by His Holy Spirit. How do we wield the sword of the Spirit? By knowing the Word, by reading the Word, by memorizing the Word, by meditating on the Word. By quoting the word in our times of spiritual battle, just as Jesus did. Seventh and finally, he says, pray At all times, verse 18, praying at all times in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints. Jesus wore that armor regularly, regularly going off to pray in quiet throughout his ministry. And that was all practice for what Jesus has been doing for 2,000 years. Sitting at the right hand of the Father, interceding for us, the scripture says, praying for us who are his people. And then as we read on, I I read more than was uh I was told to read. In the bulletin. Verses 19 and 20. Paul says, also pray for me that words may be given to me for the opening of my mouth, boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. If Jesus and Paul don't engage in ministry without praying at all times in the Spirit, how in the world do we think we can get by without it? How in the world could we get by without it? Paul Miller was uh presenting on prayer at our uh Presbytery retreat a couple weeks ago. He's recently written this book, A Praying Church. Lots of thoughtful meditations. But it's interesting there, he says, you know, a prayer, he likened prayer to the church breathing. The prayer is really the breath, the breathing of the church. If the church isn't breathing, it won't be alive. Prayer is essential for the life and work of the church. If you are blessed at all by the ministry of Reformed Presbyterian Church of Bui, I can tell you it is an answer to prayer, a direct answer to prayer. Our weekly prayer meeting, Wednesday nights, we pray that God will work in and through us. Whenever we gather as a session or as officers, We pray that God would work in and through us. Regularly in all that we do, we are praying that God would bless. Because that is a weapon that God has given us as we engage in this spiritual battle. Here's the point of all this as we wrap up this second. Look at how well equipped we are. Look at how well equipped we are. Yes, we wage a war that is impossible in our own strength, and if left to ourselves, it ought to terrify us. But friends, we are armed. to the hilt with the very armor of God. Not only what he wears himself as he engages in spiritual warfare, but we're armed with God Himself in Jesus Christ as our belt, as our breastplate, as our shoes. as our shield, as our helmet, as our sword, as our prayer. And that's what lead us leads us to the third and final point. The war we wage we saw, the weapons we wear, third and finally, and we'll conclude with this, the win we're waiting for. And here's the incredible point. As Paul calls us and exhorts us to engage in this battle, to recognize the strength we do have that God supplies. He actually shows us in the way he talks about it that the outcome of a battle is not in question. The outcome isn't in question. We see this right from the outset. Remember where our enemies are? He said in verse 12, these enemies are in the heavenly places, or as one commentator calls it, translates it, the high heavenly places. But what's interesting about that word for the heavenly places or the high heavenlies is that we've heard about that in Ephesians before, many times. It's interesting. We know a lot about that place, the high heavenly place. It is where God has blessed us in Christ. Ephesians 1:3. It is where he's blessed us because it's where Jesus is seated at the right hand of God. Chapter 1, verse 20. It's where we are seated in some spiritual sense through our union with Christ in Christ, chapter 2, verse 6. And it's where God is making known his manifold wisdom through us, his church. Chapter 3, verse 10. We get the sense that, yeah, these spiritual forces are in the high heavenly places, and that should make us recognize that they are far beyond our power to control or to fight. But they're actually in the presence of the Lord, and there's a sense in which He's He has them there, not as a threat, not because their defeat is not sure. But because he's saying, hey, kind of like the story of Job. Hey, look at my church. Look at how they are wielding my power. on earth, so that my will is on earth as it is here. The picture we get painted with this idea that they're in the high heavenlies is Is that we have the opportunity to wage war against powers beyond our imagination simply by walking by faith in Jesus Christ? And as we do, we join him in a victory that he has already in some sense won and that is just working itself out. As the spiritual forces of darkness are being prepared to be, as Hebrews says, his footstool, quoting Psalm 110. When Christ, Hebrews 10, 12, when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. 1 Corinthians 15, 25 and 26. Jesus must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. Friends, the victory was won 2,000 years ago when Jesus died on the cross and rose on the third day. The cosmic battle of God versus evil, specifically versus the evil in a us our sin was one right there and then. And yet, like when David defeated Goliath And the big giant has been slain and is laying on the battlefield, his head chopped off in victory. Israel still was called to go and rout the enemy. Pursue the enemy until they had been defeated in full. Isn't this what's implied here? That we aren't called to enter That we aren't called to a battle that is unsure. In fact, actually, it's interesting, we're not even quite called to the same kind of battle as Joshua was. In the passage we just read, it's a lot more like the people of Israel in uh 1 Samuel 17. They're in the land, it's already been conquered, but there are these Philistines there, and they're trying. They're trying to wage war against God's kingdom. Once the great king defeats the great enemy, all the rest of the enemies flee, and we're to just Take the land back. In a sense, it's what Paul uses the language here, verse 11. He doesn't say, go forth into battle, run forward in the fight. He says Stand. Stand. Verse eleven. Verse thirteen. Therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, having done all to stand firm. Stand, therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness. The idea here is that Christ has already conquered all his and our enemies, and we are to inherit this earth along with the new heavens. So stand. Simply defend the kingdom of God that Christ has built and is building I think it's a similar point made by Peter and James in Peter chapter, 1 Peter chapter 5. He says, Be sober-minded, watchful, your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Whoa, that's scary. Except, look what he says. Resist him. Firm in the faith. Firm in the faith. Resist him. Knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brother. He doesn't say, be worried. Your victory is in doubt. He says, simply stand. Stand firm. Resist him. I love James 4, verse 7. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and what? He will flee from you. This is the good news of the gospel, that God has won the victory already in Jesus Christ, and that we are in him, and we are his by faith, and so the win is simply simply something that we are waiting for. It's not in question, it's not in doubt. C. S. Lewis in Mere Christianity again, he says it this way. He says, enemy-occupied territory, that is what the world is. Christianity is the story of how the rightful king has landed and is calling us all to take part in a great campaign of Sabbath. Isn't that great? The victory is sure, and we're called to await it eagerly. In the meantime, let us take up Christ Himself as our armor, the armor of God. Of God, holding fast to the truth, resting in his righteousness, credited to us, ready to share the gospel of peace, shielded by faith, secure in our salvation, and wielding the Word of God in prayer. So we have nothing to fear except. Reverent worship of God. Fearing not Him who can destroy the body, but worshiping Him who can send both body and soul to hell, and yet who has promised us everlasting life. in Jesus Christ, who has loved us in Christ, graciously redeeming us and calling us to participate in this great cosmic victory that He has engaged in, that one day will be revealed in its fullness as already having been accomplished when Christ returns in glory. And so we can pray as Jesus taught us: come quickly, Lord Jesus. Reveal the victory that has already been won. Suit up to stand strong. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this good news that we see reflected in this passage. Lord, we confess that we are tempted to fear all sorts of things, but usually things that are not even as dangerous as the The the enemies that are presented for us in this passage. Forgive us, Lord, for that. Thank you that you have given us a mighty uh victory in Jesus Christ and that you have armed us Appropriately for this battle. Help us to stand firm in you, to stand strong in you, in the strength of your might, even as we take up these provisions that you've given us for life and faith on earth. As we await the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ when he returns. In his name we pray. Amen.