But here's the thing. We first have to deal with the battle in our own hearts. Because that's where it's raging. There's a battle going on in our hearts. We are more effective or less effective as we allow the grace of God to do that battle, to win that battle in our hearts now. So I guess my big question is, what kingdom are you seeking? Because you are seeking a kingdom. But which one is it? Now I will tell you, I I get excited talking about Jesus in his Bible, in his word. I may raise my voice a little bit. I'm not angry. I'm just a black Pentecostal who became a Presbyterian. Who knew Now, first of all, let's get some, we gotta sell some thoughts here. What is this kingdom that we are to seek? Let's just get that out there and be clear about that. I know you know, but human me. First, let's see the kingdom of God is not a minor thought to our Lord Jesus. His message is the gospel of the kingdom. Matthew makes this clear in several places. Let me just give some verses. Matthew 4. 17. So this is before our passage, just before he gives this Sermon on the Mount. 417 says this, from that time Jesus began to preach, saying, repent for the kingdom of heaven. Is not coming is at hand, he says. The kingdom of heaven is at hand The kingdom of heaven or God is therefore a present reality Something similar in same chapter 423. He went throughout all Galilee teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming The gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction among the people. So he preached the good news of the kingdom and then revealed the kingdom's power and presence. The king was here. And where the king goes, his kingdom goes with him. And I would suggest to you that when we talk about the gospel, that's actually shorthand. And that's fine. But it is the gospel of the kingdom. That's what Jesus talked about so much. The gospel of the kingdom. This is what our Lord gave his great attention to revealing. Everywhere he went, his story was the same. In chapter 9, verse 35, Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages. teaching in their civil synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and again healing every disease and every affliction In chapter 13, which I know you're probably very familiar with, we have these amazing parables, six parables, but what's their main theme? The kingdom of heaven. We call them the kingdom parables. I hope you will read that and enjoy those. They're amazing. We'll refer to at least a couple as we go along. And even later in the book of Matthew, chapter 24, verse 14, he speaks of the end of time in kingdom language. He says, and this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. It is the gospel of the kingdom that must permeate this world. Every tribe, every language, every tongue needs to hear this message of the kingdom. And of course, lastly but most importantly, for our purposes, we have the Sermon on the Mount in chapters 5 through 7, where we get our text. Some people call the Sermon on the Mount a kingdom manifesto. Seven times the kingdom is mentioned in this great sermon. It begins with the Beetithes, which we'll talk about tomorrow, which are the character marks of those in the kingdom. They are bracketed, if you read the Beetites in chapter 5, they are bracketed with this promise for theirs. is the kingdom of heaven. That's 5. 2 and 5. 10. So I guess a good question here at the beginning would be, is what did our Lord mean by the kingdom? Okay, that's that's just let me get that straight. Hope I can be helpful. The word literally the idea really speaks of the reign and rule of God. Well, where does God reign and rule? Everywhere. He reigns and he rules. Everywhere. He is creator and sustainer of all things. But the world is fallen. People are in rebellion. Adam and Eve were supposed to represent their father God as his son and daughter, ruling his creation in his name. And thus manifesting his kingdom in all of creation. The garden kingdom was meant to become a global kingdom. But they decided to make a name and a kingdom for themselves. And they rebelled. They rejected his kingdom, his rule and reign. Hence the beginning of a counterfeit kingdom. The kingdom of darkness ruled not by humans, but by the spiritual forces of darkness with Satan as their king. But brothers and sisters, God's kingdom never ended. It never and he never ceased to reign. So, how is his reign and rule made visible now? Remember, in the old covenant, it was made visible in Israel. Just before giving the people the Ten Commandments, God says to them in Exodus 19, 4 through 6. He says, you yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians. Man, that would make a good movie. Maybe you s I don't know. Somebody will do it one day. And how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to I brought you to myself. Do you understand what the Exodus was? It was God claiming his people for himself. It's glorious. Now, therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples. For all the earth is mine. Who's reigning? All the earth is mine. And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. It's significant. We'll come to this later, but I gotta tell you, I gotta say it anyway. Peter picks up on this in 1 Peter 2 and describes the church using some of this language We are now that kingdom of priests and the holy nation, Jew and Gentile, under Jesus. The kingdom continues. These are the words, he says, that you shall speak to the people of Israel. God revealed this kingdom through a people chosen by grace called Jews. But they failed to live up to the privilege they were given through corrupt human kings. But God didn't give up. It was all in the plan. Aren't you excited to know your God is sovereign? That doctrine is so livable. It was all part of his plan. He didn't give up. He promised to send a perfect king to save all who would trust in him Hence you have the Prophet Daniel's vision. I I I wasn't gonna turn to it, but I just own uh I just feel like I should turn to it. You know, Daniel chapter 7. You you you are familiar with the with with what happens in Daniel 7. I'm gonna just if I can find it. What testament is it in again? Okay, here we go. Man, this Bible doesn't like me. See, that's why I marked things ahead of time. Here we go. Daniel chapter 7. Um just a few verses. Thirteen and fourteen and and one more after that. So Daniel chapter seven. This is that vision that Daniel had. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven There came one like a son of man. He came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. To him was given dominion. And glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. Which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. And then verse 18, but the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, forever, and ever. Daniel, God looks at humanity in rebellion. His own people, Israel, in rebellion. But he hasn't but he doesn't stop. The plan does not change. God never changes his plan. He doesn't get new information that he has to correct. He always he knows everything at all times, always. And so his plan is that he will send a better king. A better king than Adam, a better king than Moses. A better king than David, he will send a king who will reign over all kingdoms forever and ever and ever. And he will give his, he will have a people. Whom he will give his kingdom to, and they shall reign with him forever and ever and ever. Jesus comes along, and this is what he's talking about. This is who he's claiming to be. He's the Son of Man. So whenever you see Son of Man in the Gospels, think Son of Man in Daniel. Jesus, in somewhat coded language, was telling them who he was. I say somewhat coded because it's in the text, but they didn't quite get it. And if they and whatever they did get many of them rejected. So Jesus is coming as this, he comes as this great king. So when he comes preaching the gospel of the kingdom, he's talking about this kingdom. In Daniel 7, one where he will be the head of forever and ever, and it will never end. And no one will vote him out. There will be no parliament. We have a benign dictator. He does not, you don't vote in this kingdom because he's so good and so perfect. He doesn't need our help. Does he need our help? He deigns to use us for his glory. And as Jesus said, fear not, little father. It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. The kingdom is a gift from God to us. But be not deceived. The key and the center of the kingdom. But the kingdom is about is about the king, the glory of the living God. Again, I said Peter picks up that language. The address is 1 Peter 2. 9, if you want to write that down. It is the church, therefore, where the reign presence And power of God is being revealed. Where the kingdom is being revealed. Now here's something maybe a little controversial, I don't know, but it just hit me some time ago. The church does not create the kingdom. Because we use language. The church does not build the kingdom. I don't even think the church expands the kingdom. The church merely displays what already exists. So understand our role here. We're not God isn't just to build this kingdom. He already did it. It's all his. Christ is reigning right now. It's just not, it's not as visible. It is visible, but as visible as it will be when he comes. But it is visible. It's visible. I pray it's visible in us. But yes, we are used by God to reveal, to display. His kingdom. It is revealed as people submit to King Jesus in all of life for his glory. We pray, thy kingdom come. We're praying that Jesus would save and reign among his people and that ultimately he would come visibly and physically to reign forever and ever. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. Amen. The kingdom is what God is doing in the world. Now, how are we to seek this kingdom with single-minded devotion? Because that is what our text is calling for. Seek first the kingdom of God. First, we have to notice there is competition. There's competition for our single-minded devotion to the kingdom, which is why the Lord has to say it. The context, as I read, begins in verse 19 and runs through. Remember that our Lord is preaching to the working-class poor in Judea. They were those whose lives depended on good weather, good crops, and reasonable Roman taxes. They lived under the boot of the Roman Empire, and that boot was heavy. So it would be natural for people to be anxious. About how they were going to provide for themselves and their families. I mean, that would be human. They wanted earthly treasure because, just like us, they saw security in money and possessions. You know, people like to think that somehow those two we're not like those people. What we got on them is technology. But humanity is humanity. We still got the same issues. We all want a peace, in this case of the American dream. We all are tempted to find our security in money and possessions and other things what money can buy and do. No matter if we are poor, middle class, or wealthy, we're all afflicted or inflicted with the same disease of finding security and wealth. In other words, our temptation as sinful people is to live focused on building our own kingdoms. That's what we're dealing with here. The kingdoms in conflict are in us. We either pursue the kingdom of self or the kingdom of God. In the kingdom of self, you are large and in charge. It is my kingdom come, my will be done. One of the great temptations facing, I believe, the American church We do it politically in our marriages, in our families, in our schools, in our jobs, in our churches. It's my will be done I think Tim Keller, drawing on scripture, calls this idolatry. Idolatry. It's the idea of taking even good things and turning them into ultimate things. In other words, how do you discover what your idols are? By by simply saying I'm not I don't believe in idols, I'm not I'm not I'm not an idolater, no I love Jesus. If I asked you what was the great motivation of your life, all of you would say Jesus. And I'm not gonna argue with you about it. That's between you and Jesus. But I would say ask yourself this question. What is your worst nightmare? What is it that if you fail to have it, if you lost it, if what is it that if you lost it, your life would seem to be over? What is it if you lost it, you would not want to get out of bed anymore? What is it if you if you lost it or was taken from you in some way would would make you feel like That's it. That's your functional deity. Not saying you're not a Christian. Not saying that at all. Because we all deal with these things. But that's that that's that kingdom in conflict thing. You see, whatever those things are, and it's always more than one, I don't like to have babies I mean like rabbits. I think Calvin said our hearts are idol factories. In other words, good things become idols. I love family. I mean Dr. James Dobson, I'm old enough to remember focus on the family. I'll be 62 and maybe so I remember Jimbo. And Dobson told us to focus on the family Because that was an issue. But what happened was too many of us met turned family into an idol. Family became everything. Now, okay. I'm not against homeschooling. I homeschooled here for years, okay? I passed at a church though where my homeschoolers were so focused on protecting their children that they forgot about the Great Commission. And what they did was protect their ch they they they put they they surrounded them so that I had a I had a young man, I forget he was He was getting ready to go to public school. He had homeschooled him for years. He was getting ready to go to public school. And he met me in the kitchen at church one Sunday day, almost in tears. He was terrified to go to public school because he had never spoken to an unbeliever. I was meeting, Brother Fiction, I'm not making this stuff up. I was meeting with an elder and his wife in that church. And they were key leaders in our homeschooling, in our homeschooling movement. And we had a large, we had a movement that other churches came to. My whole campus was Turkey. So we had a really vibrant ministry. He came to me, they said to me, we're they said, we're we're homeschooling past together because we're raising up leaders for the next generation. I said, great! But none of them know how to speak to anyone who's not a believer. Explain who they're going to lead So I had to I fought that battle for six and a half years before God began to break it. Not homeschooling. We kept homeschooling. Not against homeschooling But we began to get a kingdom mindset as we did it. So, yes, we protected our children. That's why they call children. They need protection. Hello. But in protecting them, we kept the kingdom in front of them so that they were able to engage the culture around them. Within our guide, with our guidance, amen. But they were able to engage the culture and remember that we're here to be salt in light. And we can't be salt in the salt shaker. So anyway, that's another I digress. I don't know where I am in my notes now. Brother Fix, say something. Help me. So the idea Okay, that's another story. I won't go see I love this type of environment because we can have some fun together. But we got but we're serious So the idea of idolatry, this this this this this other kingdoms that we're fighting against in our own hearts saying Lord help me Jesus is talking about that battle that takes place now he talks about money a lot I read it treasure money mammon all that stuff he's talking about not just the actual coinage, but what you get with the coinage, what you can do with the coinage, what you can do with the dollar, the power that comes with that too Because money is power in our way of thinking. Certainly, I'm an American, and I'm proud to be one. Money is power. Okay? And so we deal with this idol, these various idols in our lives, whether it be family, a good thing turned into an idol, or whatever. We're dealing with that. And notice what he says here that we are to seek first his kingdom. So this so there's a seeking going on here. There's a seeking going on that he's contrasting seeking first the kingdom with seeking the other stuff that we just talked about. And seeking is active. Seeking is not a passive thing that you do. It's active and it's pervasive. It involves actively striving after something to possess it. The same drive is in the preceding idea, as in our passage. Stop laying up treasures. Right? Laying up, laying up, or storing up. He warns about that. Laying up and storing up. Stop serving. You can't serve two masters. Don't be anxious about your life. All of those things, all of those ideas are continual activities. There are things that we that that we're seeking or that we are worried about. When a person who is anxious, truly anxious, worried, nervous, whatever, what are they seeking? Peace. They want peace. No one wakes up in the morning and says, I want to be anxious today. I want to be worried all day. No one does that. People, the person who is worried and anxious is seeking peace Anybody can find it because you can't sleep well when you're anxious. I've been there so I can speak to it That's why you cannot serve the kingdom of self in God. Either we are continually laying up treasure in heaven and continually serving God as our master or Lord. Or we're deluding ourselves as Christians when we say Jesus is Lord. Jesus is Lord of what? He's not the great seek, the great person and thing, his kingdom, that we are seeking. As a matter of fact, the continual anxiety about our lives comes because our treasure is merely earthly and therefore subject to decay. Theft and recession. You see, there's certain things that cannot be taken from you But they're all tied to Jesus and his kingdom. Everything else you can lose Everything, even family, you can lose for one reason or another your health Your wealth, your influence, your good name, everything else can be lost Except Jesus and what's tied to him and his kingdom, those spiritual blessings that he gives us, nothing can touch. We are worried about what is temporal passing away So again, first, yeah, that's one thing. But second thing, the kingdom of God and his king are not to be a passing fancy or an occasional priority of disciples of Jesus. He calls us to seek it with a single-minded devotion. This kind of thinking is prevalent, right? With our Lord's summary of the first table of the Ten Commandments in Matthew 27, 22, 3037. Seek, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. Single-minded devotion See, this is the only way to defeat the kingdom of self. You need a new love, a new passion. A new and better kingdom and king. Idolatry and idols are only defeated or destroyed by the power of the love and grace of God in Jesus Christ. You can't destroy idols by saying, I'm not gonna do this anymore. I'm not gonna let that be my passion anymore. And I forgive my French. Good luck. Good luck. Because it's impossible. Your will is not that strong. Something's got to overwhelm that. Something's got to overwhelm your idol. Something outside of you, greater than you, more powerful than you. has got to overwhelm your idol that so that you so that the kingdom of God is not a passing fancy Or an occasional priority. Paul even uses similar language, not the same, but it's a similar idea. Colossians 3:1 to 4. If then you have been raised with Christ, Seek the things that are above. Where who? Where Christ is. Seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above. Not on things on the earth. By the way, the Bible talks a lot about the mind, right? Set your mind. Here's the thing. The mind is the door to the heart. The heart's the issue. The way to get into the heart, I believe, scripture shows us by talking about the minds, is to the That's how you get in. Set your mind on things above so that it inflames your heart. What your mind thinks about, what your mind says, hmm, you know, that's that's more valuable That stuff that kind of that impacts this, your your spiritual image. Impacts your heart. That your heart gets inflamed because that's really the seat, that's really the seat of you. That's really where you are. Your mind, your will, your emotions, your imagination, that's all in the heart. That's the heart in the Bible. And the way to get to it, and Paul keeps talking about renewing your mind. Set your mind on things that are above, not on things. What do you daydream about? Do you meditate? I'm not talking about transcendental meditation either. Biblical meditation It's filling your mind with Scripture. I like to put it this way. As you read Scripture, imagine what would happen if that passage came alive in you. If God did that, whatever that is, what would that look like? Let your let imagine that You know, I play I played disc golf. I just got into it. Anybody anybody play disc golf? Thank you. Glad you're here. I'm one of the few black men who played this disc golf. And Chattanooga, I'm an anomaly, believe me. It's so fun. And I'm old on top of it. But I love the game. I just found it three years ago. I'm late 50s. I'm finding this game. My back hurts. Everything hurts. But I'm I'm throwing y'all. Brothers out there winging it. I got my back. I'm I'm I'm working it. Like telling you about the back. But you know, but you but you know what you're taught to do is to imagine your shot. Before you throw it, I'm thinking about it. I'm watching it fly in my mind. I'm watching it go around that through that S curve in the air. Oh, that's a great shot. With a nice under stable disc and you get that and it goes zoom zoom and then it goes oof. And I'm imagining it doing that, because that's the way to success. In this golf. You gotta see it. What would happen? That's really a form of meditation. What would happen if the kingdom of God, the people in the kingdom of God began to imagine God going through us like wildfire? Begin to imagine God's word coming alive in this church. Begin to imagine the kingdom of God just blowing up in this place and swamping buoy. and and and a surrounding place. DC, for goodness sake. What would it look like if we daydreamed about that? Set your mind on things above, not on things that are on the earth. Why? Because you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him. In glory, seeking the things above. That priority. That's what I'm want to remind you of what I'm saying. That kind of language is defined in the New Testament. There's no coincidence that the next thing Paul says in Colossians 3, the next thing he says is, put to death therefore what is earthly in you Sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, covetousness, which is idolatry. You see? If I'm pursuing Christ in his kingdom and all that he is and has for us, if we're push, and we need to do this together, by the way. It's a church thing. Not just an individual thing. It is that it's a church thing. He's talking to the church that together we're helping each other deal with our idols. We're helping each other focus and get our minds and hearts together focused on what God can do here in Bowie through his church as his kingdom is revealed in power and glory. And love will be transformed personally And together, sexual immorality will not be named among us. Impurity, passion, even desires will be dealt with. Covetousness, which he says is idolatry, by the way. Isn't that to covet, to desire that which others have is idolatry. It's another kingdom. It's another God. It's a false God coming in, trying to get hold of our lives and souls, and even our churches. What would happen? Okay. Gotta wrap this up. I don't know how long I've been going. Last point What are the results of seeking first this kingdom? Thinking about our passage still. What are the results? Let me suggest some things Confidence in God, loss of anxiety, walking in Christ's righteousness. This is kind of a summary. I've been talking about this a little bit. First, we have confidence that God is going to satisfy our needs. That's the context, right? Don't be anxious about basically your physical needs. When we are seeking first his kingdom, our confidence in God to supply those needs as he sees fit goes up. We don't stop needing money to survive. That would be weird. But we stop allowing money, possessions, and power to define us, no matter how little Or m or no matter how little or much we have. We're not defined by these things. We recognize our greatest treasure is in Christ and his kingdom, not here on the earth. If we recognize that the real power, here we go, you'll see us tomorrow too. The real power is not in the White House Or the Supreme Court, or the U. S. military, or in your personal positions. But the real power is in the hands of our risen and sovereign king. I love the way the Great Commission begins. Come on, say it with me. Come on, let me hear you. Great Commission. Wrong. Everybody gets it wrong. It is just as important as the commission. That's verse 19. Listen to verse 18. Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. There it is. There it is. That's when the Great Commission works. Because it begins with the authority and the power of the king. Who is reigning and ruling? That's why he can plunder the nations. That's why he can snatch people out of every nation. He goes over to to communist Russia and snatches folk. Yeah, Christians there. Believe it. He goes over to Aram and he snatches folk out of the jihadists. Come on. He goes over to Israel, yep, and snatches some Jewish people and brings them to the Messiah Wherever you want to go, he's gone. He's already there. Snatching people. Why? Because he has all authority in heaven and in earth. Now go. We go on his authority. We go on the reality that that king is reigning, reigning among us. We have confidence We have confidence in that king reigning. We recognize where the real power is. The Greek Commission doesn't start where people usually think it does. The people of the world, of the nations, are in rebellion against God, including America. And they need a stronger king with a better kingdom to break them loose. And to break loose in them and through them. People, it always amazes me You know, you we in this country we talk about God and country. That's idolatry. You put country on the same level as God. It's God. If you would God and kingdom, country is down below. God, Christ. Don't you understand? We are not to be more American than Christian We are Christians. America may disappear. I don't want that, y'all, so understand I'm not praying for that Okay, I love this country. I want to see it thrive. I do, I do. Don't get don't don't don't get it twisted. He's hating on America. Oh I ain't got I ain't got time for that either. It ain't big enough for me to hate on it. No, it's God, Christ is King. See, we'll lose, we'll be less anxious people. But we're not worrying about America. But we're trusting that the kingdom of God is at hand in Christ. And he's moving and reigning. Our well-being is not dependent upon anything human beings can do Our well-being is grounded in what our King has done for us and is doing in us and has laid out before us as our destiny. That's where our well-being is. And since we're no longer living in self-righteousness, why? Because we're seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Self-righteousness gets destroyed. Because his righteousness is by faith in Christ alone. And that it produces Righteousness, living. It produces right living. When I'm seeking first the kingdom, when Christ is everything, when I'm recognizing that everything I have comes from Him and everything I have goes back to Him. Everything I have that's most important is secure in him. I don't have to be a self-righteous so-and-so anymore. I I don't have to try to convince you that I'm a great guy by lying to you or puffing myself up or showing you, oh yes, I yes, I traveled with You know, it's like social media, if you're on it. Please be careful. It is so narcissistic and self-idolatrous. How many pictures of yourself do you have on your account? Okay, never mind. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm just I just had a moment. I do this all the time at home, so forgive me. I don't even know why I said that. The idea of the self-righteousness, seek for God, his righteousness. See that seeking of him because he sought us first. That's the key, right? We don't seek God on our own because we got a good idea. We seek first the kingdom of God in Christ because we've been sought. And more than that, we've been found You've been gripped by grace. Gripped in the hands. John 10, Jesus, I got you, and the Father's got you. And no one can snatch you out of our hands. Hallelujah. When you've been gripped and grabbed like that and you recognize that's where your security is, I don't have to convince you of anything I can even admit to you I'm a screw up. Because my self-esteem is dependent upon what you think of me. So all the likes on Facebook, who cares? You don't like my Twitter, my tweet? So I'm not gonna lose it. Train your children. Come on, y'all got teenagers now. Come on. Grandchildren Teach them their identity is in Christ alone. Everything else is gravy. And it's not always good gravy either. See self-righteousness is destroyed. Instead of and here's another thing too, we Instead of hoarding wealth, I'm in the past, I'm in the context, okay? Instead of hoarding wealth out of fear and greed, we can be generous and giving. We're seeking for the kingdom. Sacrificial giving is the kingdom mentality. Hoarding is the kingdom of darkness. Hoarding is that other kingdom. Hoarding is idolatrous. Now I know we have people who have actually an actual problem middle in this order with hoarding. You see how horrible ruined their lives are? Have you met any hoarders? Have you been into a hoarder's home? It's heartbreaking. I've had members of my church in various places who have been hoarders. And we've gone in as a church and cleaned them out and moved them sometimes. Think about that as a spiritual reality. When you're hoarding, there's not much room to move. And yet the hoarder thinks they have everything. That's why they don't throw it away. They need it. That's a s just look about a spiritual reality of hoarding your wealth. hoarding your you think you've got freedom when in reality you're hemmed in you're trapped and you can't move and you don't even know it because you're possessions And your money and your investments are squeezing the life out of you. When you see first the kingdom, Because you've been sought and found. You can let go, you can give generously. Because who's taking care of you? You have the Heavenly Father. Who's much better than your earthly father, no matter how good your earthly father was, he's much better. Alright, all right. I'm gonna please So what's the what kingdom are you seeking? What kingdom is the great priority of your heart and life? Jesus died not to be second best in your life. He snatched you for himself. He took you as his own possession, his people, so that he might give you his kingdom. And this is what this country needs. This is what the church needs to be. I'll tell you, a church like that, full of people like that, for the glory of the great king, stop Father, bless your word to your people's hearts and may this message go down deep in all of our hearts, including the preachers. Oh, deliver us from the idols that surround us and encroach upon us Crush them. And set us free. He who the Son sets free is free indeed. He said, May we be free indeed. Jesus Name, Amen