It is uh such a wonderful privilege for me to be here with you all. Uh there could not be a place of dearer affection in my heart than the time we had here and the friends that we've had for so many years I recently preached on humility, and uh a close cousin of humility is humiliation. And there've been so many kind things said about me tonight that I think I need to tamp that down a little bit. And uh but I wanted wanted it to be through a story from early years. Uh what is it, one ninety-seven. used to be up at the other end of the church road. I couldn't find it church road anymore. And we were coming east. Right past where the road goes down to the school that we uh worshipped in. It was dusk, uh actually it's closer to dark. All the kids were in the car. And uh there's old traffic light right there. And there's a little hill coming up to it, so you can't see it too clearly. I was anxious to get home, and uh as we came up, that light went to red, and I was way too close to stop. And so I went through. And as I did in the corner of my eye, I see that the second car in is a police car. And so I I knew it was all up. I just pulled over and waited. And uh I was so humiliated Uh I started reaching across for the glove box and uh uh to grab the license and so on and uh registration. And I can feel the presence of the policeman. I can't even look up. And I start to roll down the window, and I hear this voice. You missed that one by a little bit, didn't you, Dave? It was Deacon Paul Evans. I was never so humiliated in my life. You'd rather have a chicken. I d I I was hoping you would shoot me But it just shows the extraordinary generosity of the diaconate of this congregation. All right. Let me see if I can pull myself together here now. Love songs. Love songs. How can you not love them? Endless Love by Diana Diana Ross and Lionel Ritchie. I Will Always Love You, Whitney Houston. I can't stop loving you, Ray Charles, because you loved me. Celine Dion. The sir with love, Lulu. Love will keep us together, Kath and Tanil. This guy's in love with you. That's one of my favorites. Herb Albert. Unchanged Melody, the Righteous Brothers. And stand by me, then ye king. Now I have some reputation in the PCA, unfortunately, but I doubt it includes me as a lover of love songs. And yet I don't want you to know, when I was first at college, I was part of a trio that uh we hired ourselves out to serenade the women's dorms. On behalf of others who didn't feel up to it. And usually we're we were pruning the words of Elvis Presley. Wise men say only fools rush in. But I can't help falling in love with you. Well, this evening we have before us On the grand occasion of the 40th anniversary of this congregation, a love song. A wonderful song. Celebrating the wedding of a great king, a lavish and lovely affair. And the song is as dazzling as the occasion it graces, as Derek Tidner put it. Psalm 45, I'm going to read it in a moment, is best understood as an allegory applying exclusively to the Messiah and his church, borrowed from the customs of the ancient royal court under the image of marital love So it's been taken by the earliest interpreters, both Jewish and Christian, to be messianic, to foresee the great work of the Messiah. Such an interpretation explains why this love song was included in the worship songs of God's people in the Psalter, to tutor them in the great truths here set forth in order to strengthen their desire and hope for the Messiah. We'll be focusing our attention this evening on verses 10 through 15. Here is the Psalm. This is the Word of God. My heart overflows with a pleasing theme. I address my verses to the king. My tongue is like a pen of a ready scribe. You are the most handsome of the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. God has blessed you forever. Gird your sword on, your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor and majesty. And your Majesty ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. Let your right hand teach you awesome deeds. Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies. The peoples fall under you. Your throne, O God, is forever. Your scepter, the scepter of your kingdom, is a scepter of righteousness. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. Your robes are all fragrant with myrrh and aloe and cassia. From Ivy places stringed instruments make you glad. Daughters of kings are among the late your ladies of honor. And at your right hand stands the queen in the gold boat. Here's our text. Hero, daughter, and consider. Incline your ear. Forget your people and your father's house. The king will desire your beauty. Since he is your Lord, bow to him. The people of Tyre will seek the favor of your favor with gifts, the riches of the people. All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold, and many colored robes she is led to the king, with her virgin companions following behind her. With joy and gladness they are led along as they enter the palace of the king. And the writer comments then, a blessing. In the place of your fathers Shall be your sons, and you will make them princes in all the earth, and I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations Therefore, the nations will praise you forever and ever. May God add his blessing to this reading of his word. Let me pray for us. Father, we pray that the Spirit would be at work within us, that our eyes would be opened to behold the beauties of our Savior and His glorious work on behalf of His bride. We pray this in his name. Amen. Let's look at the text a little more closely. Verse 1: My heart overflows with a pleasing theme. Here we have a song from Heart to Heart, written to stir the hearts of the hearers, as one commentator put it So this evening we should look to have our hearts served by these truths. Here, the Messiah, his bride is revealed. Jesus' ministry and the incarnation can be rightly understood as a betrothal to his bride, and he paid an extraordinary dowry for the bride in his death He left his place for her, and he's coming again to bring her to himself. As a bridegroom comes, the bride's heart will leap with joy, and she'll return with him to the place of the wedding feast. Psalm 45 pictures the return of Jesus, his wedding day, the grand procession of his bride to join him. Jesus in his human nature evidencing perfectly the restored image of God Beauty, character, action unmatched. He comes mighty over his enemies, according to the text, for the sake of his bride. Jesus Christ the righteous, whose kingdom shall never end. And then in the New Testament, you'll remember, this it applies in the book of Hebrews this psalm to Jesus in Hebrews 1. 8. Of the Son, he says, your throne, O God, forever and ever. The scepter of righteousness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. This is preparation for his wedding, fragrant robes, joyful music, regal fellowship, princes, and soon a queen. And to that image we turn in verse 10. Dear O Prince, Princess, consider and incline your ear. Forget your people and your father's house. The king will desire your beauty. He is your Lord. Bow to him. The people of Tar will seek the favor of the gifts. Here the psalmist offers counsel to the princess as she awaits her coming bridegroom. With the coming of such a great and glorious figure, as we have seen, perhaps the bride has begun to doubt herself, and she is counseled by the singer. Here are words of the wise, the experience. He urges her, you be ready to leave your home. The parting and the new beginning is fundamental to marriage from its origin. And it's set before the princess. Recall Genesis 2. 24, man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and they become one flesh, a leaving and cleaving that belongs to the essential nature of marriage. But lest she be filled with doubt in the matter, he urges her, you will be acceptable to the king. You will be greatly desired by him. You, of course, must not acknowledge his office. She is urged, since he is your Lord, bow down to him. And yet she is not diminished by this acknowledgement Rather, she is told that she will join him in rule and reward. His friends and subjects are now hers. Further, the people of Tyre will seek her favor. Now, Tyre, you understand, was the great trading partner of Israel during the grand and glorious reign of David and Solomon At that time, it was the most commercial city in the world. The prophet Ezekiel speaks of it as perfect in beauty and great wealth of every kind. The city was a type of the wealth of all the world. These people were the last word in prosperity, and it is these who will come to her and seek her favor bringing gifts. Esther Kidner noted, she is the gainer, not the loser, by her homage. Verse 13. All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold. In many colored robes she's led to the king. Her maidens, companions following behind, with joy and gladness, they are led along as they enter the palace. She has taken the counsel, and she is encouraged. Thus she is radiant as she goes to join the king. The psalmist portrays her in breathtaking surroundings, breathtaking adornment, breathtaking company. Joy and gladness reign as she goes to the the king. And then a blessing is pronounced. In the place of your fathers shall be your sons. You will make them princes in all the earth. And I will cause your name to remember to all generations. Therefore, the nations will praise you. Now, this blessing is upon the king. It may have sounded like it was continuing the text above, but the you and the your in this text are masculine in the Hebrew The king is also pointed away from the past toward the future with his bride. And he has held before him the promise of new glories. Here we have the ancient wish for those who marry that they would have numerous and distinguished offspring. And so this song will be embraced generation to generation. And therefore the praise of the Messiah will continue forever and ever. And so the people of God in the Old Testament would have been nurtured by this psalm as the word of God to have a bright vision of the bride of the Messiah, her beauty embraced by this king, and together they gloriously should reign. And so what I want us to see here is that from Psalm, we can conclude that Psalm 45 is the wedding song of Jesus Christ. I want to consider further this full revelation. First of all, in order to understand this to write, we need to understand something more about the Old Testament context. A marriage between God and his people. This allegory is prominent particularly among the Old Testament prophets. Among the many, a few examples. Isaiah 54, 5. For your maker is your husband, Yahweh of hosts is his name, and the Holy One of Israel is your redeemer. the God of the whole earth, he is called. But often, however, the imagery of marriage is used to point out the horrors of Israel's unfaithfulness. Thus, surely, it would have become a disconcerting allegory, as the prophets accused Israel of spiritual idolatry. Jeremiah 3. 1. If a man divorces his wife and goes out from him and becomes another man's wife, will he return? The rhetorical question, of course, anticipates no is the answer. Would not the land be greatly polluted? You have played the whore with many lovers. And would you return to me, says Yahweh? A sentence of doom, it sounds. Perhaps most prominently, the prophet Hosea. In his own experience, he becomes a living allegory of a faithful husband to an unfaithful wife, portraying God's marriage to his people. And yet, even here, in this most extensive use of the negative imagery, there are words of precious hope. Hosea 2, 16. In that day, declares Yahweh, you will call me my husband, and I will betroth you to me. And I will betrothe you to me in righteousness and justice and steadfast love and mercy. I will betrothe you to me in faithfulness, and you shall know Yahweh. This day is the day the prophet Isaiah foresaw in 62. 4. You shall no more be termed as forsaken Your land shall no long be termed desolate, but you shall be called, my delight is in her, as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride. And so shall your God rejoice over you. The prophet saw something more wonderful than an image used in accusation against Israel and her unfaithfulness. A time when God would be a husband to his people again in righteousness and faithfulness. And so she will rejoice. The prophet Jeremiah in 31. 3 puts it this way. I have loved you with an everlasting love. And therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you. Again I will build you, and you shall be built, O virgin Israel. Again you shall adorn yourself with tambourines and shall go forth in the dance of the merrymakers. Israel would rejoice as a bride before her bridegroom received her. This is the bright hope that would have filled the minds of God's people. and would have informed the sensibilities of Jesus himself, the Messiah, as he learned from the Old Testament about who he was and who he was to be, his own identity. Secondly, notice the marriage imagery is rich and powerful in the teaching of Jesus and the apostles. Perhaps in some ways the most powerful form identity picture. Given in the New Testament that God intends the church to embrace. We hear it first from John the Baptist. He's asked, are you the one to come, the Messiah, or should we expect another? The reply is, I am not the Christ. I have been sent before him. But John goes on, the one who has the bride is the bridegroom. And the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears, he rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, my joy is now complete. The imagery of the bride and the bridegroom captured John's messianic expectation, and he knew it was Jesus who was coming for his bride. So to this imagery informs Jesus' own self-consciousness. In Matthew 9. 14, the disciples come and they say, uh some of the external ones and and they say well what's with your disciples? We all the time fast and so on, but the disciples don't fast at all And Jesus' answer is, can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, then they will fast. Jesus thought of his presence in the midst of his disciples as the presence of a bridegroom with the wedding guests rejoicing and would mourn only at his departure. The wedding feast image is carried in some of his most important parables of the kingdom. And note this, that Jesus in his teaching tends to focus on the revelation of the bridegroom. This parable in Matthew 22, for example. The parable of the wedding feast. Here the focus is on the invitation to the feast and how the groom should be honored. And that those who failed to honor them would be cast out. So too in Matthew 25, the parable of the ten virgins. Here the emphasis on waiting and watching with anticipation for the coming of the bridegroom. With a solemn warning that those who are not found to be filled with eager expectation at his coming would be cast out. But when we move from the teaching of Jesus to the teaching of the apostles, there's a shift in focus. The apostles tend to focus more on the bride, not the bridegroom. The bridegroom has been revealed in text and in actions. Now the crucial thing is for the bride to be seen and to understand herself in terms of this image. In Romans 7 at 3, Paul portrays the church first as a widow who has now married again. She died to her former husband, the law, and now she is married to Christ, the risen Christ. And she's going to be fruitful. Paul employs the same image among the Corinthian believers in his second epistle. He speaks of how he ministers to them. The church being understood as a maiden betrothed to Jesus, and Paul is zealous to be careful that she be presented to the bridegroom pure through the ministry of the word. But the most extended treatment of this allegory in the New Testament is found in Ephesians chapter 5, which we've just heard our lesson this evening. We often focus on this text in order to understand the relationship of this worldly husbands and wives But this evening I want you to pay attention to it more for what it teaches us about the relationship between Jesus and his bride And in fact, we see that in Paul's images that they remarkably track the picture of the bride. In Psalm 43, 45. Did the psalmist declare the Messiah's bride? Hero, daughter, consider, incline your ear, forget your people. So the bride of Christ in Ephesians. She is called to leave all and to be united to him, understanding that from creation, this was the picture of the relationship of Christ to his bride. Paul, in fact, cites the very text that we said was referred to in Genesis 2. 24, that the profound mystery is this. Christ and the church in marriage. Did the psalmist say the to uh declare the Messiah's bride that the king will love your beauty? Paul and Ephesians declare that Christ loves and cherishes his bride. Did the bride of did the psalmist declare, see your Lord and bow to him. The people of Tyre will favor you with gifts. So the bride of Christ. Christ is the head of the church, his body. He's the Savior, and the church commits to Christ. Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. But she is not the loser in devoting herself to him in this order. He nourishes her, sacrifices himself for her, and his word purifies her. Did the psalmist speak of the glory of the Messiah? Messiah's bride, a glorious princess in her chamber with robes and uh celebrations, joy and gladness. So, Paul in Ephesians, he speaks of how Christ will sanctify his bride, cleansing her by the washing of water with the word. so that he might present her to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any other such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Christ nourishes and cherishes the church, and we are members of his body. Now think with me. I hope you've not had too much of an endurance test this evening about what this means to you tonight, if this is in fact the teaching of Scripture. This psalm is a consolation and delight to the church in every age. We should meditate upon it regularly, but it is especially fitting on an occasion such as this. Beloved, when this congregation was gathered together as a congregation, we were nothing in the eyes of the world. But we were part of everything in the eyes of Christ. And now, in these forty years, you are demonstrating your husband's care. Oh my friends, let us rejoice together as members of the body, the bride of Christ. Review the psalm with me again, now quickly, with an eye toward our own circumstances this evening. The bride is called to forget her people and her father's house and cleave to her husband So this congregation is called to give up all for the sake of Jesus. This sense of leaving and cleaving must ever be with you. With respect to your former place in the world, without hope, or God, now cleaving unto your heavenly husband Jesus taught his disciples in 1037 of Matthew, whoever loves father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. Whoever loves son or daughter is not worthy of me. He insisted in Luke 14, 33, if any one of you does not renounce all, he cannot be my disciple. Now, of course, there's hyperbole at work here, but the point is to make a powerful point. Nothing before Christ. This is not a rejection of the world as God's creation. But rather it is a rejection of the world as fallen. The world system in rebellion against Christ our King. For us today, the allure of the world is greater than ever. In the West, extraordinary wealth. We have markets flooded with consumer goods to meet that wealth. Almost anyone now can do what the truly wealthy only in the past could do, create their own lifestyle. image. Modern society in fact provokes a problem with respect to identity because the things that convey identity in the past, family, custom, tradition, wither under the influence of modern life, as choice expands beyond our capacity to choose well. In the modern world, as wealthy consumers, we're constantly under construction. with consumption creating self-images that are cut loose from reality. I consume, therefore I am, as the ad says I will be. This is the Cogito erdo sum of the modern world. And yet there is a paradox here. One sociologist observed, we have so much, and we've never had so little. Never before have opportunities been so many, and products so abundant, and our accoutrements so numerous, and at the same time we have less happiness, more depression. More fragile relationships, less communal commitment, less vocational security, and more demoralized children. A sense of emptiness and uncertainty haunts our inner life While self is the only standard for judgment, if it doesn't make me feel good, it must not be good. But our psalm sets before us a very different sense of self. The bride is preparing herself for another As the church, so the members of the church, their calling is to understand themselves in relationship to another, leaving the world she knew she is to take up a new world, becoming what she can for her husband. Our identity is found in who we are in Christ, a standard that comes from outside the self, calling us from self-orientation to God orientation. This is a world not of self-expression, self-esteem, and self-actualization, but a world of self-discipline, self-denial, and self-renunciation Those who would follow Christ must take up the cross. They must die to the world of selfish pleasures. That is the continuing calling of this congregation But this, of course, is not an end in itself. That's the heresy of asceticism. Rather, it is for the sake of gaining Christ and glory. So the metrical version of this psalm teaches us to sing, O Royal Bride, give heed. And to my words attend, for Christ the King forsake the world and every former friend. Not for nothing But for Christ the King, the glorious bridegroom is coming to bring you unto himself. This is the identity that gives you stability in this world and hope for the future. Shall we venture all for the sake of Jesus? Suppose we are not accepted. Of course, the psalm teaches us to be a courage, because we are assured the con the king will desire your beauty. Abandoning this world, this congregation makes no gamble. By the word of God, this bride is to be confident she'll be acceptable to the king Here is a place of identity prepared by another, knowing that by God's grace you will be accepted to the king. And Jesus himself is at work to this end. This is what Paul teaches in our Ephesian passages. Christ is at work so that he might present the church to himself in splendor. without spot or wink wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish, clothed in his righteousness alone, faultless to stand before the throne. Confident that the Lord is at work, you, the bride, must continue to take up your labor, and so to prepare yourself. Think of Revelation 19, 7. Let us rejoice and exalt and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. For it was granted to her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure. For the fine linen is the righteous bees of the saints. Beloved, you have a grand calling to work out your salvation in fear and trembling, knowing that it's God who is at work within you to will and to do his good pleasure And your beauty is displayed in fine linen. What kind of beauty? Well, remember, the uh finery of the psalms And illogical. The wise man in Proverbs remind us, charm is deceitful, beauty is vain, but a woman who fears Yahweh is to be perfect. Your beauty is the inner beauty wherein you're devoted to your husband, the beauty that is precious before the Lord Peter speaks of it when he describes the Christian wife in 1 Peter 3. 4. Let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. Which in God's sight is very precious. This is the precious spirit of the bride, his church, that imperishable beauty that manifests itself then in outward beauty, because the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. The same was in view when the wise man described the beauty of the excellent wife in Proverbs 3120. We hear of the glory of her deeds, particularly her righteous deeds, opening her hand to the poor, reaching out to the needy. These are the righteous deeds of the saints that beautify the bride, preparing her for her husband. And so you must prepare yourself for him Now, since he is the Lord, you must bow down to him. The congregation must ever bow down. The bride from Psalm 45 is a picture of this calling as the direction is given to Paul by uh by Paul to bride the same brides in Ephesians 5. But of course, there's always a drawback with respect to this picture when we consider this worldly husbands. They don't always live up to their calling to love their wife as Christ loves the church. And thus she must have a care in that relationship that she not transgress her conscience, nor the word of God in her acknowledgement of her husband's headship. But gloriously here You as the bride of Christ have no need to fear, no cause for hesitation. You can give yourself entirely to this husband because his lordship is perfect. Perfect with respect to righteousness. Perfect with respect to meeting your needs. Perfect with respect to him preparing you for glory. We are encouraged to apply this to ourselves, that our congregation may ever have the sensibility of bowing down to Christ, not to act on your own authority. but to love and acknowledge his rule. Now there are many churches today who have abandoned the idea that Christ is Lord of the Church. And suppose themselves to be creative, to find different and new ways, to reach out to people with a gospel that's been so uh emasculated that it's worthless. There have been many indictments of this. But the point is here the bride is not submitting to her husband. It's in fact rebellion. But we must freshly engage the image and wear it faithfully ourselves. We are the bride, he is the Lord, and we must bow down before him. His word is a love letter to his bride, caring for her, giving her direction. And we must continue to hold fast to that word. This is part of the beauty of the church before a watching world. And the people of Tyre will seek your favor with gifts. You lose nothing by honoring your Lord in this faithful obedience. The people of Tyre will favor you. This congregation will join Jesus in rule and reward. In Christ you will reign. That's what the apostle insists upon in 2-6 of Ephesians. God has raised us up within and seated us in the heavenly places with Jesus Christ. And with joy and gladness, they are led along to the palace of the King. One day, we will be led with joy and gladness as we enter the palace of our King. Devotion to him More than any other is worth the cost. Christ desires this congregation in her beauty, and he's coming for her So he promised, in my house there are many rooms, and I've gone to prepare a place for you. Justice Peter insisted, That wives are heirs together with their husbands of the grace of Christ. This congregation is an heir with Christ of the grace of the Heavenly Father, waiting for an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled. unfading, kept in heaven for you. And so there is blessing upon this marriage. The blessing as proclaimed in Psalm 45. Jesus is the one who is bringing many sons to glory. Just as the couple in Psalm 45 will have sons and daughters who are princes upon the earth, so the people of Christ are to be princes. and Christ is gathering for himself those children. In Revelation 5. 9 we read that by your blood you ransomed the people of God from every tribe and language and nation. And you have made them a kingdom and priests, a priest to our God, and they shall reign upon the earth. According to Revelation 22, 5, they will reign forever and ever. Calvin put it beautifully. God stirs up his servants in every place to proclaim with fidelity the unfeigned zeal, the praises of Christ, the bridegroom. as he comes. And so in Revelation 5. 13 we hear the heavenly song. Every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea and all that is in them, saying, To him who sits on the throne, To the land be blessing and honor and glory and might forever. This, dear, faithful, beloved of Jesus, is our future to quote a this worldly song, aptly, though inadvertently expressing the irrepressible hope of our creation in the image of God Carry on. Love is coming. Amen. Let us pray together. Oh, our Heavenly Father. How glorious that we have been betrothed to such a bridegroom, to such a king. And though he has gone away from us now. Oh, let us never forget the identity that we have as the bride of Christ. May our ministers ever be zealous to present the bride in purity. Heeding the word, preparing her for that great wedding feast. And may our hearts ever be lifted up to that day when he shall return. And let that hope and glory infuse all our moments in these days. We pray in Jesus' name.