Well, for our New Testament reading and sermon text, we're going to read Matthew 1, the whole chapter. This is Matthew, the Gospel writer's account of the birth of Jesus Christ. And as you'll see, it begins with a genealogy. of where Jesus came from and uh ends with the naming of him as Jesus because of what he would do. So let's give attention to the reading of God's word from Matthew chapter one. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers, and Judah the father of Perez, and Zirah by Tamar, and Perez the father of Hezron, and And Hezron the father of Ram, and Ram the father of Aminadab, and Aminadab the father of Nashan, and Nashan the father of Salmon, and Salmon the father of Boaz by Rahab. And Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of David, the king. And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah. And Solomon the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asaph, and Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat. And Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah, and Uzziah the father of Jotham, and Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah And Hezekiah the father of Manasseh And Manasseh the father of Amos, and Amos the father of Josiah, and Josiah the father of Jeconiah, and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon. And after the importation to Babylon, Jechaniah was the father of Shaltiel, and Shaltiel the father of Zerubbabel, and Zerubbabel the father of Abiad, and Abiad the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the Out of Azor And Azar the father of Zadok and Zadok the father of Achim and Achim the father of Eliad and Eliad the father of Eliezer and Eliazar the father of Matan and Matan the father Jacob and Jacob the father of Joseph The husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ. So all the generations, from Abraham to David, were fourteen generations, and from David to the Deportation to Babylon 14 generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to Christ 14 generations. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband, Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, Do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son. And you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgins shall conceive and bear a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, he took his wife, but knew her not, until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer. Let's ask Him to bless our time as we meditate on this passage further. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word, and we thank you for the birth of a Son, the Son, Jesus. Christ, how we thank you for his birth 2,000 years ago, his life, his death, his resurrection. We thank you that he is alive today at your right hand. And it is Him that we long to hear from. May you enable us to have ears to hear, to have hearts, to listen. As we consider the Word of Christ here in Matthew, Genesis 22, and think on what it means for Jesus to be the son of Abraham, among other things. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, what can a last name tell you? It can actually tell you quite a lot, especially if you're traveling in a place like Europe, lots of nations all packed together, if you get a last name, often it can tell you where a person is from. Mendelssohn Good German name for the son of Mendel. So you know where this person's from, and somewhere in their ancestry there's a guy named Mendel who's uh in their ancestor ancestral line. If you're in Italy and you meet a D. Giovanni, means somebody who's of the family of John. Giovanni is apparently Italian for John. If you're in Holland and you meet a van der Meer, you know that you're somebody this somebody is from a people who were from the sea, probably seafarers of some sort. Vandermeer from the sea. If you're in Scotland, you'll meet people with the names Mac. Right? Like Macpherson, which means what? Son of a pastor or son of the pastor. So you can learn a lot about people by their last names. And in uh Arabic and Semitic names, actually The names often in the Bible are much more Scottish than other things. Muckpherson, son of a pastor, son of the pastor, bin Laden, Osama bin Laden, son of Laden. Something Ben David, son of David. Last names tell us a story of sorts. They anchor us in a history. They share part of our identity, and they can be It can be inferred often from them what our ethnicity is. They often answer the question: whose son or daughter is this? Now, at the time of Matthew's writing his gospel, the time of the birth of Christ, Israel had been waiting for a son. A son to be born. This was promised in the prophets, like Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6. To us a child is born, to us a son is given. And this This declaration was actually a future prophecy of a son who would be born, a son who would be given And that's even reflected here in this quote from Isaiah chapter 7 in verses 22 and 23. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet Isaiah. Behold, the virgins shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. So, Israel at the time of Christ is waiting for a son to be born, and as Matthew begins his gospel, he introduces him by name. The Book of the Genealogy of Jesus Christ is how Matthew begins his gospel, which is the first gospel in the New Testament. This is how the New Testament begins. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ. And you you hear that and kids you might think, oh, if I met him, I would need to call him Mr. Christ. Because that's the last name, right? We have a first name and a last name. Jesus Christ. That's not right. So Christ is a title. It means Messiah, right? Christos is the Greek term for Meshiach, which is the Hebrew term, which means Messiah, the anointed one. Jesus, the anointed one, and this is a title like we would have Congressman Smith or President Trump as we have it today or uh Judge Judy, Messiah. Jesus, right? Messiah Jesus title. But Matthew goes on and does give us surnames Jesus, or Christ Jesus, Jesus who is called the Christ, as it says there in verse 16. Son of David, Ben David, son of Abraham, Ben of Raham. And so as we're thinking about these surnames of Jesus, we looked two weeks ago when Pastor Chris was preaching on Jesus, Ben Elohim, son of God. Here we're looking at this week and next week, we'll look at these other two surnames: son of Abraham, son of David. Next week we'll look at son of David. This week, son of Abraham. And here's the question: What does this surname tell us about Jesus the Christ? What does it mean for him to be Jesus, son of Abraham? And I would suggest, as we look at this passage and we sink through the whole biblical record, that what this tit this not title, this surname tells us about Jesus, is one is he is the predicted seed of the woman. Two is he is the prefigured substitute for sinners. And three, he is the promised son of the covenant. Predicted seed, prefigured substitute, and promised son are the three points we'll consider this morning. First of all, he is the predicted seed of the woman. Jesus, son of Abraham, means That he is the predicted seed of the woman, the fulfillment of the covenant of grace's promise of a deliverer. A Messiah, a serpent head crusher. And we already looked at this a bit last time when Pastor Chris was preaching from the book of Luke, and we we read that passage from Genesis chapter 3. But what's interesting here is we look at Matthew's account, Matthew's genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, there are all sorts of allusions to Genesis right here. Actually, in the very first words where it says the book of the genealogy. of Jesus Christ. Literally, in Greek, it's the book of the Genesis of Jesus Christ. And that term for the book of the genealogies or the book of the generations as it's often translated in the Old Testament. This comes right out of Genesis, Genesis chapter 2, verse 4, and 5, verse 1, and elsewhere. The book of generations or genealogies. And notice how, as we continue in the passage, the first few verses unfold what we read about in Genesis. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Genesis chapter twelve to twenty-something. Isaac was the father of Jacob, Genesis twenty-two to twenty-something. Jacob was the father of Judah and his brothers, and Judah the father of Perez and Zer Zirah by Tamar, Genesis 38. Piraz the father of Hezron and Hezron the father of Raham, and it continues. And as the list goes on, you you basically read a list of names that carry us through the whole Pentateuch, the first five books of Moses, and then through the whole history of Israel. Why? The point is, to understand who Jesus is, you have to go back to Genesis. And specifically, you have to go back to Abraham. To Abraham. That's how Matthew lays out his genealogy. Abraham and David Jesus. So Jesus, the son of Abraham We have to go back and read about Abraham in the book of Genesis. And Genesis begins, and we see the beginning of the world, it's all created good. We talked about this two weeks ago. Chris did as he was reflecting on Jesus as the Son of God. But then right at the beginning in chapter 3, after two chapters of good creation, what happens? The fall. Sin enters into the world through Adam and Eve and through the serpent's temptation of Eve's. specifically and ever since Genesis 3, what have we been doing? We've been showing By our sinful behavior, how much sons of Adam and Eve we are. Daughters of Adam and Eve we are. How much we each generation following them add to their sin and pride with our own. And Follow them in breaking faith with God, in disobeying God's law, and in some ways doing it more and more. If you read the newspapers, Right? This is an unfolding sad tale ever since Genesis chapter 3. And this time of year, I think, is proof of how sad the tale is, because why do we delight in Peace on earth because there's no peace. Right? And why is there no peace? Well, it's because of sin and evil. However, again, as we talked about a couple weeks ago, the rest of Genesis and the whole Old Testament Isn't just the story of sin and how it unfolds over time, but it's the story of two lines. The seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. We read about this uh two weeks ago when When when uh Pastor Christ is reading from Genesis chapter 3, and the curse on the serpent is, I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring or seed and her offspring or seed. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. And so the whole story that unfolds through the Bible is of two offsprings, two seeds, the seed of the serpent, all who rebel against God, and who will one day be judged. And the seed of the woman, all who are born in sin, but who follow God by faith in his promises, and have A promise of salvation that awaits. And this tale of two seeds, I would argue the main character in the tale of two seeds is Father Abraham. Abraham, why? Because he is the singular man of faith who bears the first really beginning of the fulfillment of that promise for the seed of the woman. Think about it. Genesis, if you go back, and if you don't know it, you can read it later on today. But in Genesis, you have this decline to the flood And then Noah and his sons are the only ones left, and then they go out, and then by the by Genesis 11, two short chapters after the flood has ended, what happens? Apparently, there is not a faithful remnant on earth. Why? Because the way the story is told, Abraham was not a man of faith to begin with. He was an idolater. Joshua 24 says he was called out of idolatry. To follow God by faith. And he, as he begins to follow God to the promised land, he has a great problem And that is, how can he be the father of the seed of the woman's line if his own wife can't bear a child? She's barren. Sarah. What does God do? Out of this darkness of the world, no one of faith, calling one man to be a man of faith, who himself can't bear an offspring, God says, no. I will fulfill my promise. And Abraham waits and waits and wrongly tries his own hand at it with Ishmael. God says, that's not the way it's going to be fulfilled. Wait on me. But eventually, God fulfills his promise to Abraham, and a barren old post-menopausal Sarah bears a son. Isaac. And the reason this fulfillment was so significant is that it was part of a bigger promise of God, not just For Abraham to have someone to pass his household on to, which is part of his concern. Right? But this is part of a greater promise for a kingdom. Of people in a land of fruitfulness and full of the blessing of God's permanent presence with them. That's the promise that God reiterates to Abraham in Genesis chapter 17, verses 4-8. Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, exalted father, but your name shall be Abraham, father of multitudes. For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful. And here it is. And I will make you into nations Kings shall come from you, and I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and to your offspring, and I will give To you and your offspring after you, the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And the whole history of Israel. You start to see what looks like God fulfilling those promises of a kingdom. First, you have one man, Abraham, who eventually and his grandson Jacob becomes a large family of people. And then they go into slavery in Egypt. And then they come out of Egypt, multitudes, millions of people, and they enter into the promised land, and here it is. You've got people, you've got a land, you've got God through his temple present with his people, and it seems like this must be it, and yet exiled, removed from the land. And fast forward to Jesus' time, and the question hanging over God's people Israel at the time of Jesus' birth was: has God given up on his promise? Is there still a promised seed of the woman we're waiting for? And you open the New Testament. Turn to the book of Matthew, and you have the answer. Jesus Christ, the son of Abraham. In this sense, like Paul says in Galatians chapter 3, the son or the offspring of Abraham is first singular. Right? Galatians 3. 16, Paul says, now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say and to offsprings. Referring to many, but referring first to one and to your offspring who is Christ. So, what does it mean that Jesus is born thus son of Abraham? Friends, it means that he is the promised seed of the woman. Who was born to crush the head of the serpent? Who was born to make Abraham's descendants like the stars of the sky, which Jesus does by leading many into the family of faith? Who is born to inherit the land of promise, not Palestine, which Abraham knew was only a type, but the new heavens and the new earth, the whole world consummated. Who is born to bless all nations of the earth by calling both Jews and Gentiles out of the nations of the earth into his kingdom to be blessed by him as a king? And that means that Jesus, the son of Abraham, tells us not just something about Jesus, but it tells us something very important about God. And this is what it is. God is faithful to fulfill his promises. Year after year, as we come to this time in this season and we think about Jesus being born, and we see him introduce, Jesus the son of Abraham, it drives home this point. God is faithful. To fulfill his promises. Again, think of Matthew's audience. The last word that has been revealed as new revelation from God was 400 years before this. And the promises that they were holding to, clinging to, if they were, were over 2,000 years old to Abraham. They were looking more and more unfulfillable. And yet into that darkness, into that seeming impossibility, into the barrenness of sin and misery, like Isaac being born to Abraham through barren Sarah, Jesus is born. to the Virgin Mary. In Palestine under the Roman rule at the time, and he's born as the promised seed of Abraham or promised seed as the son of Abraham. God fulfills his promises. And so we can wrap up this first point and say, what promises? Has he made to you that you need this reminder for that God is faithful to fulfill his promises? If you are a believer here, a follower of Christ, God has not promised an easy life. But he has promised a sure hope. If you are here as a believer, God has not promised you riches now. But he has promised you a glorious inheritance to inherit the whole earth with Christ. If you are a believer here this morning, you are not promised that you will have a sinless life here. Sin does cling so closely, as Hebrews says, it is a battle with the flesh that we are called to be engaged in in this life. But God has promised sanctification in this life, growth in grace, and He's promised perfection. In the age to come. He has not promised a lack of suffering, but he has promised to be with you in it and through it. And he has promised that Jesus Christ will come again, make all things new, wipe away every tear, and that sin will be no more. Jesus Christ as the son of Abraham means God fulfills his promises. And he will fulfill his promises to you. It means that he's the promised or the predicted seed. It also means, here's point number two, that Jesus is the prefigured substitute for sinners. The prefigured substitute for sinners. Jesus, as son of Abraham, also means that we can learn a lot about him and what he's all about by looking. At the first son of Abraham, at Isaac. He's introduced right here in Matthew chapter 1, verse 2. Jesus, the son of Abraham, Abraham was the father of Isaac. So, if Jesus is the son of Abraham, what does the first son of Abraham tell us about who Jesus is and what he came to do? Specifically, that's where it begins to unfold for us the person of Christ. It tells us about the nature of his mission and work, how he would go about fulfilling God's promise of land and people and blessing that King, those kingdom promises. He would do so. By being the true Isaac, by being the better Isaac as a sacrificial substitute. See, Jesus comes to be The son of Abraham, the better Isaac by being, in the story read in Genesis 2, by being the ram caught in the thicket to take Isaac's place. By being the Lamb who Isaac is looking for. Where is the Lamb? And ultimately, there's the ram that points forward to the lamb slain to take away the sins of the L. See, son of Abraham takes us back to Genesis twenty-two that we read a moment ago, where God tests Abraham. That's what it says. It says he tested Abraham by asking him for a sacrifice, the sacrifice of his only son. You hear that over and over again. Your only son, the one whom you love. Now we read this, and scholars today are very troubled by this, right? We all are, right? How could God ask for the sacrifice of the Son? That makes it God sound like all those Old Testament ancient Near Eastern gods who did demand the sacrifice of children. And it's not just in the ancient Near East, it's down in South America as well. Cultures throughout the world have often sacrificed children to the gods. And in some sense, it makes sense if you believe that your children are gifts from the gods. And there's some sense in which we can't truly manufacture children on our own, right? We have to be dependent on processes and nature and things to actually bring this about. And and so i in cultures where they believe that the gods Are the ones responsible for this? Well, if the gods can give children, they can take them. I think they have a right. We're horrified by that idea, and yet I would argue there's a bit of hypocrisy in that. Because what are gods? But Things that we give our lives to, devote ourselves to. This is that idea of idolatry in the Bible. And don't we, in our modern age Worship our idols by sacrificing our children, whether through abortion, abuse, neglect. As we chase after our careers, our self-fulfillment in various ways. But that's still simple. God doesn't ask for that generally, and I think that's really the point. Because God is sort of saying, if anyone has a right to ask for your child, I do. Especially this child, who I had to give, because it was impossible for you to produce this child on your own through Baron Sarah. I gave it, I can take it, but But the question of Genesis 22 is, is the Lord, the God of the Bible, that kind of God that demands child sacrifice? Is he just like Moloch? And the answer is no. Clearly no, because look what happens. Genesis chapter 22, verses 9 to 14. They come to the place which God had told them. Abraham builds the altar. He lays the wood in order. And you know, the camera is slowing down. This is like slomo, right, in Hebrew narrative. He lays the wood in order. And bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Again, here we we see this willingness of Isaac to go through this. He himself is participating with his father. It's not like he is uh doing this against his will. And then Abraham reaches out his hand and takes the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. And he said, Do not lay your hand on him. the boy, or anything, or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing that you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by its thorns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. in the place of his son, as a substitute for his son. So Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide, as it is said to this day on the mount of the Lord it shall be provided. The point is, this confirms that Abraham is the man of faith. Right? He's willing to believe in the Lord and answer his call, even to give his own son. But we already knew Abraham's the man of faith. We don't really need that confirmed for us. So, what is Genesis 22 adding to the picture? It's telling us something about Abraham's God. And what does it say about him? It says he requires a sacrifice. Because of sin. Because even Abraham, a man of faith, is a sinner who justly deserves the wrath of God. But it also says something more: it says that he's not a God. Like those other idols. He's not a God like Moloch, who demands child sacrifice, who delights in human sacrifice, because he stops Abraham from doing it. Even more importantly, he's a God not only of justice and holiness and majesty, which he is. But He's also a God of love and mercy and compassion and grace. Yes, there must be a sacrifice for sin, but God says, I will provide a substitute for you, my beloved people. I will be the father that I showed Abraham was willing to be, but I didn't let him. I will be the father who willingly gives my own only begotten beloved son. And my son will be the better Isaac. Like Isaac, willing to be the sacrifice. But with Jesus, he's the ram who actually becomes the substitute for sinners. How does he do that? He does that by going to the cross. Where does he do it? On the very mountain where it says the Lord provided. Isaac carried the wood for the offering, like Jesus carried the wood of the cross up to that mountain. And it's so interesting when it says that that ram was caught in the the thicket. It's words echoing Genesis chapter 3 of the curse. The ram's horns were caught in the thorns and thistles of the curse. And it became then the sacrifice for sin, much like Jesus comes. What does he bear on his head as a crown? The thorns. Representing the curse of sin that he took to the cross to take that sin and defeat it once for all. So that all who repent of sin and trust in him have the promise. That Jesus, the better Isaac, the son of Abraham, is our substitute who has taken our death in our place. Here's the application of the second point. If you are not yet a follower of Jesus Christ, if you're not yet a believer, if Abraham was the great father of faith and he knew that he needed the sacrifice for sin, friend, you do too. You do too. Your sin separates you from God, and justice will be required. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. Either our death or the death of a substitute. Jesus, who fulfills the promises of the Old Testament, also promised to come again to judge the living and the dead. And on judgment day, everyone will give an account for every careless word and sinful act. But the good news is that Jesus has the name Son of Abraham. He offers himself as the substitute to be the ram in your place. If you confess your sin to God and believe in Jesus Christ as your Lord, as your Savior, his death is for you. And the wages of, well the wages of death, the wages of sin is death, he takes those wages to the cross. And the wages of righteousness, which are blessing forevermore, his wages of righteousness are yours as a gift. They receive by faith. The Bible says the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. And this is the good news that is not just for unbelievers, but it's also for believers. Those of you who are believers here this morning, why do you bear the weight of your sin and guilt? It has been paid once for all. Jesus has untied you like Isaac was unbound. And he has been nailed to the cross in your place. Your sins are forgiven, and when the Father looks on you, he looks with love and delight as his child. He says, I have one only begotten Son, but I'm giving that Son, who will then bring many sons and daughters. To glory. Welcoming all those who come to God through faith in Jesus Christ as his beloved family, his beloved sons and daughters, children of God, as the Bible says. And thus we are through faith. Jesus as the son of Abraham means he's the predicted seed of the woman, proving that God fulfills his promises, that he's the prefigured substitute for sinners. Showing God's generous grace and love in the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ. Third and finally, Jesus as son of Abraham means that he is the promised son of the covenant. You know, throughout Jesus' ministry, he regularly challenges the notion around at his time That being a son of Abraham meant that you were a bloodline descendant. Now that was true of many people. They could trace their lineage to Abraham. Jesus could trace his lineage to Abraham as a bloodline descendant. But there are many who thought this if you could simply trace your ancestry, then it meant you were the special people of God, chosen for his covenant blessings and promises. And what was his promise to be? Our God and for us to be his people. And Jesus and then the apostles after him come along and they say, That's not quite right. Now, to be a true son of Abraham, is to be a spiritual son or daughter of Abraham. To be those who are justified and reconciled To God by faith, like Abraham in Jesus Christ. This is Paul's point in Galatians 3, a very important passage. The early church was made up of mostly Jews. Also, Gentiles who had heard the gospel of Jesus Christ, who had believed in him, who became part of the church, the family of God But then what does Paul write in Galatians for? He's writing it into a context where some in the early church, some probably Jews, came along and said, It's not enough. It's not enough just to have faith in Jesus Christ. No, you need to become Jewish. You need to obey the law of Moses. If you want to be a true son of Abraham, child of Abraham. And Paul in Galatians chapter 3 says, no. He says, no. The son of Abraham, first and foremost, is Jesus, the son of Abraham, Galatians 3:16. And so he is the true offspring, the seed, the son of the covenant, and we become sons of Abraham when we come to faith. in him. Galatians 3. 7. Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. The point is, the people of God is not a bloodline of lawkeepers. It's Jews and Gentiles, men and women. Black and white, all ethnicities of the earth, anyone who believes in the Lord Jesus Christ. Galatians 3. 26 Tor to twenty-nine it sort of ends that discussion of this idea. Paul says, For in Jesus Christ you are all sons of God through faith, for as many of you As were baptized into Christ, have put on Christ, there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ, Then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs, according to the promise. See, Jesus as the true son of Abraham means that we don't have to have Abraham's genes. To have the hope of the promise. To be part of God's people. All we need to have is not Abraham's genes. We need to have Abraham's faith. Faith in the coming son of Abraham. For us, faith in the son of Abraham who has come. Jesus Christ. So Jesus, as the promised Son of the Covenant of Grace, reiterates this reality that God's people aren't a nation or a race, but are all who repent. and believe in Jesus Christ and have the promises of God and the gospel. And we see this right here in Matthew chapter 1 in Jesus' genealogy. I don't know if you notice that, but I love Matthew's genealogy of Jesus because Of some of the names that he highlights, Gentiles who are part of the line of Jesus, wicked sinners who are part of the line of Jesus. Tamar, who presents herself as a prostitute, she's a Canaanite woman. Rahab, who is a Canaanite prostitute in Joshua, beginning of Joshua. Ruth, who is a Moabitis, wicked kings like Manasseh. And yet one a king who is wicked and yet repented, as we read of him in Chronicles. These are exactly the kind of people Jesus came to redeem, outsiders. Sinners, people like you and me. And what it means to be redeemed, to be part of God's people is it means that we are adopted as sons and daughters, as co-heirs with Christ of everlasting life, with God in glory. So let's wrap up this third and final point. Let's think about what this means for us. That Jesus is the Son of the Covenant of Grace who fulfills its promises. Brings them to us as the son who brings many sons or daughters to glory. What a comfort of God's incredible grace in Jesus Christ, the son of Abraham, the promised son of the covenant that he has earned. An inheritance that he has earned for himself the kingdom promised. By his own perfect obedience, obedience even unto death, he has earned for himself people as numerous as the stars of the sky. He has earned for himself a land perfectly fruitful and flourishing. He has earned for himself the blessing of God's presence forevermore. He is the blessing of God's presence forevermore. As Emmanuel, as Matthew says, which means God with us. And how has he done it? He's done it by being Jesus, the name that means the Lord saves. Jesus Christ, the Son of Abraham, means He's the predicted seed of the woman, proving that God fulfills his promises, that He is the prefigured substitute for sinners, showing us God's generous love and mercy and grace. In providing a path of salvation. And Jesus is the promised Son of the Covenant, gathering his people of faith into his covenant of grace. from every tribe and nation, tongues, race, skin, color, political party, uniting us all as the people of God, Christians, to inherit the kingdom of his glory with him. Forevermore. Thanks be to God for the birth of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, the Son of Abraham. Amen. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, how we thank you for this good news that we have unfolded for us even in these opening verses of the Gospel of Matthew as you introduce to us. Jesus Christ, the Son of Abraham. How we thank you for how the Old Testament unfolds the beauty and wonder and character of who our Savior is And Lord, as we take time at this time of year to remember His first coming, may you grow in us both renewed repentance. As we see the suffering and the work that our redemption took in the person of Jesus Christ as our perfect substitute. But may you also grow in us faith In your promises which are yet future. May you grow in us a longing for the age to come that you have promised to bring when Christ returns, and may you prepare us to meet him well when he does. In his name we pray. In the name of Jesus, the Son of Abraham. Amen