Our sermon text comes from John chapter 19, verses 16 through 37. I've been preaching through the book of John. It's past a few times in the mornings, mostly in the evening. And we approach here what is in some sense the climax of this book. We approach here the crucifixion scene. The scene in In which we see Jesus crucified for sinners. Hear with me now the word of the Lord, starting in verse 16. So Pilate delivered him, Jesus, over the So they took Jesus and he went out bearing his own cross to the place they called the place of the skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha, and they crucified him there. And with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. The Jews. Many of the Jews read the inscription. For the place where Jesus was crucified was near to the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and In Greek. So the chief priest of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but rather, this man said, I am the King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier, also his tunic But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. So they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be. And this was To fulfill the scripture which says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So the soldiers did these things, but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother, and his mother Behold your son. And he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. After this, Jesus, knowing that all was finished, said, To fulfill the scripture, I thirst. A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. When Jesus Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Since it was the day of preparation, and so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath. For that Sabbath was a high day. The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, so that they might be taken away. So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who had been crucial. Crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. He who saw it has borne witness. His testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you also may believe. So that the Scripture might be fulfilled, not one of his bones will be broken. And again another scripture says, They will look on him whom they have pierced. Let's approach these dark words together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we do see here in this depiction of the crucifixion a very dark Troubling scene. Sobering words. Such a dark reality that Jesus Christ Christ does not merely die, but dies the most excruciating of deaths, a death in which he bears the weight, the sins of the world upon us Himself. Why? Why must this happen? Why does this happen? Why is this where this story has brought us to. Father, may we see and know and understand what it is that you have done through your son upon this cross. Who he is, who he is for us, then how we come to him. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. We do come together to this text, to the crucifixion of our Lord Jesus, and surely to the world around, and even to us. There is such a tense confusion surrounding our response to this passage. We consider here simultaneously in this part of the scriptures our greatest joy. This is the truth in which we rejoice. This is the reality to which we entrust our lives. This is the fact by which trusting we receive eternal life. Here is Some sense our greatest joy. And yet it is also undoubtedly the very darkest of days. A moment of great shame. And injustice, a truth which we mourn and lament, a day where our Lord, our God, our King dies the most wretched of deaths It's confounding, no? Uh just even think about what we call this day when we remember it and celebrate it. We call it Good Friday. How can we say there's anything good about this? You might feel that awkwardness. I feel that awkwardness every time that we come around to Good Friday and what am I supposed to say to you? Happy Good Friday? That just doesn't seem to fit, does it? It's confounding. So it is that the world looks upon this Christian celebration and of course they see this as disgusting and repulsive and absurd. Imagine the outside world, how they would hear this story and Reflect upon it. Maybe it resonates with you at times. You Christians glorify brutality and death. You've built a religion which rejoices here in what? A human sacrifice Sacrifice. The womanist theologian Kelly Brown Douglas, she remarks about uh the atonement this. She says, It's no wonder that this religion has led to the persecution of millions, the enslavement of my people, the genocide of natives. Because what do you do here at the cross? You trivialize the value of the human body as you Celebrate its sacrifice. You rejoice, you glory in the brutal execution of the Messiah. You look forward to a day when God brings wrath against the nations What should we expect? I may disagree with her uh significantly on her interpretation of this event, but it's a pressing question. Do we glorify brutality and death? Do we celebrate sufferings and execution? Do we adore blood and shameful loss on Are we those who some could say, watch Jesus kill himself on a cross, and then go ahead and say, Yes, that day is good. That's the good day. If you've never wrestled with those questions or this tension, you should, as we approach this text, as we look at this story, is this the event which lies at the very heart of the Christian religion. This event here, this text is what all of Scripture is pointing us towards. Here is a kind of climax to the Christian story. This is what the Bible has been directing us to and what it points back to as we look to this scene: the death of Jesus upon the cross. How could this ever be something that we call good? John, as we walk through this text, will lead us to find good answers to this question. John is not teaching us here to glory in death in some kind of unrighteous way. What he is teaching us He's leading us to reconcile these realities of sorrow and joy, of shame and glory. You're on the cross of death and life. All by looking to the atonement won by and the enthronement of our King. Somehow, where the world sees utter loss on the cross, we do See victory and glory. John is leading us to see this here this evening. The sacrificial death upon the cross is The victorious enthronement of our King. Let me say it again. The sacrificial death on the cross is the victorious enthronement of our King. We're gonna see that. I know that's a lot of words. We're gonna unpack that just in two points here. It's this first: Jesus as the enthroned king. How do we see that in this text? And then second, Jesus as the Passover Lamb. Join me in that first point here. Jesus is the enthroned king. When John tells this story, he makes the very previous section, chapters 18 and the beginning of nineteenth. What did so much of those passages hinge upon? It was a question. That question from Pilate To Jesus, are you a king? As the whole scene plays out, Pilate never lets that question go, does he? Eventually Jesus says, My kingdom is not of this world. And finally, Pilate gets something. So you are a king. The Jews call for Pilate to respond to the situation. Pilate says, Do you want me to release to you? The king of the Jews. They said, No, give us Barabbas, that false king. When Pilate adorns Jesus in a purple robe, a crown of thorns, they ridicule him, and what do they say? Is they Beat him. Hail the King of the Jews. The close. When they've called for Jesus' death, what does he say? So shall I crucify? King that crucify him. For we have no king but Caesar. John will not let us stop seeing as we lead up to this point that Jesus is The king. That Jesus is the king. And that kingship hangs over this whole scene, not just thematically or metaphorically, but also physically. Because what do we see right at the beginning of this text? What does Pilate do when we get to Calvary, to Galgotha? Verse 19. Pilate wrote an inscription and put it on the cross, and it read, Jesus of Nazareth. The King of the Jews. Here is then this placard, this title plate for all to see as they walk by. Jesus of Nazareth. King of the Jews. And every person who reads this story reads that declaration. Every person there in that day who would walk by that scene or see it. We know we're not far from the city. Plenty of people. Saw that sign, Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews. And John emphasizes that. He shows us the Jews stroll by and they see it written in Aramaic. Own local common language. The Romans would walk by, they'd see it written in Latin, the royal tongue of Caesar. Now the whole world could walk by and see it written in Greek. The lingua franca of that day, the common speech of the world. And it isn't just a metaphor here, it's a reality which all could read and see. Jesus of Nazareth. King of the Jews. The irony of John's story couldn't ring more true. This same Jesus who you could see on that tree, he He will be king of all the earth. He will rule over every tribe and nation and tongue. But it's not going to be because of some Earthly victory won with sword and shield, will it? Will be because of this cross. Not only do we have Jesus here titled as the king, but he's also acted As king from the cross. He's giving out orders, orders which are heeded. We have the fulfillment of what he has proclaimed in the past as prophecy. It's fulfilled here. The soldiers cast lots for his They do both of them, John says, for no other reason than that this is what was prophesied. This is what the king had already said. Would happen. And so it does. Jesus also gives orders, new orders from the cross, right? Look at verse 26 with me. And Jesus saw his Mother and the disciple, whom he loved, standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. And he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour, that very hour, the disciple took her to his own home. You see that they hear Jesus say something. They listen to him. He declares something. Woman, you are now his mother. Son, you are are now her son, and right away they obey. Right away they listen to what Jesus the King has declared. They listen that very hour. Jesus is acting. He is commanding Like a king does here in his final moments. No less is Jesus titled as king, no less is he ordering as the king, he is also accomplishing kingly Work. John alone gives us the detail this way in his telling of the story. Look at verse 28. After this, Jesus knowing that all was now finished Said, in order to fulfill the scripture, I thirst. The way that John tells us this speaks something about Jesus in in what he's doing, right? He says, I thirst with the purpose of, the intention of. He says it in order to fulfill what the scripture says. Jesus says this because this is what his father said he must do. You think about that, and you've been tracking along in John, we know that so much of what John has told us is that Jesus is On a mission to do something that his father has told him. John is showing us here how Jesus accomplishes that kingly mission which his father sent him to do. This is why once it's done, what does Jesus say? Verse 30, when Jesus had finished the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up it. What does John mean by it is finished? John has been telling us the whole way through this gospel that Jesus does have a mission. That Jesus was sent by the Father, that Jesus has a task before him, something to accomplish. And John here at this semen is making the point very clear. There are many things That Jesus says on the cross, Jesus doesn't really get into much of any of them. He gets into this. John pushes those out of the way to prove this point. Jesus Completes the mission that his father gave him. In John 4, what did Jesus tell us? He told the people, I Food is to do the will of him who sent me. That's why I'm here. That's what gives me life to walk through this wretched life. To do what my father sent me to do. In John 9, he said it like this, I must work the works. That's to say, I must complete the works of him who sent me, his father. John 17, Jesus announces, I have glorified you on earth, Father. I am finishing the works that you gave to me. What is this work? What is this Royal mission. In John 10, uh we read about it as we saw Jesus speaking about how he is the good shepherd with his sheep. What did he say? I am here to call to life. I am here to gather my people, my sheep, into my kingdom Kingdom, into the fold of my kingdom. And Jesus made clear there. The Father has sent me to rescue from the domain of darkness and death my people. Here in John 19, Jesus says, What? I have accomplished that mission. It is complete. It is finished. So he bows his head. He gives up his spirit. Throughout this account, in this kingly theme, Jesus is titled as the king, he commands as the king, he even accomplishes You know, but that's not the only theme that runs through here as we look upon Jesus on the cross. Because we also see, second, Jesus as the Passover Lamb. And do you remember what other thing Jesus has uh sorry, John has been reminding us about again as and again as we approach this text particularly? He said numerous times to us that this is the Passover season. This is why everyone is gathered together in Jerusalem. This is what Jesus celebrated with his disciples in the upper room in the previous chapters. This is why the Jews, just in the very last chapter, couldn't quite go into Pilate's home. Because it's the Passover. We're reminded of it again here. When Jesus says, I thirst. What particularly does John say that the soldiers do? Let me read it for us again. Verse 29. There was a John jar or a basin full of sour wine that stood there. So they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. You know, certainly it isn't intended by the soldiers themselves when they grab the hyssop branch. But God has a very powerful history together. John intentionally tells us the story this way, and everyone that scene is going to recognize here in this Passover season what is happening with that. Is it's a kind of recapitulation of that original Passover scene in Exodus twelve. us the command that comes when God tells his people, you're gonna do this sacrifice year after year. Exodus twelve, verse twenty-two. Take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood Blood that is in the basin, and touch the lintel and the two doorposts with the blood that is in the basin. None of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning. Here are these Roman soldiers, and what did they just grab? What are they doing? And just imagine the scene for a moment. They take the hyssop branch and they dip it it in the basin and they lift it up, put it across these wooden planks, right? To bring it before Jesus. And do you see it? You see what? See John is drawing us into here as this symbolism here of the blood of that lamb over the door. When the angel of the Lord came and passed over the land of Egypt to bring justice, bring death to the wicked. What happened in that scene on that original Passover? The Passover lamb served as a sacrifice for those under its blood. The Passover lamb is sacrificed, a place of those who are wicked, so that God's people might live. And we get to verse 31 here in John chapter 19. And what details are we told? Since it was the day of preparation, that is for the Passover, so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath. That Sabbath was a high day. Why is it a high day Because of the Passover. The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, so that they might be taken away. John is reminding us again What time, what season it is? It's the day of preparation. The Sabbath is coming, and it's not just any Sabbath, it's the one which follows the Passover. Uh What the Jews are getting at here is, you know, we really can't have criminals just hanging right outside the city come Sabbath, especially this really special Sabbath. It just doesn't feel like a great background for everything So what are we going to do? Let's make sure they're dead. And they come to Pilate and they say, can you just break their legs? Why that? If you don't know how you die during a crucifixion, what we presume most assuredly today is that the primary way you died when during crucifixion is that you suffocate Because think of the posture there. Your arms are stretched out and you're hanging from them. Kind of dead hang there. Your feet are then nailed to the bottom of that crop. And that kind of dead hang you you can't breathe. So what do you do? You push up with your feet against that nail that your feet are nailed into to raise up to catch a breath of air And then you drop back down. It's bad enough that you are hanging there on a cross to die, mocked and shamed. Here you are fighting against all the pain you're experiencing. To just catch the breath. And you drop back down. And people would do this for days. Up and down. Up and down. Until finally their strength gave Suffocate and die. How do we speed up the process a little bit? Well if we break their legs and they'll just suffocate a little quicker, right? When the soldiers come to Jesus to do this, what do they find? They break the legs of the others. Verse 33. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he He was already dead. They did not break his legs. Jesus is already dead. It is already finished. There's no need to break his legs. And John then says in verse 36, these things took place so that the scripture might be fulfilled. None Not one of his bones will be broken. Whose bones won't be broken? What scripture has told us that before? It's back in the Same giving of that Passover law. And God gave the law for how to celebrate the Passover back in Exodus 12 again, verse 46. It shall be eaten in one house. You shall not take any of the flesh outside of the house, and you shall not break any of its bones. It's actually another place that we get this same kind of terminology. It's in Psalm 34. It's words from David the King when he says this. Psalm 34, verse 19: Many are the afflictions of the righteous. But the Lord delivers him out of them all. He keeps all his bones. Not one of them is broken. Put it together here, and what do we have? All together wrapped in one. We have the spotless lamb who is sacrificed, but his bones won't be broken. We have the righteous king who is severely afflicted Yes, but his won't bones won't be broken. And here the righteous, spotless, lambly king, the kingly lamb, Hangs on the tree. The moment comes for his bones to be broken. They won't. They're not. Somehow, because this is what God has Commanded. This is what God has ordained concerning righteous, spotless, Passover. Somehow we receive together in this scene the picture of this king and the picture of this lamb. It's no coincidence. The spotless lamb and the righteous king, both together here on the cross. You know what John does in the midst of this scene that is unique for John. It's upon getting to this point, stating these things, that John, in a sense, here breaks the fourth wall. He abandons his normal Narration to do what? Look with me at verse 35. He who saw it, that's John speaking of himself. He who saw it has borne witness. And his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, that you may believe. John breaks his narrative character here. There's something dramatic Is happening. He's breaking up the flow to say, I am telling you the truth here. I have seen it with my eyes. This is what happened. You need to believe this. And what is it particularly most immediately here in the text that triggers this response? Verse 34. One of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. What does that matter? What does this matter? Why is this what triggers this kind of dramatic, seemingly emotional response from John? Why is he so suddenly impassioned by blood and water? Think with me, reflect on how John has told this whole story, the significance he's placed along the way on blood and water. How many times has John told us about the blood and water which belongs to comes from Jesus? Remember what Jesus' very first miracle is? Back at the wedding of Cana, where he took ceremonial water, water for cleansing, and he made it into his life-giving wedding wine. His conversation with the woman at the well, what does he tell her that changes everything? From me flows rivers of living water, that which can actually bring you life. When he stood uh before the five thousand after he had fed them, what does he tell them most significantly? You all want me to give you food and Drink for the rest of your life? What is it that you need to live? If you want to live, you must eat my body and drink my blood. Any weirder words You could imagine. When Jesus stood before the temple, he called out, Anyone is thirsty, come to me and drink. For from me flows life, life eternal. John has been telling us over and over about that which flows from Jesus, about the blood blood and the water of Jesus, and that that is what brings life. You want to live. You want to find salvation in me and come to me. Believe Believe in me, have faith in me, drink my water, my life, my blood. You know what was so curious about that scene back at the temple? It was back there in John 7 that after saying this, John mentions, now this Jesus had said about the Spirit. whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. in that moment that Jesus is going to give his spirit to those people to fill them with life. But in John chapter 7, not yet. Well why not yet? yet. Because he had not given the Spirit yet. Why not? Because he had not been glorified yet. John here sees as he looks upon Jesus on the cross, what? He sees the king on the cross. Dead. He sees the Passover lamb sacrificed, and then he sees what flow from him water and blood. See here, Jesus say, It is finished. John phrases it this way. Then Jesus bowed his head and he gave up or he gave or he handed over his spirit. That should grab our attention. Because what did John already tell us Jesus was Going to give at some point. When was he going to give it? Here are those who are waiting for God's Spirit to be sent. They know the prophet. They know what the prophets have said again and again, that one day the Messiah will come and he will establish his glorious reign. And when he Does that he will send his spirit and his spirit will flood the earth and his spirit will bring new life to all of God's people. That can only happen once Jesus Catching what John is leading us to see? John has been leading us to see And he shows us here what? That the cross is the cross. And it is horrible in some sense. But it is not just the cross. It is also the dawn of Christ's throne. It is the dawn of his enthronement. The cross is the beginning of Jesus' Jesus' mighty reign over the earth. A dawn here upon the cross, as he looks upon it, he sees Jesus, and Jesus can and does say, It is finished. So I am giving over my spirit. Think of the glorious days to come following this. We're going to see the resurrection on Easter. The ascension after that, Pentecost following after that, they all flow from what happens, from what is accomplished here upon the cross. Do we glory in a bloody cross? This cross, it is in some sense here Shown from John to be Christ's glorious throne. Place from which he is pouring out his own life That he can do what he was sent to do. So that others could live. The world looks at the scene and they see what? This is loss. This is failure. This is impotence. All the appearance of the opposite of victory. Christian, we look here and we see what? The beginning The dawn of the reign of Jesus Christ. We see here a particular kind of glorious victory. We see John says the victory is won right here at the cross, that the kingly lamb of God is crucified here. It is life for his people. It is through giving up his spirit that he gives his spirit to us, so that we who are already what? We are there. dead people. We are the people in need of life. Jesus gives up his life here so that we might live, so that we might receive John wants us to look upon the cross and see that life flows from death, that the cross at stake Shameful as it appears, it is truly glorious. Because it is the dawn of Jesus Christ's throne. And why is that possible? Because it is also where the Lamb is sacrificed for our sins. Do we glory in death, Christian? We do Here. We do glory in this death. Because in this death we see that death is defeated. Because in this loss, the greatest of victories is won. Put this story here of this death into the scope of all of Scripture, the story of all of mankind. When we look upon The cross, this tree. What do we see? We were to go back to the very beginning. We see the first Adam. And what did he do. The first Adam was given a kingly mission. In some sense it was as simple as don't touch that tree. Don't come to that. Do not eat from it. The first Adam died because he climbed up that tree and he failed. He climbed up and he ate of its fruit. He awoke There in that moment, naked in his shame. He failed, and so all men died. We know God's law. We know even if Adam hadn't done it, we do the same exact thing. We fail. But the last Adam Christ, what does he do? He is given a new kingly mission, and what is it? Go to that tree. Climb up that tree. And Christ does. He walks this life and he climbs up onto that tree and he is crucified. He hangs there stripped naked and made to be shame. This is what his father told him to do. This is his mission? Yes. Yes, it is, and he does this so that all who are found in him will not die, but find life, and not just any life. Life in his kingdom. Life within his glorious reign. Christ climbs up that tree, and in doing so He climbs into his kingly throne. He climbs up there and is sacrificed for that first man. And he serves as the Passover lamb. And he is sacrificed for you And for me, he is sacrificed for sinners so that he might save them, and so that then he might bring us into his Glorious reign. So do we glory in the cross? To the world it looks like foolishness, I know. Us we see and we know and we understand as we look upon the cross that that death is life, that that shame is glory And that this Lamb is our King. Amen. Let us trust in that truth. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, there is no doubt that this scene is dark and confounding because this is never the kind of story that we would write. We would never depict glory through shame. We would never depict victory through loss. We would never see a king and rejoice because he's actually a lamb. Or would we look upon a lamb and say, Look, that is our glorious king But this is the story that you have written. This is what you direct us to see here as we look upon the cross. It is confounding to us. Because we are not you. And yet it is glorious because it is what you have written. Because you do not desire for your children to perish. Perish and die according to our sins. Rather, you have seen fit to send your son to be that Passover lamb for us. You have seen Send him to die for us so that we might live. And it is through that death here we see that he is our glorious King reigning above. May your spirit, as it is poured out over this earth, speak that truth to us. May we trust in this truth and believe in this truth. And walk seeing Christ as our glorious lambly King and our precious kingly lamb. It's in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen.