God's people are Zion's children who make up that glorious city. Our New Testament reading, our sermon text comes from John chapter 21, verses 1 through 14. That's on page 907 of The Pew Bibles, if you're using those. This is our second to last text in the book of John. We're coming here to the penultimate text, and it's this Interesting story about a fishing trip and breakfast. John has just told us that he has written all of these things for a purpose. Then he brings us to this story. For what reason could it be? Well, John writes this, beginning in verse 1. After this, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the sea of Tiberius. And he revealed himself in this way. Simon Peter, Thomas called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana and Galilee, the sons of Zebedee and two of the other disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. And they said to him, We will go with you. They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore, yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus Jesus said to them, Children, do you have any fish? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you'll find some. So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in because of the great quantity of fish. That disciple, whom Jesus loved, therefore said to Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. The other disciples came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from the land, but a hundred years uh yards off. When they got out on land, they saw a charcoal fire in place with fish laid out on it, and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three of them, and although there were so many, the net was not torn. And Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dare asked him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so would the fish. This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we rejoice in the truth of your word, that Jesus is the Lord. And he is the one who came and lived and suffered and died and rose again on the third day. And here we see him after this resurrection gathered together with his disciples. Here he is feeding them. Showing them again who He is and what He has done. We pray, Father, that we would have eyes to see and ears to hear and know who I our Savior is and how He has called us. to follow after him, to come to him and live in all that he has provided. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, we do arrive here in the book of John, too, this penultimate text, this second to last scene in this Gospel of John. John did just tell us right before this the whole reason that he wrote this book. In just the very verses before, John 20, verse 30. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, ones which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life in his name. John says this, he announces this, and then he launches into this last of stories. A story about catching fish and then eating them for breakfast John has just reminded us even here, he's been so careful and precise about the particular stories that he tells. He just told us that. John has actually, along the way, been using very particular key words as we've stepped through this gospel to hint things to us, to show things to us. And he uses a very particular word here that he's repeated many times, that he's emphasized throughout his gospel. He bookends our text here with a particular word. A word which John uses to show us when something should lead us to see Jesus in a new way. The book ends here with words that should lead us to believe in Jesus, to know who Jesus is and what he is doing. It's a word which John repeatedly uses to teach us about the mission. and character of Christ. It's actually our very first verb in the text here, if you look in verse 1. After this, Jesus revealed himself again. Isn't that Jesus just appeared again? He revealed himself. This is a revelation. It's this particular word that John has used throughout the gospel. Fanara'o in John chapter 1, John the Baptist sees Jesus. And we got that scene. Behold the Lamb of God. Then John says, this is the one I am here to reveal. Showing this is not merely an appearance of Jesus, but a revelation of who Jesus is before the world. Again, in John chapter 2, when Jesus performs his first sign, when the water became wine at that wedding, John says this is how Jesus began to reveal his glory. To show it off to us. And he does this in a way so that the disciples begin to believe. In John chapter 3, we see it again with Nicodemus. We get those famous words, whoever believes in me shall not perish, but have eternal life. And just a couple verses after that, verse 21. He's saying, they have that life, for I reveal it to them. In John 7, Jesus is careful about how he reveals himself That's that scene where his brothers are mocking him and challenging Jesus. Why don't you go reveal yourself to all of the people at that feast? Jesus said, It's not time. He's precise about how he does this. He's careful about it. In John 9, when the man was born blind, why was he born blind? Everyone wants to ask. And Jesus answers. It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be revealed. That same word, maybe your translation says displayed in him. In John 17, when Jesus prays to the Father for his disciples, kind of sums up his ministry. He says, Father, for I have revealed you to these men. This is a special word. It's a particular word, and it should bring us to ask or expect when we see this word. We should begin to wonder what is it that we're going to learn about Jesus? What new truth will be uncovered about who He is and what He does? We arrive to this story in John chapter 21, and we read this story, and maybe you're like me, and you kind of start to shake your head at first point. What are we supposed to learn from this? What do I get out of this? Like, try fishing on the other side? What is this story to us? Is it merely just another sign proving that Jesus is God? I mean, we've already seen even in this book that Jesus has power over the fish. John here frames this passage. He opens it and closes it, verse 1 and 14, with this truth about a revelation. And what is revealed to us is this. Jesus' mission will continue through his followers. Because it's Jesus' mission, it will bring a great harvest. Jesus' mission will continue through his followers. And because it's Jesus' mission, it will bring a great harvest. We're going to divide this text into two points here. First, it's this a fishy narrative. And then, second, a fishy promise. That's the creativity we have today, sorry. A fishing narrative. Point number one. Let's look at what this story describes. There's essentially three different parts to this narrative here. Beginning in verse 1, look down with me at verse 1 here. The story begins this way: after this, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberius. He revealed himself in this way. Simon Peter, Thomas called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana, the sons of Zebedee, two others of his disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. They said to him, We will go with you. He went out and got into a boat, but that night they caught nothing. We get here in the text a description of seven disciples who go on a failed fishing trip. Sounds like me and my friends, most of the times we go fishing. This is an echo, though, of the very beginning of John. The story of the disciples in John, do you remember how it began for them? Jesus called them, and we're told about a very particular number of disciples who are called at the beginning. It's seven of them. Seems most clearly to be these same seven men who Jesus called back the very beginning of this gospel. Here we are at the end of that gospel with those same men. There's this kind of bookending here between the beginning of these disciples in John, and here at the end of the gospel, we saw them called in John 1, and now we're asking in John 21, what is there for them now? What are they to do? They seem to ask themselves, what do we do now? And Peter says, let's go fishing. John actually hasn't told us this along the way, but Peter and many of these men were professional fishermen. Uh now it seems to us from the way that John writes this and other parts, uh John doesn't feel the need to describe to us that these men were fishermen. Uh John has an expectation that we've heard in some sense the other gospel accounts. There's different ways along the way that John has just name-dropped people. That's because he expects we're somewhat familiar with the text. And thankfully, most of us here are. We're familiar with this story. We know that these men are fishermen. John also didn't tell us that famous line which each of the other gospels tells us when Jesus calls his disciples. You know what the other ones they say? Jesus tells the disciples, I will make you. Fishers of men. These disciples, these former professional fishermen, go out fishing all night and they catch nothing. You could say in some sense they went out to go pursue their original calling, and they prove fruitless in it until Jesus shows up. In verse 4, just as the day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore. The disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to them, Children, do you have any fish? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, you'll find some. So they cast it. Now they were not able to haul it in the net because of the great quantity of fish. This new character here suddenly steps into the scene and Uh for us who are familiar with movies, it kind of feels like a movie scene, the way that John writes it. You could think back again to John 1. The darkness is passing away. The daylight is breaking in, and here is this man. standing on a shore. Oh, we know this character here is Jesus. The disciples don't yet, though, do they? Jesus calls out to them, Children, you caught anything yet? One pastor pointed this out, maybe the most, on the face of it, shocking part of this text is this part of the story right here. These are professional fishermen. Think about what you know about the character and quality of professional fishermen. They've been failing at their craft all night. And they hear a stranger call out from shore, calling them, hey children! Most fishermen not too into that. And then he says, try try fishing on the other side of the boat, you know, just a couple feet away. And they just listen to him. That's just not what we'd expect. Then the result isn't what we'd expect either, unless you know who it is that's calling to them. The nets are suddenly filled with fish, a great multitude. It's repeated to us three different times. It's a miracle that the nets did not break. Now, what would a story be here with Peter involved without Peter doing something kind of just, all right, Peter? Verse 7, that disciple whom Jesus loved, that's John, therefore said to Peter, It is the Lord. Once again, we have John here realizing the situation first. But when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and he threw himself into the sea. You know, of course, once again, John figures it out first. This is Jesus. That's exactly what happened back with the grave scene situation. Well, is there going to be a race again? Peter says, no way, I'm losing this race. Dives out of the boat. Swims to sea. He is not losing the race this time. He makes it there first. The rest of the disciples row in and see, here is Jesus who has prepared a fire. Who's here making for us breakfast? Jesus here speaks to his disciples, calls them to do something. Verse 10, Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have caught. Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three of them And although there were so many, once again we hear, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Here is this miraculous catch of fish. We can see in the text here it was empowered by Jesus. It is played out with the hands of his disciples, right? Casting the net, dragging them in. He calls them to bring these fish to him. Verse 14, this was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. Here Jesus is revealed. What is being revealed? What is Jesus showing about his character and his mission here? Point number two, a fishy promise. There's clearly something more to the story, right? Why is John putting this here? Why is John telling us this Think with me here, what has led us right up to this point? This is the third time that Jesus is revealed to his disciples after his resurrection. That's what Jesus mentioned here right at the end of verse 14, right? This is the third time he's revealed before them again. When was the first time? After the resurrection, it's in that new room. Christ came through the locked door. Christ breathed his spirit upon his disciples. We saw in that first revelation that the disciples there were joining in Christ's mission. They were being connected to Christ's mission. He told them to go proclaiming the gospel that those who confess Christ as Lord, those are the ones to whom they say, then you are forgiven. But those who deny Christ, those are the ones to whom they say, and you are condemned. Now the second time, the second appearing, was with Thomas. We get the recreation of that same scene again in a room. But there Thomas proclaims, Jesus, you are my Lord and my God. There we hear what it is that we are to confess about Jesus. Jesus is our Lord. We are to proclaim Jesus is our God. There will be many of those who have not seen Jesus. But who confess that truth, and because they confess that truth in faith, they are blessed. They too are Jesus' children, his followers. Here we get this third time, a fishing trip. What do we see? Well it goes from bad to good. Okay, that's something good. The best part seems to be maybe there's breakfast on the other side of it. Something is happening here, right? Jesus is revealing himself here And we should expect that he's revealing himself in a way that is connected to those first two events. John has tethered this to them. He's revealing himself in a way that results from his resurrection. Why a fishing trip here? To understand that, in some sense, we have to know what fishing trips represent in God's Word. There are a number of times throughout the Old Testament where either God is presented to us Himself as a fisherman, or God hires, He calls fishermen to do His bidding Now, you know what's true just about every single time one of those stories pops up? It's continually a scene of judgment. Whenever God goes fishing for men, Doesn't end well for the men. Some examples, Ezekiel 29, God uses fishing hooks to catch Pharaoh out of the Nile and then hang him up by those hooks in the desert to die. Not great. Jeremiah 16. God sends fishermen to reel in with nets those whom God has chosen to condemn. Again, not great. Amos 4, God promises his enemies will be fish-hooked and then gutted. And laid out before the city walls. Again, not good news for the fish or for these men, right? You could even think to many of the stories that we know, like the story of Jonah, the story of Noah. I mean, men in the water, sign of judgment, God coming to get them. Now take that and think for a second about what we know Jesus has said to his disciples. And think about those situations, and then what Jesus promised his disciples he would make them into. Jesus God comes to them and says, I am going to make you fishers of men. Suddenly in that context, that doesn't sound like just a sweet thing, right? God going to hire his professional fishermen to go and fish for men? No, suddenly we realize that actually sounds like a scary thing Actually sounds like not the kind of thing we want to hear. If these are God's commissioned fishermen And what it would appear on the surface that these are the people who God is hiring to come and bring judgment. And in some sense, that's right I mean, in some sense, since the resurrection, even in that upper room, that's what we've heard. If you do not forgive them, Jesus said, then they will not be forgiven. There is a way in which the message that these fishermen come proclaim is a message of judgment. For those who reject Jesus, judgment is their end. You know, that isn't the only way that Jesus speaks about fishing. Jesus, for example, told his disciples in Matthew 13, the parable of the net. The kingdom of heaven will come down like a net. It will capture all kinds of fish, a great multitude. There's a part there that's familiar to what we've heard in the Old Testament just now, that with that net there's a judgment. Fish are caught, and the rotten ones are thrown away. The good ones there are saved in the baskets. There's judgment. There's also something else in how Jesus uses fishing. What is John doing with these fishermen here at the end of his gospel? They go on a fishing trip. In the end, there is a great multitude of fish. John emphasizes it over and over. So many fish. A great multitude, at least a hundred and fifty-three of them. This is a reference there with these fish to a passage which John has referenced actually a couple of times now in his gospel. A passage, a prophecy, which John is clearly familiar with because he's used it multiple times along the way. In John 2, we saw Jesus clear out the temple. You remember that scene? He overturned the tables, he cleared everyone out, and he said, Destroy this temple, and I will build a new one in three days. And what was he referring to? Well, now at this point in John, we know the resurrection. And who is that new temple? It's Jesus. He said, I am the new temple. In John 4, Jesus speaks to the woman at the well. He said, I have streams, I have a stream of living water. The woman there, remember, she tried to pivot to talk about worshiping at which particular mountain. But Jesus had something for there, that too. Uh-huh. I have a new mountain. The disciples in that same scene said, Let's get Jesus some breakfast. He seems like he hasn't eaten yet today. Jesus said, They are in that same scene, Don't you see these people? And my food is here. He also said to them, I will send you to reap what I have sown. John 7 at the festival, he said From me flows river of living water. Come all who are thirsty to find life. We've called it out along the way that Jesus is speaking about a scene. That scene which we already read here this evening from Ezekiel 47. A scene where there is a new temple that is seated atop God's true mountain of worship, and a river flows down from it. And what does that river bring? It brings life. The river flows from the temple, and everything that it reaches out and touches comes to life. Ezekiel 47, verse 6. It says, And he said to me, Son of man, have you seen this? Verse 9: And wherever the river goes, every living creature that swarms will live. And there will be a great multitude of fish. For this water goes there, that the waters of the sea may become fresh. So everything will live where the river goes. Fishermen will stand beside the sea from Engedi to Engelim. It will be a place for the spreading of nets. His fish will be of very many kind, like the fish of the Great Sea. Jesus is the new temple. Jesus has been raised up from the dead and is on high. Jesus is the one from whom flows this river of living water, which brings life to the fish of the sea. And who is Jesus here with in this scene? It's with his fishermen. These are his fishers of men casting out their nets at Jesus' command, so that they might drag in a great multitude of fish whom Jesus has brought to life Reaping that harvest which Jesus has planted. What is being revealed here at the end of John is again who Jesus is. That he is the one who brings life to all these fish who deserved judgment and death. And also what he has called and empowered his disciples to do, who he's called them to be, those who go out and collect those fish for him. Those who proclaim the message of life in Christ, so that those whom Jesus has healed might be brought nearer to him, might be dragged to the shore. This is what those disciples will do, is it not? They will go out in Jesus' name. They will proclaim the life. and the death and the resurrection of Jesus. And as they cast out those nets into the sea of the world around them, so Jesus promises He will bring a great multitude of them to himself. So he promises he will heal them. He will bring them to himself. Those, Ezekiel said, who are of all kinds. Those in all different places. The rivers will go out, and it will heal a great multitude of them Although Jesus here is about to depart from his disciples in his ascension, he shows us his mission will carry on. He, by the power of his spirit, is sending his disciples out to fish for those men, to fish for those men Some of them will hear judgment, but many of them will hear the gospel, the life that Jesus has promised to them Jesus' mission to heal those fish, to bring them to life, to bring them into himself. It will continue on through his followers. And because it is Jesus' mission, it will bring a great harvest. What then is left for you, Christian? But as his followers to proclaim that same truth. That here is this scene where we know there is a sea full of dead fish. Sometimes we do go fishing on the wrong side of the boat. There are those who are dead in their trespasses and sin, those for whom that very last fishing trip will be one of judgment. What has Jesus commissioned his followers and you to do? Is to cast out those nets, is to proclaim salvation in Christ's name so that as his gospel touches them, It heals them. Then they might be drawn into Jesus Christ. That is The very image of the Great Commission which Jesus leaves his disciples with in many of the other gospel accounts at the end, right? And we go out and proclaim that truth throughout the great sea to the ends of the earth from Enlim to Engaladin. That Jesus Christ is Lord. If you would but repent and believe, his gospel is for you. That's what we proclaim. Though we are dead in our trespasses and sin, Jesus, through his life, death, and resurrection, brings his people to life. So we will in the end be united with him atop that glorious Mount Zion as his living children, as his healed fish. It's his people. Amen. Let us sing. Let us pray, and then we'll sing. Heavenly Father, we rejoice that you are one who has called. Us to go out and proclaim this truth. That you called your disciples to be fishers of men. And so they went out and proclaimed this truth. And so many millions. Maybe even billions have heard this truth. The rivers of your gospel, your Holy Spirit has gone out and touched many and brought them to life. Father, that's what you've promised to do. That's what you still promise to do. And so may we Filled with this truth, have faith that we might trust in this and too go out and spread out those nets that we might be a part of drawing in Those fish who you heal. Father, we love this truth. We rejoice in this truth. And we know that you are still doing this work Because we are still here. And so as you ascend in your reign, may we be here, continuing on this work that you have us for us to do. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.