Brothers and sisters, it's a privilege to be here again with you and worshiping with you and also bringing you from the Gospel of Luke. If you have your Bibles, you can turn to the Gospel of Luke, Luke chapter 19, page 879 in the Pew ESV Bible. I'll be reading from verses 37 to 44. This is God's word for us, a gift to us, his people. As he was drawing near, already on the way down the mountain of olives, the whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice. and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. He answered, I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out. And when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it, saying, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace? But now they are hidden from your eyes. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you and hem you in on every side and tear you down to the ground. You and your children within you, and they will not leave one stone upon another in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation Thus ends the reading of God's holy and perfect word for us. Let's pray together Our Heavenly Father, this is a day of rest and a day of worship, a day of joy and a day of gladness. We praise you that your faithfulness is so abundant. Your mercy for us is new every morning. We can come and receive your word because we are your children and you call us to worship you. You enable us by the power of the Holy Spirit to hear that which we could not hear. Please open up our eyes now to receive your word, to see Jesus Christ, to see the gospel. To treasure him, to love him, to follow him more and more. May your name be exalted this morning. In Jesus' name, I pray. Amen I doubt if any of you remember, but I did preach previously from the Gospel of Luke, and I'm continuing that this time. I just want to say Happy New Year to everyone. We have a new year coming upon us. This is the last Lord's Day of 2024. And as you think back on this year, for some of you, it may have been an amazing year. A year where you just praising God every morning for his grace and his mercy and his blessings. For others of us here, it has been a very difficult year. Full of trials, full of disappointments, full of hurts. And for most of us, it's been a mix of both. Times where we're praising God and we feel his presence Other times where we wonder where is God, times when we just want to sing his word to others and praise him and share this glorious gospel, and other times where we are just full of lament. And we grieve. As a guest preacher and a missionary who lives, I live very, very far away in Taiwan, halfway around the world, I don't know many of your stories. I don't know all the ways in which you've been battling this year. Battling against various struggles. I don't know all the ways that God has been faithful to you. The ways in which God has proved his goodness to you over and over again. But I do know this. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. And we can rest in that. We can praise him for that. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. They're new every week. They're new every month. They're new every year. They'll be new next year in 2025. And the year after that. And we know this to be true, not because of what we feel or what we see, not because of our circumstances, but because of what Jesus has done for us, what he has accomplished for us. Living a perfect life for us. Dying a perfect death for us in our place and rising again For us and for our salvation. This is what we celebrate every Lord's Day. The life that Jesus lived, the death he endured in our place, and the resurrection, which is the first fruits of our salvation. But being the last Lord's Day of the Year of 2024, I thought it was right and fitting for us to look together at the last week of Jesus' life. If you're familiar with Luke, you remember right before this chapter, Jesus has healed a blind beggar right near Jericho. And now he is making his way up towards Jerusalem. When he gets very close and he starts descending from the Mount of Olives, he is greeted by a great crowd. They spread their cloaks on the road in his honor, rejoicing and praising God. They praised God with a loud voice for all that they had seen, all the amazing works that God had done through this man, through the God man, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. Soon after this, Jesus gets even closer. As he's approaching Jerusalem, he sees it in the distance. He sees the Temple Mount. He sees the city with all of its glory. And he sees that great city. And what does he do? Does he praise God? Is he full of joy? Is he excited? No. He weeps. He laments. When I was in college, I went to college in Pennsylvania, we would often drive to the city, meaning New York City. We'd drive to New York City. We'd be approaching the city on the New Jersey Turnpike, and we'd see the city in all of its glory. You see the bright lights, the tall buildings. You can feel the energy. The closer you get, the more excited you get. This is what we would expect of Jesus as he approaches Jerusalem, wouldn't we? Jesus is going to Jerusalem to celebrate. It's the highlight of the year, the Passover feast, the most important week in the life of the people of Israel. What we would expect is that as Jesus nears the end of this long, dangerous journey, that he would be filled with joy. That he would be filled with longing and excitement to be back in the temple, to be back there to minister to people, to teach and to preach the gospel. But in this case, his response is not at all what we expect. Instead of joy, Jesus is filled with sorrow. He weeps over Jerusalem. If you want to take notes, we have one main idea this morning. The main idea of this morning's sermon is this. Jesus weeps over Jerusalem because they have neglected such a great salvation. A salvation which offers true peace with God, everlasting security, and unending communion with Him. Knowing that our salvation is found in Jesus alone, you and I will respond in love by pointing others to the source of that true and lasting peace. And we have three points this morning. Why Jesus wept, why we should weep. But we often don't, and how our weeping will one day turn into joy. Let's look at the first point, why Jesus wept. Why does Jesus weep? Why is his heart filled with sorrows when he gazes upon Jerusalem? Why is that? Because Jesus knows. He knows so very well. He knows so much. Have you ever noticed that those who know a great deal are often those who often have great sorrows? Some people say ignorance is bliss. Well, Jesus was not ignorant. Seeing the city in the distance, he knows exactly what is coming for the city. He knows exactly what is coming for him. He knows why he's headed to Jerusalem. His betrayal, his arrest, being beaten and mocked, nailed upon a cross. Jesus knows that this city, which was once full of such glory and beauty, where God met with his people. Where his presence was made manifest in the temple, he knows also that this city and that temple within 50 years will be destroyed, will be left as nothing. Look again at verse 43. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you. And hem you in on every side, and tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you, and they will not leave one stone upon another in you. Jesus looks upon Jerusalem and he knows that in 70 AB, that city will be raised. The city will be surrounded by the Roman armies. An efficient and brutal military force will surround the city. And once the order was given, the city had no hope. They lay siege to Jerusalem. Eventually they enter into the city. They plunder it. They show no mercy. Some historians even say that this siege left more than one million people dead. Through famine and through military casualties, the temple was destroyed. It was torn to the ground and completely demolished. Therefore, our Lord weeps. He knows the city is doomed. And Jesus knows so much. He knows the people who dwell in that city. They are expecting him, what, to come as a mighty warrior, a political leader. They expect him to come with glory To bring it about an earthly kingdom through the power of the sword and to restore Jerusalem to her former glory. But he would do none of those things. Jesus knows, even though so many people welcomed him into that city with praises, proclaiming The praises of God loudly. He knows that they are a fickle people. And not long from now, the people will begin to turn upon him The people in a matter of days will not be shouting, blessed is the king. They will be shouting, crucify the king. Crucify him. Crucify him. Jesus knows. And as he looks out across the valley to the city of Jerusalem, he knows what is in the hearts of men. He knows how stubborn they are. He grieves that. He grieves the fact that the people who should have followed him do not believe. The people that were once part of God's chosen city. God's chosen people, he knows that in their hearts they are far from him, and so he weeps. The Son of God, just like that day when he stood outside the tomb of his friend Lazarus, he He weeps. He's overcome with emotion, grief, sadness, sorrow, lament, rage for all that could have been. When I think of this scene, I think about my brothers and sisters in China. Some of you may have seen videos of believers in China as they look with grief in their hearts, with tears flowing down their faces, as they look at their church. About to be demolished. Or part of their church being demolished. They weep as they see the government tearing down churches and tearing down crosses. They sing hymns, they pray, but they also cry out at the injustice. But what is far worse than the destruction of a church? Or a part of a church is the turning away of God's grace, the turning away of God's favor. Jesus says this in verse 42: Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes. This is what makes it so sad, so tragic. God's chosen people, Israel, had been giving so much. They had the law, they had the prophets. They had access to God in His Word. They had so many blessings. And yet now the way of peace is hidden from their eyes. And sadly, the only thing that remains for them now is judgment. No wonder Jesus weeps. He loves Jerusalem The more you love someone, the more you will be grieved when you see them heading towards destruction. Just how much did Jesus love this city? Luke 13, we see Jesus compares his love for Jerusalem to that of a mother to her child. Luke 13, verse 34 says, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it, how often would I have gathered your children together as a hen? gathers her brood under her wings, and you are not willing. He loves Jerusalem But it's not just the city that he loves. He loves the temple within that city. We see that in dramatic fashion, right? Don't we? After Jesus enters into Jerusalem, he goes into the temple and begins to drive out those who are selling their goods. A holy zeal overcomes him. A zeal for God's glory, for God's house. Quoting Isaiah, he says, My house shall be a house of prayer. He loves Jerusalem. He loves the house of the Lord. But he doesn't just love the city and he doesn't just love the house. He loves the people. Every single person in Jerusalem. All the people who traveled there from great distances for the Passover. He loves them. And so he weeps. He weeps over those that God created in his image to worship him, to know him, to love him. He weeps over those who are precious in God's eyes and yet are forfeiting their salvation. who are neglecting such a great salvation. Those who we read about in Luke 14 in the parable, who are invited to a great banquet. And yet, all they can do is come up with excuses for why they can't come. Preferring instead the things of this world over an everlasting banquet of joy, he weeps. What we see is that Jesus has the fullness of a human nature. He like us experiences sorrow, grief, loss, not for anything that he did wrong. But because he is so full of love and compassion, he can't help but weep. It's as if he's saying, oh Jerusalem, what a shit, what a shame, what a pity. If only, if only. If only you would come to me. How marvelous, how wonderful is my love for you, and yet you have forsaken it. What heights of joy, what depths of love you could have enjoyed if only you would come to me. If only you were willing to come to me, how I would have gathered you under my wings. Jesus weeps. Let's look at our second point. Why we should weep, but we often don't. You and I should weep because not just Jerusalem. But every single place on earth and every single person who has ever lived or will ever live will face the fires of God's judgment. A judgment which is far more serious than any Roman army could bring. The reality is, apart from Christ, there is no mercy. Apart from the gospel, there is no salvation. This is why we should weep. Because the destruction of Jerusalem was only a preview of an even greater judgment to come. One day Jesus will return, not in grace, but in judgment. Jesus will come again, not clothed in humility, but clothed in glory. And all the nations will be gathered before him, and every soul will stand before his judgment scene. On that day, the Lord Jesus will say to those who belong to him, enter into my kingdom. kingdom. Receive your inheritance. But to those who are not his, he will say, depart from me. I never knew you. Brothers and sisters, this is a sobering reality. This is not my word. This is the word of the Lord Jesus Himself. Jesus says the fires which burned on that day in the destruction of Jerusalem were only a small foretaste of the eternal fires. Of God's judgment. And so we should weep. We should weep over the nations. We should weep over those who reject the gospel. We should weep over those who refuse to come to the banquet of God's grace, those who refuse to enter into God's kingdom. But we don't just weep. We pray. We pray. We pray fervently for God to open a door for His word, for the gospel. That God's name would be exalted among the nations, that those who dwell in darkness would see a great light, that their eyes would be opened, that they would turn from their sins and taste and see that the Lord is good. That is why we pray. Several years ago, I had the privilege to attend a conference, a training with other church planners from all around Asia. It was wonderful. And during our time together, we spent every morning praying for different regions of Asia, different cities, different countries. And I was reminded by those who led us in prayer that 60% of the world's population lives in Asia. 60%. I was also reminded that Asia has the biggest cities in the world, number one being Tokyo, 37 million people. Delhi now has 33 million people. Shanghai, 26 million people. When you and I think about these places, how do you and I feel? Are we moved to compassion? Do our hearts grieve for them? Japan, who has. Maybe 1% believers. That great city, Tokyo, 37 million people. Do we grieve for those those souls? Not for the the skyscrapers, the steel, and the concrete, but for the people who reside there, made in God's image. Hundreds of millions of souls, the vast majority of them have never heard the gospel The vast majority have never heard of what we celebrated last week during Christmas. They don't really understand the meaning of Christmas, although they celebrate it commercially. They don't know that the light of the world is the Lord Jesus Christ. The vast majority, without hope in this world and without peace with God, do we weep over this reality? We should. We must. And we must weep. And we must be grieved. Because we know the future. But that grief should drive us to pray, as I already said, to pray for more church planners, for more missionaries, for more evangelists, for more campus ministers, for God to raise up more laborers for the harvest. And yet I suspect, more often than not, you and I, including myself, we're not all that moved when we hear these numbers. It's overwhelming. We know the urgent needs of worldwide evangelism, yet we're so caught up in the busyness of our lives, raising children, taking care of our financial matters. More often than not, we don't weep over these places where the name of Jesus has not yet been named. And my goal is not to lay a guilt trip upon you, to pray more, or to send out more missionaries. But I want to know why. Why don't I pray more for world evangelism? Why is it that I don't weep over the billions worldwide who have yet to hear the name of Jesus Christ? As I think about this, there's two reasons. There's probably many other reasons, but two that I've observed. The first is we look upon humanity with an overly pessimistic attitude. We're too pessimistic. The second is we look upon humanity with an overly optimistic attitude. We're too optimistic. If we're overly pessimistic, we look at humanity, we look at these cities, we look at these nations, where so many people dwell, and we feel like it's hopeless. We become cynical. Where Annie and I live in our family and where we minister is a place called Wanhua District. Taipei City, West Taipei, it has less than 1% Christians. Sometimes I look around at the cities and I see the temples. And the idols and the God parades. And I say, there's no hope for these people. The gospel is hidden from their eyes. They don't want to hear. They don't want to believe. They have so many other things competing for their attention and their affection. They will never turn to Jesus. And so what do we do when we have this kind of attitude? We do nothing. We stop praying. We stop weeping over them. We stop dreaming. Dreaming about what could be if only the gospel were to take root in these places. Too often I'm I'm ashamed to admit that I'm guilty of this. My heart grows cold and apathetic towards these people. places. Even the own place, the place where I live. Maybe I begin to avoid certain people, avoid certain places. I stay in my comfort zone. I don't avoid those places. Where I don't feel safe, or I don't feel accepted, or I feel uncomfortable. Lord have mercy. The other reason we ne we may not weep for them is this. We're too optimistic. We have this naivete. We think to ourselves, yes, they have some problems. Everywhere has some problems, but is their situation really all that bad? Is their spiritual state really all that Severe. They seem to be getting along okay. If you look around the globe, people are becoming more and more prosperous. Health care is improving. Infrastructure is improving. We're becoming more and more advanced technologically. Even without knowing Jesus, people seem to be experiencing peace, at least earthly blessings. Because of this, we don't weep for them. We don't weep over their lostness. We don't pray for spiritual breakthroughs. We stop asking God to send missionaries and church planners into those areas. Because we feel like they're doing just fine. Brothers and sisters, wherever we see an individual who has not yet Been transformed by the gospel, we should weep. Wherever we see an individual or a community or a church That has not heard the gospel and received the gospel, we should weep. Whenever we see a place, urban, suburban, or rural, that doesn't have a gospel preaching church, we should weep. We ought to be grieved. And yet we don't grieve as those without hope. We don't wallow in our grief about all the unreached people groups. In the places where there's no gospel preaching church, the Lord Jesus, even as he wept over the city, he remained steadfast. He never wavered. He continued to go forward. He never deviated from the mission that God gave him. God hears our prayers. God hears our weeping. He hears our lament. Our prayers to the nations. And even this very Lord said he is gathering a people to himself. In PG County, in Taipei, City, Taiwan, in Hong Kong, in DC, and in every corner of the globe. Even though we don't always see it, we don't understand how it works. We don't see what God sees. We don't know what he knows, but he is on the throne. He is reigning and ruling. He removes kings. He set up sets them up. He tears down earthly kingdoms. He brings the gospel to the nations through the power of the Holy Spirit. He convicts people concerning their sin. He brings his light to break through the darkness. In every city, in every township, in every nation, churches are being planted and disciples are being made. God's kingdom is coming And in this we can rejoice. Let's look at our third point. How our weeping will one day turn into joy. What hope is there for this world? What hope is there for Jerusalem, for Taipei, for Maryland, for DC, for New York? What hope is there for every tongue and tribe and people and nation? I trust that your pastor, week in and week out, your pastors preach this glorious news, this gospel, the answer. That is the hope. We hear it every Sunday. This gospel. It proclaims liberty to the captives, healing to the lame, sight to the blind. We see this gospel being alluded to. In verse 44, Jesus says, the people of Jerusalem, you did not know the time of your visitation. What does that mean? The time of your visitation. This word visitation is a little bit ambiguous. It can refer to the coming of God in his glory and divine power, either in judgment or in grace. So which is he referring to here? Is he talking about a visitation of divine judgment or a visitation of grace? A gracious visitation. I think Jesus is talking about his gracious visitation, the incarnation, entering into our humanity into the brokenness of this fallen world. The Son of God, He made Himself available to His people. He visited with us. He walked with us. He walked with his disciples. He ate with them. He taught them the gospel. God made flesh, Jesus Christ our Emmanuel, God with us, the light of the world, the way, the truth, and the life. He visited. That's what we celebrate at Christmas. The mystery of the incarnation. He humbled himself. He didn't stay far away from us, but he visited with us, taking on our humanity, taking on the form of a servant. This gracious visitation of God in the person of Jesus Christ is what they did not know. They did not know. Even though it was right in front of them, even though he was right in front of them. They did not know him. Even though the light of the world stood right in front of their eyes, they couldn't see it. They missed it. When Jesus says they did not know, he doesn't mean they didn't have enough information. It means they didn't want to know. They refused to accept the reality which was right in front of them. They rejected him. They rejected the things which make for peace. Verse 42. They rejected him, the source of all peace. How is that possible? How could they fail to see the gift right in front of them? The Messiah, their king, the king of the Jews. Because when he came, he came not in earthly glory. He came in a very humble estate, born in a very humble place, into a very humble family. He defied all their expectations. He came to his own people, the people of Israel, and they did not receive him They didn't want to know him. They didn't like him. They didn't accept the person that he was. They didn't want a relationship with him. They sold their birthright. They broke the covenant. And Jesus weeps because he knows what is coming up. upon them for their disobedience. Well at this point you might be thinking, Eric All of this, it sounds like quite a downer. Not the way I want to prepare my heart for New Year's. For a new year. Jesus is weeping. Jerusalem is on the brink of destruction. The world around us is lost. Billions of people have never heard the gospel. So do you have any good news for me? The answer is yes. Praise God. Even in the midst of darkness, even in the midst of weeping, there is good news to be found here. Friends, every one of us here today, this morning, no matter who you are, no matter what you've done, no matter what your story. God says to us today, today is the day of salvation. There is always time. There is time to embrace Jesus Christ as long as we have breath. In our lungs. There's time to truly know Him and be known by Him. Time to know His saving grace. For knowing Jesus is the only way that we can experience true peace. The only way that our weeping can be turned into joy is through him. The only way. When you know him, you will rejoice in his visitation. When you know him, you will rejoice in the fellowship he has with us and he offers to us through the preaching of the gospel and through the administration of the sacraments here. When through the power of the Holy Spirit, He meets with us personally here. Through His Word and through bread and through wine, He meets with us. He visits with us. He communes with us. Though we are all fallen, he makes us new in Christ. He breathes life into us. When we know that reality, when we experience it, when we taste his goodness, our weeping will be turned into joy. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning. God's word for us. Yes, we all have sorrows. All of us here have sorrows. Yes, we have all shed many tears. In fact, if we never cry, if we never weep, and we aren't really following in the footsteps of our Lord, he wept with those who wept. He was a man of sorrows. He was able to sympathize with all of our weaknesses. Therefore, our hearts should be moved by the brokenness of this fallen world. Sickness, disease, loneliness. spiritual alienation from God. Like Jesus, we should mourn with those who mourn. We should weep over those who do not know his saving grace But as I said earlier, we weep. But we don't weep as those who have no hope. We grieve, but we don't grieve as the world grieves. Why? Because if you know Jesus Christ, you can know for certain that one day everything will be made right. All of your sorrows, all of your weeping, will one day turn into everlasting joy. At the final day of his visitation, when Jesus returns, you and I will enter into that glorious kingdom, and we will leap with joy. We will feast forever in the house of Zion, and he will wipe away each and every one of our tears. There will be no more weeping there. How do I know that? How can we know this? Because God came down. He visited with us. Praise the Lord. He visited with us, not in judgment, but in grace. He will rescue us from the coming destruction. Even now he is at work in us, making us into a holy city, into a new Jerusalem, the Jerusalem that is above, a perfect and glorious city. Where God dwells with us forever and ever. Is this your hope today? Is this the source of your joy Both in 2024 and in the new year. May you and I hear his word and receive it with thanksgiving in our hearts. May we know this day the things that make for peace. God's gracious presence to us in Christ. May we know the person who makes for peace. May we know Jesus, our crucified Lord, our risen Savior, and our conquering King. Because we know him and are known by him, because we love him and are loved by him, what do we want to do now? May it spur us on to go tell it on the mountain. May it spur it May this gospel spur us on to pray more for our cities, for our neighborhoods, to pray for a turning of hearts to Jesus, to pray more for our missionaries. And those who minister to international students at George Mason, and for all the church planners, all the evangelists And for one another, every single one of you, every member of the body of Christ is given a commission. To proclaim the excellencies of the one who called you out of darkness and into his marvelous light. So that many more may know the peace that you and I know and love and have experienced in Christ. The joy of Christmas. The hope of the resurrection. My prayer for Taiwan, my prayer for every nation is that many more would join in in that grand celebration, that they would sing with us. That on the day of Jesus Christ's visitation, they too might rejoice and be glad and sing his praises forevermore. Amen. Let's pray Gracious God, I thank you that Jesus Christ is on the throne, that He has ascended, that He is reigning, that He is interceding for us. He meets with us in our weaknesses. He does not forsake us. He is faithful, and though we often struggle to believe it, We grab hold of your promises this morning. By grace, help us to believe. Lord, we believe, but help our unbelief. And may many, many more confess with their mouth that Jesus Christ is Lord. The praise of your glorious grace. In Jesus' name.