Good morning. It's a privilege to uh be here with you this morning. Uh let me begin with the reading this morning. which is from Acts 14 verses 8 through 20. Acts 14 verses 8 through 20 You'll turn with me if you're using one of the uh Pew Bibles. Uh it is on page 923. Acts 14, 8 through 20. Hear now the reading of God's word. Now at Lystra there was a man sitting who could not use his feet. He was crippled from birth and had never walked. He listened to Paul speaking, and Paul, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be made well, said in a loud voice, Stand upright on your feet, and he sprang up and began walking. And when the crowd saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in Lyconian, The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men. Barnabas they called Zeus and Paul Hermes because he was the chief speaker. And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was at the entrance to the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates. And wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds. But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their garments and rushed out into the crowd, crying out, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of like nature with you, and we bring you good news that you should turn from these vain things to a living God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them. In past generations he allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways, yet he did not leave himself without witness, for he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons. satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. Even with these words, they scarcely restrain the people from offering sacrifice to them. But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having persuaded the crowds, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead. But when the disciples gathered about him, he rose up and entered the city, and on the next day he went on with Barnabas to Derby. This is the reading of God's word. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we give you thanks and praise for the opportunity to come before you as your covenant people and worship you this morning. Father, the weather outside is dreary and cold, but to know that we are your people, that you have chosen us before the foundations of creation, Lord. Brings warmth to our hearts. And the fellowship that we have with one another is so sweet. So this morning, Lord, won't you be pleased with our worship? From the reading of your word to the singing to the prayers to the preaching of your word to our offerings, all of this, Lord, this worship, this corporate worship this morning. Won't you be pleased with it? And Lord, bless now the preaching of your word. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. So let me begin with a question. Have you ever said something or done something important only to have the meaning of what you said or did wildly misunderstood? I posed this question to my wife last week, and she immediately said yes. And I was a little bit timid to ask her what she meant by that. But the truth is whether we are in cross-cultural communication or cross-generational communication or cross-gender communication, because indeed Crossing genders between male and female is kind of a cross-cultural communication. There are ample opportunities for the message to get lost in translation, so to speak. So I want to tell you a story of how that happened to my wife and I when we got married. This is this year's our 30th wedding anniversary, next month. March 23rd. And the day before or two days before our wedding ceremony, we had a bachelor party for me, the guys. the the groomsman and the best man. And it was a Christian bachelor party. And um there were there was some gentle hazing, but also prayers and testimonies. And it was full of the richness of communicating God's goodness to us. But among the groomsmen who were in attendance was a friend of my wife's from high school. He's ethnically Chinese, but grew up all over in different parts of Asia. We'll call him Bill. So Bill, we met with Bill after the bachelor party, and he was wide-eyed and excited, and he said, That was an amazing bachelor party. I've never seen anything like it. And we were kind of excited because there was Quite the testimony to God in that bachelor party. And we were wondering what he meant, so we pressed a little bit further, and he said, I'd never seen anything like that. It's made me want to get serious about faith. And we were so excited. And then he continued and said, faith in Buddhism. Our hearts just sank. That was not the message that we were trying to communicate in the bachelor party. The passage that we just read this morning tells us a story, an important story, and a story that's very meaningful. And the story that Paul is preaching is the story of God's redemption. word that became flesh and that dwelled among us in Jesus Christ, who lived a perfect life, the life that we were supposed to live but failed to do. And then was condemned unjustly and died for the sins of his people, sins that he did not commit. And he rose on the third day for us and for our salvation. That proclamation of God's redemption by Paul to the people in Lystra was witnessed by them and was confirmed by a supernatural sign in this healing of a crippled man. In chapter 14, verses 8 through 10. A sign that testified to the truth of the gospel proclamations and to those who bore that proclamation Now let's go back a few pages to get a little bit of context here. So in chapter 13 of Acts, after worship and prayer and fasting and confirmation, Paul and Barnabas are sent out on their first missionary journey. They embark on this first missionary journey, going to Cyprus, the island of Cyprus first, and then on to Pisidian Antioch, and then in chapter 14 they come first to Iconium and then to Lysra. Now, except for Cyprus, all of these cities mentioned are part of modern-day Turkey. Each step of the way, they experience conversions But they also experience trials and opposition. Upon witnessing the miracle of the crippled man being healed, the Lyconians, that's the name of the people from Lystra, The Lyconians begin worshiping not the God that Paul and Barnabas are preaching, but the gods of the Greeks Hermes and Zeus. So we see in chapter 14, verse 11 through 13. This must have gone on for some time because what happens is there's enough time for the priest of Zeus to bring out bulls and reefs. And to offer, begin offering these sacrifices to Paul and Barnabas in chapter 14, verses 14 through 18. And they do their best, Paul and Barnabas, to dissuade and to disabuse the Lyconians' thinking and to set them straight about this special revelation that they've just witnessed, that this healing is not the work of Zeus and Hermes. Or any other pagan God, but rather it's the work of the God who made the heavens and the earth and the seas and all that is in them In the end, Paul and Barnabas' efforts were fruitless. They are attacked and beaten so badly, it says, at least Paul, in verses 19 through 20, that the attackers leave Paul alone thinking that he was dead. Now, as a missionary, as I hear this story, as I read this story, it speaks to me. I've never been beaten or physically harmed, but as I've served in cross-cultural missions for 40 years, I've had a small taste, a small taste of what Paul experienced. But is this just a story for missionaries? Does this only say something to those who are involved in cross-cultural missions? The answer, of course, is no. This is God's word, for God's people, for all of us. So to help frame this story, this narrative, I want to give you four points of an outline, four words That rhyme with each other. First, revelation in verses 8 through 10. Second, interpretation, verses 11 through 13. Third, frustration, verses 14 through 13. through eighteen and then fourth tribulation verses nineteen through twenty. So let's begin with the revelation in verses eight through ten. The passage begins by telling us of a man who was crippled from birth Who had never walked. And there are a number of details about this man that the story doesn't include, his age, what the condition was, and so forth. So we can only conclude that these are of secondary importance to the story. The passage tells us that the man was listening to Paul as he preached. We assume that he was preaching the gospel. We take that to mean that Paul was telling them the story of Christ's Birth, death, and resurrection. And as Paul is preaching, he locks eyes with a disabled man and sees that this man has faith to be healed. Any experienced preacher will tell you as they preach and look out into the faces of the people that they're preaching to, they will see a range of expressions. You try not to get discouraged by those who are falling asleep. You try to subtly ignore those who may be nodding their heads or squinching their faces. But you naturally tend to look to those who are wide-eyed and eagerly taking in the message, as all of you are doing this morning. This crippled man was one of those, but it speaks also of his faith. Perhaps his faith is a rudimentary belief in the in Paul's ability to heal people. It was a kind of belief that perhaps precedes faith of eternal salvation. We don't exactly know what the meaning of this is. Whatever the case is, in the end, the man listens to Paul, he gets up, and he begins to walk. For the first time in his life, all those around him witnessed this amazing sign, a revelation of God's power connected with Paul's gospel proclamation. Which leads to a particular interpretation, our second point. Although it seems very clear that Paul's gospel proclamation, combined with this supernatural sign of God's revelation are connected to the witness to the true and living God. The Lyconians don't see things that way. They encounter God's revelation through this supernatural sign, but fail to connect to its true meaning. They come up with their own explanation of events. I call this Lyconian theology. The Lyconian theology makes sense of these supernatural signs by attaching them to the work of Greek gods. Not the true and living God, the God who created the heavens and the earth and the seas and all that is in them. Romans 3. 23 tells us this. All have sinned and have fallen short of the glory of God. And with that fall comes a twisted Perverted view of the world. Paul calls these vain things in verse 15. Separated from God, humanity is doomed to create a narrative disconnected. From the true and living God who created all things. The Lyconians are a perfect example of that perversion. The Lyconian theology also contains a Lyconian hermeneutic. Now the word hermeneutics is defined differently by different Reformed theologians. Men like Gerhardus Voss, Hermann Bobbinck, and Cornelius Van Til see hermeneutics primarily as interpretation of God's Word. But there's also other definitions, like John Frame, who tends to emphasize the application aspect of God's word. Suffice it to say, we can see both of these at work in the Lyconian hermeneutic. Their wrong hermeneutic interpretation of God's revelation, the miracle, leads to a perverted application. Offering bulls and garlands to Paul and Barnabas despite this clear gospel presentation So I'm going to go out on a limb here this morning and say that I highly doubt any of us buy into the Lyconian theology, at least as it was presented in Paul's time. In fact, Reformed churches in general and PCA specifically have some of the best interpretive skills in the evangelical world. But it's that second part. The hermeneutic application, where I feel we all could use a bit of work. Good theology means not only right interpretation, but right application. of God's word. John Frame in his systematic theology puts it this way. He says, theology is the application of scripture by persons to every area of life. Anyone who listens, this is actually connected with, I believe, with John or James chapter 1, verse 23 and 24, where he says, anyone who listens to the word But does not do what it says, is like a man who looks at his face in a mirror. And then he says, as the man turns away, he at once forgets what he looked like. To put it a different way, God's word should impact everything that we do. Doctrine, application, and character all matter in the Christian faith This three-part holistic understanding of our faith is sometimes summed up in these three words: orthodoxy, right doctrine, orthopraxy, right practice. And orthopathos, right, emotions. Scripture affirms that our beliefs, our practice, our emotions are all in view in James's admonition We seek something better at the end of the day, and we would likely all admit that we struggle with the application of God's word, and possibly the emotions as well. Wrestling with our sinful nature, the temptations of the world, and the reality of a spiritual battle, and a very real enemy named Satan We are quickly made aware of our limits and our frailties. It's easy to become discouraged and even give in to despair at points when we see these things. Now Paul was an amazing man, but he was also a human being. And likely he wrestled with a number of conflicting emotions as he experienced this situation in Lystra. It's easy to imagine how challenging it would have been to have an act of divine revelation occur right before the very eyes of those you are trying to evangelize. and then have them reach a conclusion that is nowhere near the truth that you are trying to communicate. Paul knows that this gospel changed his life. His outlook of the world, his actions, and yes, even his emotions, because Paul had a right interpretation of those things Paul's hermeneutic was more than mere mental ascent, but impacted the entire being by making Paul part of God's story. So you can understand when this revelation occurs and it's interpreted in the Ic in the Lyconian theology that this may have led to, what is our third point, some frustration, verses fourteen through eighteen. In these verses, Paul does his best to explain the real meaning behind the revelation of this healed man. He tries to get them to see that it's not this perverted narrative. that the Lyconian theology uses to make sense of the healing. On the contrary, Paul explains it's a completely different God with a completely different narrative. At the end of the day, there must have been some frustration with the fact that besides the lame man who was healed, it didn't appear that any of the people in Lystra came to a knowledge of saving faith. They did not respond to the gospel message the way that Paul and Barnabas had hoped. Now, if I were Paul, I would be seriously tempted to ask. Did I do something wrong? Were my efforts all just a big mistake? Did I take a wrong turn somewhere after Iconium? Should I have gone a different route? These would have been natural questions that have popped up in Paul's mind. Or maybe he would have been tempted to blame God even. After all, Paul and Barnabas were doing this for God's sake, for God's kingdom, not for their own glory. Why didn't God open up the eyes and hearts of the Lyconian unbelievers so that they could see the light of the gospel? We don't have any insight into what's going on in Paul's heart. The scripture doesn't tell us anything about that. We can only know that he kept on going. So, what we can learn from Paul and Barnabas's story here in Acts is that this apparent failure is part of God's divine revelation. Because it's in the word that we're reading and ought to tell us something, but what does it tell us? This leads to our fourth point, the tribulation. In verses 19 through 20, it tells us the importance of the tribulation that Paul and Barnabas experience. To recap, God reveals himself In this miracle that occurred. The Lyconian theology interprets it incorrectly. Paul had every right to be frustrated because he was experiencing tribulation. Not just in being misunderstood, but in the midst of persecution in the form of physical abuse. Paul was beaten To the point of death or near death. Brothers and sisters, over the past ten years, our family experienced trauma of being forcefully removed From one of the countries that we were serving in at the time. But our trauma, while significant, was much lighter than that of the local believers. That I served with, many of whom were imprisoned for the gospel proclamation. This level of persecution brings with it a whole new level of trauma. I mentioned this to try to remove any unrealistic, romantic, triumphalist idea that Christians, that these Christians who experience this are somehow on a living on a deeper spiritual plane than we are. They are human. And after experiencing this level of trauma, We have witnessed the things that they have gone through. Deep, lasting struggles, including PTSD, nightmares, anxiety, and even doubts In other words, they are just like you and I. After Paul experienced the trauma of being beaten up inches from death, he You think it was because of his superhero strength that allowed him to get up and keep on going? No. It was the power of the Holy Spirit at work in his life. My Chinese ministry partners who were in prison and some who are still in prison are able to keep going because of that same Holy Spirit at work in their lives. And that same Holy Spirit is at work in your lives and in my life as well. The trials that we experience as missionary Christians and non-missionary Christians are significant In John Piper's book, Filling Up the Afflictions of Christ, he quotes a Romanian pastor named Joseph Tsan in distinguishing our afflictions from Christ. In affirming the importance of our afflictions, but also distinguishing them from Christ's afflictions, he says this: He says, Christ's suffering is for propitiation. Our suffering is for proclamation. What Pastor Zahn is saying is that the purpose of our suffering does not add to what Christ did in paying the penalty for our sin. That's not the value of our suffering as Christians. The value of our suffering is the witness to others as we proclaim the gospel, the gospel that changes everything. But there's a second reason Paul and Barnabas's suffering was meaningful. And not only their suffering, but our suffering as well. Again, as missionaries or non-missionaries. It's true, Lythra didn't appear to be a missionary success. For Paul and Barnabas Maybe they were discouraged. But it's also true that God was working in their hearts to shape and mold them into the image of Christ. Our tribulation is for proclamation, is true, as Pastor Tsan says, but it's also for sanctification. So our fourth point being tribulation, you can add two other Asians. Proclamation and sanctification. God working in us to form the image of Christ So what is sanctification? Who knows their Westminster shorter catechism question number 35 Sanctification, you can say it with me. Sanctification is the work of God's free grace whereby we are renewed in the whole man after the image of God and are enabled more and more to die unto sin and live unto righteousness. What a great definition. So rich And how does that happen more often than not in our lives? Through tribulations, trials, difficulties, inconveniences, discomforts These trials may not be at the level of what Paul experienced, but they are nonetheless what God uses in our lives. These are sufferings. Listen to this excerpt from this excellent little book that I just finished reading, Matt Rhodes. in a nine marks series entitled Persecution and Missions. He says this, we instinctively understand how Paul's towering list of sufferings played a role in God's plan. But we tend to have less hope for our own sufferings. After all, in light of Paul being beaten, imprisoned, shipwrecked, stoned, and finally martyred, our own sufferings don't seem to merit much mention. What's more, Paul's sufferings were often caused by people who oppose his ministry. In contrary, our own sufferings seem more pedestrian, more ordinary. We suffer from loneliness. Interpersonal conflict, sickness, exhaustion, and the slow decay of our bodies. But these sufferings, too, if we offer them to God, are a sacrifice through which God acts to redeem the world. They're the price tag attached to being in the world so that we can minister to the world. All our sufferings, both large and small, can be offered as sacrifices to God. Romans 12, 1 and 2. As Christ's own sufferings included, Not only dying so that others might live, but also leaving his heavenly glory behind and becoming poor so that others by his poverty might become rich. So too, we offer or we suffer for Christ not only by doing, by dying, but also by being unknown, sorrowful, poor, yet making many rich. The New Testament uses language of sacrifice to describe not only the martyrdom of believers, but also their imprisonment. Rejection, and sharing of their belongings. Your sufferings, too, however large or small they may be, will play a part in the working out of Christ's victory Each sorrow you suffer, each disappointment, grief, rejection, bereavement, separation, sickness, or pain is a specific price That you pay for living in this dark and broken world in which Christ has called you to be a light. Brothers and sisters, I experienced this personally a number of years ago while we were doing ministry at the University of Maryland. I was 39 years old, and I was out at that time we had two children. Our third hadn't been born yet. And we were just out for a family evening, and I was holding my second child, and I turned my head just like that, and boom, I had a stroke. 39 years old, healthy, unexpectedly experienced this. I was in the hospital for a month. I was paralyzed for much of that time, not knowing what this was all about. My wife made the mistake of looking on the internet to see what this was all about, looking up all the horrible scenarios that can come about as a result of this. But the question comes in times of struggle and suffering, what are you doing, God? What's this all about? My immediate response was Romans 8. 28, right? That's a great verse. God works all things for good to those who love him and are called according to his purpose. That is solid foundation, right? But there was also something inside of me. I think it was the Holy Spirit. Saying there's more. You need to learn a little bit more. Stand on that ground for now, but be ready for more. And so that question kept going around in my head. What's this all about? What are you doing, God? 39-year-old. And the stroke was an unusual stroke. It wasn't a cerebral stroke. It was a spinal stroke. Very rare kind of stroke. In fact, it was so rare that Johns Hopkins in Baltimore wanted to use me as a guinea pig for their clinical students. Two times I went up there thinking I would become rich by, you know, doing this. They gave me fifteen dollars each time. Just enough to cover the parking fee and gas. It was unusual. And so that question kept coming around, what is this all about, God? It wasn't until eight years later when I was at a ministry leadership meeting with our organization with MTW in Nepal, which sounds strangely like something from Doctor Strange, the movie, God revealed something to me there through a humble PCA pastor who was doing our devotions that morning by reading and exegeting 2 Corinthians 12 verses 7 through 10. So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me, and he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is made perfect in weakness, therefore I will boast all the more gladly in my weaknesses. So that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong. I immediately Began to see the purpose of this suffering in my life as I connected my story to God's story. And the tears began flowing down my face There is a gospel principle in Paul's words here that apply to all of us. The strength of Christ's victory over Satan's kingdom was not through a show of power. But in the weakness of the cross. And that strength is the strength that is at work in us. Working through our weaknesses through our utter dependence on Christ. The story of our lives can only find its greatest value and deepest meaning as we connect it with that grand narrative of redemptive history, God's story in Scripture. And the gospel message that changes everything. This was the failure of the Lyconian theology. This is the failure of the spirit of the age at work in our culture, whether conservative or liberal, every victory, every defeat, every joy, every tribulation, when seen through the lens of the gospel, will change everything because the gospel changes everything. Sufferings become meaningful because they are connected to this gospel proclamation, totally dependent on Christ's redemption. accomplished and applied, relying on the power of the Holy Spirit to give us strength to weather any trauma in our weakness. He is proclaimed. And in our weakness we are made strong. Let's pray. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for this opportunity to share from your word. We know it's not by the show of power that we make our witness and proclamation in this world. But as we embrace our own frailties, our own limitations, Lord, you use us To be a proclamation and a witness, and you work in us to sanctify us, to become more and more like Christ. Father, this morning we ask once again that you would be pleased with our worship. May it Lift us up because we are lifting you up. We pray all this in Jesus' name.