Now to our Old Testament reading. We love to read both from the Old and the New Testament here, showing that all of them are the Word of God for God's people today. Our Old Testament reading comes from Deuteronomy 14, verses 20 to 19. 22 to 29, that's on page 158 of your Pew Bibles, as we continue our series working through the book of Deuteronomy. And uh hopefully again today seeing how relevant this is for us. Us as Christ's Church today. Deuteronomy chapter 14, we'll start at verse 22 and read through the end of the chapter in verse 29. Hear now the word of the living God. You shall tithe all the yield of your seed that comes from the field year by year, and before the Lord your God, in the place that he will choose to make his name dwell there, you shall eat. The tithe of your grain, of your wine, and of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always. And if the way is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry the tithe, when the Lord your God blesses you, because the place is too far from you, which the Lord your God chooses to set his name there, then You shall turn it into money, and bind up the money in your hand, and go to the place where the Lord your God chooses, and spend the money for whatever you desire, oxen or sheep, or wine, or strong drink, whatever your appetite craves, and you You shall eat there before the Lord your God and rejoice you and your household. And you shall not neglect the Levite who is within you Widow, who are within your towns, shall come and eat and be filled, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands that you Do. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer now and ask His blessing as we take some time to think on this further and reflect on it and seek to apply it to our Lives, let's pray. Heavenly Father, this is uh an ancient word written thousands of years ago, and yet we come to you as those who trust that your word is living and active, that is sharper than a two-edged sword, that you continue by your Holy Spirit at work in and through your word and in and through us to speak to us as your people. May we hear your voice. May it confront and convict us where we need to be. May it comfort and assure us where we need that. And may it all redound to your glory in Jesus' name. Why do we struggle to stop Whether stopping spending and setting aside a portion of our money, or shutting down our work at the end of the day or or stopping work for one day and seventh. Something in us seems to resist rest, doesn't it? Yes, we're finite creatures who are limited, but we try to be infinite. And never Ever stop working. It's taken me almost 45 years, give or take a few, to learn that one of the best things I can do to be most productive is actually to stop at the end of the day and get a good night. Sleep. Have you learned that yet? If not, look forward to getting older and needing to learn that. Otherwise, you just can't survive. God knows this. And so here, as Israel is on the edge of the promised land, they're on the plains of Moab, they're about to enter in, he gives them this command: stop, rest. Give trust. We're back in Deuteronomy after a few weeks' break. And as we've talked about throughout the series, covenant uh Deuteronomy is a covenant treaty document. Where God is entering into this covenantal arrangement with his people as he's about to send them across the Jordan into the Promised Land to inherit it as a gift of his grace, as a blessing. And yet he gives his people, his covenant people, instructions for how they are to be faithful to him as his people, how they are to engage with him as their covenant Lord. This is the center of this covenant treaty, and in the ancient world, the center of it was stipulations, laws. And so God here is commanding his people how to keep his covenant, how to enjoy the continued blessing in his land. And we saw that these stipulations are basically summarized in the Ten Commandments. It's the ten words, as they're called in Hebrew, that were reminded to his people, uh reminded to us, uh, we were reminded of them in Deuteronomy. Chapter 5. And then the rest of Deuteronomy 6 to 26 is further expanding upon the Ten Commandments. Chapters 6 to 11 we looked at, we're expanding on the first commandment. You shall have no other gods before me. Chapter 12 was the second commandment, chapter 13, 1 to 14, 21. The end of the last portion we looked at, we're all was all looking at the third commandment. So here we're entering into a section It goes all the way from verse 22 here in chapter 14 to chapter 16, verse 17, and this is on the fourth commandment. The fourth commandment, which is this, Deuteronomy chapter 5, verses 12 to 15. It's a long one. Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. As the Lord your God commanded you, six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath. To, or you could translate this, for the Lord your God. On it, the seventh day, you shall not do any work. You or your son or your daughter or your male servant or your female servant or your ox or your donkey or any of your livestock or the sojourner who is within your gates, so that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath Sabbath day. And so in chapter 14, verse 22 through chapter 16, God's going to unpack what this means. And he begins here in our passage in verses 22 to 29. By showing God's people, us, that the Sabbath principle is reflected in tithing. Giving us Portion of our income to the Lord for his work. How? How is tithing illustrative or an exposition of the fourth commandment? Why is tithing an exposition of that command for a Sabbath rest? Well, I think we can understand that as we work our way through the passage, and what we're going to see in this passage is first of all the principle of Sabbath tithing. Second of all, the purpose of Sabbath tithing. And third, the promise of Sabbath tithing. The principle, the purpose, and the promise of Sabbath tithing. And we're going to see how these two ideas, tithing and sabbath, relate. As we work our way through this. First, the principle of Sabbath tithing. And the principle is right there in the first two verses. You shall tithe, or literally, you shall tenth, or give a tent. Of all the yield of your seed that comes from the field year by year, and before the Lord your God in the place that he will choose to make his name dwell there, you shall eat the tithe of your grain, of your wine, of your oil. And the firstborn of your herd or flock, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always. So the principle of tithing is very simple. Take the first portion, right? Don't wait till the end and give the remains. Take the first portion, a tenth of all the produce and reserve it or give it to the Lord for his worship. Now it's significant here that there's not something magical about that tenth. Like that stuff is somehow magical. Notice that he says the principle of this first portion can be worked out by converting your stuff into money and taking that. And then giving dat and enjoying dat as the offering at the place where God commands. That's verses twenty four to twenty six. If the way is too long for you, and So that you're not able to carry the tithe. You can imagine uh the Israelites storing up all this stuff and these animals and then having to carry all of it down to Jerusalem when God establishes his temple there. And God recognizes that and he's Merciful and kind and gracious. He says, Look, when the Lord your God blesses you because the place is too far from you, which the Lord your God chooses to set his name there, then you shall turn it into money and bind up that money in your hand and go to the place where the Lord your God chooses chooses and spend the money for whatever you desire, oxen or sheep, or wine or strong drink, whatever your appetite craves, and you shall eat there before the Lord your God and rejoice, you and your Household. Now, of course, this command comes to us, and we have to recognize that there are all sorts of aspects of it that are civil, ceremonial for Israel in the land that don't apply directly to us because they've been fulfilled. In Jesus Christ. In fact, even that idea of a tenth or 10% is not a direct command given in the New Testament, as a lot of scholars and theologians will point out. So we're not necessarily commanded to do this in the exact same way Israel is here, but there's a principle that still holds. That principle of giving the first portion, in our context, it's usually of our income. So it's money, not animals. Although if you raise animals, maybe maybe you could sell some of those and convert it. Uh don't bring your animals here and put them in an offering plate. Just please. We don't have the capacity to receive tithes and That way. But this principle goes on into the New Testament. Paul in 1 Corinthians 16 calls the Corinthians to take up a collection for the saints on the first day of the week. Elsewhere, he calls for God's people to be generous in giving a portion of their income. 1 Corinthians 16:12, he says, as as he may prosper, 2 Corinthians 8:12, according to what a person has, It's interesting in God's wisdom, he calls for his people to give a percentage, not a certain amount. So you kids, maybe you get a ten dollar. A week or a month allowance, 10% of that is one dollar. But that is a great gift. That is a sacrificial portion of your income For your parents, it may be more like thousands, but still the same percentage. Sometimes the percentage may look like less. than ten percent. If you're falling on hard times and you're struggling to make ends meet, uh the deacons as you approach them for help would probably say, like, okay, don't give ten percent now, go down to one percent, or whatever the case is, so you can feed feed your family and not go into debt, but often it may look like more. I uh uh a number of years ago I was talking to a good friend of mine from high school who's done very well. He both he and his wife and uh they make a significant income. I don't know the exact Exact amount, but it's uh it's a large amount. And uh he was sharing how he had been growing in grace, how the Lord had been working on his heart and and changing him, helping him to grow in it really uh engaging the grace of the gospel and he was so happy to share. You know, he said, you know what we started doing? We've started tithing on our gross, not our net. Which for him probably meant a lot of money, because his taxes, I'm sure, are very, very high. We're called to give not necessarily a certain amount, but with a heart of Of generosity, as he may prosper, Paul says, according to what a person has. And the principle here is not just giving a first portion uh of what we make, but but ultimately of living on less than we could. Giving generously to the Lord. It's one of the things we vow in our membership vows, right? To support the church in its worship and work to the best of our abilities. Now Maybe a lot of times when you hear a sermon on a tithe, it's because the church is struggling for money. And they're saying, hey, we really need you all. To be tithing better because we have a sense of how much you make and we are not getting our fair portion. That's not what this sermon is about. In fact, in God's providence, at our officers' meeting this last week We we looked at our budget and you all have been in incredibly generous so that we are well supplied and above and beyond what we even expected. To have at this point. So this is not a guilt trip. You are doing this. Thank you. But sometimes I wonder if maybe we forget why. We come, we write our check, we do the math, 10%. 12%, 15%, whatever it is you're giving, 8%. And we write it and we put it in the offering. I think that the principle here is worth exploring to remind ourselves why. And the principle of tithing is simply living on less than we make and giving our first portion to the Lord for the work of his kingdom. And that's That's how tithing and sabbath are related. That's how tithing and sabbath are related. See, the Sabbath is a setting apart a portion of our time. For worship, for resting in God and His promises. In a similar way that tithing is setting aside a portion of our produce or our money for worship. And in Enjoying God and His promises. And we know that time and money are related because we have that saying. Time is money. Don't we see how the principle of tithing and sabbath are the same in how hard they both can sometimes be? It's hard to rest. It's hard to not use all the money coming in. We look at our budget and we think, wow, if I just Have that 10% that I've set apart, my life could be really great. I I could I could just just get over that last inch that I'm longing uh to get over. Or or we look at our calendar. What could I do with another day in my week? That's Sunday. Whew! I could catch up on homework. I could answer a few more emails. I could get ready for my upcoming work week. I could close another contract. I could play a little more with my friends. The temptation is to not live on less than we're given, but to try to maximize our enjoyment of this life in our own strength. In our own way, in our own strength and stinginess, right? This is why kids I would encourage you. I I've learned this the hard way through the years, and that is that it in the budget, the first line has to be tied. The first thing you do as soon as money comes in is you set apart that that portion and you just don't even think about it anymore because the more you do the temptation is going to be to forget to tie that check and have a little more to work with. But this all kind of raises the question, why? Has God shown us why he wants us to engage this? principle of Sabbath tithing and giving the first portion and living on less than we could. Why does he want us to do that? Why is it something that he actually, well, has to command for us to do To do. And that brings us to our second point. We see the principle of Sabbath tithing, but what is the purpose of Sabbath tithing? And I would argue that in this passage and elsewhere where the tithe is taught. We see a twofold purpose of it, and that is to build and to bless. To build and to bless is the purpose. Of Sabbath tithing. Let me explain. First, the first purpose to build is to cultivate in us specifically thankfulness and trust. Both thankfulness and trust. And we see this when we realize that this command for tithing and for Sabbath keeping comes in the context Where the Bible tells us that God is the creator of all things, the Lord of the universe, is the one from whom all blessings flow. That anything that we have is simply a gift from God, the Father of lights, from whom come all things. That are good. All blessings in this life. Deuteronomy 26, toward the end of this passage, he he's gonna uh Moses, God through Moses, g is going to come back and teach about tithes again, and he's gonna instruct the Israelites what to say when they bring their tithe. And here's what he says to say. I bring the first of the fruit of the ground. Which you, O Lord, have given me. You have given me And you shall set it down before the Lord your God and worship before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice in all the good that the Lord your God has given you and to your house, you and the Levite and the sojourner who is among you. You. The point is, everything we have is from God. And so as we take a portion and we return it to the Lord, it's a regular reminder. Of where it all comes from. To build in us, to cultivate thankfulness and gratitude in our hearts. I wonder if that's how we engage with our offerings and our tithe giving. I know it's tempting for me to write the check and think, wow, Lord, look at all that that I'm giving to you. How about if instead we started saying, thank you, Lord, for giving me Given me ten times that, so that I can give this back to you. But giving the first portion and living on less than we make not only builds thankfulness, but it also builds trust. In a sense, when we give that portion, we're saying, Lord, I'm utterly dependent on you for everything. And so here I'm giving back a portion To simply acknowledge that it's all from you and to show that I trust you to provide for any lack or need that may come. 10% saved and invested could bring us a lot. Of comfort and assurance that the next big expense is going to be covered. Living on less than that, taking that portion and handing it back to the Lord is a way of saying, Lord, I. I'm going to trust you for what tomorrow will bring. It's a way of living into Trusting God to answer the prayer that we Jesus taught us, we prayed a moment ago, Lord, give us this day our daily bread. Deuteronomy 8 reminds God's people. uh of this call to recognize that it's ultimately trust in God who gives all that we need. It's interesting, Deuteronomy eight talks about how they're going to go into the land, they're going to grow wealthy, and and and and Moses warns them, Beware lest you say in your heart, My power and my might, the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth. You shall remember the Lord your God, for it is He who gives you power to get wealth or strength to get wealth. And that's what we see here in verse 23. He says, this tithe is to learn to fear reverence, learn to fear, it is to learn to fear or reverence the Lord your God always. What is that? That's faith. Trust. Tithing is to build trust as well as thankfulness into our Actually, both tithe and Sabbath taking. That's the same with the Sabbath. It's interesting in Nehemiah, you have all these people returning to the land And they realize they've been disobedient to God's covenant. They've broken his covenant, therefore they've sent been sent into exile. And so they're coming back and they're trying to reform. And one of the things Nehemiah keeps having to say is: stop working on the Sabbath. And then you get the sense that the reason that people are doing that is because they are coming back to the land and they're poor. And they know that if they just set up the marketplace in Jerusalem on the Sabbath as this very direct breaking of God's command, they can sell a little more stuff And be a little bit less dependent feeling on God. So Nehemiah has to say no and close the gate Both tithing and Sabbath-taking are tangible expressions of faith and trust in God. And so it's a great practice to build that faith, build that trust. That's the first purpose of tithing and Sabbath keeping is to live on less than we could in order to build in us thankfulness and trust in God. I guess maybe a question of application here. How do your giving help Habits reflect your thankfulness? Where may God be inviting you to grow in trust financially, relationally, spiritually, as you tithe and you take a Sabbath day? Week by week. That's the first purpose to build in us thankfulness and trust. The second purpose of tithing and Sabbath keeping is to bless. To bless, to bless others and to bless ourselves. We see how it blesses others in the command here in verses 27 to 29. Where Moses shows that a lot of this tithe is actually to provide for the needs of other people who themselves are living in dependence. and faith and trust in God to provide. Verse 27, you shall not neglect the Levite who is within your towns, for he has no portion or inheritance with you. At the end of every three years you shall bring out all the tithe of your produce in the same year and lay it up with within your towns, and the Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance with you, and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your towns shall come and eat. And be filled. Now it's not clear what this three-year tithe is. Some think it's a tithe in addition to the 10% year by year. Others think it is the 10% of that third, and then later on the sixth year before the Jubilee year, not exactly sure. The point is, part of the purpose of these tithes is to bless others. And here's how this works. God had taken the Levites as sort of his tribe. Remember, if you go back to the time in Egypt. The Lord says he's going to send the destroyer, the uh angel of death, through the land of Egypt, and he's going to demand the firstborn son as a sign of judgment for sin. Everyone is a sinner. Everyone deserves this loss of the firstborn. But he says to his people Israel, sacrifice a lamb, put its blood on the doorpost, and your firstborns will be spared because of that sacrificial offering. And that blood sign on the doorpost. And then he goes and he says, look, what really has happened here is I've saved the firstborn. They're now mine. Instead of taking all of your firstborns, I'll just take the Levites as my tribe. But then you know what he does with the Levites? He says, okay, now what I want you to do is you are going to serve my people. You're going to make sure that the temple and the tabernacle are maintained and that they're there so that my people can come. And don't have to do work when they come to worship me. And then God says, That's why I don't want you Levites working the ground. You're not going to get land in the land. Promised land. Instead, you're just going to get paid because what I'm going to do for you is I'm going to take my tithe. My people will give me my tithe, and I'm going to use it to pay you so that you can serve And bless my people. Do you see the cycle of generosity in God? And the way He says, my stuff I want to use to bless. To bless first others. And part of what God does with his tithe is he says, I want some of it to go to the needy, the destitute. He's a compassionate, merciful provider, and so he says, give a portion of tithe to them. That's the sojourner, the fatherless, the widow who are within your towns. And we see this uh today in the offerings that we give, as we give a portion to the deacon's fund, which serves to bless Others, those in need among us. As we bring our offerings, which pay for this building, pay for the staff, pay for preachers to gut get up here on Sunday morning so that we can come and simply rest. And be refreshed and enjoy hopefully a good fellowship meal of the Word, a spiritual feast with our God. Our offerings allow us to bless others like we're going to this coming BBS week, which is a week that takes a lot of work, our tithing of our time in a sense, and takes a portion of our money as a church. In order to bless others so they can come in here free and just enjoy a week hearing about the good news of Jesus Christ. So part of the purpose of God's call to Sabbath and tithing is for God. Through us, as we give back a portion to him to bless others, but not just others, even We are included in how God uses his stuff to bless. Look at verse 29. At the end of the verse, he says, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. And this is one of these many verses of the Bible that sadly is wrenched out of context by all sorts of people trying to enrich themselves, especially on the poor because this is where that message lands sadly too uh loudly. The whole idea of the prosperity gospel uh preachers, uh the health and wealth gospel that That say this verse says, give a tithe and get riches. Give a tithe so God will bless you. And in the end, you know who really gets blessed by that tithe? It's the rich preacher who's. taking and fleecing the flock. So, I'm not going to do that for many reasons, partly because I don't think that's what this verse means. I think the point God is saying is when you do all this, God is going to be blessing you. He's going to be blessing you with the tithes that you bring. With the Sabbath tithing that you do, you're going to benefit from it. How? We give to God. And He gives us He turns around and throws us a fellowship feast. Did you see how this tithe, what they're supposed to do with it? They're supposed to set it aside, and then they're supposed to take it to the temple or the tabernacle, where that is. And then they're supposed to eat widely, freely. Eat the wine and the the grain offering and the the the meat of the flock. The idea here is that okay say say average say be maybe somebody's making fifty thousand a year. They set aside 5,000, they bring it to the temple, and 500 of it goes for a big grand feast. And that could buy a lot of good food, can't it? And that's the whole point. He says, if you can't carry it, turn it into money. And then when you go to the temple, I love what he says: spend the money, verse 26, for whatever you desire. Oxen, sheep, or wine, or strong drink. The Bible does not, I don't believe, have a problem with a moderate use of alcohol that God has made wine to gladden the heart of man, and at this sort of feast, fellowship feast with God, it was to be a place of eating and drinking. Drinking and enjoying these gifts as from God. By whatever your appetite craves, and theirs you'll eat. But here's the key: before the Lord your God. a fellowship feast and rejoice you and your household. It's so interesting. The most frequent verb in this whole passage is the command to eat Verse 23. You shall eat of the tithe of your grain. Verse 26 There you shall eat before the Lord your God. And then down to verse 29, they shall eat and be filled. And it's similar with the Sabbath, isn't it? Stop working. Rest. What a blessing. Go to worship. Be fed spiritually, maybe even physically as well. The point is what is rightfully double the Lord's. Why is it double? Well, because He owns everything. One. Two, this is the tithe, the portion given back to him. Doubly God's. He says, take that, my stuff, doubly mine, and throw a feast where you are blessed. Eat before me. Fellowship with me. And that's what happens here. We bring our tithes and offerings, and what do they pay for? They pay for a building. That blesses others and us. They pay for pastors and staff to keep our church going. God blesses us and others through our gifts that are His. And the Sabbath is this in this sense is like the tithe. God says, one day in seven is mine. You could say that the Sabbath is In Deuteronomy chapter 5, that the Sabbath day is for the Lord. It belongs to Him. And He says, Okay, take my day, and now I want you to use it to rest and to work. And to fellowship with me, to take a break from the rigors of this life and bask and in the blessing and the enjoyment of your redemption and salvation, the resurrection. Life that I've earned for you in Jesus Christ. This is why it is so sad to me that probably the most neglected of all the Ten Commandments. Is the fourth commandment in America where we have wealth beyond what anyone in history could have ever imagined, where no one has to go hungry if they even work five days a week. And yet we won't properly stop and worship and rest as God has called us God says, I want you to take a break. I want you to stop working and just bask in the blessings I've purchased for you, the blessing of redemption, the blessing of salvation, the blessing of resurrection, life through faith in Jesus Christ. And we say, Nope. I'm sorry. I want to sleep in. I want to get a little more cleaning done, a little more studying done before the next week. How silly and sad if we begin to look at it as God Has called us to here in Deuteronomy 14. Instead, God is calling us to tithing and Sabbath for a purpose, for our good, to build thankfulness and trust in us, to bless others and bless us. And so that's the principle of Sabbath tithing. That's the purpose of Sabbath tithing. Why is it so hard to receive as a blessing as it's intended to be? And that brings us to the third and final point. The promise of Sabbath tithing. From the very beginning of the institution of the Sabbath, back in Exodus 31, God says the Sabbath is going to be a sign between Me and Israel a sign of what? I think it's a sign of the fact that we need Rest, and that we were made for a future of restfulness. In a sense, it's it's it's the way in which we Follow God by imaging him. God worked in creation and then rested. And so also we are called to work for a time and look forward to a rest. And the weekly Sabbath was sort of a down payment, a picture of that, a foreshadowing of the eternal rest that we long for, and yet our sinfulness has derailed us. It's interesting. Jesus says our sin earns for us not rest, but everlasting torment and restlessness. Revelation 14, 11 says this about the worshippers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of So, this is anyone outside of faith in Jesus Christ. Here is the future. The smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have No rest, day or night. We run around racing through life Trying to live a hell on earth if we don't hear and heed this command And why? Well, our unwillingness to stop, to Sabbath week after week, to tithe trustingly is because we're restlessly trying to kick against the goats, trying to earn our way to a rest. That we were made for, but we've been cut off from in our sin. Because ultimately, whether we consciously know it or not, the reality is that true rest is only in God's glory. Presence. True rest is only where we come near to the God who is the Lord and giver of life. Who is the only one who can fill us with life and abundance and who can meet every need so that we can truly rest. And so Sabbath, the Sabbath day, and tithing was this gift from God saying, I have made a way into my presence. So you can and will enter my rest. And I want you to pause and stop and remember that the promise is for you. It's coming as you are reconciled to me. as my people. It's interesting. Part of the focus of this passage is not just to tithe, not just to stop and Sabbath, but specifically to tithe and to go to a place Right? That's another word that's repeated throughout this passage in verse twenty-four. I'm sorry, in verse twenty-three, before the Lord your God in the place he will choose to make his name dwell there. Verse 24, because the place is too far for them, which the Lord your God chooses. And then down in verse 25, and you should go to the place that the Lord your God chooses and spend the money for whatever you desire. And you shall eat there before the Lord. The place was the tabernacle, later on the temple, which was sacred space as a shadow and promise that one day God's people would Be able to join him in union and fellowship with him forevermore and enjoy his presence. And just like the temple was that sacred space, the Sabbath was sacred time. A foreshadowing, right? A promise that one day God's people would enjoy a forever rest in his presence. And in a similar way, the tithe was sort of sacred Showing that God would provide all the needs on the last day as He welcomed them into His eternal rest, as he welcomes us into his eternal rest. And how do we get there? Well, it's only through the one who the tithes all pointed to. Who is that one? It's none other than Jesus Christ. He's the one who gave the ultimate tithe, if you will, living on less than he could have, because he Humbled himself to become a man. And then he gave his very whole being back to the Lord. Lord. Philippians two six to eight describes this so clearly, and it's a passage you're very familiar with. Jesus, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in a human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. And why did he do this? He did it to rescue us from our restlessness and sin. And to pay the ultimate price to redeem us and to win for us the promise of everlasting rest for all who come to Him and are therefore reconciled to God and can enter into His promise. Presence forevermore. Jesus did this at the cross where he took our place. Having lived the life we don't live in our sinfulness, he died the death we deserve for our sinfulness and purchased for us everlasting redemption. With his ultimate tithe, his ultimate giving of his very own self, his body and blood. Who else but Jesus Jesus would do this. Who else with infinite riches would step into our poverty? Not just material poverty, but spiritual, emotional, eternal poverty, and then give everything. So that we can we might be blessed with rest. Second Corinthians 8. 9 captures us so well. In this passage where Paul is Exhorting God's people to be generous in giving and tithing. He says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became rich. Became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich. And because of Jesus. We have double reason to respond in gratitude and faith and give generously in our tithes and all offerings. Because we don't just belong to the Lord because He made us as His creatures. So that all that we have are is His, so that when we bring a portion, we're just sort of acknowledging, look I know Lord, all that we have is yours, and so here I give a portion. No, because of Jesus, we've been bought with a price. We've not only been created so that we belong to God, but Jesus Christ has redeemed us so we doubly belong to God. He's redeemed us and bought us with his blood. I love 1 Corinthians 6:20, says you are not. your own. You were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. Friends, may we do this by applying ourselves to the principle of Sabbath tithing, living on less than we could, so that we can give generously the first portions of our income, our produce, being built up by this in thankfulness and trust and blessing others, enjoying how God blesses us even through what we bring to Him. All as we look forward to the promises that we'll find their yes and amen in Jesus Christ, who promises what? He promises this. Come to me, all you who are weary, And heavy laden, and I will give you rest. This week the world will demand your time It'll demand your money. It will seek your very soul. It'll tell you you don't have enough. Keep working like that. Don't take a break. Don't give up that scent. But Jesus says, I've given you everything you need for everlasting life, so come. Rest. Come rejoice. Come feast. Will you listen? Will you follow? Will you enter? His everlasting Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, there is so much to challenge us in this text of tithing and how it relates to the Sabbath day. Lord, forgive us for thinking that we don't need rest. Forgive us for how we struggle to stop. And how we thank you that it's not just something you offer to us, but it's something you command to us. We pray that we would be those who heed that command, who recognize how we are doubly yours, because not only creation. You created us for yourself, but redemption. You've redeemed us to be your people. May we respond in generous grace. Responding to you in the ways you've called us to rest, to give a portion of our time as we take one day and seven to rest and worship you. As we take our tithe and bring it as an offering to you to supply our spiritual needs and to build Your spiritual kingdom. Lord, may all this redound to your glory and our good as your law always does. In Jesus' name we pray.