Before we take some time to reflect further on Deuteronomy chapter 12, let's go before God in prayer and ask Him to open it to our hearts and our lives. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you have spoken to us in your word. We thank you that as we gather to meet with you, you promise that wherever two or three are gathered in your name, you are there and present with them. So we trust you to be present this morning with us as your people, to be present in that unique way that you promised. Present, accessible. To us as our King as well as our loving Heavenly Father, as we draw near to your throne of grace. May you apply these words of Deuteronomy 12 to our hearts and our lives. Help us to see how they speak to us this morning. how we might apply them as your people, not only as we hear meditation on these verses, but also as we continue our time this morning in sermon discussion, reflecting on on how we might apply them more specifically to our lives today. May you do a work, a great work of doing all of this by the power of your Holy Spirit in Jesus' name. Amen. Well this last uh week we had uh a family dinner, some out of town family work with us, and uh we had tacos for dinner. And for us tacos means we lay out a full bar of all the different fixings. And you can make your tacos the way you want them. One of the things that every taco must have is some form of cheese. And right, I mean, that's I I can say that, right? Well, in our family, there are a number of us who don't eat dairy or can't eat dairy. And so we have to have two cheese options, the dairy free and the regular. The dairy free we had was great. It's this Mexican cheese. I mean it it is just plastic, but it it looks like cheese. Uh uh tastes a little like cheese, melts a little like cheese, but it's that Mexican mix, right, of the orange and the the white cheese. So it looks looks great. It looks pretty real. And then we didn't have the same for the real cheese option. We only had a block of white cheddar Which then one of our kids, I won't mention knaves, but grated in such a way that it looked more like that finely shredded parmesan. So you you come through the bar and you see this cheese that looks just like real cheese, but it's fake plastic and then you see this shredded Parmesan looking stuff and so family member after family member would go through the line and start dumping the dairy free cheese on their tacos, even though they shouldn't have been eating the dairy free or they didn't need it. And we kept kind of saying, oh no, that's the dairy free. And they would say, oh gross, and dump it back. So where's the regular cheese? And they they say this Parmesan stuff? Yeah, that's the real. That's the regular. That's what you want. Okay, fine. And dumps that dairy-free cheese right back on. There was something deeper. We know tacos must have the yellow and white cheese mix, right? Not the parmesan-looking shredded. It's just instinctual. It's habitual. There's something automatic about it. And why do I bring this up? Because in some ways, that's what this chapter of Deuteronomy speaks into There's a an automatic default action that we engage in as human beings, and that is the action of worship. It's automatic. It's default. It's just going to happen. But the problem is that because of sin, and how it distorts the desires and the orientations of our heart. What what feels like normal, automatic, sometimes is actually reaching for the dairy-free cheese And we need instruction. We need labels on those bulls to help us. We need corrections to our automatic defaults to worship. We need to have God reveal to us and speak to us the proper way of worship as this sermon is titled. And that's what Deuteronomy 12 is Deuteronomy twelve, I would argue, and and some commentators uh I've drawn this from commentators who I think are right. Uh Deuteronomy 12 is an exposition or an explanation of how Israel ought to apply the second commandment as they enter into the land of the Israel. And what is the second commandment? Well, it was back in chapter 5 of Deuteronomy, verses 8 to 10. You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on to the on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me. But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. Or another way we could summarize that second commandment. We are to worship God only in the way He prescribes. The way He tells us He desires to be worshipped. And we know If you're ever in a relationship, maybe a romantic relationship with a loved one or a spouse, and they say, I hate red flowers. What happens when you buy those red flowers? Why would you do this? Many people might be very well-loved and liked by buying red flowers, but I hate them. Why would you do this to me? Me. We know that when we're trying to do something nice to someone, we have to know them so that we can know how to do that well. And the same is true of Almighty God. When we're going to approach Him and worship, we need to listen to what He says. This is how I Desire to be worshipped. This is the way of worship when you're worshiping the Almighty God. And uh the second commandment is unpacked for us in our confessional documents. Westminster Confession of Faith 21. 1, Westminster Larger Catechism, 121. and nine and Westminster Shorter Catechism, question answer 51, unpacks this commandment. Those are great sources to think through. What does it mean For us to worship in the way God has commanded. And all of those sections quote Deuteronomy 32. But rather than looking at those, I want us to look at Deuteronomy, not Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy 12. I want us to look at Deuteronomy 12. In Deuteronomy 12, as it gives us the way of worship, it specifically shows us three things that I want us to see this morning. First of all, the presupposition of worship. I know it's a long word, but presupposition of worship, second of all, the prescriptions for worship, and third, the perfection of worship. Worship, the presupposition of worship, the prescriptions of worship, and the perfection of worship. And just to warn you in advance, these points are not so beautifully balanced as they sometimes are times are not by me but by others when they have three points. So this is going to have a shorter point and a shorter point at the end and then the big old fat point in the middle. So just so you're aware, don't get too worried when we're spending so much time on point Point number two. First, the presupposition of worship. What is a presupposition? A presupposition is an assumption that you bring to something, something you presuppose when you're doing something else. Yeah, we presuppose that the earth will stay hard when we take a step, right, forward, and we trust that it will hold our The passage opens with another heading for another section. Look at verse one. These are the statutes and rules that you shall be careful to do in the land that the Lord your the God of your fathers has given you to possess all the days that you live on. on the earth. Now this is not really the second commandment yet. This is actually a heading for not just chapter 12 of Deuteronomy, but actually Deuteronomy 12 all the way to 26. So we have the same heading over the first commandment, because the first commandment is given the most attention. And in chapter 6, verse 1, there's a very similar heading. So we did spend a few chapters think about the first commandment. You shall have no other gods before me. Now we're getting to the second and following commandments, and so there's another heading, that's verse one. And then it goes into specific commands related to the second commandment, the way of worship. How to and not to worship the Lord in the land. And look at verses two to four. You shall surely destroy all the places where the nations whom you shall dispossess serve their gods on the high mountains and the other. On the hills and under every green tree. And we have archaeological evidence that this is true. All sorts of pagan shrines were found on the very high mountains. Even on the hills and under every green tree. You shall tear down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars and burn their ashram with fire. These are all pagan forms of worship. You shall chop down the carved images of their gods, destroy their name out of that, and destroy their name out of that place. You shall not worship the Lord your God in that way. Now that is the forbidding part of the command. And then there's and that is sort of bookended by pretty much the same command in verses. 29 and 30. When the Lord your God cuts off before you the nations whom you go in to dispossess, and you dispossess them and dwell in their land, take care that you be not ensnared to follow them after they have been disposed destroyed before you, and that you do not inquire about their gods, saying, How did these nations serve their gods, that I may also do the same? You shall not worship the Lord your God in that way. Notice that repeating language Language of verse 4. And then he goes on and says, Everything that I command you you shall be careful to do, you shall not add to it or take from it. Those are the principles. Don't do it that way, but do it this way. But here's the point I want to Want us to see. Before we get into the details of the prescriptions there, notice the presupposition. God doesn't say when you go into the land, if you worship. When you go into land, if you find the Canaanites worshiping, he says we When you go into the land, you're going to find them worshiping and you're going to want to worship. So here is how to do that. Deuteronomy assumes humans will worship. It's not an option, it's a presupposition. And so the point is the whole command addresses not if one will worship, but how one will worship, and that means it's presupposing worship will be happening no matter what. And that's True as we look around the world. Even for you this morning, maybe you're a lifelong Christian. You've been coming to church week after week because worship, you know, is to be part of your life. Maybe you're a Muslim this morning, maybe you're Jewish, maybe you're Buddhist or Hindu. All religions basically are answering this need, this presupposition. We must worship in some way. But even if you are an atheist this morning. Maybe you believe evolution explains how the world came about, that there is no creator, or you're an agnostic, you just don't really care. Or anything in between, I would argue in some way you You are wired for worship and probably doing it even if you don't realize it. Human beings are wired for worship, so the question is. always going to be not whether to worship, but whom we worship and more importantly, how we worship. And those two questions, whom and how, are very deeply Interconnected as this passage is showing. God says, you shall not worship me in that way. Because I am a different kind of God, you must worship me in a different kind. kind of way. And yet the presupposition is worship will be happening. It uh is automatic. No matter what. worship someone like that old Bob Dylan song. You gotta serve somebody, right? It may be the devil or it may be the Lord, but you're gonna have to serve somebody. And in a paraphrase of that, you're gonna have to worship someone. or something because it's at its core, worship is simply the why of life. Yeah, that that's a big kind of phrasing that we get nowadays as you as you go out and you you learn how to how to do marketing well, or you learn how to do this or that. Often the people who are instructing you in how to do things well says, say before you just dive into it, you've got to have a why. Why are you doing this? What is motivating you? Worship presupposes, or it it worship is presupposed, it's assumed, because we all have goals, we all have motives, we all have loves and longings. that we're aiming for and beliefs about how we ought to best aim for them and achieve them. And friends, that's what worship is. You know, and this is very obvious to us in religions of the world. We mentioned a moment ago: Muslim, Jewish, Buddhist, Hindu, Christian, all of them claim to be offering the way of worship, the way of right worship, right? It may not be as obvious why an atheist or agnostic can be said to have the same presupposition at work. Yet I was struck uh years ago, and I I know I've shared this before, but years ago I was staying with some family members. They were, and they still are, they're uh very atheistic, uh scientific. In their orientation, they're both uh biologists uh that teach at a university. So they're very clear: we don't believe in God, we believe evolution explains the origins of all things. And at one point I went into their uh bathrooms, their their restroom, um, and and you know how um in many Christian homes there's reading material I know this is getting a little intermittent and personal, but right you have those little devotional books. Yeah, you've got about five minutes, so here's a little devotional to read. Well I went into their restroom and I found a booklet like that, right? On the toilet. Wow! I didn't it looks like a little devotional and I picked it up and it's Meditations on the Wonders of Evolution. It was a worship book. It was a book seeking to help scientists who didn't believe in any existence of God to still wonder and awe and to worship. The glory of creation, the power of God at display in that, even while it denied his very existence. So the great father of the faith, Saint Augustine, would say, right, you, O Lord, have made us for yourself, and so our heart is restless and Until it finds its rest in you. There's a presupposition that we are made to reflect God, who, Father, Son, and Spirit have been worshiping one another since all from all from all eternity. And so if we're going to be like God, if we're going to bear his image, we will be worshipers. It's the presupposition. It's not if, but how. That brings us to our second point. How, then, are we to worship rightly the true God of the Bible? That is the second point, the prescriptions or the commands for worship, the prescriptions for worship. And really, this is the focus of the chapter with lots of details and lots of specifics for how to worship God, the Lord God Almighty, rightly. And they all really center around a few fundamental principles, and we learn through them how proper worship is to be is to be formulated how how what is uh what proper worship is to be driven by. And here we're gonna look at five subpoints. So that's why this point Is a lot longer. There are five subpoints of the prescriptions for worship. And these are important for us. They're given to Israel, but we can draw from them uh broader truths that apply to us. And the first one is this: worship Is not to be a way of grasping for life, but a way of giving one's life In gratitude. Worship is is to be a way of not of grasping for life, but of giving one's life in gratitude. And we see this first in what God proscribes or what he forbids in verse 12, the verses we just read a moment ago, verse 2, you shall surely destroy all the places where the nations whom you shall dispossess serve their gods on the high mountains. Now, why the high mountains? Well, there's the thought that in in one way it's because it seems to be near the gods who dwell in heaven. But also high mountains are a place to sort of Be near the fountainhead of life, the rivers and streams and springs that come flowing down and feed and water these earth. Their symbol being on the high mountain at the tip of it, it's like being at the source of life. And so there's this idea that on the high mountain you can grasp for the nearness of life or the ability to live on. And on the high hills, the same thing. And then under every green tree? Why the green tree specified there? Well because it's the Tree that clearly shows evidences of life and food, sustenance. And so you draw near. You shall tear down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars. Why pillars? Well, pillars are these signs of stability, of strength, of endurance, of length of life. And burn their ashram with fire. Ashram were poles that were made to worship the goddess Asherah, who is the goddess of fertility, fruitfulness, life. And you shall chop down their carved images of their gods, often gods that displayed signs of uh fertility and life as well. You shall destroy their name out of that place. The point is, God's people are not to engage in worship, to try to get something first and foremost from the gods, to try to suck life out of them. And that's probably part of the point with this prohibition that you may have noticed as we read through this this prohibition against eating the blood of the flesh when you eat meat. Verse 16. Only you shall not eat the blood, you shall pour it out on the earth like water. And then down in verses 23. Only be sure that you do not eat the blood, for the blood is the life. And there it is, that phrase. The blood is the life, and you shall not eat the life of the flesh, or life with the flesh. You shall not eat it, you shall pour it out on the earth like water. You shall not eat it, that all may go well with you and with your children after you, and when you do what is right in the sight of the Lord. Now some commentators suggest that the pouring out like water is is so that they won't be tempted to use this in some sort of cultic ritual, splashing it against the altar or whatever. God says actually, he says, though, in I want you to pour it out instead of eating it with the flesh. Why would one eat the blood with the flesh? We we don't really know, we don't have a lot of evidence about this from pagan. rituals or pagan sources. But presumably it's because of what he says there, that the blood is the life. That why would you eat the blood with the flesh? Because the life is in the blood and therefore you're grasping. at the life contained in the food in some sort of symbolic, ritualistic way. God says, don't do these things. And you're like, good, I don't. Sounds gross. I don't want to eat the blood with the flesh. I'm happy that it comes to us nicely butchered And ready to cook. But how many idolatries today are really trying to grasp at life? For ourselves. Whether it's through money, power, health care options that we have, right? The influencers telling us how to live the full and long life. Tim Keller's Counterfeit Gods is a great book to just sort of unpack How do these ancient idolatries actually relate very directly to the way in which we contend to live our lives today? God's people are not to engage worship to grasp for life, but instead worship is to be about giving one's life to God in gratitude and thanks and praise as the only proper response due to the one who created us, who gave us life. And then who redeemed us and gave us new life through salvation. And that's the point of all the positive prescriptions or commands throughout this passage. Verse 5. But you shall seek the place that the Lord your God will choose out of all your tribes to put his name and to make his habitations There you shall go, not on the mountaintops, not on the high hills, not under every leafy tree, but in the place where God reveals to you That he will be, not to grasp at your own life, but to receive the blessing of being near him and of rejoicing in the life that he has given. Verse six, and there you shall bring your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, and the contributions that you present, your vow offerings, your free will offerings, and the first offerings. Firstborn of your herd and of your flock, and there you shall eat before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice, you and your households, in all that you undertake, in which the Lord your God has blessed you. Well these are all commandments that we read more about in Leviticus. Leviticus unpacks all of these offerings. What is, if you step back, what are the point of all the sacrifices and the offerings? are they meant to display? Clearly here, they're meant to be a portion of what you have that you happily, willingly, free will offering, right? You bring freely to God as a representation of your whole life. Of all that you have. It's the same with us. With our offering, we give maybe that 10% or a portion of our income as a sign that, Lord, all that we have is yours, and we're bringing ourselves and everything we are to worship you. Worship is not about grasping for life, but it's a call to give our life in gratitude. Second, a little bit more briefly, worship is not to be about dragging God down to us and our senses. But to be about drawing near to his presence where and how he offers it. Not about dragging God down to us and our senses, but about drawing near to his presence where and how he offers it. And this is so clear in the second commandment itself that forbids making carved images, the likeness of anything in heaven or above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water underneath the earth, you shall not bow down to them or serve them. And we often think that means we, you know, people are actually worshiping the idol. No. People never worship the worship the idol or the thing. They were worshiping their God through that thing. It was a means, a how to worship the God that the idol represented. Even Israel when they made the golden calf in the wilderness. Aaron says, see the Lord your God. It's the Lord that they were trying to worship through this symbol that they thought symbolized him very well. A big, strong, hardy bull. That was the point of idols. That was the point of images. They were an attempt to make God present or visible or accessible to other senses. Not just our knowledge, not just our ear if we hear their voice, but to our sight, to our touch. And that's also the point of the mountaintops, right? Why would they go to the top of the mountain? Because it's It's it felt like you were actually being able to connect or bring the God down because that's the closest place to heaven. Why under every green tree? Because the idea is there's that's where the The God is so we'll we'll make we'll keep the God there, we'll find his his or her presence there. Instead, Israel was to destroy such forms of worship and pursue, enjoying God's presence only. In the singular place where he offered it. I mean, that's so clear throughout this text. It's going to be one place, one place, one place. I will choose it, my name will dwell there, and that's the place in which you shall offer it. Worship me. That's the place where you can draw nearer to me that I might draw nearer to you. And why is it a singular place? Well, because of how Deuteronomy 6 began hear O Israel the Lord our God the Lord is one. Look at verses ten to fourteen 14. But when you go over the Jordan to live in the land the Lord your God has given you to inherit, and when he gives you rest from all your enemies around you so that you live in safety, then to the place that the Lord your God will choose to make his name dwell there. There you shall bring all that I command you, your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, and your contribution that you present and all your finest bow offerings that you vow to the Lord, and you shall rejoice before the Lord your God. You and your sons and your daughters, your male servants and your females. female servants and the Levite that is within your town, since he has no portion or inheritance with you, take care that you do not offer your burnt offerings at any place that you see Have you gotten it yet? No. Because verse 14, but at the place that the Lord will choose in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt offerings, and there you shall do all that I am commanding you. Okay. That's Israel. Where was the place? The place ended up well for a while it was Shiloh, where the tabernacle dwelt, and then eventually the ark is brought by uh by David into Jerusalem, and Solomon. builds the temple and that becomes the place. That's not the place today. Now the place is Christ, who is the true temple, and his church, his people. Where God makes Himself present. But are there ways we're tempted to try to Drag God down to other places where we feel He will be more imminent or closer. I would suggest maybe one way we still do this today is actually very literally through images. Why is it that we draw images of Jesus Christ? Why is it that we're drawn to images of Jesus Christ? Christ. Aren't we often motivated similarly in not being content with how God has revealed Himself through His written word, through His sacraments? But instead, we seek to engage him in other ways. Make pictures, our own symbols that seem to make his presence nearer. So worship is not to grasp for life, but to give it gratefully. It's not to drag God down to us, but to draw nearer to Him and enjoy His presence. Third, worship is not to be primarily alone. But assembled. Not primarily alone, but assembled, or you could say it should not be primarily a solo act, but it should be part of a symphony of saints. Paganism proliferates shrines so that each can have their own. I mean i i every household would have household gods in this period, a a little household shrine. That's why part of the idea of under under every green tree, kind of saying like everyone has their own little tree that they go to to worship. And God is saying, I don't want it to be that way. I don't want individualistic worship. I want you to gather as my people to one person. place. Look at verses eight to nine. You shall not do according to all that we are doing here today, everyone doing whatever is right in his own eyes. Not exactly sure what Moses is getting at there, but it seems as though if there's something about in the wilderness there was this Individualistic worship, but they were all around the tabernacle, so there's it's always that. He says, For you are not as yet come to the rest and to the inheritance that the Lord your God is giving you. It seems though what he's saying here is that's not ultimately what I want, not individualistic worship alone, but assembled worship in the community of my people. And aren't we sometimes tempted to think this way ourselves today? Thinking we can commune just as well with God at home, sipping our cup of coffee? Or out in nature, a nice walk, Sunday morning or evening, rather than gathering. It's the assembled people of God. God. Instead, worship here is shown to have a corporate dimension, and it ha it's shown that and notice uh notice where it says um When you do worship, you're to bring these gifts and you shall rejoice, verse seven, you and your households. And then verse 12, and you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your sons and your daughters, your male servants and your female servants, and the Levite that is within your your towns, since he has no portion or inheritance with you. Now that's the law that the Levites got no land, settled land, because they would live off the tithes of the people of Israel. And uh and so he says, look, you're You're to come together and to worship God together with the Levite, who is going to be the one serving and helping you worship, but uh who's also going to be benefiting from This Verses seventeen to nineteen. You shall you may not eat within your towns the tithe of your grain offering, or your wine, or your oil, or the firstborn of your herd, or of your flock, or any of your vow offerings that you vow, or your free will offerings, or the contributions. All of these are meant for worship in the central place, the temple or the tabernacle where God is going to reveal. But you shall eat them before the Lord your God in the place that the Lord your God will choose. Corporately, you and your son, and your daughter, and your male servant, and your female servant, and the Levite who is within your towns, and you shall rejoice before the Lord your God in all that you undertake. Similarly, Hebrews 10 says, let us consider, this is to the New Testament church, let us consider how to stir one another up to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together as some are in the habit of doing. But instead encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. So worship. In worship, God calls us not primarily to worship Him alone, but assembled forth. Worship is not to be about us shirking sacrifice, but instead supporting the service. Of God. Not shirking sacrifice, but supporting the service and the worship of God. I think this is the idea behind the forbidding, abhorring child sacrifice. That's down there in in uh what verse thirty-one. You shall not worship the Lord your God in that way, for every abominable thing that the Lord hates, they have done for their gods, for they even burn their sons and their daughters in the fire to their gods. You know, there are sadly all too many places where this practice is done. People actually sacrifice their children as an act of worship. But think about the The motivation that goes into that isn't it in a sense shirking the sacrifice you should be making of yourself? Uh you say, here I'm going to take this child that maybe doesn't know better, that can't do anything about it, I'm going to say they're mine, and I'll give their life instead of mine. Right? Their life to bring me the blessings of such a gift to the gods. God says this is abhorrent. And it seems so horrific to us, doesn't it? It seems so foreign to us in our our day. And yet the common practice today of abortion is not often the same motivation. To give a life, to find some means to bless myself. The other ways we sacrifice our kids to career, to divorce, to ha hobbies, the temptation is always there to shirk. The sacrifice we should be giving and have somebody else bear that for us. And instead, God's people are to support the servants God has provided. That's that call throughout this passage to remember the Levites. These were the ones who would actually enable the worship of God. They were the ones who would do the sacrificing of the animals. They would be the ones who would lead in the worship in the temple and the tabernacle. And so he says, when you worship, do it with the Levite that is in the towns, verse 12, since he has no portion among you. Verse 19, take care that you do not neglect the Levite as long as you live. In the land. This is why it's appropriate for us to pay pastors, to pay pianists, people who enable our worship week by week. There's a costliness to worship, and we're to share that load together, not to shirk it and leave it to others. And there are other ways to participate in this even here, as we Uh set up communion. That's something that somebody has to do week after week. As we uh serve on the soundboard, there are ways in which worship continues to need service rather than shirking the sacrifice it takes were to support the service of worship. Fifth and finally, worship is not to erase, but it should expose or reveal the distinction between the holy and the common. There should be a clear distinction of that in the life of God's people, because the unification of all things as holy and sacred does not happen. Until that last day when Christ returns and brings his eternal kingdom. true of today, uh all of life is religious. And so whenever they're gonna eat an animal, hey, I'm gonna make this about worship. So every time you sacrifice or slaughter an animal, you'd have to do it at a shrine. You'd have to do it as an offering to the god. And that's why you needed shrines everywhere, throughout the land. So you didn't have to go far just to eat a meal. Just to eat Eat some meat. But God notice how throughout this passage, God says, look, there's a common eating of meat. There are times when you can just eat meat as food. That's a good part of creation. That's something I want you to enjoy. That's in verse 15. However, you may slaughter and eat meat within any of your towns as much as you desire, according to the blessing of the Lord your God that he has given you, the unclean and the clean may eat of it. So that you don't have to be clean and pure no matter anyone can eat of that meat. Whereas in the temple and the tabernacle in worship there were pu not only holiness laws, there were purity laws. The unclean and the clean can eat of it as of the gazelle and as of the deer. The gazelle and the deer, these were wild animals. You could hunt them. They weren't good for offering to the Lord because they didn't represent your stuff, right? They were wild. They were part of the land. But you could kill them and you could eat them, he says, and he says you could take some of your own stuff, your flock, your herd, and you can eat them in the same way. Look at verses 20. When the Lord your God enlarges your territory as He has promised you, and you say, I will eat meat, or I would like to eat meat, because you crave meat, you may eat meat whenever you desire, if the place that the Lord your God will choose is And you may eat within your towns whenever you desire, just as the gazelle or the deer has eaten, so you may eat The clean, the unclean, and the clean alike may eat of it. The point is, if you want meat, there's a common eating of meat. Go ahead. It doesn't all have to be sacred and sacral. But there is some meat that you should only eat and worship. And that's verses 26 to 28. But the holy things. that are due from you, and your vow offerings you shall take, and you shall go to the place that the Lord will choose, and offer your burnt offerings, and the flesh uh the flesh and the blood on the altar of the l of the Lord your God, the blood of your sacrifices shall be Shall be poured out on the altar of the Lord your God, but the flesh you shall uh the flesh you may eat. It's sometimes popular today to say all of life is worship. There's a certain truth to that. But sometimes it starts to blur the distinctions of the holy and the common. There are differences. God says there is a presence of God that is everywhere, an omnipresence of God, and then there's the special presence of God, where God specially meets wherever two or three are gathered in his name, wherever his people are gathered together in his name in corporate worship. And this is an important distinction. And kids, you know this, because more and more now, right, everyone's a winner. But what's the adage? If everyone's a winner, no one's a winner. Right, if you don't have the distinctions, it makes the classifications, it makes the very words themselves not have much meaning. And God clearly affirms here that the people of God are to to not erase this the distinctions of the common and the holy when they worship. To expose them, to reveal them. How do we do that? Well, we don't have a certain holy meat that we eat. That was the Old Testament sacrificial system that gets fulfilled in Jesus Christ. For us, the one place I think we still see this is on days of the week. Right? God says, Look, I'm going to give you six days. Do what you want, work hard, pay your bills. Live life. That's sort of the common life. But take one day. And I want that. That's the day for me. But a day that I take and I give back to you, as a day of worship, which you need, as a day of rest, which I know you need. Don't blur the distinction between The holy and the common. So these are the prescriptions for worship of Almighty God. Worship is not to be grasping for life, but to be a giving our life in gratitude. It's not to be dragging God down to be present to the senses we want him present to, but instead to enjoy his presence as he offers it. Worship is not primarily alone, but it's assembled. For it, but where we support the service of it, and we're not to erase by it the distinction between holy and common, but instead expose or reveal that, make that clearer. Now. How are we doing with those? I think as we begin to unpack, we can talk more about this during sermon application, but we are not always great about worshiping in these ways. Why is it so hard? And isn't that because we often really want worship to be about us? Not what we want, what makes us feel like worshiping best. And yet Paul in Colossians warns against this sort of sort of what they call what what historically been called will worship. Worshiping how I think best rather than receiving from God his command. If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of the world, why as as if you were still alive in the world you submit to regulations do not handle, do not taste, do not touch, referring to things that all perish as they are used according to human precepts and teachings. All the different religious people saying, you've got to do this, you've got to do that if you're going to be religious. These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity of the body, but they are of no value. in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. Paul says, how would we worship with our whole selves? He goes on and says, put off the old self, put on the New. The reality is we often don't naturally worship God like this. And the problem with that is that that puts us in the category of the Canaanites. Whom God says, I abhor the way they worship, and their ways are doomed to destruction. They are doomed to destruction to destruction. And so ultimately, all these laws ultimately emphasize the same point. There is an astounding distance between us and God because of sin. And ourselves trying to overcome it makes worship about us and not about God. God. And that leads us to our third point, final point, briefly, much more briefly than that last one. The perfection of worship. We've seen the presupposition of worship. We've seen the prescriptions for worship, all five of them. Now the perfection of worship. See, as we reflect on this chapter, you know, and think with me just briefly for a second. How did Israel do? Hundreds of years of history in the land. Well, Samuel and Kings especially tells us. The high places they lingered. Every hill still a shrine. King after king said they did not hear the shrine. Down. Every leafy green tree, that's not repeated too often, but yeah, it was clear that there were always idols left to be destroyed. destroyed century after century, year after year, king after king. Israel would over again uh over and over again fail to obey these So, where's the hope that the blessings promised here could ever be enjoyed? The blessing is right there in verse 28. Be careful to obey all these words that I command you, that it may go well with you and with your children after you forever. When you do what is good and right in the sight of the Lord your God, what a great promise. It'll be good for you. You'll be blessed. But how? Because that's tied to being careful to obey the word. That I command you today. And friends, the answer is not in you or in me, and the perfection of our worship, because it is always feeble and faltering at best, but in the person Of Jesus Christ, the one true worshiper who becomes the very place where the distance between us and God is overcome. As Jesus comes in tabernacle. Among us as the living temple of God, Emmanuel, God with us, and reconciles us to our Father. See, he perfectly did fulfill this law at its very heart level for us and in our place, where we grasp at life through idols. Jesus consistently honored his Father and then gave up his life freely on the cross in the final act. Where we often try to force God's presence to us and through through images, right? Grasping at making him nearer where he hasn't said he would be Jesus is the fullness of God, present with us, Emmanuel, who drew near to us in grace, that we might have God accessible To our sight, to our touch, where we worship to get something. Jesus gave everything While we refused to gather, he gathered a people by his blood. Where we shirk our sacrifice, he became the once-for-all sacrifice. Of true worship, the Lamb slain for us in order to redeem us from our sin. And where we blur the holy in common, he was both. God and man, the Holy One made common, in order that we as sinners may be made holy saints. Jesus is the true temple, the better priest, the perfect sacrifice. And the eternal Sabbath. And he fulfills all of this to win for us life in God's presence by his spirit forevermore, adopted into his family of faith, having the blessing of redemption. What the Jews thought, the true worshipers worship God in spirit, in the spirit, the Holy Spirit, and in truth through the person and work of Jesus Christ on earth. our behalf. And the promise of true, ultimate, permanent blessings in his place, in the true land of promise, the new heavens and the new earth, are to all who repent of sin. And come to God through faith in Jesus Christ. These are the reasons to worship. To worship Him, not as we think best, but exactly how God has shown us He wants to be worshipped, as we love Him back for having first loved us. And saving us by his grace. So, friends, let us respond. Let us worship not on our own terms, but on his. Let us, as Romans 12, 1 says, let us offer our very bodies as living sacrifices, holy and acceptable to God, which is our spiritual worship. And what kind of worship does God want? Not your performance, not your inventions. He wants your whole life offered in thanks to God through Jesus Christ. Christ, and in Jesus, crucified, risen, reigning, you and I can be made true worshipers of God, having our feeble efforts forgiven and sanctified and purified. By the work of Jesus Christ. Come, assemble, gather before Him, fall before Him, bring nothing but your need and offer nothing but your praise And receive everything in return: life, glory, and a place, the place in the presence of the living God, forever beholding the face of Jesus Christ. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this passage from Deuteronomy chapter twelve and how it does challenge and convict us. Of the way in which we can make worship about ourselves. Forgive us, Lord, for how we so often tend to do this, how we thank you for the true worshipper, our Lord and Savior Jesus. Christ, that He fulfilled this law perfectly in our place in order to enable us to call your people, to be renewed in our worship, to respond in even the ways you've laid out here. Not grasping for life, but relishing the life you've given us and returning it by giving our very bodies as living sacrifices. Lord, help us to do that as your people, all to the glory of your holy name. In Jesus' name. Amen.