Our New Testament reading, our sermon text, is Luke chapter 3, verses 21 through chapter 4, verse 13. That's on page 859 of the Pew Bibles. Luke 3, starting in verse 21, and we'll see here what feels like what we often see is uh three separate events, three separate stories. Hope that you'll be able to track along with the theme that runs through this as we look at Jesus being proclaimed the Son of God. Luke begins this way, chapter 3, verse 21. Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened. And the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove, and a voice came from heaven. You are my beloved son, with you I am well pleased. Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son, as was supposed, of Joseph The son of Heli, the son of Mathat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jennai, the son of Joseph, the son of Matthias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum. The son of Ezli, the son of Nagai, the son of Ma'at, the son of Matthias, the son of Semean, the son of Joseph, the son of Jodah, the son of Jonan, the son of Rasha The son of Zurebal, the son of Sheltiel, the son of Nare, the son of Melchi, the son of Adai, the son of Khalsam, the son of El Madam, the son of Ur, the son of Joshua the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Mathat, the son of Levi, the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonah, the son of El-Yachim, the The son of Malaya, the son of Menah, the son of Mathatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David, the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salah The son of Nashon, the son of Aminidad, the son of Abin, the son of Arni, the son of Herzan, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, the son of Jacob The son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, the son of Sarub, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shalah, the son Ton of Kaneen The son of Arfasad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Malhalil, the son of Cainan, The son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God. And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit. in the wilderness for forty days, being tempted by the devil, and he ate nothing during those days. And when they were ended he was hungry. And the devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread. And Jesus answered him, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone. And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time, and said to him, To you I will give all this authority and their glory, for it has been delivered to me, and I will give it to whom I will. If you will, then, will you worship me? It will all be yours. And Jesus answered him, It is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. And he took him to Jerusalem and set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, If you are the Son of God, Throw yourself down from here, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you, to guard you, and on their hands it will bear you up lest you strike your foot against a stone And Jesus answered him, it is said, you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Read one more verse with me, verse 13. And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we do see here that declaration that Jesus the Christ is your Son. He is your Son whom you sent to this earth. Who you sent to take on flesh, to be one of us, a man. Why? He is your beloved son and father. We know that he was sent with a mission to kill sin. Mission to defeat temptation. Mission to make us too your sons. May we see and understand how we become sons and daughters through the work and the sonship of Jesus Christ. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Well, we're stepping this morning here into a little series as we look forward towards Christmas, right? Christmas is what's coming. The celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ. And we're calling this series here, A Son is Born. Now I can already hear some of you who know me pretty well. Chris, you've got something on your mind, don't you? And yes, my next son will be here. Any moment. It could happen. Let's hope it doesn't come to that. Don't fret too much. I didn't actually pick the name of the title, Fix Pix Day. I'm I'm not making this about me. It is remarkable though, uh, the incredible beauty and weight it is to have a child, a son, or a daughter. Uh we've all either been children or parents, right? At least we were all children. You could think of the incredible Beautiful moments. The sweet smile because when your child looks up at you as they're newborn, because You're the only person they really know. Are you one of the only people they really love? I you could think about those very first words. Da-da. I love that from Isaiah. I'm really hoping for some second and third words by now. We'll see. You could think too in fear of some of the harder moments of that child-parent relationship, right? Being a parent isn't easy physically or emotionally or spiritually. That's something that kids just don't understand. Uh you hear them say things as they grow up like, uh you know, you don't really love me. Uh what have you ever done for me? Kid, you have no idea what I've done for you. I wish I had their parent instead, because look what their parent does for them. There's some hard moments. There's also some in-between moments, too, right? Parents are not perfect, of course. Many of us have those memories of how our own parents treated us and we think to ourselves Now I will never do that to my son or daughter. And then you become a parent and guess what? Well, you fail the same exact way because you are your father's son, your mother's daughter. It isn't all bad though. There are those in-between moments. An early memory for me, maybe you had the same kind of experience, was my dad teaching me to swim. The way my dad chose to do that was he was standing in the pool, very close up to the edge, and I'm standing on the edge of the pool, and he would say, you know, just jump in and swim to me. You don't need to worry, I am right here. You can trust me. Now, what is my father going to do the moment I jump in? Well, the greatest betrayal of trust of all time, because as I jump in, I've committed, and I start swimming, what is he going to do? He starts stepping back And that gap, which to me looked very small at first, has become much wider. I have suddenly had to swim, this scary long swim. But we know this is my father doing a good thing for me, right? Uh he is right still right there. He can rescue me in any moment. There's no way that I'm going to drown. But it's one of those in-between moments because I certainly feel like I don't know that I can really trust you. Of course I could. There's some betrayal there What does this have to do with baptisms, genealogies, and temptation in the desert? We have our own kind of tendency, especially as we look at these sections in the book of Luke to see them as very disjointed. Did you feel like we had some very disjointed sections as we read through that? Now, on the surface, these sections seem to have very little to do with one another. I'm sure many of us have heard different sermons about these different pieces, and especially sermons about the temptation of Jesus here in Luke. Well you think about that last part, often the moral of the story, the lesson that we're given is what? I've heard plenty of sermons that uh the moral of the story was Look, you can learn to resist temptation. How? By doing what Jesus did, by the three easy steps. You can resist temptation. If you just learn to say no to Satan, say yes to God, and memorize Scripture to quote back at Satan when he shows up. Easy as that. Uh now if defeating temptation were as easy as that, I think we'd have some problems, right? Because you probably don't have to look very far back this week to see all the ways that you failed at temptation. You realize pretty quickly Wasn't quite that easy, was it? Certainly doesn't feel that easy. Turns out that resisting temptation, uh, that willpower within us, our self-control You know, that just isn't necessarily something that we're very good at, is it, as humans? We only have seemingly so much capacity for self-control. That's realize when you think about uh how often we get over one idol, one temptation by simply just turning to another. Isn't that what we do so often? You see someone who has a radical life transformation through self-will power. Well, okay, they've abandoned one thing that was consuming their life. What do you usually find? That now there's something new that's consuming their life that they've given themselves over to. It may seem like a better thing at first, but Still that kind of thing can become an idol and consumes their life. This isn't necessarily that our appetite is cons is taken care of. It's just redirected somewhere else. We don't actually do a great job at suppressing our psychological appetites. We do an okay job at simply redirecting them. There's a simple daily reality as how we do that. When you think of that one person, be it at school, at work, wherever it is, who you just cannot stand. And you make it all the way through the day without blowing up at them, you know. Great job. How often is it then that you get home and immediately blow up at your family who you love over the simplest thing Same kind of thing when you do great at resisting that sin. Resisting that sin that you were really working on it. So you reward yourself with what? A gallon of ice cream When you've really stuck to the diet this week, let's go to the other side. So you go and buy yourself that extravagant gift. We do a really good job at redirecting our appetite sometimes, not actually fixing it. So there's no hope at all, right? What is this text about? This text, all three parts together, do say something to us about defeating temptation. But it isn't a simple three-step plan, actually. This is not Jesus' desert self-help guide to fixing the problem of temptation in your life Saying no to Satan, memorizing scripture, very good things. Do not walk out of that store saying, Chris said we don't we shouldn't do that. We should do that. But is that what this text is actually giving us to do? Is that what it's calling us to do here? What is the key here? What is this passage teaching? What we're going to look at and see this morning. We're going to see the Son of God and we're going to learn from him this. The Son of God knows and trusts his Heavenly Father. The answer, the key that we're going to see is this. The Son of God knows and trusts his Heavenly Father. We're going to see that in three points today with this. The lineage of a new son, then the fate of a foolish son, and finally the life of a true son. Step into that first point here. Point number one, the lineage of a new son. There's no doubt that Luke does something here in the ordering, the structuring of this text that feels odd to us. Luke brings us at the very beginning, Luke 1, through the story that Jesus is going to come, and then Jesus is born, and then to the baptism. And then to the genealogy, and then to the temptation. That feels a little out of order, doesn't it? Because where do we normally put genealogies? You look at some of the other gospels and you think, uh, Luke must have forgotten about that and had to pencil it in later. You know, it's like me when I'm writing thank you notes and I've gotten through most of it and then I realize, oh yeah, I was supposed to say thank you for that. Let me go re-insert that into the thank you note. Is that what Luke's done here? Did he mix up the order? Did he forget about the genealogy? Hopefully we don't think that. There's something significant about the position of this genealogy, and certainly we learn a number of things from it But the goal, the reason that it is here, becomes very clear once we consider the context, what's around it. Think about what is around it. Listen again, Luke 3, verse 21 And then when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove, and a voice came from heaven. You are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. Now when we move beyond the genealogy into the temptation narrative, What challenge will we hear from the devil? It's a challenge that's repeated. Luke 4, verse 3. The devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, And verse 9, again, he took him to Jerusalem, set him on the pinnacle, said, If you are the Son of God. Jesus in the text has just heard the voice of his heavenly father saying to him, You are my beloved son. And then here is the end of our text, that very idea being challenged by Satan. If you really are the Son of God. Suddenly a genealogy here makes a little more sense, right? Because what word did you hear me repeat some 50 times along the way as I read it? The son of. The son of. The son of. This genealogy focuses upon sonship. It's capturing that idea that we got back at the beginning and that we see again at the end of this text. Look with me again here. Verse 23. Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about 30 years of age. being the son as was supposed of Joseph. There's a couple interesting realities that we see as we look at what this text tells us about sonship. And the first little piece that we get here at the beginning of the genealogy is actually a negative. It's a negative point. People supposed Jesus to be the son of Joseph. Now what's being communicated to us by that? Well, is Jesus actually the son of Joseph? Well what do we know from the very beginning of Luke? What we know is that that's not actually in a strict sense the case. He's supposed to be the son. It's a supposition. So the opening point here in the lineage of the son is that he actually has no earthly father Certainly, Joseph loved and raised Jesus as a son. The point that's being made is that Joseph did not sire Jesus. These are the realities which make the birth of Jesus miraculous, right? So miraculous. The wonders of the virgin birth that was prophesied, that Jesus was not conceived by ordinary means, but by the Holy Spirit. in the womb of Mary, and so he is the Son of God. That's unique, right? That's not the kind of thing that happens every day. That's not the kind of thing that happens ever. It's a miraculous occurrence. This happened ever in history, right? Or has it? Now, I'm not talking about Anakin Skywalker. That's that's not where we're going. Fictional. We look at the very end of the genealogy. We trace all the sons of sons of sons and go deep through the history of Israel and then beyond that back to where? Luke chapter 3, verse 38. The son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, who is what? The son of God. There is one other man in history who has no earthly father. Who was it? It's Adam. That's what the very first man called here. What do we see him here labeled? The Son of God. Now the claim here is not that Adam is identical to Jesus. Of course not. He is not God. That is made very clear in the story of the creation of Adam. Adam is created. Jesus is not created. He is creator. But we we do get in the text there is a very clear and intentional intertwining of those two characters, of those two men And there's a unique reality that these two share together. Neither of them have an earthly father. Adam was born from dust and then life was breathed, spirited into him by God. And so Jesus was conceived by the Spirit of God and birthed by the womb of his mother Mary. Jesus, the beloved Son of God, the one who's about to be tempted in our story. Here he is intertwined with, connected to that very first son, Adam, the one who too was tempted. Consider for a moment what's brought us here. It's just before the genealogy that we see Jesus stepped into the waters of baptism, those cleansing waters of repentance. Why does Jesus do that? Why is Jesus baptized? Why does baptism or repentance even need to be a thing in the first place? Well, did Jesus need to repent? Has Jesus been corrupted by sin? Oh, we know, of course not. But Jesus in being baptized expresses that kind of union that he has with Adam and with us. Jesus is holy. But shows solidarity with us in our need for repentance. So he is baptized. And why do we need repentance? The washing of baptism. Why are we stained by sin? Well, it's because of our first earthly father. It's because of Adam, when he too faced temptation, one which featured the very same tempter in our New Testament text. One which he faces, in a very real sense, the same exact kinds of questions that Jesus is about to face. The difference we'll see is it's one which occurred not in the desert or the wilderness, but rather in a garden. Luke 4 verse 1. And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan. and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness. Jesus is led by the Holy Spirit into the midbar, the barren wilderness, the wasteland, the desert, and here he faces. The same kind of temptation that his fellow Son of God faced. God has sent him here. And he's shown us something about Jesus' mission. His mission in the desert. What we are seeing very clearly is an echo, a recapitulation of temptations, which span the lineage of the life of the Son of God. Point number two, the faith of a foolish son. To understand properly this new temptation scene, we do need to clearly understand that first temptation scene. Think about what we heard God say at the baptism of Jesus. Think about it again. This is my beloved son. And then he drove them off into the desert. Adam too was labeled a son of God. We should probably ask a question there. He's a son. Is he a beloved son? I think for a second about the situation that God placed Adam into. When God made Adam, where did he put him? He sent him into a desert? No, it's a beautiful garden. It is a beautiful garden filled with the sweetest of fruits, with everything beautiful to the eye, where nothing would hurt or sting him. What did God give to Adam to do? God made Adam to be one who guards and keeps, who rules over the garden, we could say. Think about the job we know Adam was given to name the animals. What does that mean? It means that Adam was given authority. Authority over that creation. God gave Adam this opportunity to be a ruler, a kind of king under God, over his creation. What did God bless Adam with? Even a beautiful bride, his beloved helper. There's no doubt that the picture of Adam in the garden is the picture of a beloved son. Right? He is a son who when he is placed into the garden, we see all these beautiful gifts from his heavenly father. Everything he could ever desire In the picture of it, uh he is one unto whom is given everything. I mean save one tree, right? That's where the temptation comes. The question from the tempter in Genesis was what? Did God really say What is that question loaded with as he brings it to Adam? Does God really want what's best for you? Does God really want you to enjoy this world? I mean, why would God withhold from you this one tree? Isn't it because he is your father, but he wants to keep something from you? He must not really want you to have the best of the best. You're not really the kind of Father who you can trust to give you all that you need. In a sense, it's the same kind of question. If you really are the beloved Son of God, wouldn't he have given this to you too? Are you really his beloved son? If he really loved you, wouldn't he have given this to you too? For Adam, that's all it takes, right? That's all the lie that Adam needs to hear to bite into and then ruin everything. To destroy the paradise he's been given. That to shatter the joy of the blessed life that he had. And it's thereby that Adam brings the curse of sin upon himself and the curse of death to all us sons and daughters with him. And the story, then Adam is cast out of the garden to where? The sinful wasteland. It's the desert that we've all lived in ever since. That's the story which Luke brings up to us to see, to be thinking about, as he prepares us to see this new son's temptation. Luke here is intentionally connecting us back to that story. He's bringing up before us the story of that foolish son, the first Adam who was beloved and given everything and squandered it. He's bringing that up so that we can see how the second Adam, the last Adam, will face his own temptation. We know Adam is not the only foolish son, right? So we look at the list of names throughout that genealogy. What do we know about every single one of them? They've failed their temptations too. It's not hard for us to see how we are the foolish sons and daughters too, right? Because we fail those temptations as well. This is the story of every man, every woman since Adam. Each of us, foolish sons. What is the answer? Where is their hope? Point number three, the life of a true son. Luke chapter 4, verse 1. Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness for forty days. being tempted by the devil, and he ate nothing during those days, and when they were ended, he was hungry. God calls Jesus, his beloved son, And then drive them into the wilderness for 40 days to starve. Feels awkward, right, to put those things right next to each other? It's then that our familiar tempter arrives. Consider this. What is the object at the forefront of that first temptation with Adam? It was food, right? The forbidden fruit. What is the object at the forefront of this temptation? In verse 3, the devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread. You see what's happening? You see this kind of echo, this kind of recapitulation of that first temptation. Luke brought that history up and he's seemingly bringing it up again. But of course, food isn't what sits at the very heart of temptation, right? Because the through line, the question that's asked again and again in the text here is what? What did God call you a moment ago? His beloved son. And are you really the son of God? This is a question about trust and identity. Jesus is surely hungry and would love some of that bread, but he isn't facing a temptation for most about his stomach. even though that's the object that's before us, he's facing temptation, kind of question that gets at each and every one of us. Who are you really? What is it that you truly want? That's why the object that you're tempted with in your own life is never really the ultimate problem. And hence, you know, even through much effort, sometimes you can drop it to pick up a new vice, right? To find a new object. The ultimate problem that we have, that we see here, is what you think that object that you crave says about you. When we step into temptation, why is it that you're tempted because that object itself is so great? No, it's because what you think it says about who you are, about what you are spiritually lacking, about where you put your trust. If you really are God's son, some nerve for Satan to push here, right? God here hasn't brought Jesus into a garden. This is a desert. God hasn't rained down manna from heaven like he did for some other children in the desert. No, Jesus is starving. And here the true Son of God, whom God has said, is his most beloved. Sitting here in a desert? Is he the beloved sun? I mean the scenery that's been painted here would lead us to think quite the opposite, right? Why is Jesus out here starving to death? It's the perfect context, the perfect situation for Satan to enter into Verse 3, the devil said to him, if you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread. Adam got put into a lush garden. You could think of the Israelites in the desert, they got manna from heaven. Jesus, you seem to have nothing. Is this how God really treats his beloved son? Has God really called you that? Because here we are. Do you see it? We are here at the heart of where all temptations rest. You know, Jesus, if God really loved you, you know, you out here, if God really loved you, Wouldn't he want you to be happy? Wouldn't he want you to be satisfied? Wouldn't he give you your heart's desire? And if he won't, I mean Does he really love you? Maybe you should just reach out and grab that thing you want for yourself. Claim your own identity in some sense. If God's not going to answer your needs, don't you need to answer them for yourself? Isn't that exactly the kind of heartstring that sin and temptation to sin pulls on with us? Sure, God said that, but come, listen here. I will give you what you really need. It's that precise line that the tempter uses to get us to open the door to sin. There's a sense here in which we realize we all have our own kind of daddy problem that sin says it can fix, right? It promises things like, no, I'll make you feel worthy. I will make you feel pretty. I will make you feel strong. I will make you feel loved. and secured all the things that you don't trust, Dad, your heavenly father to give you. I'll give them to you. Now yes, there are physical objects that we are tempted with. But we are tempted by them because of what they promise they will give to us. Those things which we just don't actually trust our Heavenly Father to give us. to us. Temptation to sin is so crafty and miserable. And it promises those things. Part of why it's so crafty and miserable is because even though it promises them, It can't actually deliver. Right? It gives you just that subtle taste, that synthetic fading glimpse of that thing you need, that thing you desire. And then it fades away. It's like the carrot dangling in front of you that you always think you are just close enough. I can grab onto it. And then you can't. You know, but I was so close that time. I should just try again and again. And that's the snare of temptation. And now consider this as we fall into that temptation, at the same time What are we necessarily saying about saying to our Heavenly Father? What you're saying is you say yes to sin is, Father, I don't trust you. I don't trust you to love me. I don't really believe you can or that you will provide for or protect me. I don't believe you really care about Can you imagine worse things for a child to say to their parent? But so we do again and again in our sin. But I try, I try to break the cycle. I try so hard. And yet our self-control and our self-help only gets us so far before we fall back in again or just pick a new object to say yes to. Continue saying no to our Heavenly Father. What is the answer? This is exactly why we are here in this story. This is not a story necessarily about how we can defeat temptation. but rather a story about how Christ has broken the spell of sin. Listen to the words Jesus says back to the devil. Luke 4, verse 4. Jesus answered him, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone. You know how that quote continues where Jesus took it from in Deuteronomy. But rather we'll live by every word from the Father's mouth. Who is Jesus? Jesus is the perfect Son and Himself, the Word of God incarnate. The one who came and became man, who took on flesh, so that we might live out by him All we have to do is what? Trust God's word. Trust Jesus. I mean Adam, has your father really said? And we look at Jesus and what does Jesus' very presence mean? Yes, yes, he has. My father has said these things. He has made these promises, and so I shall live. Think for a second about all the challenges from Satan here in Luke 4. Jesus, don't you crave the satisfaction in the spread? Don't you want this power and glory? Don't you want proof that you are safe and someone really does love you? Doesn't it sound like all the things that Adam had back in the garden? These are all the things that then Satan is challenging Jesus with. And here is an offer of all the things that the first Adam had. be made to the this last Adam, this second Adam, the beloved son. And what is the answer that Jesus gives back to all of it? I trust my Father. How does man live? By trusting him. And Jesus withstands the trial that we fail again and again. He withstands this trial in the text, and so he lives happily ever after, right? Notice how the text ends there, verse 13. When the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time. You probably know when that opportune time is, right? If Adam had passed the temptation in the garden, he and we by him would have received unending life free of temptation. Life is God's glorified, beloved sons and daughters forevermore. But Adam failed, and so here we are, right? Jesus passes the test. And what will his reward be? That Jesus, the beloved Son of God, will die on a cross. that he will suffer the penalty, that death which we all who have shamed and scorned our Father deserved. Too many times, too many times we in word or deed have said what? In effect, I hate you, Dad. That's what our sin does and says. And so, of course, we are the kind of people in sin who should be shunned by our Father, cast off unto the ends that we've brought upon ourselves. And yet Jesus here acts perfectly. He trusts his Father. He is the true and perfect Son. And what does he say? He says, I will face that death for you. I will take that curse upon myself. I will go to that very place where I will say, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Has your heavenly father forsaken you? Of course not. But Jesus goes to that place. And you can't help but think and recount as it all happens. I mean, then Jesus, are you really the beloved Son of God? That God would allow all this to happen to his beloved. Well, why has the Father ordained all of this to happen? Because Christian, even though you have failed again and again, the Father has allowed all this to happen because you too are his beloved sons. And you are his beloved daughters. And Jesus and the Father have agreed to all of this. They've agreed to this whole plan so that they might rescue you. So that you might be freed from the power of sin and the devil, so that your end would not be dead in the desert, but alive and united to the Son, at home with your Heavenly Father. Jesus, the Son of God, came that Christmas morning. He had to be the Son of God. We've seen the proof that he is the Son of God. But is he beloved? A Christian, what you and I learned from the story of the gospel is, yes, he is. And so you are too. So you are his beloved son and daughter. Where is there power over temptation? It's here in this story that temptation is stripped away and destroyed as Jesus has taken the curse of sin to the cross and killed it. What we see in this story is not how Uh we can. But how Jesus has resolved temptation, how Jesus has answered the deepest needs of our hearts, how Jesus has shown us to be and made us to be. his fellow children of God. Because what through what Jesus has said here, what Jesus has done here, what can you know and say to yourself? That my heavenly father is good. My heavenly father really does have my best interest at heart. That my heavenly father is one whom I can trust, and that he's proven it how. through the life and death and resurrection of his own beloved son. So because of all that work of the son, what can you be You can know and you are his sons and daughters. What does being made to be children of the living God look like? Here in this world, that is seen and experienced by the way that his Spirit transforms us. What is the Spirit doing here and now? He is transforming our desires He's leading us to walk with our Father. He's teaching us to listen to and know and hear and trust the very things that his son has told us. Jesus shows us what it is to know and trust our Heavenly Father. And what is left then for us but to embrace that truth in faith, to trust Him. You know, we will still fail along the course of this life, of course. You could think about this. We uh we aren't very good at self-control. We are okay at changing where our appetites are aimed at. You know what the Spirit is at work doing in you now? Leading you to desire your Heavenly Father. Leading you to desire Jesus Christ. So what is left for us but to trust that? To have faith in his son, his beloved son who lived and died and was resurrected, the end of his story is good So that you can know you are his children. And yet we will still fail, because we're still here. But we can know from the life of Jesus that our Heavenly Father will never fail us. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice. That Jesus Christ is your Son. And you sent him to be with us, to take on flesh. To come and face the desert and sin and death that he might defeat it. Here we were those whose end would be death. cast away from you because we are those kinds of foolish children again and again and yet your son has faced sin and the devil and death And defeated it where we fail again and again. Why? So that we can be made into, so that we can know we are your sons and daughters. Father, may we trust that truth. May we see from this work, this story of Jesus, what it is to know and trust that you are our Heavenly Father. And that you are a good Father to us. May knowing and trusting that truth then, through the work of your Spirit, lead us not to be tempted. To forget that or to deny that, but to know and trust it. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.