Good morning, Church. It is wonderful to be here with you all this morning, um to share the word with you, but also just for me to say thank you. Uh thank you to this church. Um I would love to be able to share like just how long you all have supported RUF, but I actually don't know because as far back as my records go You guys are there. And I know it goes before that. So I don't know how long y'all have supported RUF, but it's longer than I even have data for. So thank you. I appreciate it. I really appreciate the support of all the local churches, including you all. that make RUF happen. Also, if I can ask a special favor of you all, we do have some students with us right now who are an RUF from this church. Keep them coming, please. I love your students. Please keep them coming. And also please, I think Chris might mention this later, but stick around for the discipleship hour. I'll share a little bit more. after church about what's going on at RUF and what RUF looks like at the University of Maryland. So we'd love you all to stick around for that. Our scripture reading this morning is going to be from John chapter 15. We're going to be in John chapter 15. I'll be reading verses 1 through 11. Before I read, let me pray for our time together. Heavenly Father, Lord, we need you. We are coming as weak and lowly people before your throne this morning to ask you to feed us. Shower us with your grace and mercy to speak to us through your word this morning. Lord, we pray that you would give us ears to hear. what you have to say for us, that our lives uh would be changed and would experience your blessing, and that you would be honored and glorified through this time together. Lord bless the reading and preaching of your word. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This is John 15, starting at verse 1. This is out of the ESV translation. I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me, you can do nothing If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away like a branch and withers, and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire and burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you. Ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. At the University of Maryland, one of the things that happens at the beginning of every single school year is this event called the First Look Fair. It's called the First Look Fair. It's where every single student organization on campus comes and gathers together, usually on the McKeldon Mall, right in the middle of campus, this big open space. They all post up their little tents and their little tables. There are hundreds of different organizations out there trying to reach out to new students to introduce their organization to them, to tell them what they're about and what their interests are. And there are all kinds. of different student organizations at the University of Maryland. There's the Math Club and the Engineering Club. Yeah, okay, that kind of makes sense. There are various sports clubs. There are things that get as specific as an orchestra that is devoted only to playing video game music. There are groups for gardening, even though all these students live in dorms and apartments. There's groups for house plants. There is everything you can imagine. There's a trampoline club. Everything you can imagine. Of course we're there too and many other campus ministries are there too. And the question that new students are asking as they walk through and they explore all these different students. They're saying like who are my people gonna be while I'm here? Where is my identity gonna be while I'm here? When people ask me about themselves and I tell them what club I'm in. What are they going to think about me? Who are my people going to be? What's my identity going to be? What among all of these hundreds of different groups is going to make my time at Maryland valuable? What is going to make my life here valuable and worthwhile? And those kind of deeper questions don't stop in college. I'm sure you all have various seasons of life where you're asking the same things. What is going to make my life valuable? What is going to make my life worthwhile? What does the good life look like? What is a successful life good like? What does a successful life look like? The Bible speaks of this question, and its answer is fruitfulness. That's what the good life looks like. It is fruitfulness. God's desire for you is to live a fruitful life. What Jesus is telling you this morning is that he's tying that vision of the fruitful life to himself. That vision of the fruitful life, he ties it to himself as the vine. He is the vine. That is where a fruitful life is going to come from. It's going to come from being connected to this vine. So this fruitful life that we're going to look at together this morning, we're going to ask four questions about our text. Where does this fruitful life come from? What is it? How do we get it? And what is the result? Where does it come from? What is it? How do we get it? And what is the result? First, where does it come from? We might need to unpack this vine illustration a little bit since I don't think many of us have grapevines in our backyards in this congregation. So that word vine dresser, if that's an odd word for you, just think about it's a gardener. That's what that word means. The vine dresser, just think of it as a gardener, somebody who's gardening over likely um grape vines, that's probably what's in what the people of this time would have been imagining. Great science. And so there's also a little bit of language here, like I don't think about vines as having branches myself. But what this language is getting at, the way that they would have spoken about the plant at this time. So the vine is talking about the core stalk of this grape plant, this grapevine, the core stalk. That is what is considered the vine. And then the branches coming off of that core stock stalk, which are full of grapes ideally for a fruitful plant. Those are the branches that he's talking about that shootout from this core stalk of the plant. And now, of course, if that branch is going to be fruitful, it has to be connected to the vine. It's got to be connected to the core of the plant so that it can get its nutrients, so that it can get its life. So what the analogy that Jesus is getting at here is he is the source of life for us. He is the source of life, the source for our nutrients. if you will. He is the source of life for us, and being connected to him is where the fruitful life is going to come from. Now it's not sort of tapping into him occasionally. That's the opposite of what a plant metaphor would be like. It's not, you know, just while reaching out for like the supplement of Jesus to supplement what I'm already doing in my life. No, he's he's asking for, he's commanding, continual. Abiding in him. It is a continual connection. It is a constant connection. That's what he's getting at with this word abide. He's saying, remain in me. Abide in me. Make your home in me. He's also saying, he's making a claim to exclusivity. He's saying that word here, I am the true vine. He's saying there, I am the true vine. Now all of his hearers at this time when they would have heard Jesus talking about a vine, their mind would have gone back to the prophets to talk about the nation of Israel as a vine. Now the problem is the when the nation of Israel is referred to by the prophets as a vine, it's often talked about like, why don't you have any fruit? Nation of Israel. Your grapes are sour. Nobody wants to eat those grapes. The nation of Israel that was called to be this fruitful vine that would be a blessing to the nations. Over time, it's producing sour grapes. Time is producing no fruit at all. They lived a fruitful life. Now Jesus is saying, I am the true vine. You nation of Israel, you were supposed to be this embodiment of Psalm 1 of what we read earlier. But I am the true vine. I am actually what the nation of Israel was pointing to. That is me. I am the embodiment of Psalm 1. I am the blessing to the nations. You were no longer called to be a citizen of the nation of Israel, but called to be a citizen of Jesus' kingdom. That's what he's saying, I am the true vine. It's a very audacious claim. There are a lot of things in here that are audacious that his audience would have really raised their eyebrows at, and that's one of them. Jesus is the true vine. We are called to abide in him, to remain in him. My wife and I, my wife Hannah could not be here this morning, unfortunately, but she sends her greetings. We have a dog named Cooper. He's an Australian Shepherd. We love this dog. Cooper has all of the physical tools that he needs to survive on his own. He's got all of the physical tools that he needs to survive on his own. He is a, unfortunately for us, he's a very good hunter. Uh our rabbit is a our backyard is a dangerous place for rabbits. He is a very good hunter. He could find water. There are creeks in our neighborhood. He would be fine. He would be able to find water. He'd be able to find food and water. He's very smart. He's one of the smartest breeds of dogs. He loves the freezing cold. He'd be fine all winter long. He tolerates the heat just fine. He has all of the physical tools that he needs to survive. My wife and I were to just leave him alone for an extended period of time, he would die. He could not handle it. He would not be able to survive without us, in spite of all the fact That he has every physical tool that he needs to survive. He could never survive without us. When he's hungry, he comes and sits at our feet. He could break into his little food bin if he wanted to. But he has no category for that. He comes and sits at our feet. When he needs to go outside, he comes and lets us know. When he encounters the tiniest little problem, he comes to us. The tiniest little problem. He is the smartest dog out there. The tiniest little stick gets stuck in his tether in our backyard, and he just sits there. And looks and waits. When we're gone, he's so sad he doesn't even drink his water We love caring for him. We love that he needs us. Now, this is a little bit of a silly illustration, but there's something when I look at my dog that I think, man, he needs me way less than I need Jesus. He needs me way less than I need Jesus. I think that is something of what it looks like to abide in Jesus, that level of spiritual need. for him. That level of need. For those of y'all who have dogs at home, you know like how much they need you. That's what Jesus is saying. You need me more than that. You need me more than that. Remain in me and abide in me. Make your home in me. Make your abode in me. It's an old word connected to that word abide. Make your abode in me. So the question Jesus is asking you this morning is, where are you making your home? Where are you living? Who are your people? What does it look like? Where do you go to rest and recover and recharge and find life? Where do you go for those things? And what he's calling us to as we examine our own hearts in those questions is what in theological language is called union with Christ. He's calling you to union with him. This language comes up over and over again in the Bible. In Christ. And then on the flip side, amazingly, Christ is in you. Both of those things are true. And that's what He's calling you to. That kind of union, that's such a close connection that this is the defining relationship in your entire life. This union with Christ. You are one in such a way that everything that is yours is his and everything that is his is yours. Everything that is his yours. The death that he died for the penalty of your sins is yours. His perfect spotless righteousness is yours. His resurrection life is yours. It's all yours. That's what he's calling us to. That's what he is inviting us to, actually. The reality of such a close connection with him that what he has is ours. The reality that he can say, as I am connected to God the Father, so you are in me. Man, that is a close connection. Can't get any closer. This is the gospel of free grace that what is Christ's is yours. This is the heart of the Christian story. Friends, if you're here, somebody who's new to this whole Christianity thing, that is what's at the heart of the Christian story. The free grace of Christ. is yours by faith when you come to him. I am not worthy of God's favor on my own, but because of what Christ has done on my behalf I have not only acceptance, I have forgiveness, I have reconciliation, I have life, I have grace, I have mercy, and I have the love of God for me. All those things are yours by faith. But the story doesn't stop there. Union with Christ is uh is the new reality that that comes to our life as a Christian. It's not just sort of a a one-time thing, it's something that now embodies our whole existence. Become a new person when you come to faith in Christ, a fruitful person. So what does that look like? What does it look like? What is this fruitfulness? Well, the first and most important thing is it's very different than what the world would consider its standards of success and accomplishments and achievements. It's not about how productive you are. It's not about the list of achievements that you can point to on a resume. It's not about how impressive you are. God is much more concerned with our character. and our objective accomplishments, and our objective achievements. Galatians 5 defines the fruit of the Spirit. Like this is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control, living your life in a way that benefits others and leads others to God, leads others to this great vine. That we are called to be connected to. Later on, Jesus will say that when people will see that you are my disciples by how you love one another. A fruitful life, therefore, happens in community, the fruit of the Spirit. None of these things can happen by yourself. It has to happen with your people, with the church community, with the community of other believers. It's not about accomplishments or skills or achievements. I know the achievement culture that infects pretty much everywhere I've been to in the DMB has got to reach out to Bowie too. That's not what fruitfulness is about. And there's a lot we could say about this fruitful life. There's a lot we could say about the role of obedience in abiding with Jesus, because he does talk about that too. It's a very simple explanation, just that list of the qualities that Galatians 5 talks about. But the one point I want to make about this point, or about this life of fruitfulness for you all this morning. That it is incredibly accessible. The fruitful life for you this morning is accessible. You can access it wherever you are coming from. There's not an IQ test to come and be fruitful in Jesus' kingdom. There's not a, you have to have a certain amount of accomplishments before you can come and be fruitful in Jesus' kingdom. You don't need charisma or charm to be fruitful in Jesus' kingdom. My most fruitful students often have the least amount of charisma in our ministry. All you need is to be in Jesus and remain in him, and everyone in this room has access to that by faith. Everyone in this room has access to that by faith. Access to that fruitfulness. It just comes from union with Christ. It doesn't come from your smarts. It doesn't come from your intellect. It doesn't come from how strong you are. It doesn't come from your looks. It doesn't come from your work accomplishments. It comes from union with Christ. And everybody in here has access to that. That's what this fruitful life looks like. It is accessible. It is our character. It is living in such a way that other people see God in us and see Jesus in us as individuals and importantly also. as a community. So that was a quick description of this fruitful life. How do we get it? How do we get this fruitful life? How do we get access to it? How do we change? Students ask me this question all the time. How do I change? How can I change myself? I believe in the power of habits for thinking about, you know, change. If somebody in this room is is addicted to your phone Just lock it away for a while. Like actually practice that habit of locking it away for a while. I believe you know God doesn't work by coercion or force. He works in concert with our wills. Habits and practices are important. Practical things are important. But ultimately, how do we change in a way that becomes fruitful? Like what Jesus is calling us to? This is much more about heart change than practical advice. Much more about heart change. You're in here this morning and you think, I want to change. Jesus is after your heart. To push that change, to make that change happen. And ultimately, this is what is more important and it will lead to real and lasting change. I want to focus on three things that uh that help us. With understand what this heart change is about in Jesus' mind this morning that he talks about in our text. The first is the love of Christ. The love of Christ isn't just a model for us to follow. It's not just a model for us to follow. It's actually the source of that heart change. It is the source of that heart change. He says, abide in my love. The love of Christ for you is so strong, it will never get old. It will never get old. It is a well that never runs dry. You could meditate on the love of God for you for the rest of your life, and you would not tap that resource fully. It's it. I love that this is an indefinite command. Abide in my love. There's no end date to this. Abide in my love. Because you can abide in my love for the rest of your life, and it will still be fruitful for you. to abide in his love. Make your spiritual home the love of Christ for you for the rest of your days. Right after this passage, later on in this chapter, it says, Love one another as I have loved you. And he's not just saying, love people like Jesus loves people. He's saying that he is the source of our love for each other. He's going to be the source of our love for each other. He's where you will find the desire and the ability to love in a selfless and sacrificial way. Verse 4 in our text, it's an amazing thing that he says. Not just about you abiding in him. He makes his home in you. He makes his home in you, believer. The reason there's no temple anymore, you're a temple. This place is a temple. The body of believers is a temple. If you want to love people well, make your home in Christ's love. Read about his love in Scripture. Meditate on His love for you. Let the things He teaches you abide in you. Meditate on, read about, make your home in the love of Christ. The second thing about how he teaches us for how to become fruitful is this idea of pruning. The idea of pruning again. So this this illustration, think about a gardener and a grapevine, a grape plant. When the gardeners are tending to the grapevines, it requires what I think for most of us in our natural thinking about this if we're not familiar with agriculture. It's kind of an unintuitive thing. One of the requirements to produce a fruitful crop that you actually have to cut off fruit. some point. It's kind of unintuitive. But the branches need to be cut back for the plant to be healthy. And the other amazing thing, it's not just unhealthy branches that need to be cut off. Sometimes even healthy branches need to be cut off for that plant to be able to produce fruit in the long run. Sometimes uh the fruit actually grows so fast. that a gardener will have to cut off that branch because there's too much fruit on it for that pr plant to be actually be able to sustain itself. So much fruit it's not going to be able to sustain it and make them all fruitful and come uh they won't all ripen and the plant will struggle. Gardeners, vine dressers, in the language of our text are very skilled at this. They know what to cut off. Even sometimes good-looking branches need to be cut back. In order to maximize the fruitfulness of the plant. What Jesus is saying, everybody needs to be pruned. Everyone who follows Jesus needs to be pruned and will be pruned. At some point, there are things in your life that need to be cut away. Unless you are perfectly fruitful, there's something in your life that's going to need to be pruned. It's a hard reality that some of the things that, even some of the things that seem good to us, that looks like such a healthy branch. God, why would you cut that off? Why would you cut off that branch? It might be a goal or a dream for the future. Maybe a relationship with a friend or a family member, someone that you care about. These things that need to be pruned and it will be hard. But God's goal in pruning is always more fruitfulness, friends. It's always more fruitfulness. That's his goal in pruning. Suffering can do one of two things for us spiritually when we think about this God pruning us. It can do one of two things for us. Can either drive us away from Jesus. We see that in our text this morning when he talks about the branches that need to be cut off and thrown into the fire. Not just pruned, but that need to be cut off and thrown away. For these people. Jesus is saying that sometimes they need to be cut off. Now, if you if you read the scholarship around this text, there's some debate about like what exactly are these branches that he's talking about. Is this people who have a relationship of faith with Jesus that he's saying, no, I'm going to cut you off and throw you into the fire? Is that what he's talking about? I don't think that's what he's talking about. It wouldn't be consistent with the rest of Jesus' teaching. He says elsewhere that those whom the Father gives me I will never cast out. He's not going to contradict himself here. So what he seems to be talking about, what it seems pretty clear from our text and from the context that he's talking about, is people who are just going through the motions. Somebody who's maybe been in a church community like this, but for whom this isn't a heart reality relationship with Jesus. They're just going through the motions. They're doing this whole church thing maybe for other reasons than Jesus. Maybe it's for social reasons. Maybe it's to please somebody in their life. And what Jesus is saying is that when this happens, when that is, when somebody is cut off from the community of faith, When Jesus cuts off this branch, it reveals that this person was never truly connected to Jesus at all. They were never connected to Jesus at all. Your faith is in Christ this morning. He's not going to cast you out. This is not talking about you. He's not going to cast you out. But if you're somebody who is here just going through the motions. I want to do this because of how it helps me be seen by my parents or my siblings or my kids or whomever. Jesus has a convicting word for you. He's got a convicting word for you. Come to Him not just for what it will do for you socially or relationally, but for Him. He's the only source of life. He's the only source of life that you really need. So, one thing suffering can do, it can drive you away from Jesus. It can reveal that you were never actually connected to Him in the first place. But the other thing that this pruning can do is it can make us more gentle. Make us more patient. It can make us more kind. Instead of making it hard and bitter, it can soften us. Make us more like Christ. And when you see that happening in your life, that is God pruning you. To make you more like Jesus, He's not casting you off, He's pruning you. And His goal is always more fruitfulness. Always more fruitfulness. If you're a a new believer in this community this morning, if you're somebody who's just new to coming to faith in Jesus, one of the things I want to Counsel you on is that you might be surprised at some of the things that Jesus, that God prunes from your life. You might be surprised by some of the things that God says, I need to prune that from your life. Things that seem like they are so good. That God says, no, no, no, I have to prune that to make you more fruitful. I have to prune that from you. The things that God metaphorically takes a knife to in your life. He always does for good reason. One scholar writing about this text says it beautiful beautifully. He says the gardener is never closer to the vine than when he has the knife in his hands. He's never closer to the vine than when he has the knife in his hands. Those of you who are gardeners, you know, if when you're going through your plants and you're trying to figure out, okay, what do I need to cut back in order for this plant to grow, that is when you are closest to that plant. As when you are studying that plant. You are studying it closely. God is studying you closely when He prunes you. He is never closer to you than in that moment of pruning. He knows you. And he will never prune you with no reason. So abiding in Jesus' love, pruning will help us to be more fruitful. Our last thing for how do we get this fruitfulness is prayer. This is the best expression of your union with Christ, in prayer with Him. He says, abide in me and in my word. That's so he also says he also seems to be implying that we'll get whatever we ask for when we pray to him, but you've got to notice that condition that he gives first. If you abide in me and my word abides in you. If you are, you don't just walk up to Jesus for the first time you hear about him and pray to him and he just gives you everything you ask for like a genie. He's saying that if you abide in him and if you grow in a relationship with him, You understand him, the natural course of action is to start praying for things that are consistent with God's will. That is what is the natural flow of prayer. The more you pray, the more you learn how to pray. The more you grow in your relationship with Christ, the more you learn how to pray. There's a connection between abiding in him and abiding in his word and our prayer life. But then secondly, he's talking more about our attitude here than our results. This isn't a formula for getting results from God. Jesus is calling you to a certain attitude when you pray, when he says you will get whatever you wish for. Approach Jesus in prayer like he loves you and he wants to give you good things because he does. That's what he's calling you to. I want to give you good things, I want you to be fruitful. Pray to me like that. Pray to me like that. Things that are good for your long-term fruitfulness, that are good for your soul. He loves giving good gifts. We live in a very uh impatient time in our culture, I think. I see this a lot in myself. I used to be able to ride the metro downtown. I grew up in Silver Spring, ride the metro downtown in high school just in complete silence with no distractions for 30 minutes and just sit there and think. I can't go for a minute without pulling out my phone or doing something else to distract myself now. We live in a very impatient time. Just makes a prayer life even harder. I uh heard this um illustration from a pastor, um I think it was Tim Keller in a sermon I listened to a long time ago, where he talks about uh uh an acorn in a sidewalk. Well you if you were to plant an acorn, you know, right next to a sidewalk, there is very little power in that acorn, right? If you were to go up to the sidewalk and like hit it with an acorn, nothing's gonna happen, but that acorn's gonna break, right? When you plant an acorn right next to a sidewalk, and you give it a few decades, that sidewalk starts to break up, right? There is incredible power in that little acorn. If you just give it enough time, power to break a sidewalk, you just give it enough time. There is unbelievable power in that tiny little seed once you let it grow. But it needs time. All the metaphors that the Bible gives for the Christian life and for maturing in Him, I feel like so many of them are about growth over the long term. About New Testament language, about growing from eating our mother's milk to eating solid food. That takes a long time. From a seed to a tree, like we read in Psalm 1, that takes a long time. This vision of fruitfulness is one that takes a long time. And then you look at almost every character in the Bible that I can think of, every main character, has to wait a long time for something in their life. Or for a lot of things in their life. Every character in the book of Genesis feels like they just have to wait forever. Well, not forever. Wait a long time for what comes to them. The biblical pattern is that we wait. We wait well. Prayer is not a short-term trick for us. It's a long-term calling. And there's no better way to express your union with Christ than to be in prayer with Him to pray to Him And so now lastly, what is the result? This will be very brief. What is the result of this? We've looked at where does this fruitful life come from? How do we get it? What is the result? Well the result, Jesus says, is your joy. That's the result. Your fruitful life, your following Jesus and your joy are not contrary, they're complementary to each other. They are complementary. Jesus wants you to be full of joy. Wants everyone in this room to be full of joy. That's what comes from abiding in him. Jesus doesn't want you to be this tiny little branch with a couple of little grapes on it here and there. That's not what he wants. He wants you to be a fruitful branch full of bunches of grapes. And he doesn't leave it up to you about whether that's going to happen. He makes it his responsibility. That he's going to make that happen. He doesn't want you to be a sad little branch. He wants you to be a full and fruitful branch, and he's going to make it happen. And it might take time. It might take time, but he wants you to have his joy. He loves you too much to let you stay in this place of frustration and the desire to change and not knowing how. He loves you too much for that. And ultimately, your home will one day be eternal joy with him. He's guaranteed that. When it doesn't feel like that in your life, he says, wait a minute, just wait a little longer. Wait a little longer. You will see. One day you will see. And it will all make sense, all that pruning in your life. Come and experience eternal joy with me. Come and experience my heavenly joy. That's his invitation, and he's not going to stop until he's done it. He won't stop until it's complete. Let's close there. Please pray with me Heavenly Father, we thank you for sending your Son for us. God, we thank you that you not only call us to live a fruitful life, but you promise that you will produce fruit in us. God, I pray for this community this morning. I pray for those in here who are desperate for change in some area of their life. God, would you be gentle to them? Would you, through pruning, produce more fruit in them? Would you give us patience? To see how you're working over the long term, when we want you to work immediately and do it now. Lord, I thank you that you have given us a vine. That we can abide in, where we can find love and we can find joy, where we can find security, we can find our people, and we can find salvation. Would you bring us faithfully to that end one day with you? We look forward to that day. And I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.