Our New Testament reading, our sermon text is John chapter 18, verses 1 through 11. That's found on page 904 of the Pew Bibles. Jesus has talked about how he is about to step into his hour. Here that hour begins. Here following his night with the disciples. Up in that upper room, Jesus is stepping out into the garden. He is leaving Jerusalem to go face his betrayer. The text begins this way: John chapter 18, verse 1. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the brook Kidron, where there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered. Now Judas who betrayed him also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples. So Judas having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief Chief of priests of the and the Pharisees went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, Whom do you seek? Jesus said to them, I am he. They drew back and fell to the ground. So he asked them again, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered, I told you that I am He. So if you seek me, let these men go. This was to fulfill the word that He had spoken. Of those whom you gave me, I have lost not one And Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. So Jesus said to Peter, Put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? Approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we see here the beginning of the end for our Lord in his time here on this earth as he seeks to fulfill your mission. That mission which we've looked at over the past couple of weeks, that mission to win for himself a people, to redeem a people. Lord, may your spirit be Guide us to see and know and understand what Jesus is doing here. That we might follow in his footsteps, that we might follow as he He leads his people to his kingdom. It's in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen. If you followed along the way in this story as told by John, then you know that The Apostle John, the author here, is a very particular way of telling the story of Jesus. John brings a bit of a different perspective to things The other gospel accounts don't. John likes to frame things a certain way. John brings in certain details that others disregard, and John very intentionally leaves out things that all the others include. John is intentionally putting us into a certain context whenever he's telling us the story of Jesus. For that reason, just listen with me for a moment to a story here. We step into the scene and realize that everything has gone wrong. Here is the king, the anointed one of Israel, and he is fleeing Jerusalem. He escapes eastward, out of Jerusalem, over the brook of Kidron, through the valley, moving toward Towards the Mount of Olives, who is with the king. It's his small band of loyal followers, a faithful few who hold fast, who hold true. to the true king. It's his friends. And along the way the king and his friends weep. They cry over the situation. This is No mere evening stroll. This is an evacuation. The king is being hunted down, so he must flee. Against him. This friend is crossed over to join with the enemy. He's plotted with the opposing side to overthrow this king, a king with whom he once walked. and talked and ministered these past number of years. We describe that story and it's a train wreck of a situation, right? Everything has gone wrong. We've lost control of the ship. We are going down in a blaze. This is surely the end and it's not a good one. What the story is that feels familiar to the story of John 18, right? But this is the story of David back in 2 Samuel. Daniel fifteen. The story where David there was chased out of his kingdom, as we just read, for his son Absalom has determined to overthrow him. Where does David flee? It's what John says too, over the brook the Kidron, that winter brook. It's through the garden. It's towards the Mount of Olives, eastward, out of Jerusalem, towards that city, and along the way is this Mourning. For David, that's most especially because his dear friend Ahithophel has betrayed him. This is actually where David writes Psalm 41, those words, even my My close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, he has lifted his heel against me. Now this story is dramatically and intentionally Similar to, yet also so very different from what we read in John chapter 18 here. John is framing, he's setting this up this way. It's just earlier this night that Jesus Quoted that same exact psalm, but speaking of who? His friend Judas. And here as the night closes, Jesus too has Has gone out of the city. He's stepping into his hour. He came into the city of Jerusalem, hailed as the great conquering king. And now he's leaving Leaving it to do what? To step into his rejection, to walk towards his death. He heads even along the same path as David, crossing And over that winter Kidron brook. John is actually the only person who tells us that, the only gospel account which tells us that. Same though as David. And then Into a garden. John chooses not to name it for us, all to meet news of betrayal. You see what John is doing here? He is weaving into this story a memory of what King David once faced. He set it up a couple of chapters earlier and he's bringing us into that memory here He's framing this story of King Jesus as a kind of recapitulation of that story of King David. Encounter all the same kinds of things, the same valley, the same river, same kind of scene, the same kind of companion experience. But what is different here in this story? What is different is who our king is. Think about David's experience. David's exodus was due ultimately to his own sin. And that leads him to flee because he, in his situation, has no control over the kingdom anymore. And Jesus, though, he arrives at this point. Why? Certainly. Not because of his own sin, because of our sin. His journey is one over and through which he has complete control. Actually, we're going to see This is the way that Jesus takes his kingdom. As we approach this moment of Christ's death here, John wants us to see and understand this reality. We so often try to take and build our own kingdoms by force. We try to reign as king over our own lives. We think we can have perfect control over the situation But the truth of the matter is we can't. There is always our own sin and weakness and failings getting in the way, just like King David. There is always say you did live somehow flawlessly. And even in that kind of situation, there's always the opportunity for a traitor to thwart all that we've been Oftentimes we might even think, I can amass this power, I can use the powers of this world for good reasons. You may be familiar with some of the rumblings of today's church. Fix even hinted at it a little bit this morning. Uh that idea, that desire to retake the nation for Christ. That impulse to use the powers and forces of this world to win influence. And we might say, for good. Is that how Christ? Established his kingdom here on this earth. Jesus here shows us how he is a totally different kind of king. He shows us that he is absolutely sovereign. At the same time, he comes in humility to act from love. And grace. John is showing us this this evening. Christ takes his kingdom through willful submission. Christ takes his kingdom through willful submission. We're going to explore that in three points here as we step through the story. It's this first, a familiar scene. And then second, a Majestic display. And finally, third, a voluntary surrender. Let's look at that first point, a familiar scene. In verse 1, we join Jesus as he goes out to what apparently Look with me at verse one. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the brook Kidron, where there was a garden, which he And his disciples entered. Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place. For Jesus often met there with his disciples. John is pointing out here that Jesus intentionally goes to this particular garden. This is a place that Jesus often went to. This is a known hangout spot for Jesus and the disciples. This is not the kind of place that you go to to hide from one of your disciples. This is a place where Jesus knows Judas will know to find him. It shows us even at the start that Jesus is the one who is setting the time. terms here. He knows how this is all going to happen. He says this is where we are going to meet. And Judas does know this. This is where he is bringing a love everyone along with him. In that, uh, this isn't Judas catching a fleeing Jesus then, right? This is actually Judas just meeting Jesus at the Same old spot. And then right on cue, the traitor arrives, but he's clearly not alone. Verse three. And Judas having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief of priests And the Pharisees went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. That phrase, band of soldiers, it's actually the term in Greek for a cohort of soldiers. This is a a a group of soldiers that could include up to some six hundred soldiers, six hundred men. This is a full military detachment. Kinda seems excessive to Go meet Jesus and eleven disciples, right? The immediate question which a number of commentators bring up, but which they have noted is why are there even this many Roman soldiers here in the city of Jerusalem? Muslim in the first place. Actually, precisely for this kind of reason. This is the night of a great feast. What are we Celebrating. It's the Passover. Numerous Jews have journeyed from far and wide and gathered into this city for this feast. And what are they celebrating when they celebrate the Passover? They're here to celebrate how God delivered them from their oppressors back in Egypt. And imagine you're Rome for a second. Can you think of a more likely time for some people to get some? bright ideas, um bright ideas about deliverance from their oppressors, uh start thinking about their own kind of rebellion and revolt. And who have they come to arrest here, but the one who they Here is Jesus. And here Jesus is precisely why they are here. It's not just the Romans who have arrived. Arrived though, right? No, they've come together with, united with the officers of the chief priests and the Pharisees. In some kinds of cultural terms here, it seems Judas has pulled off a miracle. Jew and Gentile marching together, hand in hand, the whole world comes together to take down this man, to take down Jesus. Back to the very beginning of the book, John chapter 1, verse 9, it's there that we see Jesus is the true light. And when the dark world meets him They are not going to know what to do with him. He came to the world. Here is the world in front of them. He came even to his own people. Here are the officers Of the priests and the Pharisees, but the darkness would not receive him. Can the darkness overcome him? Now put this scene into context with me Here. This massive force arrives with torches and weapons just as one would hunt down a rebel. The rebel should run and flee. That's not what this rebel is here to do. This rebel has gone to his own known hangout spot. Christ has come to be found This band has come with weapons of force. Jesus has come to meet them. He's come to encounter them. The question is How is he going to encounter them? What's he going to face off here with? It's seemingly just like that scene of David's story here in that very same spot. And yet something very different is happening. Point number two, a majestic display. So we think about this situation, these two different parties there's this kind of showdown, this face-off here in the garden. On the one side is Jesus and his eleven friends, a few fishermen and I IRS agent, a couple sales guys. And on the other side is Judas, and Judas comes with an army. Here's this kind of juxtaposition between Between the forces of this world and the forces of Christ, and what do we expect to happen? Immediately, verse four. You see, Jesus knows And verse 4, then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, Whom do you seek? A little odd the way that's phrased, right? And Jesus knows exactly what is going to happen. So then he comes and asks, Who are you looking for? It's almost like a comedy scene, right? You can imagine that. What's up? Doc. Why even ask the question here? Jesus has a reason. At verse 5, they answered him. We're seeking for Jesus. Jesus said to them, I am He. If I were to read it a little more woodenly, Jesus says, I am. You see what what he did there? The setup. And Jesus is getting in here one last. I am. The book of John, how much Jesus loves that phrase. I am the bread of life. I am the light of the world. I am the gate. I am the good shepherd. I am the resurrection and the life. The way, the truth, and the life. I am the vine. Who has Jesus told us again and again? And again he is. He calls upon God's very name and he says, I am Jesus asks, Who do you seek? So that one last time in this book, he can remind everyone, I am. And it's upon invoking the very name of God. God, Yahweh, I am that what happens? Verse six, when Jesus said it to them, I am He, they drew back and fell to the ground. And Jesus here claims for himself and speaks the name of God, and the forces of this world are brought to their knees. They collapse in front of him. Here the word of God speaks, and in a display of majestic grandeur, the powers of the worlds in front of him crumble. Who's in control of the situation? Which side has the upper hand? In the eyes of the world, an army always sounds like the right choice. But with the utterance of a single word here We know who's in control. We know who has the power. And we know who has come to meet whom. Now, what had Jesus told us before? So nobody takes my life from me. If I lay it down, I lay it down of my own accord. When the army has gathered itself back together, everyone's back on their Jesus asked them again, verse seven. Whom do you seek? You've got to imagine there's probably a few people who are like, eh, maybe maybe we don't answer this time. But they do. Verse 8. Jesus answered when they asked, and when they answer again, Jesus of Nazareth, I told you that I am He. So if you seek me Let these men go. Even here, as he responds again, he commands the army. He's the one telling the army what to do. Okay, you can take me Well you're going to let my men go. John again here doesn't tell the story exactly like the other gospel accounts do. It's not like Luke where uh we hear about the disciples running around with their heads cut off like chickens. No, John zooms in here. He focuses in. He brings us to this close-up shot on Jesus who commands and is listened to. He commands the whole situation. He steps into this scene. He has chosen this stage. He speaks. He has power. He commands. Jesus has all the power here. So what does he do? Point number three: a voluntary surrender. We see what Peter does, right? You look at verse 10. And Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant, cut off his ear. And Peter takes Takes up the sword. And in that we see Peter has the same kind of mentality about this fight, this war, uh that in some sense the army of power across from him must have. reminiscent of uh the scene in Mark eight when uh Jesus told his disciples he's gonna have to die and Peter says, Nah Jesus, you're you're not going down that way. And Jesus responds to Peter Get behind me, Satan. In a sense, no, that's not how this happens. Here Peter lives into that prior word and right away John shows us the folly of Peter one again. You've gotta imagine that Peter and John must have been really close in life because how else do you get away making fun of Peter every chance you get? It's be it's beautiful. every time. How does Jesus respond to Peter here? Verse 11, so Jesus said to Peter, put your sword into its sheath Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? Think about the parallel here for a moment if we reflect back upon that story of King David. When David is fleeing, at his command, his band of faithful few, they actually take up the sword, and they use that sword with David to go and reclaim the throne. throne. They enter the fight swords in hand. When Jesus is here, what does he say? Put down To his victory is not through force and power. There's a different means. It's coming, he says here, from drinking this cup. What cup is Jesus talking about? If you do a cursory run through the prophets, they talk about a cup. Many of them talk about a cup and they describe it as a cup of judgment and wrath that God saves up for unrighteousness. The psalmist in Psalm 75, Asaph, he describes it as This way. It is God who executes judgment, putting down one, lifting up another. For in the hands of the Lord there is a cup. with foaming wine, and it is well mixed. He pours out from it, and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to The dregs. This cup is prepared by God, and He holds it as judgment for sin. It's the cup of wrath which he will use to drown the unrighteous. This is the cup that Jesus is coming for? Yes. Because that's what the Father gives to him The cup meant for who here? Well, the enemies of God. The cup that is meant to condemn the world. It is the cup of damnation. For sinners, the cup that we should have to face because we are sinners. Christ hasn't come to take up a sword. He's come to take up a That cup? Reset the scene with me here. Here is Jesus standing before his betrayer, Judas. Here is Jesus encountering the forces of this world. His disciple takes up the sword to fight back. His disciple Peter here picks up that sword and Jesus says in response to him, I am not here to win by the sword. I'm not here to defeat them with the sword, rather by this cup. I mean what is happening in the scene? Why? Kind of feels like just saying, let's give up. This is a longer quote than I'd usually read, but I think it's worth listening to. The theologian Hermann Ritterboss describes this scene this way. Jesus is not departing the scene as the victim of Judas' betrayal and the superior might of his enemies. He shows he has power. He has The power to lay down his life before taking it up again, and no one takes it from him. What Jesus does here, he suffers and does. And suffers out of love for and obedience to the Father. This here is not an action from Jesus Jesus of weakness. He's not giving in or giving up to the powers that be. When he says, Sheathe your sword, Peter, it sounds to us as though he's just saying Let's give up. Isn't that how we think of it? But shouldn't we fight back? Shouldn't we fight back? Shouldn't we defeat These evil forces? Shouldn't we fight fire with fire? That's how they came at us. They brought torches and weapons. Let's get a little dirty with them, Jesus. This is But Jesus is not admitting defeat here. He is fighting this battle, but he's fighting it a very different way. Finding it by means of submission, he says, to the Father's will, by voluntarily surrendering so that he He might win a different way. And imagine a moment here if Jesus had said, okay, let's pick up the sword. Let's fight that way. And would Jesus have won? And he sh showed with a single word how he could win, how the army would tumble before him. We've seen plenty of stories throughout the Bible of a small band defeating The large forces before them. Jesus, sure, this is how he wanted it to go. He could fight that fight. But what would the result of that have been? Well that cup would still be left undrunk. That cup would still be full. There would still be that cup of wrath for sinners to face. It would be there for Peter. We know he is a sinner. It would be there for us to drink. We know we are too. Who would be left to take up that cup if Jesus had not? It would be us. We would have to face the Wrath which we have earned. We would be left to face the punishment for our wickedness. If Christ took up the sword, that would mean we are lost to Our condemnation in that cup. What has Christ done now? Instead, he goes towards that cup. Instead of lifting up the sword, he lifts up a cross that he might go to that cup and drink it for us. Because that's what the Father has said Him to do. Throughout this gospel, John has shown us this mysterious reality that the cross is somehow all the appearances of shame. It is glory. It is a sign of glory. What is our impression in the face of that? What does the cross say to us? Suffer, give Give up, face earthly defeat, and it all just sounds like foolishness when we think upon it. Isn't that how Paul said the world would see the c Cross, that it's foolishness to the Greeks, stumbling block to the Jews, and here are the world, the Gentiles and the Jews before us It's not how they fight, is it? For Christ, the cross is what? He's saying it's his road to victory. He's saying this is how we win this battle. Here in this hour, he will find glory, he will find victory by obeying his father. He's shown us in a glimpse that he has The majestic power over all of creation. I am, and the armies of the world collapse. But what he willfully chooses to do here is what? It's to go to the cross, to go and drink that cup of wrath. And that cup is how Jesus finds Victory. Because by drinking that cup himself, by facing the shame of the cross, by enduring the wrath of God against sin, what is Jesus doing He secures for himself a people. And what does a kingdom need? It needs a king. Is and needs his people. Jesus is securing for himself here his people. Here The light, through submission, through the appearance of surrender, he takes up the cup of destruction upon himself because he's a Mathecist. Is he a fool? No. Because he wants you, Christian. He wants you to be not left to the destruction of that cup But rather for you to live. He wants you to be his beloved sons and daughters who live in and enjoy his kingdom. And so he must take the cup. He must take it for you so that you might be saved, so that you might step into his kingdom. This is how Christ chooses to win his kingdom. You see what Christ has done? Here, it's through this surrender that he is winning his kingdom Could we, his kingdom people, his ambassadors left on this earth in this age, could we follow in that pattern? Could we see too how to walk in Meekness and humility. Can we see how to seek Christ's kingdom the way that He has sought it? John shows us here that Christ's kingdom Here in this age, it is not won by the powers and forces which this world uses. It's not won by fighting fire with fire. It's not won by conquering, apparently, our enemies. And betrayers. And rather, it is won here by the cross. It's won through the appearances of shame. It's won through humility and self- Sacrifice. It's one through the love of Christ. We have that impulse, that motive. We hear it a lot in this present age at times. Oh well we need to retake it with force. We need to win. Maybe we do need to get down a little dirty. But what has Jesus done. Jesus has gone to the cross. He has given up of himself selflessly. He has given all the appearance of surrender. And in that is he defeated? No. In that he is victorious. That's the way that Jesus Jesus fights this fight. That's the way that Jesus takes his kingdom. And we follow in that pattern as he has led us. He is our King. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, it is a mysterious reality to us, one that confounds us us at time. We do think we must fight the way that this world fights. We must conquer and have the appearances of Power of this world. We must retake what is rightfully ours. And yet, what has Jesus shown us? That He does not come to fight with the sword. He comes for the glory of a cross. And we look to that cross. May we listen as he Calls us to take up our cross with him, to suffer as he has suffered, to love as he has loved, to act in mercy and compassion as he has shown us. us mercy and compassion. Jesus is our King. May we walk in the pattern that He has shown us as we look to To his cross. May we be led by your spirit to trust that that pattern works. Not because we are good enough or strong enough Or mighty enough, but because Jesus our Savior is, and this is what he has shown us. And we trust in this truth. In Jesus' name. Amen.