Our sermon text this morning comes from John chapter ten. If you've been with us, you know that I've been preaching through the book of John, uh mostly in the evenings, occasionally in the morning, and we get this morning to Passage which many Christians love and cherish, which has been loved and cherished since the very beginning of the New Testament, and it's being read by Christians. John chapter 10, verse 1 begins this way. Truly, truly, I say to you He who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him. For they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them, that is, the Jewish leaders But they did not understand what he was saying to them. So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays his life down for the sheep. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, he sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he's the hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. But I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. And I lay my life down for the sheep, and I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd For this reason, the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may pick up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I received from my father. There was again a division amongst the Jews because of these words Many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? And others said, These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? So ends our reading. Would you join me in prayer? Heavenly Father, we see here a story which we can see right away the immediate audience does not understand. Now we're like that often. Those who do not necessarily see immediately all of what you are saying. So we pray now as we approach your word, Father, that your Holy Spirit might make clear to us what it is that you are communicating. And that we would recognize the difference between those false shepherds around us and the true and good shepherd who calls us and who leads us. Who even lays his life down for the sheep, Father. It's in Jesus' name which we do pray. Amen. Well, as I already said, what we have before us in this text is a theme which is deeply beloved by the church since its very inception. Here is a theme. The theme of a shepherd, which is actually laced throughout all of the Bible, Old Testament and New Testament, which is loved and cherished by Old Testament and New Testament saints alike. You could think even back to the song that we just sang. What was it? It was Psalm 23, which is certainly the most well-known of all the psalms of Scripture. And what does it say? What does it open with? The Lord is my shepherd. You've probably seen at some point in time imagery depicting that idea. uh maybe an image, someone's invented version of what Jesus looked like with a lamb around his shoulders walking. That kind of what we call iconography, that picture of the Lord with that sheep, that goes all the way back to nearly the third century. Christians have been depicting that. Now, whether you want to say that's okay to do or not, okay. But it's clear that that idea Of the Lord is our shepherd, is dearly beloved, since the very beginning of the church. And here we approach where we see Jesus say, I am that shepherd. I am that good shepherd. How did we get here? The present context in John 10, this imagery, it uh comes to us, we get here because of the context around it. If you were with us last Sunday evening, and then you know the story which brings us here, John 9 spoke to us about a man who was born blind. And Jesus healed that man, and it was a beautiful miracle. The man even reminded uh the people around him and the Jewish leaders, have we ever heard of someone being able to do this, to heal a man who was born blind? And yet it's that event which, of course, repeatedly throughout John triggers this kind of confrontation And we know that we're so a part of that kind of event because of what's said in John 10. What was even the very end of our passage here? John 10, 19, there was again division amongst the Jews because of these words. In that story from John 9, the division really hangs upon this confrontation between the man who was born blind and has been healed. And our friendly neighborhood Pharisees. Well, okay, I mean they see themselves that way, right? But what has John shown us again and again about the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders? If we stick with our kind of Spider-Man reference there and look at what's happened, they look a lot less like the friendly hero here. They're not necessarily the kind of people who are rescuing those in their moments of need. They look a lot more like J. Jonah Jameson, right? The angry curmudgeon who runs the newspaper, who eventually becomes the mayor. Well what do they do? They are the ones who hold influence over the people in power. They're the ones who we see repeatedly wield that kind of influence and power as a club against the people. They're the ones who deny any good that the actual hero has done. They're the ones who revile and scoff at him. He's a menace. Isn't that what they've been saying all along? And they look that way. The Pharisees look that way to us. Why? Because that is what the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders do again and again. What happened in the story of the blind man? The leaders of Israel take that man who's been healed, and they end up casting him out of the synagogue. They send him out. They say, you no longer belong with us. You are an exile. They take one of God's little lambs. And they condemn him. Well, because once he starts following Jesus, he's of no more use to them, right? It's important for us to see and to recognize Because what follows is a discussion of two different kinds of leaders, two different kinds of shepherds. As we saw in our Old Testament reading, there are shepherds over Israel who do not love the sheep. What happened in Ezekiel? They were condemned for abusing the flock. Instead of healing them, they hurt them. Instead of feeding them, they eat them. But God promised a good shepherd that He will send one who will love the flock. He even promises that He Himself will come to be their shepherd. So we think about that at the very end of John 9, what happens? Jesus comes back to that man who is now an outcast. Jesus does that to comfort and to lead him, to guide him as the light. He reminds him he now has no guilt He comes to him as a shepherd. Meanwhile, the false shepherds of Israel over here, what do they say? Well, they just snarl back. Oh, okay, sure, Jesus. We, friends, are drawn to all different kinds of shepherds. We are drawn to listen to different kinds of people People. We're drawn to embrace the idea of pleasing different kinds of leaders in our lives. What John is going to bring to us is this question. Which shepherd do you want to listen to? Which shepherd do you want to follow? John here is going to teach us this principle. This reality that God has come to rescue his people and to be their shepherd. God has come To rescue his people and to be their shepherd. And we're going to explore that idea in three points today. First, this the arrival of the shepherd. And then second, the identity of the shepherd. Finally, this, the purpose of the shepherd. The arrival, the identity, the purpose. Join me in that first point here, the arrival of the shepherd. When we pick up here in John chapter 10, verse 1, we see Jesus brings us what to his audience, and even to us somewhat, is a familiar story, a familiar analogy. It's a story that is filled with imagery which would be very familiar to the people around Jesus. Yet it's a story where the people totally miss the point. How does it start up? Verse 1. And Jesus says, truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way. That man is a thief and a robber, but he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. There's this immediate juxtaposition to us between two different kinds of people. Who are they? On the one side, there's the thief who hops the fence, and on the other side, there's the shepherd who uses the door. If you were an Israelite around Jesus hearing this story, that kind of imagery, that analogy is going to feel very reminiscent of your daily life. Because it was very normal or common for your home to have right next to it a sheep pen. Pen where you would keep all of your sheep. You maybe have fifty to a hundred sheep of your own, and they would all be in that pen. And if you go around to the side of it, you're gonna find a door so that people can go in and out. And even for us today here, the lesson that's taught kind of makes sense because what's described? The person who goes through the door, or the person who's let in by the door, It's pretty clear, it's pretty obvious that person belongs. They're the kind of person who's supposed to be in a sheep pen at times. Oftentimes, uh, if you were an Israelite in that day, you might hire someone to guard your sheep pen. to guard that door. You might even have a whole neighborhood that your neighborhood gets together. Early version of an HOA and they hire one guard to guard all those pens. And if that guard lets someone into the door of the sheep pen, well then you have a pretty good idea. Either that person belongs, they're allowed to do it. It's good for them to go in, or most likely, that pen belongs to them. Those sheep belong to them. That is the owner, the shepherd. It's the person who you see hopping the fence to get in. That's the kind of person who we and the Israelites alike are going to, hmm, seems suspicious, right? Normally the owner doesn't hop the fence or the gate. So there's that juxtaposition that we get here. The shepherd is one who goes in by the door. It's the thief who we catch trying to hop the fence. And it's the shepherd who goes in by the door that has a special and unique relationship with the sheep. And verse 3, to him the gatekeeper opens. And the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name, and he leads them out. When he's brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. The shepherd calls his sheep by name. He comes to them. He arrives at the pen, and as he leads them out, he calls them by name, and they respond and follow Sheep, we don't interact with sheep every day, so we don't get this necessarily. They actually are smart enough to know their names. It's kind of like a dog, I could say. Iroh, come here, and if he's feeling obedient, he will come. Iroh is the name of my dog. If I have a treat, he'll do it too. We know from writings at this time that shepherds would actually name their sheep. They would give all of their sheep different names. And as one of those sheep got out of line, was veering off the path, the shepherd could call that sheep by name, and that sheep would know, oh, whoops, I got to get back in line. Shepherd could go, hey Fluffy, get back here. Hey, and and you too, Puffy, get in line. And the sheep will come back together. They'll get in line. They'll hear. They'll respond. I think about what's being said here. There's two different kinds of people who come to the sheep pen. When the shepherd calls, the sheep hear and they listen because they know the shepherd. And the shepherd knows them. But when the thief calls, I mean, first off, he doesn't actually know their names, and they don't know his voice, and so they don't respond. Following this little parable, we learn pretty quickly that the audience does not understand what Jesus is saying. And who are those in the audience? We've already mentioned it. It's the Jewish leaders, it's the Pharisees, it's those who were just a moment ago talking to that blind man and then reviling at Jesus. And these are, think about it, the leaders of Israel. So when they hear this story, what does that mean? It means they have some assumptions here The leaders of Israel throughout the Old Testament, they are often referred to as the shepherds of Israel. I think about Moses at the end of Deuteronomy when he's looking Looking for a new leader to lead God's people. What does he ask for? He says, we need to find a shepherd. So comes Joshua. What's David? Well, I mean, he was truly a shepherd, but he becomes the shepherd king of Israel There's this continual pattern of the leaders of Israel being referred to as the shepherds of Israel. And you better bet, these leaders know that And so, of course, they don't understand what Jesus is saying because they know themselves in the story to be the shepherds. If this renegade Galilean shows up and tells a story about shepherds and robbers, who are they going to think they are in this story? Well, of course, we are the shepherds. And maybe you, Jesus, you should probably be the robber here. They're going to say you might even have a demon. So they don't understand why Jesus is saying this. I mean that reality is even built into the story itself, right? Because Jesus here has come to be the shepherd, and these people just won't hear. They won't listen to his voice. Though he has come, they are not his sheep. And Jesus is pointing out to us what is so clear as we've walked through the book of John. He has come And his sheep hear his voice. Think about what happened just in the very last chapter, John 9. There is a man who is born blind, and he can't even see Jesus. All he can do is hear his voice. When he hears him, he listens, and he follows, and he believes, and he is healed. Yeah, but here are these leaders who will never listen to Jesus. The shepherds arrive, and it's pretty clear. Some know him, and some don't So who is the shepherd? Point number two, the identity of the shepherd. Jesus understands that these Jewish leaders are confused So he's going to bring some clarity, some identity to this shepherd. And he does that through two distinct illustrations that fit within that story. He says, first, I am the door. And then second, I am the good shepherd. The door, verse seven. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who come before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not listen to them. Christ is using this metaphor here to say there is one legitimate true entryway into the sheepfold, and guess what? It's me. And in doing that, he's saying, This is the way to salvation. Salvation comes through me. If you want to come into the sheepfold, it's going to have to be through me. Any other way is illegitimate. Any other way is the path of robbers and thieves. And the ones who came before me, those are the robbers and thieves. Now, in that, Jesus is not saying that every single leader of Israel from the beginning should be identified as false shepherds or robbers and thieves. So certainly they are all sinful. No, what he's making reference to, what he's drawing the point to, is these leaders who are before me here. These ones who you're going to immediately think about in your life as these leaders. These are robbers and thieves. But I, Jesus says, I am not that way. I am not that kind. Why would you want to come into Jesus' sheep? Why would you want to be a part of it? Verse 9: I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. The sheep of his fold, of Jesus' fold, find life, they find salvation, and they find pasture. What's being told here? The sheep of Jesus' fold, when they come, he's making promises to them. That he guards them, that he protects them, that he provides to them life, that he will lead them to where they can go and find pasture and eat and be full and lack any want. And that's immediately then juxtaposed with a different kind of person who comes into the sheepfold, verse 10. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. The thief does not come to feed the sheep. No. The thief comes to kill and then eat the sheep. This is how Christ identifies these false shepherds, these leaders around him. And as we reflect upon what they've been up to as of late, we know right away, oh yeah, that is true. These shepherds have come out? Repeatedly, again and again, with the full force and weight of the law. And they show again and again that they have no particular affection for the sheep. None of them rejoice when that sheep is healed, right? None of them stoop to nourish or care for the sheep who are needy. No, what have we seen them do all along the way? And they bind up the sheep in their manufactured legalism. And then they use them like little rungs on a ladder to just climb up them. To climb up the social ladder. We, righteous Pharisees, we belong over you We need to tell you what to do. We need to rule over you in authority. And you better believe we're going to use you petty sheep as stepping stones for that You silly little sheep, you're just pawns enslaved to our instruction. So we think about that kind of social ladder climbing, I mean. It's not too hard to recognize the way that we have a tendency to try and build those ladders for ourselves and act with that kind of self-righteousness, right? Rising up by pressing others down beneath us. Using those around us as a platform for our own ambitions. We shouldn't other the Pharisees and leaders too far because so often, when we have the opportunity, we take the opportunity. Here it is, just like God said in Ezekiel 34, the false shepherds feast on the sheep. And Jesus knows this. And so, of course, he looks on them and he says, You are robbers and thieves. But who is the true shepherd? Jesus says, you may have come to take the lives of the sheep. But John 10, 10, I came that they might have life and have it abundantly. So Jesus segues here into that second component, that second I am. Not only am I the door, but verse 11, I am the good shepherd. And the good shepherd doesn't kill and eat the sheep. No, quite the opposite. The reality of the world, as Ezekiel pointed out to us, is that it is treacherous for sheep. We can even see that in John 10. The world is such that sheep wander off and get lost. The world is a place where there are robbers and thieves and even wolves. The world is a place where the sheep experience pain and suffering and sickness and want. And we know that that is because of sin. Once upon a time, God's sheep lived in bliss in the pasture of the garden, right? But because of their sin in the fall, they're cast out. You remember that picture of that angelic gatekeeper who's put in place that they might not enter again. It's because of sin and the fall. It's because we are fallen and sinful. Because the reality is, we are robbers and thieves, and liars and murderers, and so much more, that the glory of the pasture is stripped away, and life is treacherous. Full of want. What becomes clear is that we need that door. We need a good shepherd to lead us back in. One who can bring his sheep back to the pasture. Well, what's the good shepherd going to do? Point number three, the purpose of the shepherd. What has the shepherd come to do? What is he here for? Verse 11: I am the good shepherd, and the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. It's in the midst of this treacherous world that the Good Shepherd comes, and what is his mission? What is his purpose? He says it right here, to lay down his life for the sheep, so that the sheep might enter into the fold, so that they might find pasture and peace. But it's gonna cost him his life. And Jesus transitions here to a new kind of juxtaposition. Notice. Verse 12: He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, He sees the wolf coming and he leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he's a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. Before we were talking about the shepherd in comparison to thieves and robbers. And now it's the good shepherd compared with who? The hired hand. There's a difference in perspective, in conviction, in action between these two kinds of people. And that makes sense. The shepherd loves his sheep. They are his. They belong to him. He cares about them. And so when the wolf comes around, he will step up to fight for them. The hired hand though, one who you brought in to watch the gate, maybe he'll tell some guys, you know, don't hop the fence But where the wolf when the wolf comes to devour, these sheep aren't his Is it really worth that kind of risk to me to step in on their behalf? Jesus is pointing out here to the Jewish leaders, you tend to the flock. Why? Because it's of advantage to you. Because that's how you get paid. You aren't here because you love the flock, and we know that because you haven't loved the flock. And did you love that man born blind? I know you're here because of what you get out of it. We don't even have to think too far into the televangelist stratosphere to see how quickly that kind of thing is present in our lives. We could even stretch it again to see how we act for our own advantage. But I, verse 14, I am the good. Shepherd. Saying, I'm not like you. I'm not like you. I won't abandon my sheep when they cry out for help. Verse 14: I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. And just as the Father knows me and I know the Father, I lay down my life for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold, and I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock and one shepherd. For this reason, the Father loves me. Because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. We pick up here again that the good shepherd and his sheep have this particular kind of relationship. I know them, and they know me. John is dropping here a significant implication that we should pick up on. Because who is around here but a group who again and again have said what? We don't know who this Jesus guy is. Seems like every chapter they say, oh, we don't know where he's from. We don't know by whose power he acts, and so what's abundantly clear about them? Well, these ones aren't his sheep. He knows his sheep, and they know him. What kind of person knows a shepherd? It's like that guy back in John 9, right, who hadn't even seen Jesus yet, but knew his voice. He knew him, so he followed him, and he believed in him. We pick up this pattern here about that knowledge. The father knows his son, and the son knows the father, and the son knows his sheep, how, why. And we'll pick up later next time around. Verse 29 of John 10, that Jesus knows them because back before the beginning of the world, the Father gave them to him. Before the dawn of the world, the father said, Son, these are your sheep. I'm giving them to you. And here is Jesus saying in this text, I need to gather together all of those sheep who the Father has given to me. I am on a mission to go out and to get them. And in that, he's continuing that Ezekiel 34 language that he's used throughout John 10 so far. Remember back in Ezekiel, what is the context? God's nation is divided in half, but God promised that he would send one shepherd king. Who gathers all the people together, who makes together out of them one nation, one flock under one shepherd. Jesus is taking those words from Ezekiel here, and he says, I am that shepherd, and I am bringing together some sheep from around here, from this flock in Israel. And I'm bringing some sheep, even from outside, from amongst the Gentiles. And that's what John will pick up together in uh In John 11, in John 11, 52, he makes reference to this one flock again. He says, that Jesus came not for this nation only. but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. Jesus is making very clear I am bringing together. I am here to go and get all of my people, all of my flock, because I have one flock, and the Father has given them to me. The Father has given the Son this flock of sheep. How does the pattern go? And so the Son loves them. He loves them like what was promised by Ezekiel. He loves them so much that he will even lay down his life for them. And the father even sees this: the love of the Son for the sheep. And so he loves the Son. The Father loves that the Son cherishes and treasures his sheep. The Father loves that the Son has such a heart for the sheep that he will even give himself. up for them. Krishna, what do those words say to and about and for you? Christian, who are you here in this story? You are the one whom Jesus looks upon with that kind of love. You are the one for whom Jesus gives himself up. And the Father loves this. Of course, the Father does not love that his son must die. No, what he loves so much, so dearly, is the reason that his son dies. It is because his son does so to save you, to love you. Jesus is not going to die for any old reason, no. Verse 18, he says, No one takes my life from me. But I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This is the charge I received from my father. Christian, this is what your shepherd has come to do for you: to take the sin and the guilt away and to put them on himself. To face the robbers and the wolves of sin and death on your behalf, to actually become the Lamb who will take away the sins of the world. And when he goes to the cross, is that not exactly what he does? Exactly what he did. He lays down his own life so that you might enter by him into God's pasture, so that you might feast on him and all that he has. There are many shepherds in this world. There are many who will lead you away promising greener pastures. There were many who will lead you away saying, no, this is what you want. Just to lure you out and devour you. Is that not exactly the image of what sin promises and yet does to us day after day? The good news of the gospel Christian, though, is what? That God has come to rescue his people and to be their shepherd. And that is what he promises to you. That he will be your shepherd. So will you hear his voice? Will you hear him and respond to that call and trust in him Think about this, the original wolf in the garden. Often we think of him as a snake. What was his very first challenge to God's people? What did he use to lure them out and to kill them? Did God really say? Satan and sin are constantly calling. Is that really what you heard? Is that really what you should follow? Is that really what God said? Was that really his voice? Satan and sin pretend to offer greener pasture. They pretend to feed you when they are here to devour you. Would you hear the voice of the Lord? Would you hear it in his word as you read it? Would you hear it through his saints as they encourage you? You to be faithful to what he's called you to. Would you hear his voice as he says, I am your good shepherd. Trust in me. Christian, that's the opportunity that we have before us. To hear the voice of our shepherd. Follow him. As we need correction, you better believe you'll call our name again. And again, get us back in the line. Here is our shepherd. We listen not just because of the weight of the law, but because of all the glorious grace that He's shown us and what He has done. Laying his life down for us. Can we live in gratitude for that grace? May we? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the truth that we see here, that we do have a good shepherd king. A one who has not abandoned us to worry and wallow in our sorrow and misery, but one who has come and faced those things, so that he might bring us into his pasture. So that we might be a part of his fold. Here before us is the story of a shepherd who becomes a lamb. that he might be slain for us. Father, may we be the kind of people who trust in that truth Who follow him, who do not listen to the voices of false shepherds, but who cling dearly to the voice of our good shepherd. So it's in Jesus' name which we pray.