I'll try to speak slowly so that my accent isn't too much of a an obstacle. Second Timothy chapter four Verse 1. I charge you, in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, and exhort with complete patience and teaching. For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching, but having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves Teachers to suit their own passions, and will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off into myths. As for you, always be sober-minded Endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry. For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come. I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day. And not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearing. Do your best to come to me soon. For Demas, in love with this present world, has deserted me and gone to Thessalonia. Monica. Crescens has gone to Galatia. Titus to Dalmatia. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we praise you You that you have not left us without a witness, that you have not left us without your living word, but you have given us in the scripture the truth That it is God breathed, that you have spoken tenderly to us as we have heard your word this morning. We pray that your by your Holy Spirit you would illuminate, that you would Make your word clear to our minds and dear to our hearts, that you would breathe life into the faculties of the Spirit. That we might come to understand and be changed and to repent and to act and to delight in who Who you are, in the life you've given us and what you've called us to as your people. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Second Timothy is an unusual book. It it's a very emotional book. If you're familiar with the book, you'll know that it's one of those books where Paul is Very personal. He's saying things very powerfully, very concisely that needs to be said because Second Timothy is his last letter. He is an old man at this stage, ready to move on, ready to receive the crown of righteousness. For whatever reason, he is confident, as we just heard, that the time for his departure has come. And let's be really clear, that means death. He's looking at death and he's looking at Timothy, a young man whom he has mentored in the faith. who has been a delight to him as he has grown from timidity to confidence, not because of personal growth and self-help, but because of the power of the gospel. It's a book that pastors read a lot, 2 Timothy, along with 1 Timothy and Titus. We call them the pastoral epistles because they teach us how to do what we've been called to do. But they're not written only to pastors. Did you hear also to all who have loved his appearing there in verse 8? These are books written for the whole church. Written for every believer, everyone in that priesthood of believers that the Lord has called you into. It's a treasure for the whole church. And it's an incredible privilege to read a book like this As you come to 2 Timothy, picture being able to sit down with Paul at the end of his life and ask him, after all that you've seen. After all that the Lord has done, what would you say to those of us who have some time left? It's hard-won, tightly woven, profoundly wise advice and exhortation to those of us who will carry on after he's gone. John Stott summarized the book in in four chapters. He said it's uh it's in four parts. Chapter one, guard the gospel. Chapter two, suffer for the gospel. Chapter three, continue in the gospel, chapter four, preach. the gospel. Guard it. Suffer for it. Continue in it. Preach it. This book is all about the gospel. And a life shaped around the gospel. So this morning is my joy to bring you straight to the end of the book, to chapter 4. As Paul exhorts Timothy to preach the gospel, even though it will be hard. And what I wanted to bring to you from this chapter is the joy of costly perseverance. That there is profound joy as we walk through, as we endure suffering and persevere through cost. As we have an accurate understanding of the life we have been called to and the joys set before us. That transforms life. One thing I love about Paul is that he understands how people work. He's an incredible anthropologist. And one of the things you'll see if you're reading through his letters is that again and again he comes and talks about people. He has an incredible confidence in referring people to himself. Say, look at me or look at this person. Not just wrestle with an abstract idea, something you should be able to get your head around and do, but look at it at work in this life. And that's how we're going to think about this passage today. Thinking about three conditions we find ourselves in, and in each one of them, someone to look at and consider. So when you don't want to persevere, look at Demas. When it hurts to persevere, look at Paul. And when you long for joy as you persevere, look at Christ. So first, when you don't want to persevere, look at Demas. I want you to pause for a moment and just think about how hard it can be to persevere in following Christ. Christ. Some of you may have come to faith in the last few weeks. Praise God. You may not yet know what I mean here. But if you have faith, if you have followed the Lord Jesus for more than a few weeks, you can't do that. You know that it becomes incredibly hard. It makes your life harder than it would be if you didn't follow Jesus. And there are real costs. What's it been for you? It can be hard. And yet there's a difference between where you are now sitting in these chairs, coming back to worship, and what we too often tragically see, and may where you may be heading. And hit this with compassion if it has just been too hard and you're wondering why you're still coming every week. It is hard. But Paul lays out in verse 3 and 4 what we need to hear for ourselves and as we love others. In verse 3 and 4, how people go from believing the truth through suffering to wandering off. And it's a very simple process. Sound teaching is hard to endure. You notice that in verse 3, the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching. He doesn't choose the word endure by accident. Sound teaching is hard to endure, so people gather teachers teaching things that sound easier, accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions. People who will give them myths, compelling stories, say they make sense of life, and give you another way to navigate all of this. Compelling but false stories. And we get we get the example in verse 10 of Demas. A man who has chosen this, who has known the truth, turned away from sound teaching. and wandered off into myths. What does Paul say about him? He has he is in love with this present world. This is particularly tragic because what we of what we know about Demas. I mentioned this is Paul's last letter. If you go back through some of the other letters, if you're in Philemon, you'll hear about Demas. He sends greetings. If you go to Colossians, you'll hear about Demas. He's a co-worker. He has labored. He has known the truth. And yet, the tragedy of Demas is that he has. Wandered off from sound teaching into myths. He is in love with this present world, the reality of eternity. Has become relativized by now. And the fruit of that is utterly tragic. A life we should be celebrating given to the Lord, instead, a cautionary tale So what changed? What changed for Demas to get him there? We've got to look at verse 8 in kind in kind of partnership with verse 10 tend to start to understand this because Paul very deliberately uses some parallel words here. The word love. At the end, you know, th this this this crown of righteousness, which we're gonna talk about later, it's gonna be good. But he said this is for all who have loved his appearing. And then that same word, these are both uh it comes back up in in verse ten, he is in love with his present world and he very consciously uses the same root word, this word agape you've heard about if you've heard C. S. Lewis's four loves, this kind of love, this T Devotion, this I'm not gonna go into that right now, but the point is there's a parallel here. His love has moved from where it ought to be to where it ought not to be. He didn't want to persevere in the truth. There is a desire factor that comes up again and again through this passage. He let his desires take him to a different love. He let his heart run after a different love. He's so relatable. It wasn't some argument that swayed him, it seems. It was a love, an affection, a desire that drew him away. He would no longer endure the difficulty of sound teaching, the kind of teaching that Fix and Chris set before you week after week. It can be hard to endure, can't it? If you're listening. It can be communicated as wonderfully as possible, but the truth of it is difficult. In verse 2, if if your pastors are teaching you well, it will not be easy. They will be reproving you and rebuking you and exhorting you. They'll be telling you, don't do that. Don't Love that. Come to this instead. Make these hard choices. That's what the teaching of the gospel does in community over time. They'll tell you your sin because that's what good shepherds do. They won't let you just wander along in happy Sin. Sound teaching can be hard to endure, and people get tired of it. Demas got tired of it. Other teachers. That's what we hear from this from Paul's diagnosis. And if you've walked through lots of people who've lost through it with people who've walked away from the faith, as many of us have, you know, it's very rarely one teacher. Who really convinces someone that Christ is not in fact Lord? But what Paul says here is what we see again and again. It is an accumulation One thing that hits this base, one thing that hits this base, another story that hits this path, the kind of pathos over here. And the accumulation just soothes the itch. You hear what you want to hear Instead of the truth, you hear that these myths are more beautiful than beauty and kinder than kindness, more perceptive than truth itself. That is what you're being told day after day. That's what verse four is warning off. Away from listening to the truth. And I have to confess that my own heart has desired this. My passions rise up, and I want to follow them. And I'm so encouraged to do that by our culture. To be true to my deceptive self. What is it you want to give up on? Is it a life of sacrifice? When you could have comfort and luxury? Is it a life of being just always right instead of humbled constantly? Is it saying no to a relationship that seems so exciting and fulfilling, but you know would lead you away from Christ? What is it that you want to give up on Jesus for? You can ask that question. You can ask what it is that is tempting your soul because there is a God who is more powerful than the temptation. You don't have to hide it and pretend it's not there. You're human. It's interesting that Paul doesn't tell us what it was for Demas. Just that he was in love with with this present world. Whatever it is in your life, you will find someone to scratch that itch if you let them. It changes all the time. There will always be someone. Demons found some myth, and after years of faithfulness, he deserted Paul and the true gospel. Remember what we heard in Isaiah chapter 26. O Lord our God, other lords beside you have ruled over us, but your name alone we bring to repentance or to remembrance. They are dead, they will not live. They are shades, they will not arise. Then you have visited them with destruction and wiped out all remembrance of them. There are plenty of other powerful and attractive stories and myths There are ideas and causes that rule the day. You've seen them come and go already. They will always seem like everything until they're not. They are dead and they will not leave live. They're shades, they will not arise. Be ready to pick people back up when the false God they have followed does not arise. Draw them back. When you don't want to persevere, look at the tragedy of Demas. Come back to the true God, the righteous judge. Ask Him to show you those myths for what they truly are and let Then go. When you don't want to persevere, look at Demos. Then when it hurts to persevere, look at Paul. Because it's it's not only we like what the myths say, it's also that following Jesus hurts, like we said before. Uh but it hurts to persevere. Look at Paul Do you remember what Jesus said about following him? The Gospels are full of this. Count the cost before you follow. If you're going to build a tower, make sure you've got what it takes to finish it. Matthew 10, if they have called the master, be Elzebub, how much more the servants? The call to follow Christ is a costly call. It always has been. And there were times when you will need to see before you not just an idea, but a life that testifies to the good Of that costly life. A person across the table from you, shaking your hand, praying with you Someone who will say, Yes, following Christ brings suffering. Here's the suffering that has entered my life, not only coincidentally, but because I chose to follow Christ. And yes. Praise God, it is worth it. Look at look at Paul saying here. I have been poured out like a drink offering. Emptied. And what is what is the legacy of that? Of that suffering embraced for the sake of the gospel. Look at the glory, look at the impact over 2,000 years. Not because Paul was wonderful, but because he just obeyed the Lord, allowed his life to be poured out, and was faithful to the end. Praise God. Praise God that Paul didn't choose the back out. Look with me at verse 7. He says, I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. And those words that he's choosing there, they they echo the words of Jesus on the cross. who cried out, say telestai, it is finished. Here he says, it's kind of funny. He's really echoing in the Greek. It's finished. You can see it in the English. It's ended. As his Savior, so the follower. They also testify to what he has done. What he calls Timothy and all of us who have loved the appearing of our Lords to do, to live, as he said in an earlier chapter, as a soldier who fights a good fight, as an athlete who runs according to the rule and finishes the race. As a farmer who keeps the faith through changing seasons and trusts that what has been sown will flourish Through that hard winter. And that spring is not what it was meant to be. When it hurts to persevere, look to the saints, look to Paul, look to the older people in your life and especially in your church who have walked this path ahead of you. I want you to think right now who that is in your life. Who is the Lord gifted with you? He sort of gifted you with in your life. He was able to say to you, I see. That there are not tidy answers right now. But I testify that the Lord's brought me through those. And it has been worth it. who can tell you stories of where the Lord has been faithful through profound difficulty. Isn't it wonderful to be part of a body? Not doing this alone. I was talking to my wife yesterday when she she mentioned that so many wise people listen a whole lot more than they speak That's a fairly common observation, but what what Rachel said to me was, I've noticed that they listen, listen Listen, and then say very little often. But what they say is completely formed by the scripture. And what they say Is often quite hard to hear. It's very rarely the thing that immediately makes me feel better. But it's the thing that stays It gives fuel, sustenance. Unwise leaders, the kind of teachers we've seen, is the contrast that's been drawn in verses two and three. The wise leader will do this. Will say the hard thing. the the foolish leader, the the untrue one will say the thing that sounds great, that kind of jives with what you're doing anyway, that makes you feel great about your choices. Wise leaders reprove, rebuke, exhort with complete patience and teaching. On the one hand, this patience sound teaching. On the other hand, this passion. I'm a very passionate person. I'm a very strange British person. Not very good at being British. This is not saying that you mustn't be passionate in the sense that we use it. It's more to do with your relationship to your desires. You'll excuse me another little piece of Greek. The words are being deliberately contrasted again here. We hear it in English, patience, passion in this translation, trying to draw that parallel. It's what much clearer. Epithymia, macrothemia. Epithumia is to be living right on top of your desires. So that every desire pushes you this way and that. I don't have control. I just it's who I am. It's what I do. Macro theory, you know the word macro, right? You come out for a little a macro view of things. It's to be at something of a distance, not suppressing or not having those desires, but to be able to observe them, to interpret them through what Through the scripture, through the illumination of the Holy Spirit, and to say that one, yes, good, that aligns. That one I'm gonna embrace and harness and ride all the way to glory. But that other one, that other one I'm gonna take to the brothers, to the elders, to friends I can trust, and say, My heart is deceptive. This passion continues. Please don't tell me it's good. Instead help me to live this this passion Patience, this macro threw me alive. I don't want to be deceived into living that life and betraying my savior. I'm learning to be who I am in this broken. Would you walk with me with complete patience and teaching? Seek that out Uh uh this language you see that he ch he he's saying this all as he describes his own journey. I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race, I have kept the kept the faith. That that fought the good fight is kind of I have agonized the good agony You don't walk into agony unless it's worth it. Parents are constantly walking into agony because it's good agony. Believers we're all called to walk into good agony. To fight the good fight. To persevere. But the foundation of truth, the company of belief. The Pauls, the elders, the friends. Not just stoic Endurance. We have a better endurance. I was at a funeral in our church last week. A delightful little boy called Clifford, who was ten years old. And Clifford was was born different. He was born with um different kind of brain formation that meant he never walked. He never spoke. But Clifford was a delight. Clifford lit up in worship. He learned to communicate. You could understand through his heart rate. And eventually in the last couple of years it was through through this eye recognition software that's incredible. He learnt to communicate and he he delighted in worship. His highest heart rate of the week was Sunday morning when they were getting ready to go to church. And it his parents were speaking at his funeral. And they had gathered everyone in their life. Because they wanted to tell them Clifford, delighted in Christ. That much was evident. But they they also said, so many of you have said to us that we're amazing for what we've done. He said, no, we're not. And they were so real. They said, look, we're a recovering alcoholic. And someone with profound anxiety. We didn't do this because we felt we could manage this But they testified to the goodness of the church, walking with them through every stage for ten years. And they testified to the reality. That they, because of Christ, were able to rejoice in and with Clifford every day of his life and receive from him wisdom. As he heard the word preached and in his way communicated. to them. I saw I saw his mum two days ago. Of course she's heartbroken. She's delighted for Clifford. He's delighted that he now has the crown of righteousness and all the things he longed to do he can do. I look to them It reminds me to be sober-minded, endure suffering, do what they have done and do the work of an evangelist. Through whatever it is, seeking out from the Lord. Show me how you are good in this, and then let me proclaim it. They have fulfilled that ministry. When it hurts to persevere, look at Paul. And in that model, look at those others persevering. And when you long for joy, look at Christ. This is where it all is heading, isn't it? Joy is is not just a community project. The church is wonderful, but that is that is not in its own where perseverance and joy come from. It's a gift from the living God, a work of the Spirits living in you. So when you look for joy, look to Christ. He is the source of all perseverance and joy for Paul, for all these other people who've been coming to mind as we've talked about this. Look at how he bookends the passage. In verse 1, he gives this charge to perseverance, to persevering faithfulness in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus. Then he specifies three very specific conditions, realities that we need to consider. That God is that Christ will judge, Christ who is to judge the living and the dead. That Christ has appeared and will appear. Both those are contained when we're saying about his appearing. And that Christ is king. He's charging us by these three realities that seem separate but but are one in Christ, that the judge is also the king. And he's also known. You know exactly who he is. He has appeared and will appear. It's not simple, but it is wonderful. That constant nature of Christ. He is simple, theologically speaking. Don't hear me say what I'm not saying. But the threefold motivation as we're persevering and joy is this that the one who loves you with an everlasting love is the only judge, and that gives you complete confidence when you consider what verdict will be spoken over your life. Is he the freedom with that? He's already declared the terms of the verdict and guaranteed how he will judge. If you have loved his appearing, you get his crown. And notice what he's not saying. Jesus the righteous judge does not give a different crown, a bigger or smaller crown, depending on how well you have suffered. Or how much you did, he gives you his crown, the crown of righteousness, because your righteousness is his. He gives it to all who have loved his appearing. What is his appearing? He already told us earlier in 2 Timothy chapter 1, verse 9 and 10. God saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works. But because of his own purpose and grace which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began, and which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light. Through the gospel. That is the appearing we are talking about. The appearing is both then and to come. The appearing that is testified to your soul by the Holy Spirit in the presence. That God is not unknown or secretive, elusive, has appeared, has pursued A spoken. Do you love that? We suffer and persevere because there is no caveat or limitation or end on the reality that we will live with him face to face. Because of what He's done. So how do you know if you have loved his appearing? Look at Jesus and ask yourself, has the fact that he appeared in history, has that begun to shape your imagination? That the exact imprint of the nature of the eternal God came and walked among us. Has that started to change the way you see the world? Perhaps you've started to love his appearing. What about the reality that he is coming again and will appear so evidently and will reign forever? Has that started to shape your decisions and your actions now? So that you are no longer as in love with this present world as you were. It's gradual. But has it begun? That what's coming, that appearing is starting to shape those things for you? Ask the Holy Spirit to testify to you Your soul that he is Lord and there is none other, that you are his and his word is perfect. Ask him to give you that love of his appearing You don't get there on your own, but it is a sweet gift. And ask him to make the words of Isaiah chapter 26, 3 and 4 that we heard earlier. To make them your own, where he says this, and this is offered to you in Christ. You keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever. The Lord God Is an everlasting rock. If you've come to Christ, all this is yours. You get to rejoice. So what now? What now? The point of the entire passage, isn't it? Yeah. You you may notice that what I've given very little time to so far is the obvious thrust of this whole thing, verse two. Where he gives a very direct charge and calls it down. Preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. We talked a bit about the second half. Reprove, rebuke, exhort with complete patience and peace. But to all of us who have loved his appearing, you see how this is given to us, not just to the pastors To speak of him, to preach the word, be ready in season, out of season. That means when you want to talk about him and when you really don't Ask him to fill up your mind and heart so it it spills out even in that incredibly awkward situation where it's going to cost you to talk about Jesus. Ask him to so work in you that when that happens, what would come out would be a heart that has loved his appearing. Not a perfect response to whatever it is, but a heart that has loved his appearance. I would love to see that in your schools, your workplaces, the places the Lord takes you. That what people say of you. That when they do when they talk about Christ, their heart's in it. There's love there. I I used to be a high school teacher, I'll tell you this very quickly. I was an English teacher at the Royal Grammar School in Guildford in England. A very kind of high-pressured, high-achieving boys school. A few years after I left, I I bumped into uh a bunch of kind of seven or eight of the boys whom I had in my little Bible study. Absolute delight. Story for another day. Secular school, no interest in the gospel. They came, they heard, they believed. Praise God. But there was a hilarious conversation where they they were talking over there to one of my friends and um they just seen me and said, oh it's lost it. Oh yeah. One of them said, Oh yeah, he's the best teacher ever. And the other one goes, Well. Not so he's the best, but I think he was the kindest. I can't tell you the absolute delight it was to hear that. best of course not. Will you be the best in that conversation that comes up out of season? Of course not. But will they see your heart? Praise. Don't yell and panic, be so Over-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry, do what Christ gave us the rest of our lifetimes to do. Hold out the word of life. Love patiently. Trust the sound teaching. Endure it when it knocks you up again against the rock of ages and you have to say, once again, teach me. delight through the suffering. Not because it's easily or easily resolved. But because it has meaning and purpose in Christ Christ, the God who has appeared and who will appear and who is with us by his spirit right now. That's why my That's why we're leaving salaried positions and taking our little babies to grow up in a country where almost nobody will even speak about Christ. We've lived there before and we longed for there to be churches where we could take our friends and they what might just even just hear the word of God preached occasionally. We get to go and do that now. The go. There's a lot we're excited about. But this is this is the call. So examine your life. Where has the Lord gifted me, prepared me for? How do I get to go there? And do that? For almost all of you, it will be where you are And yet there will be something to step into. Something that reminds you that you have loved his appearance. And that changes everything right now. Not a stoic steadiness. We preach Christ when we feel like it and when we don't, when we When people receive Christ and when they don't, because there's a deep confidence we get from Christ Himself, reflected through His people like Paul It teaches us that the truth is worth the squeeze. Be like Demas. Remember him who lost sight and fell in love with his present world. But instead embrace the joy of costly perseverance. Christ has won that ground for you. It's yours. Let's pray. Almighty God, we praise you that we, as we are, are not lost in the despair of confidence. In ourselves. That we don't have to work to build or earn a crown or a little hat like that prodigal son wanted. But that you in your grace and kindness have appeared. That you have broken in and Given us eternity and love. You've given us dignity, purpose, joy, all these things. But we beg you that you would give this to people who are lost. You would use us to take this into those lives. I pray your blessing on this church, on Reformed Presbyterian Church of Buri. That you would so work in these redeemed image bearers and these beloved children of yours that people would see their hearts and say, that's That is something that I have not seen before, that they have not done to themselves. I pray, Lord, that many through this body gathered out of Death into life would hear the majesty of who you are. I pray that you would glorify yourself. You would give them peace and delight in who you are. That none would Would fall in love with this present world and turn away into myth. But you would keep every one to the end and bring many more with them to delight in you, to glorify you, to love you Love your pairing. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.