Our Old Testament reading that is going to serve for the text we're going to refer back to during the sermon, which you can see the title of the sermon is The Covenant of Grace, as we're continuing to study Westminster Shorter Catechism and come to question and answer 20 We're going to look at Deuteronomy 30 this morning. And the reason is because Deuteronomy 30 is one of the many places where God speaks. In Deuteronomy, Israel standing on the border to the promised land. They've been led through the wilderness for forty years. the first generation had died off after being led out of Egypt where they were in slavery to Egypt as a picture of our slavery to sin and misery. They're going to be entering in the land and and and uh Moses leads them in uh engaging in this covenantal relationship with God. They they promise to God that when they go into the land he says, here's the land, it's gonna be fruitful. Be blessed. All you have to do to maintain that blessing in the land is just obey my laws and make the sacrifices as a sign that it's not really ultimately you that's earning any blessing from me, but it's ultimately. all of a gift. And yet here in Deuteronomy 30, Moses foresees a time when they will have failed. It starts off when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse. And so it speaks to them and tells them: there's going to come a day when you've failed. And here's the hope that you have. Here is the confidence you can have that there will be this covenant of grace that God will engage in with you. And this is all of God. And we'll talk more about how that is unpacked in this passage, but let's just read it first. Deuteronomy chapter 30. It's on page 172 of your pew Bibles. Hear now the word of God. And when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse, which I've set before you, and you call them to mind among all the nations where the Lord your God has driven you, And return to the Lord your God, you and your children, and obey his voice in all that I command you today with all your heart and with all your soul, then the Lord your God will restore your fortunes and have mercy on you, and he will gather you. Again, from all the peoples where the Lord your God has scattered you. If your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven, from there, the Lord your God will gather you, and from there he will take you. And the Lord your God will bring you into the land that your fathers possessed, that you may possess it. And he will make you more prosperous and numerous than your fathers, and the Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring, so that you will love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live. And the Lord your God will put all these curses on your foes, and enemies who persecuted you And you shall again obey the voice of the Lord and keep all his commandments that I command you today. The Lord your God will make you abundantly prosperous in all the work of your hand. in the fruit of your womb, in the fruit of your cattle, and in the fruit of your ground, for the Lord will again take delight in prospering you as he took delight in your flesh. Fathers. When you obey the voice of the Lord your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes that are written in this book of the law, when you turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. For this commandment that I command you today is not too hard for you, neither is it far off. It is not in heaven that you should say, Who will ascend to heaven for us and bring it to us that we may hear it and do it? Neither is it beyond the sea that you should say, Who will go over the sea for us to bring it to us, that we may hear it and do it? But the word is very near you. It is in your mouth and in your heart, so that you can do it. See, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil. If you obey the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you today by loving the Lord your God, by walking in his ways, and by keeping his commandments and his statutes and His rules, then you shall live and multiply, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land that you are entering to take possession of it. But if your heart turns away and you will not hear, but are drawn away to worship other gods and serve them, I declare to you today that you shall surely perish. You shall not live long in the land that you are going over the Jordan to enter. Turn possess. I call heaven and earth to witness against you today that I've set before you life and death, blessing and curse. Therefore, choose life. That you and your offspring may live, loving the Lord your God, obeying his voice, holding fast to him, for he is your life and length of days, that you may dwell in the land that the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac. And to Jacob to give them. Here ends the reading with God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing as we meditate on it further. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that it is living, that it is active, that it continues to speak to us today, that it discerns between bone and marrow. the deepest levels, even showing us where there is sin that clings so closely to our sinful flesh and hearts And helping us see the new life that you're forming in us by your Holy Spirit. May you fan that flame this morning. May you conform us more to the image of your Son as we reflect on your word and the truths that you're going to be able to do. It teaches us and especially this new covenant of grace that we see reflected on here in Deuteronomy 30. In Jesus' name we pray, all this. Amen. Well as I mentioned our usual practice here at Reformed Presbyterian Church of Bowie is to preach through whole books of the Bible. To start from the beginning and go to the end, even where there are those long genealogies, right? We don't even skip those. We just we say it's all the word of God. We're going to listen to it and we're going to learn from it. But between studying a book of the Bible, we'll often take a few weeks and do Maybe more topical study on some topic. And that's what we've been doing for the last few weeks as we've been looking at the Westminster shorter catechism as a wonderful concise summary of what I would argue is the biblical faith, as it's been understood by our reformed forebears and by those who share reformed convictions about what the Bible says. The first series we did on the Westminster Short Academy, we did a question and answer one to about eleven or twelve, and uh we were exploring sort of first things: the purpose of all creation, God who created it, humanity. How he created. More recently, this series, we've been looking at God's providence. How God engages with, how he interacts with his creation, specifically human beings made in his image. And we talked about how he set us up for great success in Adam and Eve in the garden, with everything, all the needs provided for us, and then engaged in a Covenant of works with them, saying, All you have to do is eat of all the trees, and you'll inherit eternal life. Just don't eat of this one tree, or you shall die. We all know how that story finished. Led to the sad fall into sin. And that's what we've been unpacking in the last few times. We've been looking at the catechism, what the fall brings. It brings us into this estate of sin. And misery, that wretchedness we sang of a moment ago. Weak, wounded, sick, and sore. Before we move on from this short series on a few of these questions, because we're going to, and we're going to turn pretty soon to Ephesians. At least I will be turning to Ephesians while Chris continues. continues and finishes up with Hosea. I thought before we we set it aside again for a time, it's worth us looking at question and answer 20, because here we're given a little glimpse of the good news after a lot of bad. There's been a lot of bad news. The context of our fallen condition is all bad news. We are in sin and misery because of the breaking of the covenant of works in Adam and Eve, and how that has brought all of us into this estate of sin and misery. In misery, but God has revealed another covenant. The covenant of grace. And that's what's introduced for us in question and answer 20. Did God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery? The answer is God having out of his mere good pleasure. From all eternity, elected some to everlasting life, did enter into a covenant of grace with them to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery and to bring them into Into an estate of salvation by a redeemer. I think we need to pause for a moment and let the the sweet Of that good news sink in a bit. Astound us a bit. It should astound us That we in our self-inflicted sin and misery, having rebelled against God, having spurned his gifts, why didn't he leave us? But he didn't. He moved mightily to save by the covenant of grace. Now, what is a covenant? If you're maybe visiting for the first time, you you hear this word, and maybe you've heard it before. It's a word we find throughout scripture. It's pretty straightforward to define. It tends to describe sort of a legal arrangement bound by oath between usually two parties where they make commitments and they take on themselves requirements or stipulations. And that's certainly what we saw in the covenant of works, where God covenants with Adam, and Adam represents all humanity in that covenant. He says, eat of the tree lest you don't eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil lest you die. And obviously that covenant gets broken. But it's just this sort of arrangement and we have these in in marriage, in business contracts, even in treaties. And in the ancient world these are very common, usually between kings and and their subjects. The kings would promise to protect and serve, and the subjects would promise to serve. To serve and obey and be faithful and not be treasonous. Now, when we come to the covenant of grace, we sort of ask, well, who are the parties in this? Who is this between And uh theologians are mixed in how they understand this. Some see the covenant of grace as a covenant made between God the Father and Christ as the second Adam, representing all of his people. People, all those who come to faith in him. That's one way to understand it. Others actually say, no, the covenant of grace is actually founded on a Another covenant, the covenant of redemption, we call it, between God the Father and God the Son in all eternity, where the Father says, I will give you this people if you simply uh obey on their behalf and do the work to save them and Jesus says, I will. And then the covenant of grace is God's covenant with us as his people promising us all the blessings of the covenant by by by Christ earned by Christ as our mediator, and we simply receive it. Rest in it. Have faith in Christ. And that's that becomes the condition, not a work, but a the condition by which we engage in this covenant of Christ. Two ways to understand it. I won't work on that anymore. I think that's hopefully gives us enough data on how the covenant works is spoken of by theologians. Instead, what I want us to do This morning is meditate a little bit more on how the catechism has described this covenant of grace. And not just meditate on it to understand it, to know it, but so that familiarity may not breed contempt. So that maybe, or even worse, apathy, right? So I want us to try to wonder anew at this incredible good news in the revelation of the covenant of God. And so to do that, I want us to consider the covenant of grace's shocking ground. Second of all, its surprising gift. And third, its scandalous goal. The ground, the gift, and the goal are the three points I want us to consider this morning as we reflect on this covenant of. Grace. First of all, the shocking ground. The shocking ground. Here we're asking the question: why did God do this? Why didn't God make another covenant after mankind had broken the first covenant? And I want us to see that it's it's kind of shocking that it does. It ought to shock us. I Michael Seifert, as he is uh speaking and teaching on this uh question, uh he was one of our Spring conference speakers, a friend friend going uh a bit back. He said, uh think of this analogy or or example. Imagine Arsonists break into your home. Yeah, they come in there and they are not interested in stealing your stuff. They're not interested really in even necessarily what they're only interested in burning the place down. And they start it all on fire, and you're able to get out of the house with your with your family, and then you look back and you see that the house is falling in on itself, it's burning, and the arsonists are still in there. What would you do? I'd say sweet justice. He says that's actually sort of a picture. Because we're those arsonists burning God's house down, his creation. And yet God looks on us and he says, I'm going in at the risk of my life. To save them. Not a bad analogy. But maybe there's a better one. And this one is one we've been exploring in the book of Hosea. This is God's analogy. He likens it to a marriage with a spouse that is habitually cheating on you And finally tells you that he or she doesn't love you and runs off with their latest lover, but everything falls apart, and he or she is alone and lonely and angry and suffering the consequences of betraying you, and you see it. What would you do? What would I do? Serves them right But God doesn't. Instead, instead of abandoning that betraying spouse, he moves in to save. That's how God paints the picture in Hosea. This shocking grace of God and the covenant of grace. So so why then does God do it? It's shocking that he does it, but why? What is the ground? What is the basis? Of his doing it? What is the basis? And and the answer is, well, first of all, what aren't the grounds? It is not because any of us who are saved are lovely. Are something that are attractive in ourselves? We're like that betraying spouse. We're like the arsonist in arsonists in that house. No, we are horrifying. In our betrayal of God, our treason against him. And the catechism gets at this when it says, God having out of his mere good Pleasure. That's what the catechism says, but where does the catechism get it? Well, it gets it right out of Ephesians chapter 1. Actually gets it out of Ephesians chapter 1 in the King James Version translation, which I kind of like in this verse. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4, he chose us in him, in Christ, before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined Us, another way for calling us, speaking of electing or calling us to faith, he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will. Well, if you go back to the King James Version, they translate that word purpose I I think maybe a little bit better as good pleasure. You know, yeah, it's his purpose, it's in his intent, but it really has to do with With He simply desired it. It's something he wanted to do. It was his good pleasure to do so, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has Loved us or blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished on us in all wisdom and Insight. So why does God do it? Well, it's not because of how lovely we are in ourselves. And furthermore, it's not because we've done something. Maybe we've haven't been as bad, or maybe we've inclined our hearts to seek him, or something like that. No, we The Bible says we're dead in our trespasses and sins. It's not that God looked down time and eternity and foresaw that we would be disposed somehow to believe. No, what does it say? God from all eternity. Out of his mere good pleasure has elected some to everlasting life Ephesians 1. 4, we read a moment ago, says he chose us before the foundation of the world, before we had done anything, before we couldn't do anything. He chose to set his love on us in the covenant. 2 Timothy 1:9. God saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the Titus 3. 5, he saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. Put simply the shocking ground or the basis for the covenant of breath. is what theologians call unconditional election. This is the U of the tulip, which we talk about as are the five points of Calvinism. It's simply uh cer certain points that were uh challenged at a certain time in our church history, challenged by those who are denying these truths. We can summarize it nicely in these letters. The first one, T, total depravity. That's what we've been talking about. U, unconditional election. That it's not anything in us, but it's simply God's free will, his good pleasure. that saves us. Williamson in his commentary on the catechism, uh G. I. Williamson, he he suggests that we could think of this as uh a a young kid, kids, this is, you know, okay Good illustration for you. A young kid who who goes into a store and you see all these toys, they're all the same toy. They're exactly the same. They're all great toys. And he just chooses some. He just chooses something. It's his own good pleasure, his own choice. The problem with that analogy is I feel like anytime you go into a store and you got, you know, this row, it's all the same toy. As a kid, right, at least as I remember, you still look at that and you find something about the one that makes it yours. Oh, that's the one I want. You know, because the Barbie doll is like this in the box instead of like this. I don't know. We always find something about the toy to choose. So maybe the analogy we need to press further. It's like it's like walking into Kids like walking into the island of misfit toys, all a mess. They're all broken and they're messy, they're all uh unattractive, unappealing. And then just saying, I'm gonna choose this one and this one. Not that there's anything about them, but it's out of one's mere good pleasure. This is the clear teaching of the New Testament and all those passages I quoted, but it's also the teaching of the Old Testament. God speaks of this to Israel in Deuteronomy earlier in Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy chapter 7. He's called them, elected them, chosen them, and made them his people out of Egypt, bringing them out of that slavery. And then right as Moses is preparing them to go into the land to experience God's blessing, what does he say? It was not because you. Not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you, for you were fewest of all peoples. It is because the Lord loves you. And is keeping the oath he swore to your fathers that the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. Out of his mere good pleasure. And here in Deuteronomy thirty, as Moses is is now prophetically looking ahead, and he's seeing past Israel's uh history that there he sees Israel having broken the covenant promises and we know it's they've broken them because he says after these things have come upon you the blessing and the curse Furthermore, as he goes on, he says, You're going to be scattered, that is the curse, right? To be scattered throughout the nations. What does he say when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse which I have set before you? And here's the thing, you know, and we it we read on and you call to mind, and then he goes, in verse 3 it says, Then the Lord your God will restore you. Now, this is setting up a conditional clause, like if or when this happens, then this happens. And that may be what's going on here, but often conditional clauses in Hebrew are In the original language, are not as clearly marked. And I would argue that you actually could read this rather than a conditional clause as simply a promise. God says, look, when this happens, when this time comes, that's how it begins. And when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse which I have set before you You could translate it, then you will call to mind, call them to mind among the nations where the Lord your God has driven you. And you will return to the Lord your God and you and your children, and you will obey his Voice in all that I command you today with all your heart and with all your soul. And the Lord your God will restore your fortunes and have mercy on you, and he will gather you again from all the peoples where the Lord your God is. has scattered you. It's saying this is all of grace. It's simply out of his mere good pleasure. Somehow you're lost, you're scattered, and God acts. That's the The shocking ground, the covenant of grace. And this is how it must be. This must be the ground because of total depravity with the tea of tulip that we have been talking about, that we are by nature in sin, dead in our trespasses and sins. The Doesn't mean that we are as total depravity doesn't mean that we are as bad as we could be all the time. But it does mean that there is no little part of us, no little bit of us, where there is a A goodness, an inclination to love God without his spirit working in us new life. So the shocking ground of the covenant of grace is God's mere good pleasure, his unconditional, sovereign election, choosing whom he will to be saved. That's that The term predestination that we'll hear talked of at times. Simply choosing those who are his by his mere good Pleasure. And when we talk about predestination, we often will refer to the term double predestination, recognizing there's a flip side His sovereign grace in choosing some for everlasting life. And that is uh it's hard for us to swallow, but it necessarily follows that he also chooses some to leave. And their sin, misery, headed for judgment. Now, what do we do with this? Well, our Westminster Confession of Faith says we should be careful with this doctrine. It says the doctrine of this high mystery of predestination is to be handled with special prudence. And care. Well, why? Well, because it it can undermine our confidence. Am I elect? I don't know. And it's not meant to undermine, it's meant to assure us or reassure us. The question is: will you repent and believe? That's the question you need to answer. Not are you elect? That's God's question. He will answer and he will show it to you when you repent and believe. And and in that sense it can be very assuring because when we repent and believe, And then we say, can I really persevere to the end? God says, look, it's my electing grace that brought you here and will lead you. So it's meant to reassure. It's also dangerous because it can lead to spirituality. This is what we found in Israel, right? Often thinking, well, we're the chosen ones. No, no. It ought to humble us. How dare we think of ourselves as better? There's no room for self-righteousness. And that's why it's so important to see the shocking ground that it is simply out of his mere good pleasure, it is unconditional. Don't think you brought something to the table that Jesus needed or wanted. God having out of his mere good pleasure. From all eternity, elected son to everlasting life. And we ought to therefore wonder and awe at this shocking ground of God's saving grace. And it ought to motivate not A laziness or a slowness to witness. Sadly, many have used this doctrine in that way. Well, if God elects, then I don't need to speak of Christ. No. The speaking of Christ, the witnessing to Christ is the means that God uses to bring this saving grace to his people. So we of all people ought to Be most diligent, most committed to that. That's the shocking, uh the shocking ground of the covenant of grace. Second of all, the covenant of grace is surprising gift, the surprising gift. The covenant of grace is not just another shot at the covenant of works. Instead, it comes with all the blessings that were offered in the covenant works of covenant of works, and then some. And all this is a free gift, simply received by faith alone. That's what grace means. It means a gift. It's something that we don't work, that we don't Work for ourselves, it's something that's just given to us. And that's what we see in the catechism: God having out of his mere good pleasure from all eternity elected some to everlasting life. First aspect of this gift. He did enter into a covenant of grace with them for what? To deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery, and to bring them into an estate of salvation by a redeemer. Or, as God often summarizes his covenant of grace in Scripture, it's those words that we read in Hebrews 8: I will be their God, and they will be my God. People. That's the grace. That's the gift of the covenant of grace. And that should be surprising. We who are not a people made God's People. Wow. But when we begin to unpack this a little further, when we reflect on what the catechism says here, we see that it's hardly a surprising gift. In many ways we could say it's many surprising gifts that are wrapped up into one in the covenant of grace. As I was reflecting on uh what the catechism says and the biblical basis for it, I came up with eight R's. Eight R's of that surprising gift of the covenant of grace. We've got to run through these quick because we don't have a lot of time. time. But let's just run through them. How about reversal of the fall? To deliver them out of the state of sin and misery. That's what we see in verses 4 to 6 here of Deuteronomy 30. If your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven, from there the Lord God will gather you, and from there he will take you. The dispersal, the scattering of Israel among the nations, being a picture of Adam being sent out of the garden. And here it's being reversed. He's gathering them again. And the Lord your God will bring you into the land that your fathers possess, that you may possess it, and he will make you more prosperous and numerous than your fathers. And down in verse 9, the Lord your God will make you abundantly prosperous in all the work of your hand. In the fruit of your womb, in the fruit of your cattle, in the fruit of your ground. All these reversals of the curse that is in Genesis chapter three. For the Lord will again take delight in prospering you as he took delight in prospering. your fathers. Colossians 1 13, we heard in our assurance of pardon a moment ago, God, the Father, has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son in whom we have redempted. Forgiveness of sins, reversal of the fall. Second of all, removal of sin. Forgiveness of it, cleansing us from it. Ephesians 1:7 says, In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins. Trespasses according to the richness of his grace. Acts 2, 38, Peter, having preached the gospel to Cornelius, comes back and he says, he tells the church about it, and they And and and and uh Oh no, I'm sorry, P Acts two. That's not that's later. I'm I'm gonna quote that later. Acts two. Uh Peter is proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ and says, Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of God. Of sins. Reversal of the fall, removal of sin, repentance. Repentance itself is the great gift of the covenant of grace. And it's something God must give. He must incline our hearts to repent and believe. We see that here in Deuteronomy 30 in verse 2, where he says, I think it's more of a promise. When all these things happen, then you will call them to mind and you will return to the Lord your God. In Hebrew, the word for return is the word for repent. You can translate it one way or the other. You have to make a decision. I would argue you will repent to the Lord your God, you and your children. Acts 11, again, this is what I was referring to. Peter preached to Cornelius. He comes back, he brings the report, and when he brings this report to the church, it says they heard these things and they fell silent. And they glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance. He has given repentance that leads to life. Because repentance is one of the surprising gifts of the covenant of grace. Reversal of fall, removal of sin, repentance, reconciliation, peace with God, where there where there was enmity, now there's peace. We see that in verse six of Deuteronomy thirty, and the Lord your God will circumcise your heart. And the heart of your offspring, so that you will love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, that you may live This is a promise, the gift that is given in the covenant of grace. Verse ten. For and uh verse ten again, the way it's translated is conditional. It could be translated that way. I I think that it's actually just sort of giving uh these truths that are uh uh true of God's people that are the foundation upon which all the blessings of are founded. For you will obey the voice of the Lord your God is how I would translate it, to keep his commandments and his statutes that are written in his book of When you turn to the Lord, uh or for you will turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. This idea that we will be reconciled, having new hearts that are inclined to love God and to To serve him and to delight in him, to love him back for all the ways in which he's loved us. Romans 5, 10 and 11. For while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son. So much more now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by Hiself. Life. Reversal of all, removal of sin, repentance, reconciliation, regeneration, and renewal of the Holy Spirit. We see that in verse 6, that idea of being circumcised of the heart. We read it a moment ago. Titus 3:5, he saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. Regeneration is not something we work in ourselves. Something the Spirit works in us. It's a gift. One of the surprising gifts of the covenant of grace. Sixth, resurrection. Resurrection. That's the gift. It says, God, having on his mere good pleasure from all eternity elected some to everlasting life. And we see that I think spoken of in in the latter part of Deuteronomy uh thirty and verses fifteen, maybe to to twenty, and won't read through all that, but this idea that uh he uh Maybe we should. Verse 15. See, I've set before you today life and good, death and evil. I've shown you what the difference is. I've shown you the contrast. And then he goes in verse 16. And you notice if you see in your footnote, the Greek translation adds this conditional statement, if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God. It's not in the Hebrew. Hebrew just says, What I command you today, to love the Lord your God, to walk in his ways, to keep his commandments and his statutes and his rules. that you may live and multiply, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land that you are entering to take possession of it. It sounds much more like a promise, the free gift of God's grace in the covenant of grace. I think that's a better way to understand it and he unpacks this idea that look you can't turn away and serve other gods in the covenant of grace over and over again right that's the one thing you could do to to leave the covenant of grace Go and serve and worship other gods, and yet it's God who calls you and wooes you by his love for you, leads you to worship him. John John chapter 6 Jesus says, This is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day, for this is the will of my Father, everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. Resurrection. What surprising, great, glorious gifts for people Who by nature are enemies of God, rebels. How do we receive these gifts? Well, we receive them by another gift. And that gift is reliance or faith, resting. On the good work, the perfect work of Jesus Christ. This is a necessary condition for us to engage in the covenant of grace, but it's it's not a work itself. It's not like this is what we do in order to get God to do no, it this is Simply how we respond to the free, surprising gift of God. Ephesians 2:8 says, For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this faith is your own doing that you must muster with it. No. You heard that, right? That's wrong. It's not your own doing. And it's so specific and clear. And this is not your own doing. What is it? It is the gift. Surprising gift of the covenant of grace. How can God give us such surprising gifts in the covenant of grace without being accused of injustice? Giving something to those who deserve the opposite? How? Well it's because of the the eighth gift and that is a redeemer God, having out of his mere good pleasure, from all eternity, having elected some to everlasting life, did enter into a covenant of grace with him to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery and to bring them into an estate of salvation by a redeemer. See, Jesus is the ultimate surprising gift to us as our Redeemer, who earned all of these gifts, these many gifts, by being perfectly Perfectly faithful and obedient, being the perfectly sufficient Savior, who is tempted in every way as we are, and yet, as the Bible says, without sin. You see, Jesus is the perfectly sufficient Savior of you and me. He is the perfect redeemer of God's people because at every point where we fail in our sin, he has been faithful. In his obedience, righteousness, and holiness. We fail to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. He did. He does love the Father perfectly. He did, even to the brutal end of dying on the cross because of We fail to submit ourselves to God's will. Even this doctrine of election and God's saving grace. Often we balk it. We dislike parts of it, we struggle with it because it it because we're forced to submit and recognize him as sovereign creator and redeemer, and us as simply his creatures who are called to obedience. We fail to submit to God's will, but Jesus, what does he do, even facing the will of God to crush him, as Isaiah 53 says says it's he prays not my will but yours be done we can go through the whole ten commandments we've struggled to speak truth always to everyone but Jesus is truth in Incarnate, who, as Peter says, no deceit was found in his mouth. And so these are the eight R's, the the surprising gift of the covenant of grace, the reversal of the fall, the removal of sin, repentance itself, which is a gift, reconciliation, regeneration, resurrection, reliance, or rest on by faith on Christ. The Redeemer himself is the great gift in which all of these gifts are found. What do we do with this surprising gift of redemption? Well, friends, we should we should wonder at it. We should delight in it. We should be so sad that we often grow accustomed to it. As Jesus says in Revelation 2, as he's confronting the Ephesian church, he says, Don't abandon the love you had at first. Often when we come to hear this for the first time, we fall in love with it, we delight in it, and then we get used to it. Get hardened to the shock of it, the surprising character of it. Like the burning building analogy or like the betrayal analogy, we need to be surprised anew at Jesus. The great Redeemer. Who runs in, runs toward us, not because it's easy, but comes at the cost of his very own body and blood to rescue, redeem, and free us by his grace as a gift. To us. So if you're not a follower of Christ, how ought you to respond to this surprising gift? Open your hands. Repent of your sin. Receive it by faith. Friends, won't you rejoice as you receive with joy and gratitude and delight all these gifts rolled up into one salvation by a Redeemer or by the Redeemer, our Lord and Savior Jesus? Christ. Third and finally, and more briefly, the scandalous goal. The scandalous goal of the covenant of grace. Why would God enter into a covenant of grace out of his mere good pleasure? No, that's why, right? Out of his mere good pleasure. We've already talked about this in the first point. No, no, no. Let's ask, can we say more? Is there something more we can say about what God's purpose is in this? What his goal is, what motivates him to act? Why is this his mere good pleasure? And I think we can. I think the Bible answers, gives us an answer to this question. But it's scandalous. It scandalizes us. Simply put, his motivating goal is his own glory. See, we're always tempted to think primarily in human terms. That the goal of the covenant of grace is human flourishing. Adam brings us all into sin and misery and the curses all over creation. What a mess. When God comes with the covenant of grace, Oh, and he redeems mankind, and now we can be all we were made to be. Human flourishing. Or maybe compassion. Sin and misery and humanity, and we can look around and we can see others stuck in sin and misery, and we can be moved by compassion with them, but partly because we can identify with them. Now, does God delight in human flourishing? Does he love it? Yeah. He created. Does he delight or is he saddened by suffering? Is he moved by suffering? Yes, we hear that often. But I would argue this the scandalous goal, that the primary motivating purpose Is not human flourishing, not mere compassion for human suffering, but is his own glory that is magnified in his. I think this is important because when we think in primarily human terms, that's part of the reason we balk at this unconditional. If we can see it as bringing glory to God, which it does, it becomes a little more understandable, more easy to rejoice in, delight in. And when we when we think of salvation in merely human terms as as of the purpose of it being human flourishing, that's what leads to being tempted to affirm all kinds of human love in any and all forms, some of which God has said are Why? Humans flourishing. It must be good. No, God's glory is trying to Primary. That's the scandalous goal of the covenant of grace, of the great salvation God has wrought. Here is the scandalous truth of God's word, and I'm going to share with you a little journal entry. Recently I read Exodus 32. And we'll close at this. Exodus 32, the golden calf incident, right? And Moses is given God's law. He goes down into the camp, and there is Israel worshiping at the feet of the golden calf. Moses is distraught. He breaks the tablets. The Lord is angry with his people. And so Moses calls the Levites and he says, go to and fro from gate Gate through the camp, and each of you kill his brother and his companion and his neighbor. And the sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses. And that day about three thousand men of the people fell. And I read that and I read it through this lens of salvations about human flourishing. How is 3,000 Israelites dying? After meditating on that for some time, it struck me. And here's what I wrote in the journal entry. There is something greater than human flourishing. It's God's glory. God had just saved Israel out of slavery in Egypt only to die by the sword at the foot of Sinai? Why? Because it demonstrates so clearly that God's ultimate goal is Not first human flourishing, but first his glory. And he says in Leviticus 10, Among those who are near me I will be sanctified, and before all the people I will be glorified. Friends, the greatness and grandeur of the gospel good news is not that God has set his glory to the side and prioritized human flourishing above all. No, it's that God chooses to bring himself glory not only through justice in passing over some and leaving them in sin and misery. Headed for judgment, but also through grace, making the flourishing of his chosen beloved people. One of the primary means of bringing glory to himself. And he does this by wedding humanity to his very own self in the person of Jesus. Jesus Christ, God, could be glorified in his perfect justice by condemning all mankind to eternal death and damnation, but instead he is also chosen to glorify his sovereignty, his perfect, ultimate freedom, and his mercy and grace by letting Jesus Christ glorify God's justice for our sins. So that we might glorify God by being sovereignly, unconditionally elected for ultimate human flourishing, having His Holy Spirit poured out on us now and receiving the promise of eternity. Eternal life to come. All of this so that God could, as Ephesians 1:6, do this to the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us. The beloved. Thanks be to God that he has the scandalous goal Of bringing glory to himself, not just by shining the light on his justice, righteousness, and holiness, but also by bringing glory to himself by Showing forth his grace in redeeming some, some to everlasting life. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we Thanks and praise for these truths. They're hard truths. We don't often find them easy to delight in because they force us to bow our knee before you as the Christian. Creator, and recognize that we are mere creatures. That that our our good is not your ultimate goal. And yet, how we think You that you have you have wedded our good to that ultimate goal of your glory in Jesus Christ. We pray that you give us hearts aflame in gratitude for this good. News of the gospel of grace. We pray that you'd enable us to worship you more and more, to love you back, even as you have first loved us in Christ.