Let's continue to listen as God addresses us in his word. Let's turn in our Bibles to Deuteronomy chapter 15. That's on page 158 of your pew Bibles. As we continue our series through the book of Deuteronomy, here we are in this section of Deuteronomy that lays out the stipulations of God that lays out his covenant commands for his people of how they are to live their lives in the land of promise. Acting out, living out the Ten Commandments that are a summary of God's law for his people. Here we are in the section that's dealing with the Sabbath, the fourth commandment. Let's give attention now to the reading of God's Holy Word, Deuteronomy chapter 15, beginning at verse 1 and reading through the whole chapter. At the end of every seven years you shall grant a release. And this is the manner of the release. Every creditor shall release what he has lent to his neighbor. He shall not exact it of his neighbor, his brother, because the Lord's release has been proclaimed. Of a foreigner you may exact it, but whatever of yours is with your brother, your hand shall release. But there will be no poor among you, for the Lord will bless you in the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance to possess, if only you will strictly obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all this commandment that I command you today. For the Lord your God will bless you, as he promised you, and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow, and you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over you. If among you one of your brothers should become poor in any one of your towns within your land that the Lord your God has given you, you shall not harden your heart Or shut your hand against your poor brother. But you shall open your hand to him and lend him sufficient for his need, whatever it may be. Take care lest there be an unworthy thought in your heart, and you say, Well, the seventh year, the year of release is near And your eye look grudgingly on your poor brother, and you give him nothing. And he cry out to the Lord against you, and you be guilty of sin. You shall give to him freely. And your heart shall not be grudging when you give to him, because for this the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake. For there will never cease to be poor, to be poor in the land. Therefore, I command you: you shall open wide your hand to your brother and the needy and to the poor in your land. If your brother, a Hebrew man or Hebrew woman, is sold to you, he shall serve you six years. And in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you. And when you let him go free from you, you shall not let him go empty-handed. You shall furnish him liberally, out of your flock, out of your threshing floor, and out of your wine press, as the Lord your God has blessed you. You shall give to him. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God redeemed you. Therefore, I command you this today. But if he says to you, I will not go out from you, because he loves you and your household since he is well off with you, then you shall take an all and put it It threw his ear into the door, and he shall be your slave forever, and to your female slave you shall do the same. It shall not seem hard to you When you let him go free from you. For at half the cost of a hired worker, he has served you six years, so the Lord your God will bless you in all that you do. All the firstborn males that are born of your herd and flock you shall dedicate to the Lord your God. You shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd, nor shear the firstborn of your flock. You shall eat it, you and your household, before the Lord your God, year by year, at the place that the Lord will choose. But if it is if it has any blemish, if it is lame or blind or has any serious blemish, whatever, you shall not sacrifice it to the Lord your God. You shall eat it. Within your towns the unclean and the clean alike may eat it, as though it were a gazelle or a deer. Only you shall not eat its blood. You shall pour it out on the ground like water. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing on our time as we meditate on it further. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you you deign, you condescend in a loving way to meet with us as your people, to be gathered. in our presence, that we might be gathered in your presence, that we might meet with you, that we might hear your voice this morning, Lord. We we come trusting that we do not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from your mouth. And so as we look at these words in Deuteronomy 15, that at first glance may seem very foreign to us, that may seem like they come from an ancient time with ancient customs. Yet we trust you to make them living and active in our lives, to use them, to convict us anew of our need for you to save us by your grace. And to comfort us anew with the promises that we have, that all is forgiven in Jesus Christ, and it's in his name that we pray. Amen. You may be familiar with the name Corey Tenbo. She uh was a survivor of the Holocaust in World War II Germany. She went to a concentration camp where her sister suffered and died, but she survived. And after the war, she Was called by the Lord to be an evangelist speaker. She went throughout Europe and America traveling and speaking the good news of the gospel. This led her in 1947 to a place in Germany where she was speaking, and she had just gotten done speaking about God's forgiveness. How he casts our sins into the deepest ocean and removes them from us. She got down from the podium and she looked forward and she saw him coming at her. One of the guards from Robinsbrook concentration camp, one of the most cruel guards there, under whose hand she and her sister had suffered. Unimaginable things. And he's walking toward her, smiling He did not recognize her, but she recognized him. And he extended his hand and he said, A fine message, Freulein. I was a guard at Ravensbrook. How good it is to know that, as you say, all our sins are at the bottom of the sea. I have become a Christian. I know that God has forgiven me for the cruel things I did there. But I would like to hear it from your lips as well, Freudline. He stuck out his hand again. Will you forgive me? She writes in this account of this occasion of the tension that tore her apart with him. She says this. It could not have been many seconds that he stood there, hand held out. But to me, it seemed ours. As I wrestled with the most difficult thing I had ever had to do. She knew that God called her to forgive. She just preached it. But all she could feel at the moment was cold contempt What would you do in that situation? Why was it so hard for her, who knew The message of God's forgiveness so well she could proclaim it to others, and yet in that moment she couldn't feel it. Why is it so hard for us to forgive? Partly because it's not cheap, is it? Forgiveness costs. Giving other people rest From the debts we think they owe us. It is very costly. It's never easy. But it's exactly what God calls his people to hear in Deuteronomy 15. Here's where we see that the Sabbath command is ultimately not just about us getting rest, but about us giving it to others. Now we're in this section of Deuteronomy, as I mentioned, where God, through Moses, is expounding upon his summary of the law and the Ten Commandments. And Deuteronomy 15 is specifically in this portion of Deuteronomy dealing with the fourth commandment, the command for Sabbath rest. And normally we think of this command as something for us. And it is. Something for us, for us to stop work and to rest and to worship God on that one day in seven. It is that. But that's really only About half of the command. If we read it, we can we can see it. Deuteronomy 5, 12 to 15. Observe the Sabbath days to keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you, six days you show Labor and do all your work, but in the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, right? We, we, we You or your son, or your daughter, or your male servant, or your female servant or your ox, or your donkey, or any of your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. That your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you Yes, it's about us getting rest, but it's also about us giving rest. And it's interesting, our larger catechism has a wonderful section meditating on all that these Ten Commandments mean for us. It's a wonderful exposition of and application of these. These commands of God and and how we ought to apply them in our everyday life. It's so interesting. It actually stops in this portion where it's dealing with the fourth commandment, the Sabbath command, and it asks this question in question and answer 118 of the larger catechism. Why is the charge of keeping the Sabbath More specifically directed to governors or to leaders of families and to other superiors. Have you ever noticed that? Well the commit the catechism does, and it says this. It's because Leaders of families and superiors are bound not only to keep it themselves, but to see that it be observed by all those that are under their charge. And because they are prone often to hinder the rest in those under their charge by employments of their own. We looked last week at how hard it is to take rest. This week in Deuteronomy 15, we're challenged with how hard, maybe harder it can be for us to take rest. And as we look at this passage, what I want us to see about Sabbath keeping as rest-giving is first of all the manner, how God commands it to be done. Second of all, the motive, why God commands it to be done. And third, the meaning, what it ends up teaching us about ourselves and about our God. The manner, the motive. and the meeting. First, the manner. Now, as we open this text, we see that not only was there a weekly Sabbath in the life of God's people, or that God commanded in the life of his people, But this weekly pattern of six and then a seventh day of rest was to be reflected in years. Six years with a seventh year of release and rest giving. Specifically directed to the poor and the needy on a national scale. That's what we see in verse 1. At the end of every seven years, you shall grant a release. And the manner of the Sabbath rest, giving, rest giving, was specifically centered around release or freedom from two forms of poverty: indebtedness and indenture. Let's look at indebtedness first. The first way in which God commands this idea of rest-giving in the life of His people is through this command to release to give freedom from crushing indebtedness that could or would regularly have come due to poverty. Now it's interesting to note at the beginning, you might have noticed a contradiction in two verses. On the one hand it says there's there will be no poor among you, and on the other hand it says there will always be poor among you. I think the way to navigate this or to understand that is that God is at first saying in verses four to six Ultimately, there really should be no reason for poverty in the land of Israel. And it's because if only they obeyed the Lord He promised blessing and prosperity that no one would need to go hungry. He promised the rain to fall, crops to grow. So verse 4. But there will be or should be no poor among you, for the Lord will bless you in the land that the Lord your God has given you for an inheritance to possess, if only you will strictly obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all this commandment that I command you today, for the Lord your God will bless you as he promised you, and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow. And you shall rule over many nations, but you shall they shall not rule over you. Now this is again exploring what we've talked about throughout the book of Deuteronomy, this idea that although this covenant of God with mo Moses to his people is part of his covenants of grace, it begins God saying I'm the God who delivered you by my grace out of the land of Egypt. Yet there is inherent in this covenant that God makes with his people on the plains of Moab as he's about to send them into land, there's this Works principle at play, this conditionality, and it's not for individuals, not how individuals were saved and reconciled to God. That was always by grace through faith But it is how the nation, as a nation, would remain blessed and prosperous in the land. God tied it to this idea of obedience, conditionality. And so in theory, there was no need for anyone to ever be poor. Simply do these commands And you'll be blessed. And you'll have enough that not only will you prosper, you'll have so much you can share it with other nations and lend to them. And there's There's also this reality that there's a principle here that actually really even applies today. That if you're part of a country Where people have good laws that maybe reflect some of the wisdom of God's law, and they abide by these laws and they live wisely, that country probably will be prosperous and have no need for poor. In fact, even our own country. At this point in history, having been founded on many of the principles of God's Word, is deeply prosperous. There really need be no poor among us in this country, in this land. And yet, there are. And God recognizes that even though there need be no poor in Israel, there would be And that's due to sin and the ways we don't walk in God's ways, so that people suffer the consequences not necessarily of their own sin, but of the sinfulness around them and fall into poverty for all sorts of reasons. Look at verse 7. If among you one of your brothers should become poor, in any one of your towns within your land that the Lord your God has given you, you shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother. Then down to verse 11, for there will never cease to be poor in the land. How did this happen? Well, one of the consequences of disobedience was famine. Was a lack of rain, God says in Deuteronomy 28 And if that happened and you were an Israelite and you owned a plot of land, well, you you would plant and you'd harvest and you'd plant and you'd harvest year after year. hopefully plant enough not only that you could feed yourself and your family but that you had a little left over and you could go sell it in the marketplace and trade it and barter it for other things and that's how you could prosper with your little plot of land in the promised land. But Then the famine comes. And you plant and there's no rain. And the crop doesn't grow. Or there's a fire in the land. Or the land is invaded and your crop is destroyed. And now you've got this plot of land, but you have no way to feed yourself, let alone plant next year's crop. So what do you do? You go and take a loan. And you go to your neighbor whose crop survived. And you say, hey, could I use some of your grain? to plant this year's crop and to maybe eat until I get next year's crop. And then he would say, sure, and you can pay it back over time, over a few years, maybe, maybe with a a little bit of interest, although they weren't supposed to charge one another interest. That's how you would fall into this situation. And in the same way, if you were a shepherd or a herder of flocks, one year a plague comes through and wipes out most of the flock, and you don't have enough to feed your family. Go elsewhere and so you have to borrow a few uh goats or sheep to fill out your flock to to make next year's crop of of sheep more and and then eventually you're going to have to pay back. And so you get into this situation of of debt. And yet in Israel, among God's people, which is like the church in that time This indebtedness was not to be forever, but was to have an end, a hard end, in the seventh year. Look at verse 2. And this is the manner of the release. Every creditor shall release what he has lent to his neighbor, he shall not exact it of his neighbor, his brother, because the Lord's release has been proclaimed. Of a foreigner you may exact it. But whatever of yours is with your brother, your hand shall release. Year after year he had borrowed, he was trying to grow that grain back. He couldn't pay it all back. And then you hit that seventh year and God says, okay, everything that he has that's yours, it's no longer yours. Now it's his. Open your hand, release it. That's the manner of this Sabbath rest-giving that was to be among God's people in the land. Interestingly, notice that there's a difference in how you treat a foreigner. outside the land and how you treat an Israelite. You could continue to, you didn't have to erase the debt of the foreigner. In some ways, that's how reflected in our life as a church and how our deacons prioritize church members. And we'll talk more later about the significance of that. There's theological significance to that. But you can imagine Okay, we've got this seven-year Sabbath rest-giving. You can imagine a stingy person. Maybe your own heart at its worst. Saying your neighbor comes to you and the famine happens in the fifth or the sixth year, and you You say, if I loan him this year, there's only one year until the release, he won't have time to pay it back. Maybe I'll say no. And God foresees this. And He recognizes that this call for rest giving is a call to Deep generosity. Look at how he acknowledges it in verse 7. If among you one of your brothers become poor in any of your towns within your land that the Lord your God has given you, you shall not harden your heart. Or shut your hand against your poor brother, but you shall open your hand to him, and lend him sufficient for his need, whatever it may be. And then verse nine Take care, lest there be an unworthy thought in your heart, and you say, The seventh year, the year of release is near, and your eye look grudgingly, or literally, your eye be evil. Toward your poor brother, and you give him nothing, and he cry to the Lord against you, and you be guilty of sin. Down in verse 11, therefore I command you, you shall open wide your hand to your brother, to the needy and to the poor in your land. God recognizes that this would be hard, but that's what he's calling his people to. Rest-giving that requires that kind of generosity. That's the first manner of Sabbath rest giving. The second one is rest giving from indenture or personal bondage. Now, this is an even deeper level of destitution. So this is somebody who Their land is not growing crops properly, so finally they say, you know what, I give up. They sell the land for a bit of money and they live off that for a while and then they run out. And now they have no way to generate an income, let alone an income itself. And that person then would sell themselves into indentured service, being a bond servant, also called a slave. in this uh context, but it's much more in our context like indentured service. Now when you did that, you didn't get paid But you got food, shelter, health care, all the needs of everyday life you got met. And so it was a way to be saved out of poverty. There's a value to it. In fact, the first Americans that came over, in fact, even my my wife's in-laws are descendants from originally indentured servants. came over here in that sort of context. Kids, imagine. Imagine that you had to leave your house and go live in someone else's house and work for them every day just to survive. That's the kind of poverty that drives this indentured service. And God says, in my kingdom, in my land, that won't be forever. After six years, set them free. Verse 12. If your brother, a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you. He shall serve you six years, and in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you. Again, our sinful hearts can start thinking, how can we game the system? Well, after six years I have to release the slave. And this is probably not the same cycle. This is probably a cycle that begins when they indenture themselves rather than ending on the seventh year whenever it comes. But no matter the case, you get to the end and you say, he has nothing. I've fed him, I've clothed him Now I'll send him away with nothing, and he'll probably have to come right back. But God says, no, no, no, no. I know the sinfulness of your hearts and how you might try to game the system and force it into perpetual service. In fact, later on in Judaism, that was basically created. Ways. To forego these releases. But look what he says in verse 13. And when you let him go free from you, you shall not let him go empty-handed. You shall furnish him liberally. Out of your flock, out of your threshing floor, and out of your winepress. As the Lord your God has blessed you, you shall give. to him, verse 18, it shall not seem hard to you when you let him go free from you, for at half the cost of a hired worker, he has served you six years, so that your your God will bless you in all that you do. What is he saying there? It seems like what he's saying is, look, if you hire a worker, you have to pay his food and his livelihood day after day. Then you also have to pay him for his service. With the indentured servant, all you have to do is pay the food and livelihood, care for him. That's about half price. You've had lots to save up for seven years. Now you can spend a little of it and pass it on with him so that he doesn't fall immediately back into indentured servanthood So these are the manners of Sabbath rest-giving in the context of Israel, freeing others, especially brothers and sisters in the faith. from the crushing financial poverty and indebtedness into which they could fall, and from the utter destitution and indenture into which they could be bound. How does this apply to us as we conclude this first point? Well, in many ways, it doesn't apply exactly literally. We don't have the same sort of situation here and now. One of the ways we apply the heart or the intention of this is by having a deacon's fund that is well supported, well supplied to share with church members in need. There should be no poor among us as the church. Of God. Furthermore, we can apply this idea, this principle of rest-giving, very immediately in our own homes. Parents, the Lord's day is not a day for your kids to get caught up on their chores. One way that people apply this principle of restgiving, and I'm not saying this is necessarily required by it, but it certainly is an appropriate way, is by avoiding eating out on the Lord's Day So that nobody else has to work and serve us. Now we can talk during certain discussion about ways in which people might hold to that or not hold to that for various reasons. There are reasons that can go both ways. But then let's go a little deeper. For us, I think this call of the manner of this rest-giving applies much more directly and immediately to us in a spiritual and a relational sense. Jesus taught us to pray, Lord, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And every Sabbath day is an opportunity to take stock. As we gather around the Lord's table, which is called communion, where we commune, yes, with Christ, but also with one another in the body of Christ, it's an opportunity for us to ask what grudges. Might I be holding? What hurt might I be holding on to that I need to release? Will it cost? Yes. Rest giving is costly. Forgiveness is not cheap. But it is also never as costly as it was for our Savior Jesus Christ. And that brings us to our second point because this generosity and rest giving is hard for us. It's often hard enough for us to take rest for ourselves, let alone to give it to others. And so God here offers motivations to encourage us. He gives us motivations for restgiving, and specifically too, he calls us to look at him and see his generosity in creation and redemption. Sounds a little familiar if you were here last week. The motivation is God's own generosity to us First, in creation, God reminds his people of his generosity in creation, kind of saying to them, Look, all that is is mine. I own all that is, all that I've made. What you have is simply on loan. It's a loan. It's on loan from me. How dare you not loan it to others? Another way to put this is God shows them here and shows us here that we are blessed in order to bless. Look at verse 10. You shall give to him freely the debtor who you're releasing in the seventh year. You shall give to him freely, and your heart shall not be grudging when you give to them, elsewhere it says the Lord loves, a cheerful giver. Because for this, the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake. The idea is God is saying, look, the very reason I've blessed you is that you might go and take that and be a blessing to others. Kids, we can see that. Look at your hands. Did you make those? No. They're given to you. Your eyes, your ears, your legs Even your birthday, all of these are things you've received, and the Bible says that ultimately they're things that God owns. They're on loan from Him. Everything we have comes from God, it's on loan from Him. So when He asks us to be generous, To forgive, to help others, it's simply him asking us to return his favor. 1 Corinthians 4, 7 says, What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it. Why do you boast as if you did not receive it? So the first motivation for rest-giving, God says It's my generosity. See how generous I've been in loaning my good creation to you. Now go and do likewise. The second motivation we see here for rest-giving is again God's generosity, but here it's his generosity in redemption, in having delivered his people from slavery and bondage. Look at verse 15. You shall remember that you you yourself were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God redeemed you. Therefore I command you this to be And how did God redeem from slavery in Egypt? He had the Egyptians pour and heap wealth on them as they went. You've been blessed to bless others. You've been blessed in creation, you've been blessed in redemption. And in this sense, we're called to the golden rule. Jesus says in Luke 6:31, as you wish others would do to you, so you ought to do to them. The point is God's very identity The very identity of God's people, I'm sorry, not God's identity, our identity as God's people is an identity of being freed slaves. Rescued out of bondage into prosperity, all given by the generous power and grace of God. How dare his people forgive! Forget to forgive. How dare they not give rest? How dare they not give release and freedom? They've experienced so much. From God Himself. And so it is also for us. As people living in America today, friends, we have been loaned much of the goodness of God's creation. We have so much access to the blessing of the goodness of creation. Being blessed, how are we blessing others? How are we giving rest and freedom? Not just financially, but relationally. Emotionally. We've also been given forgiveness of sins and an ultimate redemption in Jesus Christ, a freedom from sin's bondage forever. So How are you being called to extend the same kind of forgiveness today, this week? But it's hard. And that brings us to our third point. We've seen the manner of rest giving, how Rest-giving was to be done in ancient Israel. The motive, why it was to be done, is a reflection of God's generosity to his people. Third and finally, the meaning of rest-giving, what it says about us and about our God. First, it says something that is hard for us to hear. The fact that this command needs to be made and that it needs to be so explicit in addressing The stinginess that is the default of our hearts. Why do we need such an instruction? Why does God say He wants us to rest and has to command us to rest? But clearly He knows that not only is that hard for us, but even harder is Extending rest to others. Why is it so hard? Why do we need this instruction? Friends, it is simply one more example of the selfishness that sin creates in our hearts. That while we were made, having been blessed as human beings, made in the image of God, we've been blessed to bring blessing to the rest of creation. God says he blessed them the man and the woman and said, be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. Bring my blessing to the earth. And yet sin has bent us against God, has turned us inward, so that instead we seek to hoard blessings, don't we? And the sad, the sad thing is we not only hoard them, but we use blessings to try to take more from others. Instead of bliss. We see God addressing this sinful selfishness here, in how He addresses that tendency of our hearts to be so stingy, to be so selfish. You shall not harden your heart. You shall not shut your hand, he says in verse 7. Verse 9, he says, Take care lest there be an unworthy thought in your heart, and you say the seventh year of the year of release is near, and your eye Be evil toward your brother, your poor brother, and you give him nothing, and he cry out to the Lord against you, and you be guilty of what? Sin. That's where that hardness of heart comes. That's where that closed fistness comes from. It's that heart of sin and its selfishness that it brings. And friends, we see a story of that sin in the history of Israel. You know, with all of this instruction God gives here in Deuteronomy 15, with all the motivations. That he gives them in his tremendous blessing and his promises and his redemption for his people. With all of that, how did Israel do? The sad answer is that we have no record of these laws ever being lived out regularly in the life of God's people Israel. Ever. In fact, when they go into exile, Jeremiah, the prophet, is given a word from the Lord. He says, Now, finally, the land will get the Sabbath that you never gave it. Why? Well, probably because, like us, Israel was under the tremendous guilt and power of Romans 6 calls a relationship to sin, a relationship of slavery and bondage. And it's this spiritual reality of slavery to sin that Sabbath and rest taking and rest-giving was all to be about. See, in the Old Testament, the Sabbath day and the Sabbath year were meant to be anticipations, foretastes of a coming day of God's final fulfillment of his great salvation. And the gift of rest, the gift of redemption from sin and its curse. And in this way, all these Sabbath laws were meant to point forward to that great salvation, and that's how they point forward to their great fulfillment in not a day. But in a person, in the person of Jesus Christ, who is the true Sabbath rest giver Right. He's the one, as he announces in Luke chapter 4, in that passage we read a moment ago, he's the one who can say, Today, this is fulfilled: that I have come to bring liberty to captives. To bring liberty to the oppressed. As we sing in our song Rock of Ages, Jesus is the rest giver in being the double cure. Cleansing us from both the guilt and the power of sin. What is sin's guilt? Well, it's like a debt. A large, unpayable debt. A debt so big that if it were a number, it would boggle your brain. We owe God our very lives because the wages of sin is death. And Jesus paid it all. He went and gives rest from that debt by releasing us from it, by taking his perfect life, and then going to the cross. To pay our debt for sin once for all, and to release us from the indebtedness to sin's guilt. And he also frees us from sin's power, which is that it's a bondage of sorts. Don't we often feel that? That sin is bondage? That we're slaves to it. We want to do the right thing, but just don't feel like we can, or we we want to do We do the wrong thing instead. And yet Jesus frees us from sin's power by his resurrection on the third day, and by justifying us before our Father, clothing us with his righteousness. sending his spirit to reside in and with us, enabling us to live more and more in obedience to him and out of uh in in character with who he is and who he's shaping in us friends, that's the good news of the gospel. That in Jesus Christ we've experienced the fullness of what is announced here, the Lord's release. Isn't that cool? He says when you release others, it's a picture of my release. And that's we have fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Galatians 5, 1 says, for freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm therefore and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery You know, it's interesting, I mentioned a moment ago, maybe you noticed that throughout this passage, you know, these laws of release were only for the Israelite people. It says in verse 3, Of a foreigner you may exact the debt, but whatever is yours with your brother, your hand shall release. Verse 12: not if a slave But if your brother, a Hebrew man or Hebrew woman, is sold to you, then they get released. Why? Well, there are all sorts of possible answers to this question. Certainly, there's a principle of caring most for those close, our families first and our nation, our people. But I think maybe because of the meaning of Sabbath release, that if you are outside of faith in God, if you are not walking with Him If you are not reconciled to him, and friend, if you here this morning are not yet a follower of Christ, you ought not have the privilege of tasting Of the redemption and the freedom that you've been purchased. In a way, it was to drive home the point to the foreigner. You don't and won't enjoy the Sabbath rest that all this is pointing to. But you can. You always could by simply acknowledging I'm a sinner and I need this salvation from God. And foreigners could be brought in and become part of Israel in the ancient world. Just as today, if you're outside of Christ today, you can repent. Say, Lord, I am a sinner, I need your grace. And you can find forgiveness in Jesus Christ as you come to Him in faith and join His body, His church. And this freedom that Jesus Christ has purchased for His church, for us. By giving his body and blood is all of grace. It's a free gift to us. And that is illustrated by that final law about firstborns in verses 19 to 23. Did you notice we kind of skipped through that? And we'll we'll move through this quickly. But it says there in verse 19, all the firstborn males that are born of your herd and flock, you shall dedicate to the Lord your God. You shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd, nor shear the firstborn of your flock. Part of this is an exploration. exposition of the law. Yeah, you must give rest not only to your servant, but to your ox and to your donkey. But he says here specifically to the firstborn, you shall then he says, look at this, verse 20, you shall eat it. You and your household before the Lord your God, year by year, at the place that the Lord will choose. This is part of these laws about the firstborns. That we find throughout the Pentateuch. And these all hearken back to the Passover. The Passover where God had spared Israel's firstborns. And so he says, because I spare them, they belong to me. And what does he do with his firstborns? Like last week with the tithe. He says, okay, and now take the firstborn that is mine and have a feast. Eat it, he says. And if for some reason they're blemished, have a wider feast. Invite the unclean people as well. Look at the verse 21, if it has any blemish, it's not fit then to be offered as a sacrifice because it's not then a picture of the unblemished Lamb, Jesus Christ. But If it is lame or blind or has any serious blemish whatever, you shall not sacrifice it to the Lord your God, but you shall eat it within your towns, the unclean and the clean alike may eat it, as though it were a gazelle or a deer, only you shall not eat its blood. you shall pour it out on the ground like water. See, Jesus is who all these firstborns point to. He's the firstborn, however, who wasn't spared from death and God's judgment, because he is the firstborn Passover lamb Slain, to save. He is the firstborn not just of some Israelite, but he is the only begotten Son of God who entered into our world taking on the form of a man in order that he might be be that Passover lamb slain to take away our sins, who gave his life so that we could enjoy a feast of God's grace. Having been freed from sin's guilt and power by his once-for-all sacrifice for sin, and having the promise of everlasting life and rest and glory with God. Isn't that good news? Isn't that profound good news? How ought we respond to this good news? And the answer actually comes from another passage that I sort of skipped over from verses 16 to 17 in our text. Because here we see that true freedom is not having no debt. Yeah, think about it. That poor person, when their crops are all burned, they've got the land. They don't have debt yet. Are they free? No. The indentured servants? Before they sell themselves into slavery and have nothing, are they free? No. See, true freedom is not simply having no debt or being unbound to anyone. Actually, true freedom is being indentured to a good master. Because then no longer are you at the whims of the weather. Now you know your master will provide for you all the days of your life Being all alone in the world may you may fall back into poverty and debt and slavery, but to be a bondservant of a good king A good master, that is where true freedom lies. And notice in verse 16 how it points that out. But if the slave, the Hebrew servant, says to you, I will not go out from you because he loves you and your household, since he is well off with you. Then you shall take an awl and put it through his ear into the door, and he shall be your slave forever, and to your female slave you shall do the same. This is what we have in Jesus Christ. And yet what we have with him is not that we uh we don't know exactly what this ritual meant, this piercing with an awl on the doorpost in our ear. But isn't it better than being pierced in our hands and our side? Which is what he did, as he first submitted himself to be the true servant of God, the faithful servant of God, our servant, as he served us by giving his life as redemption for sin. And he was pierced, that we might simply have that outward sign. Maybe what? A piercing of the ear. Waters of baptism. That we might be set apart for his service in that way. True rest is owing a continual debt of gratitude to Jesus, a good master. True rest is being permanently bound to Him as our King, serving and loving Him forever, because He has first served and loved us, and He has given us rest, forgiven our debts, having paid the ultimate price. For sin and purchased us everlasting rest. And you know what that means? That means that we can live our lives radically different from the way most of the world does. This is illustrated in Corey Tenboom. I opened with this and let me close with this quote of hers. She's standing there. This guard's hand is stretched out, and she's She's wrestling. She says, I knew what I had to do. Jesus says, if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive yours. I'd seen it in survivors. She had cared for survivors of the Holocaust. Those who forgave their enemies could go and rebuild their lives. Those who held on to bitterness remained broken as long as they did. Forgiveness is not an emotion, she says. It is an act of the will. And so I prayed silently, Jesus help me. I can lift my hand. I can do that much. You supply the feeling. And so Woodenly, she says, mechanically, I thrust my hand into the one stretched out to me, and as I did, an incredible thing took place. The current started in my shoulder, raced down my arm, and sprang into our joined hands. And then this healing warmth seemed to flood my whole being, bringing tears to my eyes. I forgive you, brother, with all my heart. Is there someone you need to release? Maybe it's a financial debt. Maybe it's a relational wound. Christ has released you from everything. he could demand. He paid the full debt. Will you, in his strength, extend that release to others? If you don't know how you will, ask him. Lift your hand. He can and often does supply the warmth Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this good word, this good teaching about your release. How you commanded your people to reflect your generosity to us in creation and redemption. Lord, you've asked us to live this out in our lives, forgiving as we've been forgiven. Lord, help us. Help us to do this as an act of the will, trusting you to warm our hearts. To make our feelings follow. And Lord, may this all bring glory to you as we live transformed lives in this age awaiting. The return of our glorious Savior and King, our good Master, Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen