My family uh with my wife Eva and our two boys. Uh thank you very much for this invitation and it's a joy uh to preach from First Peter today. Uh and I invite you to open your Bibles uh and your Pew Bibles to page 1015 1015 to 1 Peter chapter 2 and as you are turning your Bibles over there um let me remind you maybe or perhaps inform you uh that first Peter uh is is writing uh Peter is writing his letter uh to Christians in this version, scattered around Asia Minor, modern day Turkey, and and he's writing this letter, as you might be surprised And not to a Jewish community, but the to Gentiles and Christians who are scattered around Isa Minor, and it's important Because today we will be seeing in chapter two a very rich, a very biblical theological truth about who we are as a New Testament church. as a New Testament people and how Peter applies Old Testament categories to the New Testament church. And I hope you will enjoy God's word today and you will be enriched by this. beautiful truth of our privileged identity and of our purposeful calling as we'll see in 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 9 and 10. And let us hear now the reading of God's holy word. But you are a chosen race A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness. into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received. Mercy. Oh Lord our God, we ask you for blessing right now as we are delving into your word That this delving in would be delving into our hearts, exposing our sin and exposing the great need of Jesus Christ in our life. We thank you that we are studying this word as your redeemed people. As redeemed people that you have taken out of the slavery of sin and brought into your marvelous light, we pray that you would enrich us right now by your spirit with this word and with the truth that you preach through. In Jesus' name. Amen. One of the reasons perhaps some churches are struggling today Or even drifting away from the truth of the gospel, is this that the churches and people are prone to forget two simple yet profoundly important truths. First, our identity, who we are. And secondly, our calling Why we are? Why are we? And one of the things you would probably discover pretty soon if you would come to Poland one day is that Polish people value solidarity. That has mainly to do with the history of our Polish nation and and Poland was oppressed by by Germany and Russia and and and we we've been under oppression for several or even centuries. But um you see that Polish people stuck together. They they value solidarity. And I must say right now as we are a few months away from our home it's it's it's a joy uh to find poles uh sometimes and to meet poles here in US and and to uh to speak in Polish uh sometimes with them. It it feels like you you have something in common that you have in common with them. But what is special about the community of God's people is is that our identity is something that runs much deeper than just sharing the same cultural or ethnic background. Being part of that people is simply the most important corporate identity in our life. But confusion also arises in our churches and congregations because we forget the purpose and and the calling of the church. Why does the church exist? For what purpose does the church exist? So let me ask you this today morning. If if you would have a like a small piece of paper three by five and you would be asked those two questions. Who are we and and why are we? What would you have written? Well, let me invite you uh to notice what Peter recognizes the church uh to be and why it exists. And Peter emphasizes first the privileged identity of God's people and secondly the purposeful calling. of God's uh people. In verses nine and ten we find staggering statements because Peter packs into those two verses a very rich biblical theological truth about who we are as the New Testament church. He does so by describing church in a way that uh exclusively the nation of Israel was described in the Old Testament. He applies Old Testament categories about God's church in the Old Testament to the New Testament church. What was said of the people of Israel is not now said of the New Testament church. If we would summarize the truth found in those two verses, we could say that we are the predestined and perfected people of priests. Possessed by the pardoning God. We are the predestined and perfected people of priests possessed by the pardoning God. First Peter states that we are a chosen race. We are God's predestined people. We've been chosen. We've been elected. We are the elect exiles or or the elect pilgrims, as we read in the opening. of the letter of 1 Peter. We are not a self-called or a self-chosen group of people that just one day decided, why don't we get together and form a group of friends? Because we find so much in common. Uh for example we we love fishing or or we like golfing uh or or watching football uh or whatever other sport or enjoy skiing um whatever we we found something in common uh a common activity, a hobby that brought us together. We have chosen our friends and our group of people. Well far far from this The people of God are chosen by God. God chose his family. God chose his daughters and sons whom he brings together to worship him. His choice precedes our being in the community of God's people because he is the one who brought us in. What was there in me? What was there in you? What was there in us? That God chose me, chose you, chose us. Nothing. Nothing in my hand I bring simply to the cross I cling, we sing. It is solely by the mercy of God that we are his chosen race, his chosen people to the praise of the glory of his grace. And we and this brings to mind Deuteronomy seven, chapter seven in in the Old Testament, where we read uh those beautiful and and amazing words in chapter seven, verses six and eight. As we read, for you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession. Out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth, it was not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you. For you were the fewest of all peoples. But it is because the Lord loves you. And is keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers that the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the house hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Peter is is saying that this message that was spoken to the people of Israel now applies to you and me, to us as his church. The Lord chose you, in his love he predestined you. Because she decided to set his love upon you. Because he simply and profoundly loves you. There was nothing in me and you that pushed God to predestine us for salvation, to make us his chosen race. And God's house it is actually the least of these. as Christ was saying, and the chief of sinners, as Paul expressed, that find their home That find a bed where they can peacefully rest their heads and bask in the love, the deep, deep love of Jesus, as we sing. Vast, unmeasured, boundless free, rolling as a mighty ocean. In its fullness over me. You are chosen and predestined, therefore you've experienced love beyond all measures. You've been shown grace and mercy, and you are special to him. What a privilege. What a privilege. However, Peter goes further than that. He goes next and says, we are a royal priesthood. And he underscores that we are priests, and this is striking. It's striking to see Peter use such phrasing twice in chapter 2. In verse 5, we read that we are. A spiritual house to be a holy priesthood. And then in verse 9, as we've been reading, we are a royal priesthood. And this phrasing, this idea. We find only once being stated actually in the epistles in the New Testament. It's a reality that is far deeper because it comes from the Old Testament and and Peter again alludes to Old Testament here. And this phrasing specifically, as we've been reading just a moment ago, comes from Exodus 19, where in Exodus 19, Israel was established As God's nation. And so when Israel was camping before the Mount Sinai, Moses went up the mountain to meet with God. And God gave Moses words to speak to the children of Israel. And we read in verses 5 and 6 of Exodus chapter 19 these words, these comforting words. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession. Sounds familiar? And among all peacefuls, for all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests. And a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel. The problem is that not much later in Exodus 32, as you probably remember, Moses witnessed the people of Israel worshiping the golden calf. They broke the covenant. Shouldn't God's wrath be poured on us? Shouldn't his judgment be poured on the people of Israel? Because we have worshipped the creature rather than creator? And the Lord is about to curse them in Exodus 32. For a second, God stops calling Israel even my people. And she says to Moses, Go down for your people. whom you brought up out of the land of Judah, Egypt, have corrupted themselves. They have turned aside quickly out of the way that I have commanded them. But Moses stands in the gap and implores God to show mercy. He recalls God's covenantal promises and the Lord responds graciously. In that very moment, we see a shadow of much greater prophets to come. A perfect prophet. who will not only intercede for his people, but actually keep the covenant, live a perfect life, and die instead of his people. people. In Christ the words of Exodus nineteen five to six are fulfilled for us. Not because of your obedience and not because of your keeping of the covenant, because but because of Christ's obedience And Christ keeping of the covenant, you are now to God a royal priesthood. A holy nation. A holy priesthood. New Moses climbed up the mountain of the Lord, this time the Mount Zion, and the father spoke words to his only begotten son. Which he then came and proclaimed to us. In me, in me you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, and a people for my possession. Because we read a few verses earlier in chapter two that Christ is the chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he who believes on him will by no means Be put to shame. God made us a royal priesthood. God made us priests. He allows every believer to enter his awesome presence. at any moment to approach his throne of grace and to be a servant in God's kingdom. All men right now have a direct access through the one mediator, Jesus Christ. Everyone. And no one possesses a more special access to God than others that others don't have. You don't have to make an appointment with a priest to have an appointment with God. He's available 24 hours a seven to us. To you. You don't need to wait in a long line to get to him. You go through the back door and guess what? He's already waiting there for you. We are not mere representatives. We are not mere God's ambassadors. We are God's priests from a royal lineage. And Peter also himself explains what he means by the priesthood of God's people in verse 5 of chapter 2. We read, we are a holy priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. We no longer offer animal sacrifices. We we don't come to church on Sunday with a covered in blood. But as spiritual priests, we now offer spiritual sacrifices in the form of prayer and worship. We make use of the means of grace that God provided for his people. We pray for those who are unbelievers so that they might repent and put their faith in Christ. We come to church to worship on Sundays as a congregation formed of priests We when we share the gospel, when we intercede for others, when we open our Bibles, when we teach and admonish each other, when we comfort, when we encourage, when we build each other up. When we worship together, presenting ourselves as a living sacrifice to God, in all of these we exercise our priestly ministry. Yes, we no longer need to bring animals to the priest as a sacrifice for our sins. However, the whole of our life It's to be not a sin offering, not a life of penance, but a life of thanksgiving for the grace we have already received in Christ. Because God has forgiven us and because Christ has become our high priest. We read that every believer Everyone holds this office of a priest. However, as some compellingly argue, we can see in those verses that believers hold actually three offices. The office of a priest, the office of a prophet, and the office of a king with a lowercase letter. We read that we are a royal, a kingly priesthood. Not only because we come from a royal family, but also as the Heidelberg Catechism in question 32 states. I am a member of Christ by faith and thus a partaker of his anointing that with a free and good conscience to fight against sin and the devil in this life and hereafter reign with him eternally over all creatures. And or Heber Hemron Badwink as the the Dutch Reformed theologian puts it, believers are kings Who fights the good fight, overcomes sin, the world, and death, and will someday reign with Christ But we are also prophets because as we will see in the second part of verse 9, we are called to proclaim, to declare, to speak. about the excellencies of God. And proclaiming was the exact task of the prophet in the Old Testament. So believers are called to these free offices with a lowercase letter. Priests, prophets, and kings. Because only because there's one priest, king and prophet with an upper upper case letter, and it's Jesus Christ. So we can say that every believer in Christ is part of a royal priesthood and is sent out to proclaim Christ because Christ is the priest, the prophet, and the king, and by the exercise of his power, Christ calls every believer to a universal office of royalty, priesthood, and prophethood. We are God's priests, we are a royal priesthood. And Peter brings that staggering reality from Exodus 19 and applies it to us. Isn't it a privilege? What a privilege. And thirdly, we we read that we are a perfected people of God. We are called holy and perfect. in Christ. God sanctified us and perfected us in the definite sense of of that word, in the definite sense of sanctification. And this description does not concern so much our moral status, but the fact of us being set apart for God, for his holy purposes. Yet we still, yes, struggle with sin and and its consequences. And and we struggle and we'll struggle to the end of our lives here on earth. But God already declared us holy and perfect and righteous in Christ. And so we stand in a special relationship to God. We are consecrated for God. We are set apart for Him, and we are called to be like Him, holy and perfect. Our convictions, our beliefs, our behavior ought to be very different from the world that surrounds us. We ought to be holy, representing God's holiness. To the people around us. But we are also called a holy nation, as you can see. We live and come from different nations, yes, and we can experience that today. People come from the United States and and from Poland and from other nations. But more fundamentally, you see, we are together part of one nation of God who brings all the nations. Which he made to come and bow down before the Lord and honor his name as we read in Psalm eighty-six. The vision of the Church of Christ is a great multitude from every nation. Standing before the throne, worshiping God, forming one holy nation of God's people, both Jews and Gentiles, brought together, reconciled, and formed into the one holy nation of God. You are God's holy people, God's holy nation, because you've been given unto God, set apart for Him, and brought to Him. What a privilege. And finally, Peter states that we are a people for his own possession. A people possessed by God, belonging to God. And this fourth truth that Peter states about our identity as God's people in the New Testament expresses a truth that underline underlines all the former ones. Did you notice what else you read in Deuteronomy 7 and Exodus 19? We read that the Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession. Deuteronomy 7. 6. And in Exodus 19, 5, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples. What makes us a royal chosen and holy people is only the fact that we have been made God's own. God's own possession. We are his. And he is ours. And this verse expresses all the covenantal blessings and promises spoken to the Old Testament believers. To the Old Testament church that are now being brought into the new realm in Christ for his New Testament church. Apostle Peter reminds us in verse 10: Once you were not a people. But now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. And these exact words are taken from the Book of Hosea. If you would maybe in the middle of the week come to the Book of Hosea, you would read those words being now fulfilled. This language of God being our God and people being his people, being his possession is a pervasively covenantal language. This covenantal promise was first spoken in Exodus 6, verse 7, where God says, I will take you to be my People and I will be your God. And this central promise of God, I will be your God, and you shall be my people, is expressed in all the redemptive covenants. Throughout the Bible, in the one covenant of grace. We see therefore the continuity of God's redemptive purposes that culminate in the person of Christ. Now you became God's people by his rich mercy. You are his holy possession When the darts of the evil one are shoot against you, when the wicked despise you or condemns you, when the world hates you, when the family rejects you, when friends Despise you. Church, what is your comfort? What is your hope? That you do not belong anymore to yourself, but you belong to the Creator of heaven and earth. To Jesus Christ, your only Savior. In this you can find comfort. When life goes in a different way than you've planned. In this you can find hope. You are God's. You are God's church What a privilege. I have no idea how many jigsaw puzzles you have completed yourself or with your kids or grandkids. And what was your your largest one? Uh I was never found uh of them as a kid, but my wife last year decided that maybe we should spend our time in the evenings together working out a jigsaw puzzle uh and completing a one thousand piece jigsaw puzzle which at first I was pretty reluctant to but I was wrong to be honest. It it was much more relaxing and exciting than I thought it would be. Of course, as you can imagine, having two little boys running in the home, we we needed to cover the jigsaw puzzle for the night. uh so that during the day there is a c tablecloth covering it so that our boys won't won't destroy what we've already put together. So we would read uh we would eat breakfast and dinner on the table uh and underneath was the j jigsto puzzle. Uh even having our guests over uh on Sundays. Uh and we always to explain what underneath, what's what's that? So But after a while it started to feel a little uncomfortable to be honest, so we just gave up, unfortunately, and we we didn't complete it to the end. But maybe you have And I'm pretty sure that everyone knows that without the top of the box where we have the whole picture of what we need to put together for one thousand or five hundred piece is is is just almost impossible. Um we we could try maybe to put 30, 50, 100 piece uh jigsaw puzzle without the top of the box. And we would recognize the you know the four corners and and maybe put together uh the the same the same color and shapes that fit each other. But it would be not an easy task at all to connect a 929-piece puzzle Without having the top the box top picture. Guess what? With the coming of Christ, we have the box top picture. And we can put together the 929 pieces together because Christ gives us the full picture of the 929 chapters of the Old Testament. Since the whole of the Old Testament points to him and is fulfilled and culminates in him and in his work We have the box stop picture. We do not need to look for it. God revealed to us what is our corporate identity given to us in the person and by the work of Jesus Christ. Our problem is that we oftentimes forget and look for our identity in so many other places. Not only individually but corporately. We we look for identity in work, accomplishments, money. We look for identity in our possessions. The more we have, the more we are satisfied. Or actually less. We look for identity in school, grades. As peers, we look for identity in relationships, opinions of others about us, and praises of men. As churches, we can look for identity in the physical buildings we we possess. The sizes of our church buildings. The bigger the size we might think, the better the church. And I must confess, I sometimes uh when I notice a big church, I feel like, oh That's a good church. That's a great church. They have a big building. And and um as we can see, the church possesses A spiritual privileged identity, not a mere external beauty. As churches, we we can look for identity in the amount of people we gather on Sundays. Masses of people can come and enter the front of our churches and we can say, oh that's a great church. Look how many people flood in. Well perhaps that might be right, but oftentimes you simply look what brings that masses. Is it the word of God or entertainment? Or particularly as Reformed Church, we can look for identity in our confessional status and the right orthodoxy. And perhaps we can build hermetic communities. And we can lose that zeal for the gospel and for missions or for and for preaching the word and the gospel to our neighbors, friends, and families. rather than building congregations that are empowered by their privileged identity of being royal priests and prophets and kings who go out and proclaim the gospel. We build our identity horizontally rather than vertically, rather than rooting it in a Christ and in Christ-given identity We are satisfied with a mere appetizer consisting of dried chips and lose the whole appetite for the tenderloin steak. That is coming to our table. How do you define yourself? Who or what defines you? Who or what defines the church? Beloved congregation, brothers and sisters, where do you find your identity? We are the predestined and perfected people of priests. Possessed by the pardoning God. Our privileged identity As you as you can see in in the second part of verse nine, Peter writes to us about our purposeful calling. Our purposeful calling. We we read that we are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Our wondrous corporate identity that we have as God's people bring us to the why question. Why are we? Why does the church exist? For what purpose did God effectually call us? Because we were called with a purpose. And it is a glorious purpose because we are called by a glorious God with a glorious call. And our purposeful calling is this. It's to proclaim the perfections and the praises of the praiseworthy God. To proclaim the perfections and the praises of the praiseworthy God. The reason for the existence of the church is to proclaim the beauty, the excellency, the marvelousness, the awesomeness of the God who brought us into his marvelous light. The worship of the church is to be conducted in such a way as to proclaim God's praises. The leadership of the church is to lead in such a way as to proclaim God's excellencies. The life of the church is to be lived so as to proclaim God's awesomeness. We can probably guess that Peter is again Alluding to the Old Testament. And this time he goes back to the book of Isaiah, chapter 43, where he it speaks about God's chosen people. And in verse twenty-one of Isaiah, the Lord himself declares that he formed people for himself That they might declare my praise. That they might declare my praise. And Peter is using the same logic and the same language in verse 9. People of God are formed for God to proclaim and declare the praises and excellencies of God. As we saw, the New Testament Church experiences now the blessed promises and realities of the Old Testament blessings. that related to the Israel people of God and the New Testament church, the New Israel, the true new spiritual Israel is the epicenter of God's covenantal redemptive work Of God's promises coming to fulfillment for Christ Jesus. And we form this blessed community for the purpose of proclaiming the excellencies of our God. But what does it mean to proclaim the excellencies of God? We find several instances of this language in the Bible. For instance, this language is used in the context of corporate worship. Where we read about the people of God singing, proclaiming and declaring the praises and excellencies. Particularly we can we can observe that in the Psalms. And for example, one Psalm that could come to your mind is is Psalm 96. in your Bibles and in n Psalm ninety six verse uh three we read those words Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous work among all the peoples. And we see here to God's people to declare his glory and to proclaim his excellency and his marvelous deeds, it's a call to corporate worship, right? But notice, notice please, the mythological focus here. It's among the nations, among the peoples, all the peoples. We we find a similar idea in in Psalm eighteen in verse forty-nine when we read these words. For this I will praise you, O Lord, among the nations, and sing to your name. We encounter the same idea. Worship and praise and proclamation of God's excellencies and his perfections is to be done among the nations, among all the peoples. As the witness to the nation of God's marvelousness, of God's awesomeness And even more clearly, we can observe that in Psalms 67 of our Bibles. And if you have your Bibles, I would encourage you to open there Uh Psalm sixty seven, verses one to five. And and let me briefly read that May God be gracious to us and bless us and make His face to shine upon us. That your way may be known on earth, your saving power among all nations. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let the peoples praise you. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy. For you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. And Psalm 67 expresses the idea of people worshiping and praising God by proclaiming his excellencies, but with the view to bring the nations and all the people to join that worship and proclamation. We are blessed by God And perhaps some of you know the story of the Presbyterian minister Alexander Daffin missionary to India. We don't have a time for that story, but maybe for another time. But he pointed out clearly and plainly in this Psalm that we are blessed by God to share that blessing with others. No and to go out with the gospel to others. You know sometimes when when children uh and I uh experience that with my boys sometimes, eat something really good, like like really good candies or a really good cot chocolate and you ask them Could I have some? And they immediately stuff all the chocolate and all the candies in their mouth, right? Well, that is what we can do with blessing, right? We can stuff it into our mouths. Hold it for us, our churches, but never go out and never share the blessing with others We are endowed with a privileged identity and called with a purpose, and this purpose is about worshiping God by proclaiming His Excellency as we gather together. For worship among the nations and among the all of the people. Proclamation of the Lord is declaring boldly and publicly The excellencies of the Lord's together as a congregation. We are blessed to bless. We are privileged to proclaim. We proclaim to bring people to proclaim. Therefore, the proclamation of the church to which Peter refers has both a doxological, worship-oriented, and mythological nature. This proclamation is an act of worship as it flows from the church's identity as a people called to glorify God and offer praise in response to his saving work and excellent nature. And it is mythological in that the church publicly declared as mighty acts in the nature bearing witness to the gospel before the watching world. So that as we read in 1 Corinthians 14, 25, the secrets of their hearts are disclosed. And so falling on their faces. They worship God and declare that God is really among us. But let me ask you this How can you speak about God in amazement and declare his perfections if you yourself do not marvel at his splendor and majesty? Without the light and enjoyment of Christ, you might portray Christ who is far different from the one we find in the scriptures. What funds into flame your adoration and awe at who God is and what he has done in your life? As we read in verse nine, God called us into his marvelous light. We were saved from darkness into the glorious light of the Lord who loved us and gave himself up for us. We read in 2 Corinthians those well-known words for God who said, let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. This this darkness light contrast is pervasively biblical. Salvation is described in the Bible as coming from darkness into the light of Christ, into the light of the world. And we can particularly observe that when we read the first chapters of the Gospel of John, right? We read that the light has come into the world and the darkness has not overcome it. And it's Christ who came. And in chapter three, you can notice in verses nineteen and twenty-one Christ's words which He speaks, which He speaks. We read these words, and this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. We see that the natural state of man is to not only be born in darkness, but to love darkness. Man loves sin and hates God by nature. Loves sin and hates the Almighty and excellent God. That is the very condition in which every human being is born. Therefore, no one is good. No one is doing righteousness. And everyone is born hostile towards God. And so, by nature, we are blind to see the light, the glory of Christ, the light of the gospel, the light of the excellency of Christ and the perfections of God. Well, imagine now putting the 929-piece jigsaw puzzle together in complete darkness. Only with the light of Christ can we not only see how all the promises are brought to fulfillment in Him, but we can see the glorious Glories and excellencies of his person and his work accomplished on our behalf. That is why we need the effectual calling of God for which we enter. Into his marvelous and glorious light, by which we are called from death to life. And what play takes place by the effectual calling of the Spirit is that we are brought into the light, the light of Christ. We are called into Christ's glory, in Christ's splendor. In him, the glories and excellencies that were before darkened by sin now are revealed. We all the saddened see the glory and excellency of Christ because we are called from darkness to light, to life, to new life by the Spirit wrought sovereign and salvific work. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light, we read in Isaiah 9 2. And just four verses later we read about the the the the the the child that is to be born. It's Christ who came with his light. And the darkness has not overcome him. That is the glorious good news of the gospel. Christ was born in the dark and fallen world. The darkness has not overcome him. He shines with splendor and majesty and awesomeness, and he shone his light. the dark pit and dungeon of our hearts and souls. It's only by seeing his beauty and his glory and his splendor and his excellency that we are brought to our knees and say, Oh how awesome, marvelous, and precious you are, our Lord. I remember when I was with my parents away for holidays, and evening came and we decided to watch a movie Since we were away and and the place where we stayed didn't have a TV or a project or or a bigger screen. Somehow we we thought we would watch the movie on a smartphone It was a bad idea. You can probably imagine uh it's it wasn't the smartest. Though the movie images showed a beautiful scenery. It it it felt like it it is exciting movie, but it frankly felt really boring And it lost all its excitement and beauty. The problem, however, was not the movie. The problem was that we tried to watch it on a too small of a screen. Maybe you found yourself coming from a movie theater after watching a heart-touching or inspiring movie and and you went home or you met your friend on the next day and you were still enthralled by the movie. And you called not you you you you could not not mention double negative mention it to him. You you must see the movie you vocalize. You you you must take your wife and your friends and see it together. Well, let me ask you this. What if we could react the same when we see the splendor of Christ? And and and see the splendor as we read scriptures in the morning or or or as we come from worship on Sunday And go and speak in thy way to our families and friends. You must see Christ. You must come and see Him being worshipped in the church. You see, our great struggle is that in this world we see the glories and excellencies of this world and of the creation rather than the creator. We put the glories of this world on big TV screens. But put God and his glory on tiny screens the size of our phones and put them in the pocket. We speak about the great glories of the world and speak little of the awesome glory of God. We speak about the awesomeness of a football player. We speak about the greatness of new clothes, shoes or cars or houses we buy. We proclaim the wonderfulness of our holiday trip We proclaim the perfections of our recent accomplishment, hardly ever speaking of the beauty and the glory of the triune God, the greatness of the Father, the graciousness of Christ. And the joyfulness of the spirit. And maybe we when we come together and declare truths about God, we might do it in a very unexciting or even dull way. Not being ourselves enthrilled and excited and not marveling and enjoying God and God's excellencies and perfections. Through the whole week we we get excited by various news and ideas, but when we come to church, we feel suddenly bored or even apathetic about declaring and proclaiming Christ's excellencies and perfections. You see, when you weigh earthly glories and put Christ on the other side of the scale, any other glory is like a dust. Nothing stands in comparison with the perfections and the excellencies of Christ and his redemptive work. So let me ask you, dear brother and dear sister, how can we declare the praises and excellencies of the Lord individually, as families, and as churches? It is only when we see the glories and the excellencies of the Lord, when we see Christ as excellent and glorious ourselves, when we behold the glory of the Lord. And as John Owen, the 17th century Puritan put it, only a sight of his glory and nothing else will truly satisfy God's people. When we see his glory, we want this glory to be seen by others. How can we speak about how wonderful God is if we haven't Found himself for ourselves awesome and wonderful. How can we proclaim, sing, talk about the excellencies of the Lord if we haven't been moved by it by ourselves? When we see God's glorious majesty and majestic glory, we are drawn to it and we want others to come and see it. Have you ever thought about worship as proclaiming the excellencies, the awesomeness, the glories of Christ? Do you enjoy Christ? Do you delight yourself in him? Do you see his glory? Do you delight in him when you gather as a church? By our liturgy, by our worship, as we gather together, we proclaim the awesome deeds of our God who delivered us from darkness into his marvelous light. And our purposeful calling as a church is to proclaim the perfections and the praises of the praiseworthy God. We are the new Israel. All the Old Testament promises have been fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And our most important identity in this life is that we belong to the chosen race. To the royal priesthood, to the holy nation, and we are God's possession. We are not our own, we are his. Friends, this is glorious news. As we see the glories and excellencies of the one who called us by his spirit, let us proclaim This glory, because we are the predestined and perfected people of priests, possessed by the pardoning God, to proclaim the perfections and the praises of the praiseworthy God. Amen. Our Lord and Savior, we pray that you will enrich this church. We pray that you will give us a sight of your glory, that we would behold your glory. I pray this for my church and for the church of Poland and for the church here in the United States and all around the world. That we would see your glory, proclaim it boldly and publicly among the nations and among all peoples, so that you may be worshipped. Forever and ever. In Jesus' name. Amen.