Well, if you've ever read C. S. Lewis's famous children novel, uh, The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe, and you've met the idea of the deep magic. And then you've also encountered the idea of what he describes the deeper magic. What happens in that story? In it the white witch catches Edmund, the traitor boy, and she invokes The demands of the deep magic. It's that law that was written on the stone table, inscribed at the dawn of time there, and it says that she has the right. to take the life of any traitor upon that table. The reader, if you've walked through that story, kind of has mixed emotions at this. We're sad on the one hand because it appears that Edmund, the brother of our friends, is going to die. We also probably recognize, though. This guy has really messed up. He's earned for himself this fate. He's brought upon himself the reality that he deserves to die. Because who is he? He is a traitor. He is a traitor to Narnia. He is a traitor to the lion. He is a traitor to his siblings. It's then in this place that Aslan, the lion, offers to take Edmund's place. Take upon himself that curse, to himself die at the witch's hand, under the law of the deep magic. So Aslan dies that fateful night. But after the witch and her ghouls do their deed and depart, and the day breaks, so then too the stone table breaks. For us to find that Aslan has been brought to life. How is that? Why is that? Aslan tells us, it's because of an even deeper magic. A magic which the witch doesn't even know about. A law, a promise, what we could maybe call a kind of covenant written before the dawn of time. The magic which said, if an innocent takes the place of that traitor, And that innocent shall be resurrected, and the demands of the deep magic undone. Clearly, for us thinking about this story, if you've read it, you know this is C. S. Lewis's allegory describing the work of Jesus Christ and his resurrection, right? Whether it's intentional on Lewis's part or not. This also serves, I think, as an adept analogy for what we get to see here in this passage. There is a way in this chapter in John 17 I think Jesus peels back for us the pages of history and reveals to us that we are part of a much deeper relationship. And that his people are part of a much deeper covenant than we may initially realize. And Jesus uses these last moments before going to the cross to do what? Uses it to pray. And in this prayer, he reveals to his disciples, then through the text of John, to us, that we are part of something deeper than we may realize A relationship which goes not just back to the beginning of time, but as he'll say in this text, even before time. And consider this with me. Why does the cross even exist? In some sense, it exists simply because we are sinners. It was because we are a traitorous people, and the law, the covenant which was made back at the beginning with Adam said what? Said, obey, Adam, and you shall live. Or disobey. Sin and you shall die. Here, though, at the end of this long discussion, before Jesus walks into the garden of his own betrayal, takes a moment to peel back the curtain for us and to show us an even deeper covenant. A prior covenant to that one at the beginning of time. A kind of deeper relationship, one which he shows us is formed before time began. A relationship which you, Christian, are an intimate part of, borrowing the language of Lewis, a kind of deeper magic Which will have the power in some sense to undo the power that the cross had over us before. How fitting that we get to learn and experience what Jesus is showing here by listening into, listening in on a conversation, a prayer between Jesus and his Father. That's what this is. It's a prayer. It's a conversation between Jesus and the Father, which begins in some sense here in John 17, but in another sense, which has been going on for a very long time. Since before the world even began. What we're going to see, what we're going to learn through this text is this. Through Christ, his people are welcomed into the deepest of loving relationships. Let me say it again. Through Christ, his people are welcomed into the deepest of loving relationships. We're going to see that as we break up this prayer into three different chunks for us. There's actually three different people in this text that Jesus prays for. Three different groups. The first is this: the son prays for himself. And then, second, the son prays for his disciples. And then finally, the son prays for us. Join me in that first point here. The son prays for himself. As we move towards the cross, in verse 1, Jesus lifts up his eyes to the heaven and he says, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you. If you've been walking with us through the book of John, we know what the hour means. This is something that John repeats for us over and over again. It's this reference to the time of Jesus' death and resurrection. Jesus knows it's here. It is right here. I am about to step into it. So it's here in this prayer that he makes two different requests for himself of the Father. First it's this, Father, glorify me, your son, so that I may glorify you. Jesus is saying here, Father, give me glory. And immediately he describes the basis and nature for that glory. Look at verse 2. Since you have given him, the Son, authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. Why should God give glory to his son? Jesus is saying it's because this is what the Father promised to the Son. It's what he promised back when he gave his son all authority on heaven and earth. Well then what is the Son going to do with this glory? It says right away here, he is going to give eternal life to all those whom the Father has given to the Son. The result of all of this is somehow that the Father is going to be glorified. As we look at this petition from the Son Actually, if we look at all of this chapter, there's a verb that's repeated over and over throughout, and especially in this little section here. You know what it is? It's to give. Think about what we've just seen. The Father gave authority to the Son. The Son gives eternal life. He gives it to those who were given to him by the Father. Oh, it's described here as a kind of giving that goes back and forth, back and forth, a giving that comes from the Father and to and even through the Son, and it goes all the way back through this process. Back to when? Verse 5 we see before the world even existed. Isn't that where this whole gospel began, actually, right? In the beginning was the word. And that beginning there is before the world was even made. There's a reality here that the Son is given authority. He is enthroned over all. And included in this is that Jesus has. He's been given a particular people. People whom he says here, he provides for them eternal life. What's happening then is Jesus is acknowledging this has been promised. They have been given in the past. But we here are about to step into the moment when that giving finally comes to fruition. And why is it? It's because the hour is here. The hour has come. Jesus is making this petition, this request for himself. Father, glorify me. But as quickly as we see that, we realize the ends are not just for himself, right? And Jesus' focus here is actually on two different entities. Glorify me, Father, so I can glorify you. Why else? So I can give my people eternal life. Father, if you glorify me as I step into this hour, then it means I can glorify you. How? By securing eternal life for my people. Think then about how this request is going to play out. Where is Jesus right now today? I mean, he is enthroned and ruling. He is reigning at the right hand of the Father in glory. Guess what? The Father answers Jesus' prayers. Are we surprised? Probably not. If that is true, well then what else must be true? It's that he has secured for his people eternal life If he is reigning, then that must be true. And so Jesus is headed into this hour. His death upon the cross, it is here. What is he going to do in that moment? He will suffer, we know, what no man has ever suffered. Who is seated around him then as he's praying this prayer? Who's right around him? It's the same people who've been with him for the last, what, like four chapters? It's his disciples. His disciples are going to see Jesus go to the cross in a minute here. His disciples will be led to see at the cross what certainly is not the appearance of glory. It's going to feel like Jesus' prayer failed. It's going to look like a moment of despair and defeat. What is Jesus saying for them here and now? If they will listen to Jesus, then they will know that despair, that defeat is not so. They will know the cross is not defeat. What is it? It is their hope and their security that they will have eternal life. To their hope for glory. What is that hope and glory? What is the promise of eternal life? That's what Jesus explains in verse 3 here. And this is eternal life. That they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. When we think of heaven and eternal life, I know. Our mind goes straight to the floaty cloud thing. Right? The mythical, mystical, whatever. Not what Jesus is getting at. What does Jesus say eternal life is It is to know God. John has explained, who do we most clearly know God through? It is through Jesus We've already seen this kind of idea this morning, right? What was our Old Testament reading? What was promised in the New Covenant? Let me reread a part of it. Jeremiah 31, verse 33. This is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After those days, I will put my law within them. I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God. They shall be my people. Does that sound like what we heard in our confession and assurance of pardon? And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me. We won't have to teach it anymore. They shall know me from the least of them to the greatest. Why? For I will forgive their iniquity and remember their sin no more That eternal life, that glorious reality, Jesus is showing it's here. By Jesus, we know God. We know him not as an enemy, and not as his enemies. As his forgiven sons and daughters. Jesus here asks for glory so that he can glorify the Father. How? By bringing his people to know the Father. By bringing them to see and know in glory and life everlasting who his Father is. There's a second kind of request here that Jesus then makes for himself. He gives the rationale for it first this time. Verse 4: I glorified you on earth, Father, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. Just as Jesus recognizes that long before the world was made, he was gifted a people, so here he recognizes that before the world was made, he was given a mission. He was given a task. And Jesus is saying, here is the hour where I accomplish what you sent me to do, Father. When Jesus cries out on the cross, it is finished. What's he talking about? It's talking about I will have completed that mission. It is finished, is I have accomplished the mission that God sent Jesus to do. And that task is what here? It's to save and redeem his people. And so, therefore, on that basis, first five, and so now, Father, glorify me in your presence. But the glory that I had with you before the world existed. Jesus is saying, Father, as I accomplish this mission, accomplishing the mission of redemption, Receive me back into glory. Resurrect me. Draw me back up to your throne and seat me down where I have authority, where I am glorified over all. What is that? That is the resurrection, the rationale for it. He accomplishes the mission, so Father, receive me back into glory. This is what Jesus prays for himself. What is revealed to us through this prayer? You see how Jesus is showing us The workings of this relationship between himself and his father. That there is this relationship and this kind of agreement between them. There's this agreement, this covenant. He says here it comes from before the world began. So next he turns here to pray for his disciples. Point number two. As he reflects upon his friends seated around him, Jesus makes here three different requests, three different kinds of prayers, requests for his disciples who are listening in. The first one is this. You can see it in verse 11. Father, keep them in your name. And Jesus starts laying the foundation for that request back in verse 6. He says, I have manifested your name, Father, to the people who you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. And Jesus is acknowledging here what John's gospel has repeated over and over, that Jesus shows, manifests to us who the Father is. That Jesus is the very Word of God incarnate. And these disciples, they believe that truth. They know Jesus is God's Word. They have kept your word. And you can see from verses 7 to 8 that they know and keep this because they have heard and received too. It's Jesus Because they know he is from the Father. So Jesus says here, Father, they have heard by me, and they have kept your word. That phrasing there is particular and intentional. The disciples we know do not keep all of God's words. They violate God's commands left and right. They are a forgetful people often. They are sinful like us. But they do keep and trust and believe in God's word. Who is his word? It's his son. And Jesus continues with another grounding foundational element in verse 9. He says, I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me. They are yours. Father, these men, he says, once belonged to you. You called them, and you gave them to me. What is that saying about these disciples, these people around Jesus who he's talking about? These disciples were a kind of gift from the Father to the Son. There's a specialness to that. These are not people around Jesus who just happened to stumble upon him and so then began to just happenstance believe in him. They were a gift to Jesus. This is no accident that these people are around Jesus. This is a sweet gift which reaches back into the depths of eternity past. These people here, these disciples, do genuinely believe. These are people who have heard and so act as those who trust in Jesus. But why ultimately do they believe? It's because they've been given to Jesus. They were a gift from the Father and to the Son. And so what is it that they do? They glorify Him. Verse 10, all mine are yours, and yours are mine, and so I am glorified in them. And Jesus said here, Father, listen to this request I'm about to make, because one. These disciples keep your word. Two, these disciples glorify me. One last setup for the ask from Jesus here. Verse 11. And I am no longer in the world. But they are in the world. And I am coming to you. Father, finally, here's the reason for my request. Because they will be here in my place. Because I am leaving them to be with you. I won't be right here with them anymore. So therefore, continuing in verse 11, Holy Father, Keep them in your name, the name which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are one. Father, these are my people. They believe in me. They glorify me, and yet I must leave. So keep them in your name. Verse 12, Well, I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you had given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost, except the Son of Destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled. This is a plea from Jesus. Father, I have kept the ones that you gave at me. You gave them to me. I have kept them in your name. I have kept them together. I have kept them believing and with me and in me. But I have to leave, so will you keep them that way until I return? Father, keep them believing Keep them glorifying. Keep them sealed unto your name. You've been tracking through John, you know who the Father is going to do that through. He's going to do it through the Spirit He is sending. Jesus says, I haven't lost a single one of them so far. He acknowledges we might be tempted to say, oh yeah, Jesus, well, what about Judas? What's he doing right here, right now? That's not a problem. That was predicted. We knew that was going to happen. Jesus has never lost one who is actually his own. Who is Judas? He's not described here as a son of God, like the disciples will be. He's a son of destruction. He's not one of the ones who was given to Jesus. There's a reason for this whole request here. Why does Jesus want the Father to keep them Verse 13, but now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have joy fulfilled in themselves. Jesus wants his people to have the fulfillment of joy. They want them to be filled with his joy. When is that going to happen? In some sense, it's true for God's people right now, because we do have his indwelling spirit. Ah, but in an even fuller sense, when will that be realized? We know we'll have that in heaven. When we have been kept all the way to what point? To the end. There's a second shorter request then from Jesus for his disciples, a follow-up one here. Keep them from the evil one. Verse 14, I've given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. A little reminder for what we heard a few chapters back now. And that the world is hostile to Jesus. We know that because what did the world do when Jesus showed up? He was rejected. He was mocked. He was despised. He was falsely accused again and again. And if we give it just a couple more chapters, what will the world do to him? Well, they'll kill him. He will be murdered. What Jesus made clear then and is reiterating here is that his disciples represent him while he's gone. His disciples continue on the work that Jesus did, in a sense. His disciples represent him. And the world hated Jesus. What's the world going to do with his disciples? We know their stories. And they kind of live out a small recapitulation of Jesus' life. Because they too are despised. And they are united to Jesus, and so they are rejected and hated by the world, just like Jesus. So therefore, verse 15: Father, I do not ask that you take them out of the world. But that you keep them from the evil one. This particular promise, this particular prayer from Jesus. That though they would be attacked by the world, that they would not be overcome by the evil one, by Satan. In some sense at the cross we know Satan is defeated. That is true At the same time we know he still, according to Peter, prowls around like a roaring lion, right? It can be an awkward thing to hold together at the same time. You're telling me he's prowling around like a lion, ferocious, that he could get some. But he's also been defeated. How can those both be true at the same time? I know that's difficult. And yet, and that kind of awkwardness is Very analogous, very similar to so much of the tension of this life here and now, when Jesus is victorious and has been resurrected and has accomplished redemption. But is not right here with us in this time. Isn't that the parallel we know for ourselves as we reflect upon Jesus being victorious and reigning, and yet there is still sin and evil in this world? Or even like the reality that I am now a new creation. I have been made alive. Yet what is still true of me? I haven't experienced all the fullness of joy of the new creation. I still do participate in. Sanctify them in the truth. For your word is truth. Jesus started laying the groundwork for this in a sense back in verse 11 when he called upon his father. And what does he call his father in verse 11? He says, Holy Father. The terminology for holy or holiness is the same kind of terminology for to sanctify or to consecrate And the concept is captured up in the idea of something being set apart. We know that when we look to the objects in the temple, there are all sorts of different objects, jars, tools, stools, whatever. But there's something special about the ones that are in the temple. They have been consecrated. They have been set apart to be used by God for his mission. They are now holy because they belong to God. So as the Father is holy, so his son is holy. The son was consecrated, set apart to do God's work, to go into the world as his father's representative. Jesus is leaving. What's going to be true for the disciples? So they must be consecrated because they are sent into the world to represent then Jesus. Who represents his Father. And how will that happen? How will they be sanctified, set apart, made holy in them? It will be by the truth. But what truth? Jesus clarifies it there. Your word is truth. What exactly is that word? We've even already discussed it this morning. The truth that Jesus is God's Son. The truth that Jesus is the Messiah sent by God, that Jesus is the one in whom they believe. We should note that what I just described isn't exactly how we always tend to use that particular verse. Often this verse is used as shorthand for saying something like If you read your Bible, then you will become a better, more godly person. I'm not denying the truth of that statement in and of itself, okay? It is a good thing to read your Bible, and I am confident that that will lead you down the path of holiness. But what is most immediately being spoken of here is actually a different kind of sanctification than that. It's that we are first set apart, consecrated to do this mission, to represent the sun. To proclaim the truth of that word, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and has come to save sinners. That kind of set apart, that kind of consecration, theological terms, that's what we call definitive sanctification. Definitive sanctification. Now what flows from that truth? That we have been sanctified in that way? It's from that reality that flows our progressive sanctification, how we begin to live then more holy lives. What Jesus says here is, my disciples must be consecrated because they are going into this world as my representatives. Jesus is departing. There must be new ones going out to do this mission, distinguished as God's holy agents here. Well, what is going to happen when the disciples depart this world too? And then isn't that going to be a problem? Put all of this together for a moment. Jesus is invoking the realities of this promise. He's bringing out this deeper relationship with the Father. And who here is he bringing into that relationship? These are the ones who I love. These are the ones who you gave me. These are the ones who I'm making holy. These are the ones who are being kept in my name, sealed to our name. Most immediately here, it's his disciples brought into this relationship. What about when his disciples leave this world too? Point number three here: the Son prays for us. Jesus knows he is thinking about this reality that his disciples will pass on to. He has a plan. He has a plan. His people do not end with just those 11 men in that room. Verse 20: I do not ask for these only, these disciples, but also for all those who will believe in me through their word. And now one fell swoop. He takes all that he has prayed for the disciples, and what is he doing? Christian, he's applying these truths to you. That you will be sanctified, that you will be kept from the evil one, that you will be kept secure in the name, so that you then might do what? Go forward as his people. Those people who are given in that deeper covenant, those people promised to the Son before the world began. Jesus does add two new requests here though. First, that we would be one. He gave that in a sense to the disciples. He reiterates it here, verse 21. All this so that they may be all one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they may also be in us. So that the world may believe that you have sent me. The example that Jesus uses here, between himself and the Father, reminds us that he and the Father are intimately united. We've learned that in John, so much so that when Jesus speaks, it's the Father's words. When Jesus works, it's the Father's works. The Father is at work through the Son. The Son is revealing to us the Father. And at the same time, they are distinct persons, the Father and the Son, and we know to the Holy Spirit. They are also perfectly united as one. That's the doctrine of the Trinity. They are distinct persons and yet perfectly united. And Jesus praise. That too would be true for us. Not that we're going to amalgamate into one blob like the Borg. That's Star Trek Elijah. We are still distinct persons too. And yet, somehow, through being brought into this promise, we are truly united. How? In our confession, in the words and works of Jesus, as he is the vine and we are the branches we've heard. You know what this reality, this request then shows to us. Shows that there is an intimate relationship. going into eternity past between the Father and the Son. We know that. That's back where the Father and the Son were before anything. There is a love between them. We've seen there is a giving between them, that there is a redemption mission given back then. We could even say back then in that sense. But we see here then that we are united to Christ in that. So that we get to be a part of that deeper relationship. That we're integrated into it, that we get to have a part in that love. That we are given and received, that we are those who, in a sense, then carry on that same mission of proclaiming that truth which Jesus proclaimed. What is it? Verse 22, the glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. What is being said there? We are brought in and gifted that glory, that which the Father gave to Jesus. We are made that way by Jesus? How? Why? It's for a reason, verse twenty-three. I in them, and you in me That they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them, even as you loved me. Jesus has shared all of this with us. Why? So that all might know. And what's the truth he gets to at the end here? That the Father loves you. Even as he loves his son. After all, what are we through Christ, but fellow sons and daughters? Co-heirs, those who have been adopted as his own. Of course, the Father loves his son. He has loved him from eternity past. What's being said then here as we are united together, as we are united into that promise, is that the Father loves you even in that same way. Just as there, he loves the Son. And what we get to see unfolded through this prayer of Jesus is what we call the covenant of redemption. In the dawn of the world, we had the covenant of works. You could borrowing the analogy from earlier called the deep law. That word back at the very beginning of time. Adam, if you will obey, then you will live in glory with me. But fail in what? Fail and you'll die. That kind of law, that kind of relational agreement, that's what a covenant is in a sense, right? A legalized relationship. The kind that is the covenant of works makes sense to us. Earn, work, accomplish, get the reward, or fail and perish. Isn't that so often how we live our lives? There is a covenant here, a deeper law from before the foundation of the world. And what is it? The father said to his son back then, I love you. I love you, my son, and I am giving you a people, and you will love them, so I will send you to save them. Christian, what is true then here? If you are one who believes in Jesus, you are one of those people. You are one of those who has been given in love to the Son. The father and son shared this love and way back even before time, they decided to love you. We know the problem though, right? That we're those who have failed the deep law, who have failed the covenant of works. We have walked in sin. We have not earned glory. We cannot stand before a righteous Father. By our sin and our failures, we earn death. And yet, what is true? That the deeper law, that older covenant, to borrow from Lewis, the deeper magic, it still stands. So what is Jesus here to do as he wraps up this prayer with his disciples? Why has Jesus come to this hour? It's to do what his father sent him to do. It's to love us. It is to love his people by suffering and dying in their place To come and take what they deserved, death upon a cross, so that he can redeem them. A Christian, so that he can redeem us. He does this to fulfill that deeper covenant, that covenant of redemption, that prior, older, deeper promise. And how is he going to do it? In just a chapter here, by taking upon himself our faith in the covenant of works, by taking upon himself our punishment. To fulfill that deeper law by submitting himself to our fate so that we might be loved by him. Not just here and now, but in eternity. And so when Jesus walks through this hour, what is it going to mean for you and me? That's the answer that Jesus gives here with his second request, verse 24. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am. To see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. It means that as Jesus will go up in glory to the Father, so shall we. Means that as Jesus shall be resurrected in glory, so shall we. That is what is promised for you, Christian, before the foundation of the world, that even though you have sinned And even though you deserve death according to the law at the beginning of this world, you are loved. And Jesus Loves you. He and the Father together have this mission to redeem you so that you can be resurrected So that the demands of the deep law will not be the end. What should capture your imagination here, Christian, is the incredible promises which Jesus has prayed for you here. To culminate in the very acceptance and love of you, even by his righteous father. We can have a tendency to make our love conditional, right? Or to assume that others' love of us is conditional, that it's based upon our performance, that it's uh based upon the value we may add to them. That we cannot be the favorite child of that beloved son or daughter because we just have not done our father proud. There is a sense in which that is true. There is a sense in which that is proclaimed to us because of that old law. Because we have failed this. If you do this, you'll live. If you fail, you'll die. But what do we see here precedes and even supersedes that reality for you? It's that the Father has always loved his son, that the Son has always loved his father, and that in that they have said to one another, We love you. So much so that Jesus will step into this hour where he dies, so that he can bring you into his glory A Christian, rejoice and find rest in what we receive from this prayer of Jesus. A truth that through Christ, his people are welcomed into that relationship. That most deepest and loving relationship, the love of the Father and the Son for you. Can we trust in that truth? Let's pray