Last week in the morning we looked at that most immediate scene of the resurrection here as presented by the Gospel of John. In John chapter 20, that meeting, that encounter between Jesus and Mary Magdalene. Now we continue that very same day. But seeing how Jesus encounters his disciple here in John chapter 20, verses 19 through 23. You can find that on page 906 of the Pew Bibles John begins this way here. He says in verse 19: On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews. Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you, as the Father has sent me. Even so, I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we rejoice in our risen Lord, Jesus Christ. We thank you that he came to this earth, that you sent him, that you commissioned him to come here with a mission to redeem the lost. To bring the truth of good news that through the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, we have salvation from sins. Here now, as we approach this text, we rejoice in that truth, and not merely what it means for us at some future point. But Heavenly Father, what it means for us today, that your Spirit is with us, that your Son is risen, that you are our Father and our God. May we approach this word this morning ready to hear and receive those truths as your children. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. One of the real wake up to the real world moments that one might experience in life is receiving that very first paycheck. 18-year-old Chris Calvey, he received his first real paycheck once upon a time. I was very excited for it. I had done all the math beforehand about exactly how much money was going to be in that check. I had uh you know looked at my hourly rate, uh my wage. I had looked at how many hours I had worked and did the math. It's not that complicated, right, and come up with that number that was going to show up in my bank account. Now, I did receive that check, but was the amount that was on the check what I expected it to be? Of course not. Of course not, right? You get that check and then you look at the pay stub and you realize this is not what I expected. Not nearly what I expected. Who is FUDA? What is Suda? Who on earth is so sick and why are they stealing so much of my money? Now, we know what these are. these deductions. 18-year-old Chris Calvey didn't. He was very perplexed, very confused. Take that one example there, SOSEC. What's that? That's social security, right? 18-year-old Chris Calvey isn't too into social security. Why? Well, because that's a future benefit. That's something that speaks nothing to me today. That's something for me in the future. There are some of you here who are collecting on Social Security. It's a present benefit for you. Congratulations. Still not for me. One day, Lord willing. One day. You know, there's a sense in which sometimes we think about the resurrection as nothing more than a future benefit. It's a kind of thing which will help us out down the line, but doesn't necessarily mean too much to me today. It doesn't impact me necessarily in my daily lives here and now. We celebrate Easter. We think the resurrection is a good thing that did happen, and one day maybe it will happen for me. You know, but today it doesn't mean so much to me. And so then we move on. But that is not the truth. Christian, that is not the reality. Yes, the resurrection does speak sweet and beautiful promises for our future. The promise that there is heaven and glory on the other side of this life. And we cling to that truth. We hope in it. We cherish it. But the resurrection is not just for the future. John here, as we work through this text in John 20 today, You will reveal to us what the resurrection means for us today, what benefits it has for us here and now, what it says about who you are. What this truth calls you into, even in this life. I mentioned last week we looked at this story of the resurrection, and most immediately that encounter with Mary Magdalene. This week, we're not moving on from the resurrection. We are still here, John says, this very same day We're seeing Jesus' first encounter here in John as the resurrected Lord with his disciples. What John will reveal to us is this The resurrection life of God, Christian, is yours today. The resurrection life of God is yours today. We're going to explore that in three points here this morning. They're these. First, The resurrection in today's fears. Second, the resurrection in today's calling. And finally, the resurrection in today's new creation. And join me here in that first point, the resurrection in today's fears. When our Lord left Mary Magdalene just a few verses ago, he told his disciples. He told her to go tell his disciples about this beautiful truth, this reality. He said in John chapter 20, starting in verse 17 He commissioned Mary, go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father. To my God and your God. Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord. That he had said these things to her. And John here picks up this text in the very next verse saying on that very same day, verse 19, on the evening of that day. The first day of the week, the doors, they were locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews. The disciples, then, here we see they've heard about the resurrection from Mary Magdalene. They haven't seen Jesus yet. What they do see is that there appears to be some kind of angry mob who's still after them. Someone who is coming to get them, some sort who may be ready to kill them. And so they're hiding in this room here with the door locked. They presume this to be that same crowd who crucified Christ just a few days earlier. That same kind of mob who destroyed Jesus' body upon the cross and seemingly would be coming here to destroy the rest of Jesus' work. And who's on this list next but Jesus' disciples? It's here in this room, behind this door, that Jesus decides to meet with his disciples. That he comes to them as their resurrected Lord. Verse 19, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them. Peace be with you. Seems that locked doors do not get in the way of the glorified Christ here. Here, in this conversation In his resurrection in this room, he is reunited again with his disciples, with his followers. We get from John here in this room this flurry of fulfillment from the things that were said in a different room the night before Jesus' crucifixion It's from that night just a few days before this, where we saw John spend a significant amount of time from John chapter 13 on all the way to chapter 18 telling us about Jesus' meeting. With his disciples in the upper room. And Jesus said many things to them in that room when he was with them. And now here John shows us this incredible series of fulfillment, this new evening in this new room. And nothing has gone contrary to how Jesus told his disciples this story would go when he told them what would unfold that prior night. This very meeting with the disciples is itself a fulfillment. Jesus said back in John 14, in that old room to the disciples. A little while you will see me, and then you will not, and then you will again. And he said then another time in that same old room. Yet a little while and the world will see me no more. But then you will see me because I live. And because I live, you also will live. These predictions, then, from that old room, are what we see happening here in this new room. Jesus left them in death for a little while. But now he's back. He is back and he is alive. And here they are looking at Jesus in his resurrection life. Put that together then here for a second. The resurrection life of Christ, that is what the disciples are seeing here. What then are they seeing for themselves? I mean, according to John 14, they are looking into the eyes of the resurrection life that Jesus promised to them. He said, as I live, so you will live. You're there looking at the resurrected Christ. They're looking at nothing less than The reality, the promise, that they too shall live again. Okay, now this sounds like a future benefit, right? This is still something for the future, not necessarily for today. But in this present moment, what is true for these disciples? Think about the context, think about their situation here. What did we read? They are in this room with the door locked for fear of those who are outside. and might come in and try to kill them, ready to come and get them. Well then what are they looking in the face here Those people killed their Lord, but who's in the room with them? Their resurrected Lord. Those people may be outside looking to try and come and kill them, but what is revealed to them here in the presence of their risen Lord? Those people may have the power to kill their bodies for a time, but the resurrection is real It is true. It is here for them. Those people may bring death, but death is powerless because here is resurrection life before them. Here is this present kind of fear, a fear which is disarmed with the very sights of the resurrection before them. And so again, what Jesus predicted in that old upper room, that night before his death comes true. What else did Jesus say? John chapter 16, verse 20, he told them, Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. That's all because of Christ's death. They were lamenting and they were afraid and the world is outside thinking, we won, and now we can come and get them too. John chapter 16, verse 20, you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn into joy. Then what happens in John chapter 20, verse 20, this new room. When he had said this, when Jesus had said this. He showed them his hands and his side. And then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. It's exactly what Jesus had told them. You will weep, you will mourn, but then your sorrow will turn to joy. Because you will see me, your resurrected Lord. And Jesus said this about that joy back in the upper room. So also you will have sorrow now, but I will see you again. and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. Dear in this very moment The disciples see their Lord again, and they have a new kind of joy. A joy that the crowd outside, that the world outside, cannot take from them. So despite all that is going on, Here they can have peace. Twice in this short text, here in this room, Jesus tells them, peace be with you. Again, it is what Christ promised to them in that old room. He said in John chapter 14, verse 27, Peace I leave with you. My peace I will give to you. Not as the world gives to you, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Said it again another time in John sixteen, I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome this world. world. Isn't that exactly what Jesus has done in his resurrection? Overcome the powers of death. Notice here, it isn't a denial of the existence of tribulation. Jesus acknowledged there will be tribulation. There is recognition that there are plenty of things which will strive to upset that peace. And we know that. He's saying here, ultimately, they cannot do that because Christ has overcome that great enemy, death. Because he has been resurrected, and that is what his disciples see here in that day The disciples here are experiencing their first little taste of that tribulation, right? But here before them is that victorious, resurrected Christ. He says to his followers, Peace be with you. He says to them essentially, there is nothing out there to fear anymore The world has no power anymore. They can take your body, sure, but look, I have new bodies for you. Look at mine. In the resurrection of Jesus, we have real resurrection peace now. Because we have these promises made sure to us now. Sure, there are things which we could fear here now. What Jesus is showing to his disciples is there is no need to fear them, because by the resurrection they've been disarmed. So, in a sense, now we have this kind of resurrection hope. We have this peace now. We can truly rejoice now. We have a victorious risen Christ now. What is the worst they could do to you, disciples? They could kill you. But Christ even has defeated death. That's what they see, they see him risen. The resurrection brings true peace to us today. Point number two, the resurrection in today's calling. The resurrection means something for us today about our mission, what we are to do. Look at how Jesus continues in verse 21. John chapter 20, verse 21. He says, As the Father has sent me, Even so, I am sending you. He follows that up in verse 23. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. That second statement, we'll get to it. I recognize it could be a little confusing. That first statement, though, the way that John phrases it here in the Greek is very starkly clear. Jesus is saying here, in the very same way that the Father sent me here to this world, I am sending you. The way that Jesus was sent to this earth, he says, here, it's not a one-and-done event. If we're going to get into the Greek, get nitty-gritty here. It's not an aorist sending. It's not the kind of tense happening that occurs when someone just does something for a moment and then is done with it and there's no effect. This is here from John in the perfect tense. This is something which happened concretely in the past, but still has ongoing effect here for us now. Jesus was sent with a mission, and he's sending his disciples here to go on in his stead with that same kind of mission. Jesus finished his act of accomplishing redemption upon the cross, but that redemption is still here doing something. So his disciples will continue on that mission. They are being sent as an extension of Christ to do his mission here in the world. The whole reason that that is possible is because of what? Because of the resurrection. The resurrection connects us. here today to the mission of Jesus. And what are we here as a church? We are his body here. Now what is that mission? John showed us an incredible summary of the task that Jesus had when Jesus spoke to Pilate. He summed it up to Pilate this way in John 18, verse 37. He said, for this purpose, Jesus said this, for this purpose, I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. Isn't that the kind of thing as we've studied the Gospel of John And we've heard over and over that Christ came to testify, that Christ came and bore witness, that Christ came and proclaimed the truth. And what truth is that? Truth that the world is guilty for the Father of their sins. And that Christ alone, He is the righteous one who can bring us back to the Father. It should be no surprise to us then that who comes here at the resurrection? It's the one who Jesus promised to send to testify to those same truths back in that old room. In John chapter 15, verse 26, he told his disciples, But when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father. He will bear witness about me. Jesus here is talking about the Holy Spirit, that Holy Spirit who he promised would come following his resurrection. He says, I am here to proclaim the truth. Jesus said that. And now the very Spirit of truth is coming. He will come and indwell God's people and do what? Exactly what he promised in John 15. The Spirit will testify. Jesus told us that the Spirit would come and convict people of sin, that he would show them the righteous one. Who will the Spirit do this through? He'll do it through Jesus' followers, through Jesus' disciples, through those whom the Spirit comes and indwells. Jesus is communicating is my spirit will come to you. He will indwell you. He will testify through you. You see how clearly, directly in joined to that mission of Christ, we become as the Spirit comes to his people and indwells his people. We are called into, commissioned into, that same mission of Christ through the resurrection. Now what is the result? Sorry what is the result of that of us taking upon that mission of Jesus Christ? What happens as we take on that mission? What do we say? What do we do? Think about what Jesus has said again and again as he spoke to people. What Jesus has said over and over as he's spoken to the crowds, as he's testified about himself, he's told them: if you believe in me, then you will live, then you will experience that resurrection. On the other side, he's told them, if you reject me, then you are still condemned in your sins. There's a sense in which Christ came and revealed the truth about that future judgment, that those who have faith in him shall live, shall receive his resurrection. Those who reject him, though, are condemned and will die in their sins. Okay, well, then what is here for the disciples in verse 23 is they take on that mission of Christ. It's to reveal those same kinds of judgments. Look at verse 23 here. Jesus tells his disciples, if you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. Now, some of our theological ears might be buzzing a little bit, trying to think what's happening here. What Jesus is doing here, he's not imbuing his disciples with a magical power over God's judgment. He's calling them here into that same mission that he had. He's giving them the authority to say what God has already said. This is the authority that Christ gives to his messengers here as they go out and do his mission. The burden of pleading with those who reject Christ, telling them, If you reject Christ, you are condemned. Alongside of that is the joy of proclaiming to those who embrace Christ. If you embrace Christ, you are forgiven. This is the message of the gospel, the mission that Christ sends them on, the recognition that we are all dead in our sins if we reject Jesus. But that Christ came and suffered and died with our condemnation upon the cross. If we reject him in that, we reject what he's done for us. We believe in him and we receive the forgiveness that he has won. So Jesus is telling his disciples: say that same thing to these people. Speak to those who receive me. You are forgiven. Speak to those who reject me. And you are condemned. When we gather for worship each week, there are different ways that we reflect the same kind of truth, right? That we practice this same kind of thing in this mission. Every time we gather together, we have a time where we confess our sins. That's what we did before the message towards the beginning of the service. And then what follows that? That assurance, that declaration for you who have confessed your sins in faith, you are forgiven. How sweet is that? There are times when we bring new members into the church and they take particular vows. And what we are saying as we receive them into the church as a body is that according to what we know, these people do believe. And so they are forgiven. How sweet is that truth as we declare that about them. There are other times, sadly, when we discipline. Lord forbid, when that gets even to the point of striking ones from the rolls. What we're saying in that moment is that according to what we know. These are ones who do not believe. So they are not forgiven. And we beg and plead, please repent and believe These are different ways that we manifest this truth, right? We speak the joy of forgiveness for those who believe, the tragedy of condemnation for those who reject Christ. Here, none of these truths are affected by us men. That's not what Jesus is saying here. That's why, again, the tense, I know, a little nitty-gritty in the Greek. These are divine passives as Jesus speaks them. This is God's action. These are God's words being shown out in the history of how we as the church operate according to what he has commissioned. These are the callings we are joined into here today because of the resurrection. We come to proclaim these truths. That Christ has already spoken, that Christ lived, that Christ died, that Christ rose again, and so we plead with the world around us: receive Jesus, believe in him. Point number three, the resurrection in today's new creation. We see the resurrection brings us this experience of peace, that the resurrection commissions us into this calling. The resurrection also, though, has done something which qualitatively affects who you are today. There is a sense in which the resurrection joins you here and now to a whole new life. Jesus promised throughout John's gospel that he would not abandon his people. Do you remember those promises? One of the things we have to reckon with, and as we think the very last verse before this, is that Jesus ascends. Jesus came to this earth. He lived. He died. He resurrected. Glory for his disciples here as they see their resurrected Lord. But do we see the resurrected Lord here today? Jesus ascended into heaven. Jesus still promised he would not abandon his people. And so who does he send to be with his people? It is his spirit. It is that spirit who he promised. He said to his people, he will still be with us here in a way, even though he has ascended to heaven. Because his spirit has come to be with us. That's what Jesus promised to his disciples in the upper room when he said that he would send the advocate, that spirit of truth, who we already heard about. What John then proceeds to show here, as we continue in this short passage, is a manifestation of that truth. The way in which this scene is almost a proto-Pentecost from John Now, that does mean there's some tension here between this and Acts 2. I'm not going to solve all of that right now. My goal is not to resolve that. But this event does demonstrate the wholeness of redemption which comes from the resurrection. And in that is the coming of the Spirit. Now, the event in which we see that here in the text is a little weird. John chapter 20, verse 22. When Jesus had said this, he breathed upon them the disciples. And said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. Kind of an odd experience, you know. Are we doing a breath check here, Jesus? Are we, how's that grave breath going? Probably not great. What's going on? John is showing us here the birth of a new creation. Think with me back to how John opened his whole gospel. We went back to creation. John chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the word, the word was with God, and the word was God. We learn that word is Jesus Christ, that he was there even before creation. But then John 1 continues, about that word, Christ, all things were made through him. And without him was not anything made that was made. This is creation, and all that was created was created through Jesus Christ. It all flows through him. Jesus made it all. Think about where we begin our story as creatures. So in a garden, right? Adam and Eve were planted in the Garden of Eden. And Adam was for, in that scene, all intents and purposes. The gardener. What was he commissioned by God to do? To tend to, to care for the garden that was around him, to cultivate the life of that garden. And then that one other point, to avoid that one tree which would bring death. Think now here about how the story of the resurrected Christ begins. Remember what we saw with Mary Magdalene just last week? Where does he appear for the first time? Once again, in a garden. So in this garden, which is surrounding this tomb, surrounding death, surrounding a grave. We could think for ourselves, the tomb is what belongs to dead men. We think of how Adam failed that mission from God. He ate of that tree. The sense in which that's the tomb which belongs to Adam. The tomb which is the fate of all those who have died in their sins. I mean in that same scene with Mary, remember who does she mistake Jesus for? She even thinks he must be the gardener. We're getting echoes of Adam there. It's what Mary thinks, what she sees. Christ comes here in his resurrection as the new Adam, who Paul will call the last Adam. And what he does is announce nothing short of a whole new creation, a new birth, a new life. How This might seem uh nearly coincidental. It isn't. What did Christ do there in that upper room with his disciples? It's just so odd. He breathed upon them. That verb, that word, there in the Greek. There is no other use of that verb anywhere else in the Greek New Testament. This is the only time that we see this verb in any form in the New Testament. If we expand our search a little bit into the Greek version of the Old Testament, We do find it. If we go into the Septuagint, which John quotes repeatedly in his gospel, we do find this same exact verb. You want to guess where? We go all the way back to Genesis chapter 2. We actually find the same exact use of this verb. The same form, the same person, number, gender, tense, all of it identical. Back in that first garden, we read Genesis 2, verse 7. And the Lord God in this creation formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils The breath of life, and the man became a living creature. Here is God in the dawn of creation, breathing life into man. So man was born. This is the breath of creation life. But what happened to that first man, Adam? He ate from that tree which brings death. One which he was told, do not, or else you will surely die So Adam died in his sins. This is actually exactly why Jesus told Nicodemus in that famous evening scene in John 3: Nicodemus, you must be born again. You need a new birth. You must be born from above. You must be born of the Spirit. We could look on that for us Christians. Why? Because you and I are sinners. Because of sin, we are the kind of people who would be spiritually dead in the tomb. There's actually one other use of that verb, that breath in the Septuagint, the Old Testament It comes from the same story that John actually brought us back to in John 3, in that meeting with Nicodemus, and it's the same story that we read earlier in this service, our Old Testament reading in Ezekiel 37. What did the prophet see there? It's that strange story in a desert valley filled with dead bones. The army of Israel dead, laid to waste in a valley tomb. They aren't even buried. They're just left to dry out and crumble. What we see is that is the fate for all those who reject God. But in that story, there is a promise from God, and what was it? God told Ezekiel, Ezekiel 37, verse 4, Prophesy over these bones. And say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. I will lay sinews on you and flesh and cover you with skin and put breath in you and you shall live and you shall know. That I am the Lord. Ezekiel does this and he prophesies to the wind. He says, I prophesied as I was commanded And the breath came into them, and they lived, and they stood on their feet, an exceedingly great army. Who do we behold here in John 20? Jesus has died on the cross for the sins of those dead ones. He has been resurrected from the grave. And here, that same day that Jesus was resurrected, he breathes upon these disciples. And what is it? It is that breath of new creation, that breath of new life that they receive here as he tells them, receive my spirit. What spirit? The spirit of new creation. The spirit who brings life to the dead army. The Spirit who indwells all of God's people, the Spirit who continues on proclaiming, testifying about this message of life in Christ Jesus. Jesus has breathed this new creation life, his spirit, onto his disciples. So they receive the Holy Spirit. And so in that day they step into this new life. So his disciples there in that new upper room, they are remade. They become this revived army of the Lord. And what do they do but go out and do what the Lord's army does? What they have been commissioned to do. What is outside this room, but those who killed Jesus? Who is here in the room with the risen Lord? Here is their resurrected Lord. Here is that resurrected army from Ezekiel. Those who have stepped into this new creation life, they receive the Spirit of God. Here are those who have stepped into, in a sense, Resurrection life. What Paul calls a new creation. You are new creatures. Christian, this is what is true for you who believe. You have this life. You have this call. You have here today this peace. You are one who professes faith in Christ. His spirit has come upon you, and you are no longer dead in your sins. You are a new creation. You are alive in him. The resurrection is not something that you only look forward to, though certainly we do. It is also a reality that you have now, today. It is Christ's resurrection which assures you, gives you peace in this life. It is Christ's resurrection which gives you purpose and mission in this life. It is Christ's resurrection which has bestowed upon you, Christian, a whole new life. So what is left for us but to believe that truth? Hold fast to that truth. To remember the peace that we have and cling to it when there are things around us which would drive us to fear. To testify this truth, to preach it, to proclaim it to those who are still dead in their sins, those who need that new creation life. To live here, not as those who are dead in sins, for we are not, but as those who are Jesus Christ's resurrected new creatures. Amen. As we walk forward in this life, may we trust in the resurrection, yes, for the future, and yes for today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice. That we, as those who believe in you, are new creatures. That the resurrection means so much for us today, and so of course we must cling to it. Of course, we must trust in it. We rejoice so much that you sent Jesus, your only begotten Son, to come to this world to live the perfect life which we have failed. To die a death upon a cross for us on our behalf in our stead, and that Jesus was resurrected, that we might know And trust and believe that He is our Lord, our Savior, and our King, and that He has won for us our resurrection. That he has made it so that we might be not separated from you in death, but united to you in life as you are new creatures. And we rejoice and glory in this truth, even though here and now it may not always feel glorious. Certainly there are still things to fear now. Certainly, there are ways in which the cross is dark, and yet through the cross we see the power of salvation and the power of Jesus and that power of resurrection in which we trust. And so it is in Jesus Christ, our resurrected Lord's name, that we pray. Amen