That which you desire are humble, thankful hearts. Let's turn in our Bibles to Psalm 118. That's on page hundred five hundred and eleven of your pew Bibles provided for you underneath. Underneath the seats in front of you. This is a psalm of giving thanks. A psalm that calls us to do that, and that's a great psalm for us to consider as we think on this theme this morning. I'll read, starting with verse one and read through the whole psalm. Let us give good attention to the Lord as he speaks to us through his word. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Let Israel say his steadfast love endures forever. Let the house of Aaron say his steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say His steadfast love endures forever Out of my distress, I called on the Lord. The Lord answered me and set me free. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side as my helper. I shall look in triumph on those who hate me. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. All nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me like bees. They were out like a fire among thorns. Or they went out like a fire among thorns. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. I was pushed hard so that I was falling, but the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. The right hand of the Lord exalts the right hand of the Lord does valiantly. I shall not die, but I shall live. And recount the deeds of the Lord. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you. that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God, and He has made His light shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords, up to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, I will extol you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Let us go before God in prayer and ask his blessing on our time as we take further time this morning to meditate on this passage of his word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do give you thanks as the Psalm calls us to. We thank you that you have called us into your presence this morning and that you've called us here to hear, hear as you speak to us. To eat the food that is more than bread alone, that is every word that proceeds from your mouth, by which we are spiritually nourished Grant us new, renewed faith in you this morning as we hear your word and feed upon it. Help us to see anew our great need for a Savior And how we see that answer to the need in our Savior, Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Well, I've noticed in recent years that there is a new type of Christmas present that is being offered more and more regularly And it seems like the kind of president that could only be advertised in America, of all places. It is presence for those who have everything already. Yeah, the top fifty, the top thirty. Uh found a nice list on Forbes magazine, which probably is the place where you'd find a list for people who have everything. Apparently the gifts are the same. for people who have everything this year are oversized blanket hoodies, uh magnet fidget putty. Isn't this pretty cool? And I thought this one was a little crazy, but apparently not a traditional Austrian side set. So you can like mow your grass. I don't know. For people who have everything, they probably don't have a traditional Austrian size at this point, so maybe it is a good gift for them. But something else that you can give to people who have everything that's maybe a little underrated is a nice word of thanks. In a handwritten note expressing gratitude to somebody who already has everything, trust me, that's something that they will enjoy receiving. If they give you a nice gift and they get that in return, it is such a joy. And it's sadly more and more rare in our day. In our day when people in America, many of them have everything they need. Now, no one in America truly has everything we need. But that is actually a description that is fitting for God. Psalm 24 says, the earth, the whole earth, is the Lord's. And everything in it, the fullness thereof. And so if we wanted to give something back to God, because all that we have is from Him, There is nothing that we've received that he has not given, ultimately, as the great giver of every good and perfect gift, as James 1 says. What could we return to God as a gift? It's interesting. Romans 11, 35 to 36 says, Who has given God a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. So that when we ask, what can we give the Lord in response to his many blessings that we enjoy, that we cherish, things like life, health. Friends, family, our daily bread. Maybe a job if we have one. What can we return to God? What can we give God who has everything already? We can give Him thanks. Thanks. And that's what Psalm 118 calls us to do. It's a call to give thanks. We see that call in the bookends of the verse, in verse 1 and verse 21, in verse 29. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. These bookends tell us what the Psalm is all about. And we see it unpacked throughout the Psalm. But in these little bookends, we actually have, in this one little verse, a whole theology of thanks, as it were. A whole theology of thanks, specifically, we have the requirements to give thanks, the recipient of our thanks, and the reason for our thanks. The three points we'll consider that give us the theology of thanks in these verses. The requirement, the recipient, and the reason. First, the requirement to give thanks. And this is in that first little word. And you look at your first, your your Bible, and you look at verse 118, and you look at the first little word, and it says, Oh. That's not the first word in Hebrew. Actually, that word isn't even in Hebrew, but it is uh it is reflective of what is in Hebrew. Hebrew has one word That is translated into the first three words of our verse. Oh, give thanks. And if you look at this verb, you would learn that it is what we call an imperative verb. An imperative verb is a command. A verb that tells us something we should do. The first word of the psalm is a command to give thanks. A command that summarizes that requirement. Now, why is that worth noting? Why is that worth pointing out? I think sometimes we we assume we don't need a command to give thanks. Thankfulness is just something natural. It's something that wells up in our hearts. You know, somebody does a kindness for us or a goodness to us. And it makes us feel a debt of gratitude. We say, what can I do to show my thanks? It just sort of wells up within us as we recognize the cost, what it took them That's easy to think is natural, but I would argue it's not. It's a learned behavior. If it's natural to you, you should go give thanks to your parents. Because clearly they taught you well. And the reason I know it's not natural is because I have a few kids of my own. They're very thankful kids. They do give thanks, but it took some time. It took some work. You know, you have this kid, and they're born in, oh, they're so cute. Maybe not the first moment, but very quickly, oh, they're so cute. And you want to hold them and cuddle them and t take care of them. And then uh and then you realize how much work it is. You know, you you feed them because they're hungry and they cry out, and then they cry out because now they need a diaper change. And then you're all ready to cuddle and hold and they sleep on you and you're, oh, that's nice, and you're holding them, they're getting heavy. They wake up and they're crying again because they want to be fed. And that goes on and on. Diapers, feeding. And it goes on all day and all night, and you are exhausted. And you, you know, and they get them to two years old and they start or three, whenever they start talking. You see, finally, they they can talk and they can say the first word on their mouth, which should be, after all of this work, keeping them from killing themselves, which is what their bent is. Thank you. But it's not. It's dad dad. Or mama, right? Which I'm not sure which one it was first for our kids And you're like, well, that's pretty cute. That's good enough. They said my name. Great. So maybe their second word or third word will be thank you. And You know, it's not. You know what it is, especially if they have older siblings, it's mine. Mine And so, what do we have to beat into our children? What do we have to have beaten into us? Kids, there are two phrases you know from your parents so well. The first one is, how do you ask? Which is Please, which is kind of a way of expressing gratitude in advance, right? Please, recognizing like I'm asking you to give me a gift or help me out And then what is the other one? What do you say? Thank you. That's right. It's not just true for kids. It's true for all of us. We need to be commanded. We need to be reminded of the requirement to give thanks. We see that in the Ten Lepers in our account from Luke chapter 17, right? What percentage stopped and said, hey, I should thank the guy who just gave me my life back. One out of ten. 10%. And he was a Samaritan. I wonder if that would capture about the frequency that we remember. To give thanks. 10%. We all need regular reminders of the requirement to give thanks, of all that we have to be thankful for, just as we have it here in Psalm 118, verses 1 and 29. And notice that this is a reminder for all people. Verse 2, let Israel say his steadfast love endures forever. Israel, the people of God in the Old Testament, the people formed by God as he called them out of Egypt, redeemed them and saved them, and brought them into his promised land. It's not just his people who have known his salvation, who need to be reminded of their requirement to praise him, right? Let the house of Aaron say, his steadfast love endures forever. You'd think that the priests, that's the house of Aaron is, the priests who are in there ministering to the Lord, who are in there regularly reflecting on the distance that separates us from God because of our sin and how God has redeemed us and called us to and and made a way for us to overcome that distance through sacrifice. You'd think they wouldn't need the reminder, but here they have it Let the house of Aaron say his steadfast love endures forever. And then this wonderful verse, verse 4, that says, We're going to open it up to all nations. Anyone who fears the Lord, let all who fear the Lord Say the steadfast love of the Lord endures forever. This is the great value of Thanksgiving. We've just celebrated over this past week. Aside from the yummy food, which is a great thing, I enjoy that more and more every year. But aside from the great fruit, it's a great opportunity to stop and remember this requirement to give thanks, to reflect on all we have to be grateful for. And yet the problem for me, and maybe some of you, is that our focus tends not to be on what we have to be grateful for, but on what we don't have. That we aren't grateful for yet. We lose a loved one, which is a sad loss and it brings grief. But we forget to thank God for all those around us who are still living, who are still there to give us the comfort that we desire in those times. When we're sick, we can focus on our discomfort rather than on friends and family who are gathered around us and who are helping us through our illness and times of need. Even as we're making the food that we're going to enjoy on Thanksgiving, that we're going to be grateful for, we can be frustrated, we can grumble about the process or the fact that some are not helping as they should. Ultimately, this bent toward ingratitude is because of what the Bible says we are born with. By default. Which is why children need to be taught this requirement to give thanks, why we all need to be reminded of it regularly, and that is this heart of sin, which is a heart Bent toward ingratitude. Romans 1 talks about this so powerfully. Paul here is talking about the sinfulness of mankind, and he says this He says, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth, for what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them. His invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made, so that they are without excuse. This is a blanket statement saying all of us who live on God's green earth have every reason to recognize God's divine attributes, his invisible eternal power and divine nature. And therefore were without excuse. Why? Because as Paul goes on, for although they knew God, in some sense, he can say, they did not honor Him as God or give. Thanks to him. So we need to be told of the requirement that we should give thanks. It's required of us, of those of us who've received much, who are therefore called to respond in worship and praise. And that's what we see throughout the Psalm. There's this constant call to come in. To the Lord's presence and bring him worship in the form of thanksgiving. Now look at verse 15. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. Verses 19 and 20. Open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. The idea here is the gates of Jerusalem that then open up to the gates of the temple. Where God's people would gather to worship him. The psalmist says, Open these gates of righteousness up that I may enter into them. Verse 19, open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter through them and give thanks. To the Lord. Verse twenty seven. The Lord is God And he has made his light to shine upon us. Bind the festival sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. This is a call to give thanks and praise to God, to worship him by offering the sacrifices he has called. us to give. And so throughout the Psalm and throughout God's word, we get regular reminders of the requirement to thank God. Ephesians 5, Psalm 30, Psalm 33, Psalm 100, Psalm 105, Psalm 107, P on one hundred and three six This Psalm 118. All give us imperative commands. Thanks, uh, thank the Lord. Give thanks to Him. 1 Thessalonians 5, 16-18. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. And notice it says in all circumstances. We see even in the psalm little glimpses that some of the psalmist circumstances have not always been times that one would think of of giving thanks in. Verse 10, All nations surround me in the name of the Lord I cut them off. They surround me, surround me on every side, in the name of the Lord I cut them off. Granted, the Lord's given deliverance, He's cut off the nations who have gathered around whoever the psalmist is singing of. And yet the psalmist knew difficulty. Verse 15, or I'm sorry, verse 18. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Even in hard circumstances, we have reasons to give thanks. Colossians 3:17 says, Whatever we do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus. Giving thanks to God the Father through him. So we can wrap up this first point asking, how might we apply this to our lives? What would it look like for us to recognize this requirement? To give thanks, to live lives of gratitude before God. When or what makes it hard for you to be thankful When do you find your sinful the sinful bent of your heart most active toward ingratitude? What are some ways that you might be reminded not only of the requirement, but the the the many grounds for thanks that we have? Do we restrict our Thanksgiving to an annual holiday? Or can we, like Paul describes in Colossians 3 and 1 Thessalonians 5, can we make our whole Christian life One of giving thanks. So there's the requirement to give thanks, but the question is: to whom? And that's the second point. The recipient of our thanks. The recipient. The requirement here is not just to give thanks and be thankful. That's part of it. But it is to give thanks in a directed way to a specific recipient. And who is that? Well, verse 1. Oh, give thanks to the Lord. O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. Now it's appropriate when somebody does something nice to us to give our to give thanks to them. That's certainly appropriate, well and good. That's kids, that's what your parents teach you. I would affirm 100%. When somebody does something nice, make sure to thank the person who has done something nice for you. But don't forget the ultimate giver of every good and perfect gift. Right? And that is the Lord, the ultimate proper recipient of our ultimate thanksgiving. In fact, understanding the proper recipient of thanksgiving is as important as simply heeding the requirement, if not more. In our day, there's this move to calling people, you know, just giving people the bare command. You see those bumper stickers, believe. Oh yeah, I mean I guess what? What should I believe in? Give thanks. There's uh uh an ad that runs uh in um Around this time of year that is well, I'll mention that in a moment. But you know, thanks, if it's directed to the wrong person, can be so offensive. Maybe kids, you've been part of one of these group projects in school or adults, you've been one of those part of these group projects at work. I guess that's what they're preparing us for in school when they make the students' group projects. But you know the group projects, don't they always go a little like this? You know, you get a group together and there's one person who does all the work. And then everyone else kind of chips in so that they can actually say, Yeah, I did something. If you've ever been involved in one of those projects and you're the person who did all the work, you know? And then you get it all done and it actually turns out pretty well. And everyone chipped in a little bit, but And then the teacher or the boss goes to one of the people that didn't do much. Like, hey, great job. Great job on that group project. And you're like. You know, it's it's kind of offensive, isn't it? Especially if that person doesn't say, oh, I actually, you know, you should really think, you know Such and such over there who did a lot of the work. No. It can be offensive to give thanks to the wrong person. And yet, if we're giving ultimate thanks to anyone other than the Lord, that's basically what we're doing Thanking the wrong person, the Bible calls, is a form of idolatry. And that's actually Romans 1. When you read on, it says in verses 24 and 25 that the ungodliness and unrighteousness of men is revealed in those who Exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator. It certainly is appropriate to give thanks to human beings for their participation in God's giving good gifts to us, but let us not forget that the thanks should not end there, but should go on. and pass on to the ultimate giver of every good and perfect gift, Almighty God. It's interesting in Daniel chapter 5 we have that. Daniel chapter 5 is the story of Belshazzar, who is the king Son of Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar had to be humbled in his pride. Belshazzar has this great feast, and he invites all his concubines and his wives and his lords. And uh and he they drink wine. And it says he calls for the vessels of the temple to be brought. So there's this great sacrilege. They're drinking, they're getting drunk with the temple vessels. But In a sense, as Daniel comes in and he's called as the prophet to confront Belshazzar, he he does mention his pride. He does mention sort of the blasphemous activity of drinking these from these holy vessels, drinking wine for a booze fest. He does mention the drunkenness, but what he hones in on is that as Belshazzar drank, he thanked. The gods of silver and wood and stone. Daniel 5. 23, Daniel says to him, You have lifted yourself up against the Lord of heaven. You brought vessels of his house, you have bit uh they have been brought before you, and you and your lords and your wives and your concubines have drunk wine from them, and you have praised the gods of silver and gold. Of bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see or hear. But the God in whose hand is your breath, and whose are all your ways You have not honored. You have not given thanks. Proper thanksgiving must be directed to the proper recipient. Give thanks to the Lord. For he is good. And this term for the Lord is God who is not just the creator, although he is that, but he's also the recreator, the redeemer of his people. He's the Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac. And Jacob. As I said, nowadays it's fashionable to say, just give thanks. The St. Jude commercials around this time of year. Give thanks for healthy kids, the healthy kids in your life. Certainly good. We should give thanks, but to whom? To whom? Kids, maybe one day you woke up early in the morning, the kitchen was still a mess, and you said, I'm going to clean up this kitchen. And you clean up the whole kitchen, you spend half an hour of your time and you make it sparkle. If your parent comes down or your sibling comes down and says, I'm just so grateful for a clean kitchen. Don't you feel like they've missed something? Instead of saying, who did this? Who can I thank for this good work? Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. It's a challenge for us today. We can be thankful. for a good economy as our retirement accounts rebound. We can be thankful to the doctors and the hospital systems when we find healing through them. We can be thankful for so many things and what and yet we can fail. to thank the Lord. If you're not yet a follower of Jesus Christ, this is a question that you should ask yourself. If you are thankful, and we all should be, it's required of us, who are you thankful to? Be warned: giving ultimate thanks to anything or anyone is a grave offense. It's actually a form of sin that just adds to our condemnation before a holy and righteous creator and sustaining God. Just being thankful is not enough. It can even add to our judgment. We need to direct our thanks to the proper recipient. Almighty God. If you are a believer, do we forget the ultimate cause? Do we forget to thank God? For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. So the requirement to give thanks, the proper recipient of thanks, and that leads to the third and final question. Why? Why should we give thanks? What do we have to be thankful for? And this is also clear in verse 1 and and twenty-nine in the bookends of the Psalm as well as the rest of the Psalm, it gives us reasons for our thanks. Reasons for our thanks. Give thanks to the Lord. For. Or we could translate that because. And that's the sign that now it's giving us the basis, the reason. And what does it say? What are the grounds of our thanks? It gives us two answers. For he is good, God's character, and his steadfast love endures forever. His work. His character and his work. Let's consider both of those for a moment. First of all, his character. God is good. The requirement to give thanks to the Lord is based on who he is. As the Almighty God, the creator of all things, the sustainer of all things, the sovereign God, so that anything good that we have comes from Him. I've already alluded to it a few times. James 1:17, every good and perfect gift. is from above, coming down from the Father of Lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. And notice how this Psalm describes God, Almighty God, as creator and redeemer. It calls him our refuge. Our rock, our redeemer, our savior, our deliverer. In fact, that's the main focus of the psalm. Look at verses 8 and 9. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. Princes. Verse 14: The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. This is a psalm that is one of what they call the Hallel Psalms. The Psalms, Psalm 113 to 118, that would be sung during the Passover Seder. The Passover, which is all the celebration of God, not only as creator, but as recreator. Who had recreated his people, redeemed his people out of Egypt, and had been their salvation. No wonder that's the focus of the Psalm throughout. Psalm 118, verse 15. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. The right hand of the Lord exalts. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. Notice that focus on who God is. His right hand, his might to be able to save. Verse 24, this is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. How do we know this is the day that the Lord has made? Because He's made every day. He's the creator of all things. Verses 27 to 28: The Lord is God. And he has made his light to shine upon us, a reference there to creation, right? Creation when God says, let there be light is the first act. God is Lord. He has made all things. He has made his light to shine upon us, bind the festival sacrifice with cords, up to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God. I will extol you. It's interesting that the character of God is summarized in one of his attributes here. Give thanks to the Lord for he is good. And yet isn't there a real sense in which That is a real necessary attribute for God to have for us to really have reason to give him thanks. Imagine if he were not a good creator had made all things and said, not this is good, this is very good, but this is awful. That would be a curse to live in his creation. Imagine if he were most holy and most wise, but not good. That's called cunning. But God is good. The triune God of the Bible is good. He orders his creation for our blessing, for our benefit, for our good. And then he even shows his goodness toward us as sinners. And that's what we call his grace. It's interesting, I've mentioned it before, I think, but in my ordination exams, I was asked, one of the questions I was asked, maybe Chris got the same answer or quick question. Why does the shorter catechism in describing God not mention his love? It also doesn't mention his grace. Think about it. What is God? Question and answer four of the catechism. God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in what? His being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. No grace, no love. Why? Because that's all in his goodness. God is good. He created all things. He created them good, and that's how he declared his creation before the fall. Very good. And his goodness directed toward his creatures is love. Goodness directed to creatures, love. His goodness directed toward wicked, sinful creatures. That's grace. Goodness to those who deserve the exact opposite. His grace. We have so much to be thankful to God for. Because of his character, that he is good. But we also have reason to be thankful to him for his works. For what he has done. For as the psalmist says here, for his steadfast love endures forever. Now, his steadfast love is a Hebrew term that is very difficult to translate. It's sometimes translated steadfast love, like here, or covenant faithfulness, loyalty. It is referring somehow to relational commitment. To somebody who brings all of their goodness of their character into a covenantal relationship, as it were. So one lexicon translates it this way: it's a joint obligation between relatives, friends, host and guest, master and servant. So you can see all these different dynamics of roles that we can have in relation to one another, but to show steadfast love is to engage in that relationship in a way that is a blessing to the other person, the other member of that relationship. And so when it's descriptive of God, it is descriptive of his faithfulness and his goodness in how he works. He works for us and for our salvation. This is a covenantal term. specifically descriptive of his covenantal work, that he is faithful to his promises and his covenants, and that his covenant faithfulness therefore endures forever. How is God faithful to his covenant works? Well, in creation, he didn't just create things and then step away He created all things and then committed himself to his creation, upholding it by his divine providence, providentially sustaining it, giving us a world of consistency. That the laws of gravity work, that thermodynamics can be studied and harnessed is because God is faithful. His steadfast love is enduring forever. We can plant, like we sang in the hymn just a moment ago. We can plant, we can water. But God has to give it to growth. He has to give the growth, and that's his steadfast love at work in his creation, but also we see his steadfast covenant faithfulness in his covenantal love in the covenant of grace. in his redeeming his people out of our slavery to sin and misery, out of our ungrateful disobedience. Changing us, converting us from the inside out, giving us not just reasons for thanks, but actually giving us thankful hearts, desiring to give thanks. Where else can we see the Lord's work of covenant faithfulness more clearly than in the covenant of grace, in what we call the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Where his faithfulness cost him so dearly, and yet where he was covenantally faithful to the end out of love for us who are his The Father sending the Son who took on flesh, who became man, the man, Jesus Christ, who lives perfectly a faithful, obedient life, faithful to the covenant. Being obedient, the obedient creature that we aren't. Jesus models the kind of thanks that this Psalm calls us to, that all the Bible calls us to. He lived a life of thanks and gratitude to God. His father. What do we hear on his lips over and over? I thank you, my father. I thank you, my father. And he was faithful in his thanksgiving even to the end, to the point of death, even death on a cross. You know, as one of these Halail Psalms, Psalm 118 would likely, probably have been the last psalm Jesus sang before the ending of the Last Supper when he walked out to the Garden of Gethsemane. What did he do before he faced his trial, his torture, and his death? He gave thanks. He gave thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. And when you see that, you begin to see the beauty of the gospel. Because think about what this psalm sings. Think about how this psalm gives thanks. Verse 5: Out of my distress I called to the Lord. The Lord answered me and set me free. Jesus sang that before going into the garden and saying, Let this cup pass from me. Was he set free? No. Verse 13. I was pushed hard so that I was falling, but the Lord helped me. He's lifted up on the cross. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Verse 17. I shall not die. But I shall live and recount the deeds of the Lord. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death for Jesus. That was not true. Why? Because he got the curse of one who is the opposite of the psalmist, who is not a thankful person. He got the curse that you and I deserve for our sinful, unthankful hearts. And he got the curse so that we could sing this psalm and those verses could be true of us. Out of our distress, we call to the Lord, and the Lord answers. Sets us free from our sin and the misery of this life. We are pushed hard so that we are falling, but the Lord helps us. We shall not die, but we shall live and recount the deeds of the Lord. Yes, the Lord disciplines us severely at times, but he does not give us over to death. Because of Jesus Christ. And that's how this Psalm of Thanks for Salvation is so clearly about Jesus. It's interesting. This is the psalm that is quoted throughout the New Testament. as really ultimately pointing to Jesus Christ. He's the one spoken of in verse 26. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. Who is it who truly comes in the name of the Lord? It is the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, verse 21, I thank you that you have answered me. You have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. And the New Testament says, who is the cornerstone rejected by the religious leaders? It's Jesus Christ. the foundation of his true temple, his body, his church, those who are the redeemed of the Lord. And sadly, verse 26 is the verse that is sung probably by the people when Jesus makes his triumphal entry into Jerusalem before he goes to the cross. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Sadly, the crowds cheered this before they jeered him and cried out that he be crucified. And yet he endured this so that we could be those who sing this now and forevermore. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ. So, friends. We have every reason for thanks to God, both because of his good character shown in the goodness of his creation as well as in his character being faithful to all of the works of his covenant faithfulness. And this is nowhere so clearly displayed as in the gospel of Jesus Christ. And as we hear this good news of Jesus, as we believe in him, friends, we have every reason to be thankful. Romans 8. 32, he who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Ephesians 1. 3, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. We may endure great trials on earth. We may be those who are disciplined severely. We may be those who suffer at the hands of evil people, as the psalmist sings, but because of Jesus Christ, we know that ultimately Salvation belongs to us who are the people of God. God is good, and his steadfast love endures forever. In Jesus Christ, not only do we have life now, but we have the promise of eternal life. Not only do we have lots to be thankful for now, but in Christ we have the capacity to give God the thanks he delights in now and forever. Through faith in Him, as we receive the promise of forgiveness of sins through faith in Jesus, of redemption of our very bodies, so that we have the hope of resurrection life in Him. We have every reason to give thanks because though we deserve the curse We have received the blessing. And now that thanks that God by His Spirit enables to well up from within us comes from those who have been justified through faith in his son. Who are saints, who are called holy ones, as we are clothed in the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ, so that we can give him the thanks that he not only deserves, but that he delights in. Kids need to be taught, be reminded, what to be thankful for and who to thank. And we don't really grow out of that need, do we? And that's why we need this good news of the gospel so badly. Not just once, so that we can believe, but week after week after week, so that we can continually grow in gratitude for God's great work. Of creation and redemption in Jesus Christ. That's why we're committed here in this church to always be preaching Christ and Him crucified So that in recounting his goodness and his grace to us, we might grow in love and gratitude to him and grow in the likeness of Christ, who lived first a life of gratitude. Before he suffered and died in our place, and rose on the third day, to call us to join him in giving thanks. To join him in the words of Psalm 118 and singing with Jesus, our incarnate Savior. Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this word, this reminder that we need of the requirement to give thanks. We owe you all that we have in our Oh Lord, we thank you that you revealed to us yourself as the proper recipient of our thanksgiving. And Lord, we have so many reasons to give us Give you thanks. Many temporal blessings in this life that you've given us by your created goodness, that you've maintained for us in your common grace. But oh, oh, so much more, the great work of redemption that you have wrought for us in Jesus Christ, our beloved Lord and Savior and King. May we be those who are a grateful people as we come to you day by day through faith in Him. In His name we pray. Amen.