And then when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John, that is the Baptist, although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples. Then Jesus left Judea and departed again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to a town of Samaria called Sikar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Joseph. Jacob's well was there. So Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. A woman from Samaria came to draw water, and Jesus said to her, Give me a drink, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you A Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria, for Jews had no dealings with Samarians. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God, who it is it is saying to you, give me Me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us this well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. And Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. And the woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so that I will not be thirsty, or I have to come here to draw water. Jesus said to her, Go call your husband and come here. And the woman answered him, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You're right in saying, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands. The one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true. And the woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain Well, you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming, and is now here when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. The Father is seeking such people to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit. The woman said to him, I know that the Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. And just then his disciples came back and they marveled that he was talking with a woman. But no one said, What do you seek, or why do you talk with her? So the woman left her water jar and went away into the town and said to the people, Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? They went out to the town and were coming to him. Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, Jesus saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. The disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Do you not say there are yet four months, and then comes the harvest? Look! I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit. For eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together. For here the saying holds true: one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not Labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. And many Samaritans from that town believed in Jesus because of the woman's testimony. So when the Samaritan Came to him, they asked him to stay with them. And he stayed there two days, and many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we are s So we approach this word. Would you join me in prayer? Heavenly Father, we see here a Jesus approaching those who no one would expect him to approach. A Jewish rabbi speaking to Samaritans. Speaking to sinners, speaking to those who hide in their shame. And yet here we see that Jesus has been sent from you with a mission. He is your word incarnate, and he has a word to those sinners of this world. Father, may we see more clearly as we approach this by the power of your spirit the ways that we pursue other kinds of water for life. What it is that we go to, thinking this will quench my thirst. Father, may we see as we journey through this story the truth that Jesus is the water which quenches all thirst. Father, it's in Jesus' name, which then we pray. Amen. Amen. We have been working through the gospel of John together, and John has been showing us many new things with the coming of God. Jesus. A little bit of a recap of what we've seen. Remember in chapter one, how is Jesus presented to us? He is the agent of creation who enters into the world and he sets the stage there. For new creation work. And then in chapter 2, we see that the time of the new wine is here. Jesus' new wedding wine, Christ's wine of the new covenant And then what do we witness after that? And Jesus telling us about a new temple. Not one like Solomon's, not one like Herod's, but one composed of Jesus' own body. And then we We get to Nicodemus and what do we learn about? We learn about the new birth, one from above of water and the spirit. And then just last week we looked at John the Baptist, and what did John the Baptist proclaim to us that here is the coming of the of a new age. The prophets of old are done. They are fading away. Here is a new age in the Word of Jesus Christ. John the author, as he crafts this, is making it abundantly clear to us with the arrival of Jesus that we should expect new things to happen. Something new is happening now in the time of Christ here in this world. And the people around Jesus are starting to realize this. They're coming to understand that reality And we saw John's disciples realize that last week and they were a little skittish of it. You know, we like the the time for us here. And we can see it even here at the beginning of our text This morning, right? Right at the beginning in verse one, the Pharisees realize something is happening. Of course the Pharisees aren't very stoked on that because they They think it's their hour. They don't like that Jesus is gathering followers, garnering for himself disciples, and it leads to again a shift here, one that we see in verse three, this shift back to Galilee, back home for Jesus. Verse 3, Jesus left Judea and departed again for Galilee, and he had to pass on that journey. Through Samaria. And John says there that Jesus had to pass through Samaria. Now there's a geographic reason for that. If you were going from Judea to Galilee, Samaria is right in the middle. So Well, what are you going to do? The road just runs straight through that land. It it would be possible to avoid, sure, but at cost of great time and effort and risk of danger. There's also, though, something that we'll see here in this story, this certain significance of what Jesus has to do in Samaria. That there's a reason he is there As Jesus steps into this Samaritan town, we see the new things aren't over. We know that right away because we get here a new character, a new person that enters the scene. Jewish, this G uh Wow, Jesus, this Jewish rabbi, he meets this new person. But she happens to be, according to the cultural expectation. of the day, seemingly the wrong person in so many ways. What is she like? She has the wrong religion. She's the wrong gender. She has the wrong rank. She has the wrong ethnicity. She has the wrong morality. If we were to compare her to the last major new character we met, Nicodemus, we would say that everything about this woman is wrong. But she's who Jesus is here to meet in Samaria. And she's here to teach us something significant. Think about this. The mission of Jesus is problematic to many people, often even to us as we look at it. We see towards the end of this encounter the way that the disciples respond To this situation and what Jesus is doing. In verse 27, when the disciples come back, they will say to him, they will marvel at what he was talking about. Talking to a woman. No one would say, What do you seek, or why are you talking with her? But the implication there is that they're thinking it. They would have taught said that to him The impression is what? Jesus, this person who you're spending your time with, this is problematic. This is not who you should be engaging with. Now, this whole story here is going to be fraught with problematic people and problematic situations. We'll see as we walk through it, uh, while we may not like problems in our life. That this story should be nevertheless very comforting to us. This story should fill us with hope. Because what we will see is that we are problematic people. We are pro people with deep problems. That may feel like putting it lightly because we are sinners. We are so complex in our sin and what we seek and what we do. And yet, for those of you who have met Jesus in In this life. Why has that even happened? It's because it had to happen. It's because that was God's will. He has to meet you. Jesus comes to problematic people. And all along this path, unlike what the world or even ourselves may think. Oh what do we think? Can anything really be done about my problems? Nothing can satisfy my issues. Maybe something can for A moment, but nothing can quite quench the thirstiness of my soul. What are we seeing here? Jesus has something new Jesus has something new to say, something new to do. As we step into this story, I want us to consider this for our lives. Who does Jesus come to? Jesus brings life to problem people. Let me say that one again. Jesus brings life to problem people. We're going to explore that idea in this passage in three points today. They're this. First, a problematic person. You can guess who that is. Secondly, a problematic water. And finally, this: a problematic mountain. We're going to look at the person, the water, and the mountain here. Join me in that first point. The person, a problematic person. As Jesus approaches this story, we get a set of details to set the scene. And John doesn't actually often give us very many details. When he does, it means they're important, that we should pay attention. They mean something to us. And so look what we mean at verse 5 here. We get this from the author, John. So Jesus came to the town of Samaria called Sikar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. And Jacob's well was there. So Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. And it was about the sixth hour. What is this place, Samaria? We've looked just so many times, by the way, especially preaching through Hosea and then Samuel as well. There is this divided kingdom. With Israel, the kingdom of the north and of the south. Israel was once one kingdom, but following the reign of King Solomon, it is divided. And the northern kingdom is often called, referred to, by the name Samaria. That's its capital city. It's in 722 B. C. that the Assyrians capture Samaria, the northern kingdom, and with that process, that capturing of that city, comes mass migration. Uh Israelites are exported to Assyria and Assyrians are imported to Samaria. It's something that the Assyrians would do to try and jumble things up so that uh you weren't too ready to uh overthrow the Assyrians possibly. They it was their way of trying to suppress the situation there and the people there. But then think about what the Jewish people would look on with that suddenly The people in the kingdom of the south are looking up the north, and they see what they would consider a bunch of half-breeds, people who they would consider semi-Gentile. Those who would be worthy of disdain by them. Now, there's not just this genetic or difference in their heritage. We'll get into it a little more later, but there's also a religious distinction. Here with the Samaritans. Samaria only embraced the Pentateuch and their religion. And they rejected the rest of the Old Testament. They embraced the books of Moses and they rejected the rest of the Old Testament. And there's both a cultural and political incentive for this. Think about it. They're in the North. Well, what's in the South? The holy city that we should worship in, Jerusalem. Well, now we no longer have access to that, so maybe we need our own holy city. Uh David sure was the king in Jerusalem, but uh that's not our land. And uh We don't accept the rest of the chronicles of the Old Testament, so maybe we need a new kind of lineage, a new heritage. A Solomon's temple, I mean that's irrelevant to us now. We need a new place to worship. A new place to have our holy works performed. These are all developments of this northern kingdom, Samaria's religion, that leads them to be totally distinct in their religion. From their Jewish heritage. You can see it this split has religious implications. And so they establish a new temple to worship at on Mount Gerizim. And what does that mean for the people of the southern kingdom, the Jewish people, as they look on their Samaritans? Well, now not only are they a fake race, but they're also those who practice a fake religion. Who do we meet here with Jesus, but one of these Samaritan people? Verse 7. A woman from Samaria came to Draw water. And Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. Now what do we see there? Not only is she a Samaritan, one with uh this corrupted blood and corrupted religion But she's also a woman. Uh the Mishnah, the writings of the Jewish people following uh the Second Temple period, uh they tell us how Samaritans were viewed, and particularly Samaritan women were Supposed to be considered as perpetually unclean, that it was impossible for them to be clean. So it was impossible for them to have any kind of worth. They must be despised. Uh certainly uh a perspective that is charged with both uh racist and misogynistic uh implications, no? There is a deep hatred for these. people from the Jewish people, from Jesus' people. Here Jesus comes to speak to her and he says, give me a Drink. And the woman knows how problematic this encounter is. She knows that Jesus is committing a boo-boo here, a no no. She calls it out to him. Verse nine. How is it that you a Jew As for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria. The implication: if you received anything from me, Jesus, that would automatically be unclean, and you would then automatically be unclean. I mean, any interaction with me is a bad thing for you to do. Jesus, though, has other problems on his mind. Jesus responds to her, verse 10: If you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him, and I would have given you love Living water. It's kind of an odd response on the surface there, the way that Jesus turns it around. The woman says, You're not supposed to ask me for water, and Jesus says, That's right, you're supposed to ask me for water. The woman doesn't quite understand what Jesus is saying here in his response, because it's actually a play-on word. We'll get into that a little more deeply in a little bit. Bear with me. The woman says to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? And she looks at Jesus Thinking he has some kind of water potentially to give to her, but realizes, I mean, he has no pot and no bucket. So she basically responds to him saying, Yeah, Jesus, okay. I you say you have water, but I don't think you really do. I don't think you have anything to offer to me. Then she continues here, verse 12. I mean, are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us this well and drank. from it, as did his sons and his livestock. She doesn't know what she's saying there. There's incredible irony laced into that Uh she's saying what? First, okay, Jesus, you say you have water, but I see no bucket, so uh you're kind of worthless to me here, right? And for those of us who know the story, we know Jesus isn't talking about physical water in this sense. So the joke's kind of on her there. Jesus, the kind of water he has to give you, he needs no water. bucket. There's a second irony there though too because she's saying, okay Jesus, you say you have a better well. This is Jacob, our father's well. Are you greater than Jacob? And who's standing in front of her? It's Jesus. Well, yeah, woman, I am greater than Jacob. Actually, I'm the God of Jacob. I mean, but she doesn't know that. That. She doesn't know the person who stands before her. And Jesus here isn't as interested in the water as he is her. Who is she? We know that she is a Samaritan. We know that she is a woman. There's an additional component that we recognize here, though, as we dive deeper into the story. Verse 13: Jesus says to her. Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, pointing to the well. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. And the water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. And the woman said to him, Okay, sir, give me this water so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water again. Okay, now why is she here? Notice nobody else is around, it's just her here. It's the sixth hour, it's high noon. That means It's the hottest hour of the day. I mean, categorically, it is the worst point in the day to be heaving around large jugs of water back and forth from your home. Well, that's actually exactly why she's here right now. She's here right now at the well doing this work because nobody else will be there She doesn't want to be seen. She doesn't want to be known. She doesn't want to have to face the problematic nature of her life. Jesus asked next, right? He says to her in verse 16, Go and call your husband and come here. The woman answers him, Well, I I have no husband. Jesus says to her, You are right in saying, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one you have now is not your husband. What you've said is true. And there it is, right? That last element of the problematic nature of her life. Sure, she's a Samaritan, and sure she's a woman, but there's plenty of Samaritan women around here in this Samaritan town. But what's the difference about this woman? It's uh the shame that she carries with the recognition of how she has lived her life chasing after these different men. See, she isn't just a problem for the Jews who might be neighboring to the South. She's also problematic to her family and to her neighbors and her whole community. And she says, She has no husband. And Jesus says, Yeah, you're right, you don't. He knows the sin and the shame which clouds this woman. She tries to hide from the rest of society in the process of going out to get water. And it's because of that shame. Of course, that she doesn't want to be seen in the community. Why does she have this shame? Well, it's because she She's been looking for life in particular places. For her, it's relationship, love with these various men. She's tried it and she's failed and failed at least some five times, searching for life through the love of men. The one who she lives with now Isn't even one who she's married to. The real problematic nature of this woman is what? It's her sin. It's actually the way that she is just like us, is it not? Because she is the kind of person who has gone through her life looking for life, looking for joy, looking for happiness from a particular source. A source which has brought her shame instead, because it's a source that cannot satisfy life. It's a source which has brought her shame because it It cannot bring her real joy and happiness. She's been going again and again looking for life in a poisoned well That's where we get to this second point here. Problematic water. She is the problematic woman. Look with me at the problematic water. And the conversation that's been going on back and forth between Jesus and this woman has been about what? It's this water in this well. And there's uh some discontinuity along the way because it turns out Jesus and the woman are talking about different waters. She's talking about the one in the well. Jesus is talking about something different. I mean, at least at the beginning he's talking about the water and the well. Surely when he asks her, give me a drink from the well, that's what he's talking about. But we know, though the woman doesn't in the moment That Jesus is turning things around as he continually does. He has something else to say. And verse 10, reread the that would me. If you knew the gift of God and who it is that Is saying to you, give me a drink. You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. And we read that living water and immediately They go, oh, mysterious, right? Living, well, how could the water be alive? Okay, Jesus is speaking metaphorically here. But it turns out the woman probably wouldn't have responded that uh ooh mysteriously about it. She actually would have just assumed Jesus is talking about normal water because that's just a way to say in Greek. Greek, running water, flowing water, the kind of water that comes through your irrigation or your plumbing, the kind of water that flows down a stream. Living water is just a Greek for flowing water, water that isn't still. We see the woman takes the term that way in her response, right? That's what she assumes Jesus is saying. Well, sir, you have nothing to draw the water with. The well is deep. Where do you get that living water, that flowing water? She's at least entertaining the idea that Jesus knows about some different water source around her. But would you really think it's going to be better than this well that we've been using since the time of Jacob? Think about how many years that is and that well is still active. Jesus, do you really have a better water source than that? And Jesus responds in a way to help bring her along to see what he needs. Everyone who drinks of this water in this well will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty. And that water I will give him will become a spring of water welling to eternal life. Okay, something is different about Jesus. Jesus is drawing out for her. If you keep going for the same water in the same place that you have been for that kind of life, you will continually be thirsty again. Is that not the pattern of her life so far? Trying man after man. You are just going to show up thirsty again tomorrow. Well, what's different about Jesus' water? He says, the water I have for you, drink from it, and you will never be thirsty again. My water springs wells of eternal life. Now she still doesn't quite get the metaphor here. The woman is thinking, okay, Jesus Verse 15, give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty, or have to come here to draw water again. Okay, Jesus, I will take some, because I hate being thirsty And I hate having to march out to this well to get this water day after day. I hate having to do this at the hottest point of the day so that I don't have to see anyone in this. I hate this life. I mean, if you have a fix for that, Jesus, I'll take it, of course. And the situation here for this woman is a little heavier for her than it probably is for us, this need for water. And the gravity is lost on us a little bit. The the need for water is people who can just turn on the tap and suddenly it's there, right? Modern plumbing and irrigation, we don't quite think the water gonna be Water is life. You need water for the crops. You need water for hydration. And here that water takes work. And you better believe, even if it's It is the height of the heat of the sun in the day. You are gonna do the work for that water. She is out here with her jars to fill and take back home because even though it is miserable Water is life. And yes, she preferred to seek that water in the misery of the heat. She'd prefer that over facing the shame that clouds her. If you could really change that part of my life, I will take it, of course. What is Jesus actually talking about? We've been tracking through this book. We know and have seen Jesus doesn't come up with these fanciful ideas out of thin air. And Jesus is continually saying things which sound new, which sound different, but he's continually pulling from the Old Testament, especially from the prophet. He promises here living water unto eternal life. Hear what the prophet Jeremiah has to say about that idea in Jeremiah 2. 13. God says, My people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water God is saying, I am the source of life. The source of, he says it there, living water. I have been that for my people. But they've gone and chased after a different water. They've sought after a different kind of life. They've chased clay cisterns, idols. And what are those idols? They are filled with cracks. The water in those idols, those broken cisterns, it just drains out. Isn't that just a mirror image of what Jesus has said? You will have to come day after day for the water from that well. It will not last. As we incorporate what we know about this woman, we begin to understand where she has been going for last year. Life. to go back again and again. Uh yes, physically, in some sense immediately here we see it with Jacob's well, but we know the metaphor Jesus is drawing out and it is her desire for these men. These husbands, it is her sin. Should cause us, each of us here, to stop and think for a moment. What are the poisoned wells that we go through To that we look to, that we think again and again, that's gonna give me life. Maybe it does for a minute, but then the next day, where are you again? Thirsty and Looking for that life again, day after day. Is that not how sin works, how it interacts with us? You crave something thinking it will give you the joy you're looking for The life that it gives never lasts. You become a kind of slave to it. Sin always promises life. And it only brings death. It's a poisoned well. It's a well that promises life. And you drink of it, and you just take another sip of it. The sip may cool your lips for a moment, but it will not satisfy. Here Jesus speaks of flowing water. Water, living water. Uh think about the difference here between flowing water and still water. A survival tip. If you are for some reason Trapped in the wilderness, which kind of water is it that you want to drink from? The pond that's still and sitting there? Or water that's flowing and rushing? If you don't know Don't drink from the pond. Because why? That pond is filled with bacteria. It festers there. It grows there. And that just like the sin that is sipping on our Hearts. What does Jesus' water bring? He says it brings eternal life Uh the prophet Isaiah brings that idea out too. In Isaiah 12, 2 through 3, behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and will not be afraid, for the Lord my God is my strength and my song. And he has become my salvation. For with joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. Although the prop through the prophet, God has promised to his people He does this throughout the prophets. He promises them salvation and life from his well. He promises them eternal life, not an ethereal la-la life of some disembodied bliss. And a real, true, redeemed life. That's what God is offering to His people. And here Jesus comes offering it to who? The Samaritan woman. Something new is happening here. Here. And Jesus is coming to this Samaritan woman and saying, I have a new kind of life that could be for you. And not just for someone like Nicodemus, but also for a Samaritan. And it's here that she's beginning to understand, beginning to see what it is that Jesus is doing. So she brings up another problem. Here. A problem tied to the very idea of how that life could be offered to her. That's our third point here: a problematic mountain. The woman responds to Jesus this way. She sees there's something different about Jesus, and she says in verse 19, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. So answer this. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain. It's one that she can see in the background of her. But you say that in Jerusalem is a place where people ought to worship. She's bringing up acknowledging what we mentioned earlier about this religious difference between the Samaritans and the Jews. The Jews worship in Jerusalem because that's in the south. But Jesus, we worship in Mount Gerizim. And clearly we cannot both be right. And she is right. The Jewish people worshiped atop Jerusalem, the city on this mountain. And here in the background of her Samaritan town, she can see Mount Gerizim. What is that mountain? That's the mountain where Moses preached the blessings which would flow from God to the people. If they obeyed, they've decided this is where we will worship. This is the mountain of God's blessing where He proclaims blessing to people who obey. Now, of course, what is the problem? And none of the people have been obedient. You trace through the end of Deuteronomy, you know, Moses will even tell the people, I know you want Obey. It's evident in so many ways, even in this text, the nation was divided. Both sides are conquered. The blessed life has not come here to God's people. And what they actually received there is the curses. How does Jesus answer her this question? Verse 21, Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming, and even is now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking Seeking such people to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. What is Jesus saying? He does answer the question. As an aside, uh, yes, Jerusalem was the right answer. Sorry. But Jesus is pretty quick to point out that's not the point here. The point is that something new is happening. Something is different, it's happening, that times are changing, that pretty soon Neither of these mountains are going to matter because a new hour is coming. A new age. A new mountain. A new worship. An hour is coming. And Jesus is saying, and I am now here. Our worship is transformed. The true worshipers will worship in spirit and in truth. A little aside on that that point there, uh you have probably heard it said, and I have even repeated the idea from this passage. This fairly common take that those words, we must worship him in spirit and truth, often we take that and we render that idea is God must be worshipped truthfully, in a manner that's truthful, and also in a manner that is emotively or emotionally compelling. Uh now as true as that conviction may be, that's not what this text is saying at all. That's that's not the point of the text here. Certainly our worship should be true. Certainly our worship should flow from our hearts. But that truth doesn't really come from this text. No, what is Jesus Saying. Take that S there and capitalize it. The Spirit. What Christ is saying is that this new worship is coming because the Holy Spirit is coming. He will convict and enlighten us by the Word of God. He will fill us and lead us to worship in the new mountain, Mount Zion. He will usher us into the new temple, Christ's body. He will regenerate us to new life, everlasting life. will even unite us to our new husband, to Jesus. The day for bickering over which mountain Is right, is over. And Jesus is saying, for this is a new day, a day with new worship. How does the revelation about this mountain affect the Samaritan? Woman. Verse 25. She's beginning to really realize who Jesus is. I know that the Messiah is coming. He who is called the Christ. When he comes, he will tell you Tell us all things. I'm beginning to suspect who you might be, Jesus, that you might be the promised Messiah. And Jesus tells her what? Let me translate it very woodenly. That is to say, literally is a bad term. Very specifically, what the Greek says here. And Jesus tells her, I am. He tells her he calls himself by name, which even she would know. Yahweh. I mean Woman, you throw out the rest of the Old Testament, but I know that one is in there, right? I am. She's beginning to see who Jesus is. The disciples stumble onto this scene. They see Jesus proclaiming himself to be I am to this Samaritan woman. And they're not very stoked on it, are they? Remember, she is a Samaritan, and the story goes on, verse 28. Ever did. Can this be the Christ? They went out of the town and were coming to him. Okay, now who's coming to see Jesus? Not just a Samaritan woman, but many Samaritans. The disciples look at each other and then Jesus. Jesus and what's what's their impulse? What's their sensation about this situation? Verse 31, the disciples were urging Jesus, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you don't know about. And the disciples said, Okay, who gave him food? The food. You see why is it that they want Jesus to eat? It's because they want to get on going. They see the crowd that is coming, these Samaritans, and uh what do we know about their Jewish proclivity? Here. They don't want to be with the Samaritans. They want to flee these people. This is not the place they want to be. This is not the people they want to meet. But what does Jesus say? Verse 34, my food is to do the will of Him who sent me and to accomplish His work Do you not say there are yet four months and then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest. Here are people coming to meet, to see, to hear from Jesus. The fields are white for the harvest. What's the problem that these disciples have with that harvest? It's that they're not Jews. No, they're Samaritans. But who has Jesus Come for. Verse 39, many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay. He stayed there two days, and many more believed because of his word. And what's their conclusion at the end? We know that this is indeed. Savior of the world. And this is what was promised. Here is Christ, the new temple, the new mountain. Not mountain of Jerusalem or Gerizim. He's not a people just for the people of Jerusalem or Gerizim. No, he is, what did they say? The savior of the world. That's what's promised. Christ says a new temple, a new mountain, springing forth with a stream of living water. Now think with me again back to our Old Testament reading. Ezekiel 47. What happened in that situation? The prophet comes to The future temple, the new temple, and he sees water flowing out of it. And the water is deep, a river flowing down this new mountain. And it's flowing through the forest and traveling all along the way. Let me pick up at verse 6 here. The person who is leading Ezekiel through this says to him, Son of man, have you seen this? And he led me to the bank of the river, and as I went back, I saw on the bank of the river very many trees on one side and on the other. And then he said to me, This water flows toward the eastern region goes down into Arabah and enters the sea. And when the water flows into the sea, the water will become fresh. Here is this river flowing all the way to the sea. And when it gets to the sea, it turns everything fresh. What is C? It's salt water. What is it being said here? That the water will be turned fresh. That is to say that the water will be Healed, the water will become good. That is what is happening. Verse 9: wherever the river goes, every living creature that swarms will live There will be very many fish. For this water goes there, that the waters of the sea may become fresh. So everything will live where the river goes. Fishermen will stand beside the sea This fish will be of very many kinds, like the fish of the great sea. Wherever the water flows and goes, Everything around it lives. This is in its most clear sense: living flowing water, doing everything that it touches all the way to the sea. Okay, who cares? Who cares? Why care? Uh well the Jews care. Uh why does it matter that the water is going all the way to the sea? Uh the Jews Jewish people, you know how they feel about the sea? They hate the sea. What is it? It's a sign of chaos. The sea brings enemies. The sea houses monsters. The sea represents to them the Gentiles, if anyone. After all, the Gentiles are the ones who travel the seas, the Phoenicians and the Philistines, great enemies of these people. That's actually why repeatedly you'll notice throughout the Old Testament that the Gentiles might be referred to as fish. And here are the healing waters. Of God's temple flowing all the way to the sea, down the mountain, to these people, where it heals and revives all of the fish. Here is what is being proclaimed to the disciples, what they should be remembering and what will they be described as in the future. Fissures of men. Who is Jesus coming to? Bring all these characters into the scene with me. Who have we seen here? A Samaritan woman who comes thirsty for water, covered by the shame of her sin. And then here's a crowd from the wrong side of the tracks marching up to hear from this prophet. And then here are these disciples trying to get out of Dodge because of their own racial prejudices towards that crowd and that woman. And then who else is here? What's Savior of the world, one who heals, one who brings true life, one who says he can offer a water which will leave you thirsty no more Who does Jesus come to? He comes to all kinds of people in need. They're not the kinds of people who we would expect Jesus to go to. They are problematic people. Peoples who drink from poison wells, those who may even worship on the right mountain, but fail to love their neighbor are charged with prejudice towards them Jesus comes to all of these people and he brings new life. How is it that Jesus can do that? It's because he is the one who will march up a mountain, and not one of glory, but one of suffering and death. He will take all the problems. That is such a soft word, more than the problems. He takes your sick Sin and your shame upon himself. And he hangs and he suffers and dies on a cross. And do you remember one of the things he says on that cross? It's in John 19. One of the things he will say, he will cry out. is I thirst. He does all of this so that you might be one who thirsts no more Where do we go when we are thirsty? What idols do we cling to, hoping that it will carry just enough water to get you to the next Day. What sinful poison wells do we come to again and again thinking that will make me feel alive? Can we abandon those wells Come to Jesus instead. Do not come to him thinking I am the wrong kind of person. Do not come to him afraid, I am unfixable. Do not be concerned that you Are too much. No, come to him knowing you are exactly the kind of person who Jesus has come for. And no, he is. He is one who wants you, who loves you, who has suffered and died for you, who has endured the deepest of thirsts, so that he can give you Living water. Know who he is. What is the command that he gives here? Ask him for a drink. His water heals all. And it is one which will leave you thirsty no more. And we trust in that truth. Amen. And let us pray. Heavenly Father, we reflect upon so many truths here presented to us. Who is the Son of God that has come He is one who has come and endured the sorrows and travesties of this life. He is one who has truly thirsted. Why? Because we We are sinners who need water, who need the waters of life, and his joy, his purpose in life is to come meet those kinds of needy people and to bring them life, that he might redeem for himself all the wrong kind of people to be His people, yes those who are clouded in shame, yes those who are charged with prejudice against others, yes those who worshipped in the wrong way Who have clung to idols, who have gone looking for life from all of the wrong sources. Jesus has come for these people and says, I am one who brings life to them. Father, may we see here we are those kinds of people. In that process, repent from our sin, turn from our sin. And also see as those people that Jesus has come for us. And may we ask him for water. It's in Jesus' name then which we pray. Amen.