Invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to Deuteronomy chapter 25, which is our sermon text this morning. That's on page 166 of the Pew Bibles. We've been on this series through the book of Deuteronomy for quite a long time now, partly because we we keep taking moments and breaks, but Here we are not the whole chapter 25. We're going to start in verse 5 and read through verse 19. Began last time we were looking at Deuteronomy, looking at how Deuteronomy, or God through Moses in Deuteronomy, expands upon and exposits, if you will, the various ten commandments, and specifically here he's dealing with the ninth commandment, which we'll think about when we get into the sermon. Deuteronomy chapter 25, starting with verse 5, hear now the reading of God's holy and inspired word. If brothers dwell together and one of them dies and has no son, the wife of the dead man shall not be married outside the family to a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go into her and take her as his wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her. And the first son, whom she bears, shall succeed to the name of his dead brother. That his name may not be blotted out of Israel. And if the man does not wish to take his brother's wife, then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate to the elders and say, My husband's brother refuses to perpetuate his brother's name in Israel. He will not perform the duty of a husband's brother to me. Then the elders of the city shall call him and speak to him, and if he persists, saying, I do not wish to take her, then his brother's wife shall go up to him in the presence of the elders. My And pull his sandal off his foot and spit in his face. And she shall answer and say, So shall it be done. At build up his brother's house. And the name of his house shall be called in Israel the house of him who had his sandal pulled off. When men fight with one another, and the wife of the one draws near to rescue her husband from the hand of him who is beating him, and puts out her hand and seizes him by the private parts, then you shall cut off her hand. Your eyes shall have no pity. You shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, a large and a small. You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, a large and a small. A full and fair weight you shall have, a full and fair measure you shall have, that your days may be long in the land the Lord your God is giving you. For all who do such things, all who act dishonestly, are an abomination to the Lord your God. Remember what Amalek did to you on the way as you came out of Egypt. How he attacked you on the way when you were faint and weary and cut off your tail, those who were lagging behind you. And he did not fear God. Therefore, when the Lord your God has given you rest from all your enemies around you in the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance to possess. You shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. You shall not forget. Here ends the reading of God's word. Let's go before him in prayer and ask his blessing on our time as we meditate on it further. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it speaks Your truth to us, that we hear your voice in and through it. And we ask you to enable us to hear well this morning. Open the eyes of our hearts, the ears of our hearts. May we see and hear in your word wondrous things. The truths about who you are and who you have made us to be, and the good news of the gospel of your Son Jesus Christ. Who redeems us from our brokenness and sin, and who rescues us to be remade after his image in knowledge, righteousness, and holiness. Lord, we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. I've got a question for you this morning. If you have ever bought a home using a mortgage or maybe a car using a car loan. Whose house or car is it? I've been thinking about this a bit because we're thinking about having to sell our home, our home. We're uh thinking about having to buy a new home and y yesterday many of us helped the uh Thompsons move into their new home. Um and the question is When you have a home purchased with a mortgage or a car purchased with a loan, how do you think about it? Whose is it? Is it yours or is it the bank's? Especially when you first buy a home or a car. Really, most of it is actually owned by the person lending. And yet, don't we call it my home? My car. And there's a certain truth to that, right? It's based on the reality of the contract the commitment that is made that creates this expectation of a future reality that is to come. And that future reality is one we live by in the present. This is my car, even before I paid it off. This is my home, even while I still have a mortgage on And there's something similar going on here in our passage in Deuteronomy 25, verses 5 to 19, where God is calling his people, he's calling us to live now. In light of the future justice that he has committed himself to. When God makes a promise, It makes the future a reality, a certainty upon which we can live our lives now. Now we're in this section here where God in Deuteronomy chapter 24 and 25, he is um through Moses expanding on or elaborating on what the ninth commandment means, how it should apply to his people Israel, specifically when they enter into the promised land. And as you know, maybe Maybe we need the reminder. The ninth commandment is this from Deuteronomy chapter 5, verse 20. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. And last time we were talking about this commandment, we recognized that while this is a call to be truth speakers, truth-tellers. It's more than that. It's not a command that you shall not lie, which is included in it, but you shall not bear false witness. This is courtroom language. And the idea seems to be, as God through Moses expands on this commandment, the idea seems to be that bearing false witness is more than just about speaking truth, it's about seeking to distort. And so the the for the command in the ninth commandment is God forbidding his people To pervert justice. Instead calling us to preserve justice, and we looked last time at This is justice for all kinds of people. Those in higher echelons of society above us and those in lower echelons of society below us. All kinds of people deserve us acting toward them in justice. And what is justice? It's simply giving justice. Won their due. Rewarding obedience, rewarding goodness, punishing evil. Here, however, in Deuteronomy 25, 5 to 19, these laws here are not just laws against distorting justice more generally Distorting justice and cases and situations that deal with the past or the present. But specifically, what is in view in these laws, these four laws here, we could summarize it as four. Is a call to live in light of future justice. A call to live in light of the future justice that God has promised. And so, as we consider this passage, I want us to think through three points in light of this. How does God call us to live in light of future justice? First of all, he calls us to live in light of the future promise. Of blessing. Second of all, the future punishment of curse. And then third and finally in the future provider. Of the promised blessing. So promise, punishment, and provider are the three points we'll consider this morning: promise, punishment, and provider. First, the future of promise in which God calls his people. In light of which God calls his people to live. And this is in the first two laws. And to understand what these laws are doing, we need to read them in the broader context Of the whole Bible, really. But really the broader context of the book of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy is part of what we would call a corpus A set of books that are meant to go together. It's called the Pentateuch. You know the term, right? Pentateuch, Penta from five, the first five books of the Bible, called the five books of Moses. And in the in the Pentateuch, here, Deuteronomy chapter 25 is all the way at the very end. But to understand these laws, you actually need to go all the way back to the very beginning and recognize that these laws are working out or are are being given in light of what came long before. Genesis chapter 1, God creates all things very good. Genesis chapter 2, he gives his law to Adam and Eve, and we know what happens quickly thereafter. Although the creation was good, man, Adam and Eve fall into sin and bring condemnation on all who come after them. And yet, in God's curse of Adam, as a just consequence for his disobedience, he gives a promise, and you know that promise well, called the Mother Promise. The promise in Genesis 3. 15 of an offspring, a seed of the woman who God promised would come and crush the head of the serpent, that is, Satan. the great purveyor e of evil. And in crushing the head of the serpent, he would crush sin itself and death itself. And as you read on in Genesis, you begin to see God clarifies where this seed can be expected. This Son can be expected. It's going to be a son of Abraham. And then later on, it's going to be a son of Israel. And what that means. Is that all the laws of Israel that relate to children, childbearing, need to be read in the context of Genesis 3:15? Childbearing in Israel, protecting and preserving the children that Israel might bear, working for children to be born in Israel. was not just a matter of raising up the next generation, which is a good thing. Was not just a matter of enjoying the blessing of children. Psalm 127 says children are a blessing. And kids, you are. You are a blessing. I know that from firsthand experience. But in Israel, there was something more. Children were where the promise was expected to play out. Preserving, protecting, looking for, working for, raising up offspring in Israel was a matter of faith. It was a matter of seeking out this salvation that God had promised, looking for it, anticipating it, expecting it, and that's what we see in both of these laws here, the first two laws, they are about protecting that promise. That future promise. It's in the laws of leverant marriage and limiting marital help in a conflict. Let's just call it that, right? First, leverant marriage. This is L-I-V-E, L-I-V-I-R-A-T-E. If you have the ESV, it's in the heading. My wife, when I preached this to her earlier, she said you need to spend. So there you go. L-E-V-I-R-A-T-E leverit comes from the Latin levir or lewir if you pronounce it right, right? Kids uh who take Latin. Lewir, which means brother-in-law. So that's in verses 5 and 6. If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no son, Now notice this is putting us in the context of ancient Israel and a household in Israel. We've talked about this before, how legally Your only legal protection and safety in the ancient world was to be part of a household. So here are two brothers in the same household. And one of them dies and has no son. Now that means that when that brother having died, he has no heir. No one to pass on his land to. No one to continue his name in the promised land for. And It was so important to continue the name because the Promised Land was meant to be a picture of everlasting salvation. That's why your land in the Promised Land was a permanent possession. Even if you went into debt and you had to sell off your land or give it away because you had to pay off your debts, in the year of Jubilee, every 50 years, it would come back to you. It was an eternal possession, but that's why it was so important to have a son to pass the land on to. If this happens, the wife of the dead man shall not be married outside the family to a stranger. That would alienate the permanent possession from that family. Her husband's brother shall go into her and take her as his wife and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her. And the first son whom she bears shall succeed to the name of his dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel. Note the purpose here, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel. There's a real sense in which the children of promise were not only a picture of the coming seed, but in a very real way they preserved the The picture of that permanent inheritance, that picture of salvation in the land. And that's why this exception to God's laws about who could marry whom is made here in this land. Otherwise you couldn't marry your brother's wife. But in this situation where it is within the household and it will preserve The possession of the brother. Here it is not only permitted, it is encouraged, commanded, maybe. Notice it's translated there, he shall. But maybe a better way to translate that that would be he should. It's right and good. But he is allowed not to, right? It's optional for him. Verses 7 and 8. If the man does not wish to take his brother's wife, Then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate to the elders and say, My husband's brother refuses to perpetuate his brother's name in Israel, he will not perform the duty of a husband's brother to me. Then the elders of the city shall call him and speak to him. And if he persists in saying, I do not wish to take her, look, he can just say, no, I don't want to, and he's allowed not to But there are consequences. Because this man is showing that he is not living in light of the future promise of God. He is not honoring his dead brother in a way to preserve his name, which in some sense is a neglect of the faith. Which in some sense reflects that he doesn't care about the future promise of God to all who are his, that he will wris people's name in a book of life. That will continue forever. The name will never be blotted out. And so, in not living in light of that future promise, justice demands that Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth, shame for shame. And it's that that he receives as he resigns his brother's name to enduring shame, not not being able to continue, here there's a ceremony where he himself is shamed. That's what it is. Then his brother's wife shall go up to him in the presence of the elders, shall pull his sandal off his foot, and spit in his face. In a shame-based culture, this is a severe consequence. And she shall answer and say, Sho so shall it be done to the man who does not build up his brother's house, and the name of his house shall be called in Israel. The house of him who had his sandal pulled off. He would not give himself and care for his brother's name to be preserved, and so his name will be made a shameful name. The second law here, limiting marital help in a fight between brothers, similarly it has the future promise in view. Look at verse 11. When men fight with one another, and the wife of the one draws near to rescue her husband from the hand of him who is beating him, and puts out her hand and seizes him by the private parts, then you shall cut off her hand, your eyes shall have no pity. Notice, there's nothing wrong in a wife trying to help her husband out in the midst of a fight, trying to save him. There's nothing wrong with that. But notice it's only with this one specific act that Seems to be directed at keeping the man from being able to produce children and an offspring. Right? And so the punishment seems extreme. A hand is cut off, her hand can be cut off, but maybe that's a soft penalty because she's cutting off future life. And she only loses a hand. Again, read in context of the broader Scriptures that this is in, we see that what she is doing here is possibly robbing him of the future and cutting him off from the future promise that is the picture of eternal life. And God takes that. Seriously, so in both of these laws, we see there the point of them is that God is saying, I want to preserve the future that I have promised. I want you to live in light of it. You are to be an everlasting people, at least typologically, right? In a picture. You're to have a permanent possession of the land. And part of the way you see that is by raising up offspring, from which I will bring the one who brings true eternal life. So, how dare you not live now in light of that promise How do we apply this to our lives? Well, of course, these are civil laws, civil penalties, meant for Old Testament Israel, and they come to an end. Presumably, they come to an end after exile when no longer is Israel allowed to make its own laws. as we see uh even in Jesus' time. The religious leaders have to ask for capital punishment from the Romans. They can't enact it. So even there the these laws are kind of come to a But we know that these civil laws are ultimately fulfilled in Jesus Christ perfectly, but their principles still apply to us. So what is the principle here that we can apply? I would argue Old Testament Israel, which is the Church of God in that period, applies to us as the Church of God in this period. There is a principle here of how we are to relate to brothers and sisters. in the kingdom of God, in the church of Christ. And here's the point. Do we honor the future promise? Of who we are in Jesus Christ? Do we honor the future promise of who your brother, your sister is in Jesus Christ? Who are they? A beloved child of the Heavenly Father. A glorious creature. Of redemption. One who will one day in the resurrection live forever and rule and reign with King Jesus. Alongside him in his heavenly kingdom come to earth. T. S. Lewis in his sermon, The Weight of Glory Is reflecting on the glory that God has promised us in His Word. And He says that should have implications for how we live today. Listen to what He says there. He says, you know, it may be possible For each to think too much of his own potential glory hereafter. But listen to what he says. However, it is hardly possible for him to think too often. Or too deeply about the glory of his neighbor. The load or weight Or burden of my neighbor's glory should be laid daily on my back, a load so heavy that only humility can carry it. He says it is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses. Not literal gods and goddesses, but those that Conceivably would appear to be gods and goddesses. Listen to what he says. To remember that the dullest and most uninteresting person you talk to may one day be a creature which, if you saw it now. You would be strongly tempted to worship. You're sitting around creatures that will one day be so glorious That right now you would be tempted to worship them. And I mean the person you think least of in this room. God calls us to live now in light of future justice that He has promised, which for His people will be a resurrection glory far beyond what we can think or imagine. Do we live like this? But having said that, it This idea of living in light of the future justice of God means we must also reckon with the other side of his justice. He promises that he will bless his people and that this will be a just blessing in Jesus Christ. But there is also the promise of future punishment. And that's the second point we'll consider here this morning. Future punishment. This is the flip side. Not only do we honor future promises of grace and glory that God has made to his people of faith. But we are also to live now in light of the future punishment that he has promised to those who reject him as God. Who do not live as the Amalekites are said to live here, who are do not live out of fear of God and recognizing him, who live outside of faith in Jesus. And we see this in the two latter laws here in this passage, against false weights and measures and against forgetting the Amalekites. First, there's a law forbidding false weights and measures, and that's in verses 13 to 15. You shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, a large and a small. You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, a large and a small A full and fair weight you shall have, a full and fair measure you shall have, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God has given you. Now, what's the point of this? Well, if you were one who is going out to sell and buy, you would need a wait because somebody would say maybe they're buying from you. And they'd say, oh, I'd like a pound of those turnips. Well, if you had two weights and you're selling, That you'd pull out the ha the lighter weight, right? It's a slight pound. So that your little your turnips, your little pound of turnips would be enough to satisfy that. You sell those off as a pound But then when you go to buy, you say I'd like a pound of those turnips, you bring out the heavyweight. So you actually get two pounds as you put it on the scales. And the idea is the same with the measure, right? Oh, I'm selling you oil? Let me bring out my small cup measure so I don't have to give you as much. Oh, I'm buying oil? Here's my big cup measure. Fill it up. That's the idea here. And it is a distortion of justice. Not only now, but of future justice, right? It is a plan to distort justice in the future. And look at what God thinks about it. Verse 16, for all who do such things, who act dishonestly. Here's the connection to the ninth commandment, right? who distort justice by acting dishonestly, not in truth, are an abomination to the Lord your God. This forbidding false measures is found throughout the Old Testament. In the readings for this week, you read a number of these passages, Leviticus 19, 35 and 36. Proverbs 16, 11, Ezekiel 45, 10, Amos 8:5, Micah 6. 11. Not too many things are repeated that often. God wants to drive home that point. There's a principle here. And actually, the principle has a direct and immediate application to us. When we are engaged in business, relationships, buying and selling, engaging with our neighbor. Trading things back and forth. How dare we use false measures? How dare we seek to plan away? To change things for our good, unjustly. Jesus makes a similar point. When he addresses hypocrisy in Matthew chapter 7, he says, Judge not that you be not judged, for with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured. The point is, even if we may get by with this sort of injustice for a time, God Who is omniscient, all-knowing? God who is omnipresent everywhere present. God sees, and He remembers. God sees, and it's an abomination to him, and he does promise to judge perfectly and justly. And this sort of distortion and dishonesty. is promised future punishment. And that future punishment we are meant to live in light of. And that may be why God brings up the Amalekites immediately after, to illustrate this sort of abusive injustice without regard for future punishment that God says, but I remember. See, right? Verse 17, remember what Amalek did to you on the way as you came out of Egypt. And this is recounted in Exodus chapter 17. How he attacked you on the way when you were faint and weary. And cut off your tail. What is the tail? Well, it's those who were lagging behind you, and he did not fear God. The idea is Amalek attacks the most vulnerable among Israel, those who could not even really keep up with the rest. And so God calls Israel to plan for, to live in light of the future punishment that He has planned for them. Look at verse 19. Therefore, when the Lord your God has given you rest from all your enemies around you, In the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance to possess, you shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. You shall not forget. That is a picture of final judgment that is coming. God patiently waiting until the time is right and the time is ripe for his perfect justice. Punishing the wicked. And that's what Israel in the land was meant to be a little picture of. Israel in the land was both a picture of final salvation. That is permanent, that can't be taken away from you once you have it. That's the picture for the Israelites, but for all Who were pagans who rejected God there, not those who repented like Rahab, but those who rejected God there, God said, I'm going to bring you a foretaste of final judgment. And that's the picture he paints here in his command about Amalek. And certainly that is fulfilled later in 1 Samuel 15. God says, All right, Saul, now it's time. Saul, of course, as you know, he goes out and he fails to obey God properly, and he loses his kingship because he doesn't side with God's perfect. justice and he doesn't live in light of God's future justice. The point is, living in truth means living in light of future justice. Both the promised blessing of God on his people, as well as the promised curse and condemnation on God's enemies, the punishment that God has in view for the wicked. So, how do we apply this second point? Well, first, I think it's very clear from this passage. Don't forget that God sees and he doesn't forget. God sees and remembers. And that ought to terrify all of us. Judgment is coming. Are you ready for it? If you're not yet a follower of Christ, the Bible says that you are not ready for it. We will all face death, and after that comes judgment. And if you have not dealt with your sin and found forgiveness and mercy and grace in Jesus Christ. You will be punished. You'll be condemned for eternity. Do you have the hope? Of promised blessing rather than curse. It is only found through faith in Jesus Christ. So repent. Trust in Jesus. If you have, then guess what? You are ready for the judgment to come. Because the Bible says it has already been placed on Jesus Christ. But that's getting ahead of ourselves for a moment. If you are one who does have the promise of salvation and blessing in Jesus Christ, Here's where the application of this second point is strikingly different for us than it was for Israel in the Promised Land. They were to be a picture of the end of the ages, the eternal rest to come. So they were to enter the promised land and to eradicate those who rejected God in the land. And that was a picture, a warning of final judgment. We live in a different period. We live in a period where true enemies of God are actually unknown to us. There are people that reject God. But they may simply be enemies that have not yet been converted. Right? They may simply be like us before we came to faith, as Ephesians 2 says. That we are all by nature enemies of God and enmity with Him, and we all must be called out of darkness and enmity with God into the light and life of God's salvation. and of his kingdom and of his promises of mercy and grace and future justice that will be blessing as we are found. in f by faith in Jesus Christ. And so Jesus calls us to love our enemies. Matthew 5, 44, 43, and 44. C. S. Lewis gets at this in that same weight of glory sermon that I mentioned before, if you read on in the quote, which I didn't. Let me do it now. He says, I read this a moment ago, the dullest and most uninteresting person you talk to may one day be a creature which, if you saw it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship. But he goes on, or else a horror and a corruption, such as you now meet, if at all, only in a nightmare. All day long we are in some degree helping each other to one or other of these destinations. It is in light of these overwhelming possibilities that we should conduct all our dealings with one another, all friendships, all loves, all play, all politics. There are no ordinary people. And so, friends, for us who are in Christ, the prospect of future punishment does not need to alarm or bring fear to us, although it should It should remind us of a fear of the Lord. But for us, it ought, first of all, not to make us haughty because we have the promise of escape, but it ought to make us full of compassion and zeal for the lost. To come to faith. For those who are outside of Christ right now, for those who seem to have future punishment as their future, we ought to long for them to come to faith. Pray for them to come to faith. Invite them to church. Speak of Jesus Christ to them. And I think this is an important reminder, especially in a time of war, which we seem to always be in some way or another. It's so easy to begin to think of America's enemies as ours, right? And especially when they're extremist Muslims. Those people need to be defeated and destroyed. We can glory in their death. And yet does God? Islam is a false religion, and it will confine people to eternal condemnation if they hold fast to it. It's also not just a religion, it is also political. And so we do need to oppose it, not just with the gospel, but to some degree with politically, there needs to be opposition because it is both religious and political. But it's important for us to remember this, that Muslims today and Atheists today, Roman Catholics today, Jews today are not necessarily enemies. But they are possibly brothers and sisters that are to be one to Christ, that are to be welcomed into Christ's kingdom of grace and mercy and love. May we go forth with that vision as we think, as we live now in light of the future punishment of God that is coming upon all those who reject Him. But this kind of raises the question. We've seen sort of the future promise of blessing, the future punishment and curse. What makes the difference? If God promises to judge sinners who disregard his future justice? How can any of us survive judgment and find blessing? And the answer is only through the future provider. And that's point number three. We've already alluded to this reality, right? What makes a difference? As to which future judgment we can expect, which future justice we should expect for ourselves. And the answer is not sin. It's not sin. Right? Paul in Romans, Romans chapter 1 to 3, he makes this clear argument that sort of is summarized in Romans 3. 23 that all have sinned. and fall short of the glory of God. And don't we see that here? The whole reason these laws need to be given to Israel as the people of God is because Israel is tempted to live not in light of God's future justice. Brothers and sisters in Israel are tempted to live unjustly, sinfully, stealing from one another through unjust weights and measures. Robbing one another of the picture, of the future promise they have, of having their name established in Israel and preserved in Israel The Amalekites are sinners, yes. And they are pictured as awaiting final punishment Future punishment, but so are the Israelites, and so it's not sins that make the difference. Israel is sinners. And yet what makes a difference is they are God's people, destined for future promised blessing, because of the grace of God shown to them. Because of faith in the coming seed. The Amalekites are shown to be God's enemies, expecting future punishment. The difference is the relationship to God and his promises Israel is those who are called to live by faith in God's promised salvation through a future provider. And who is the one who provides the future blessing for God's people? You know the answer. The one to whom all these laws point, as one they were about, as the one whom they are about, and the one who fulfills them perfectly in ways that we never do. so that he could be the perfect substitutionary sacrifice for sin and assure us of the perfect blessing of God for obedience. Not because of our obedience, but because our disobedience has been judged justly and crucified on the cross. You know his name, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. the Son of God who calls himself the Son of Man. None other than Jesus Christ is the provider of a future salvation by taking from us the condemnation we deserve and nailing it. To the cross. And look at these laws again for a moment. He's the one who leverate marriage is all about. Interestingly, he's the promised seed who comes through the application of this law. Genesis 38, the story of Judah, the horrible story of Judah and his sons. Tamar is such a woman affected by this, and you know that story. It's horrible. And basically In the end, Judah ends up fulfilling the leverett role. It's a mess. They're not doing it right. That's how God's people are. But Tamar bears Pires, who's a great, great, great, great, great grandfather of Jesus. And then again, in Ruth chapter 4. Another time when this law is applied, and it's there it's Ruth, and again a a leverate brother, a kinsman, who won't accept it. She has to pull off his sandal and say this is one of those kinds of houses. But Boaz steps up, the Redeemer. And Boaz and Ruth have a son, Obed, who's the father of Jesse. Jesse is the father of David. David, the great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great grandfather of J Christ. And think about it, Jesus is the ultimate son of leverett marriage, so to speak. If we think in redemptive historical categories, right? The first man, Adam, fails to raise up an eternal son. Fails to live out a life that would grant a future to the future generations. In a very real way, he raises up dead men. Because of his sin. So God, Almighty God, steps in, so to speak, providing the promised offspring of Genesis 3, where humanity had ultimately failed. Coming down by his Spirit upon the Virgin Mary and bringing to earth a son. Jesus is the eternal Son of God, but remember that's not what he called himself He is the Son of God, but what did he come? He came to raise up the name of the dead man. He came calling himself Son of Adam. That's what Son of Man means. And isn't this what Jesus does as a second Adam? He raises up the name of his brother in Israel. Us. He gives us an everlasting name By coming to earth, taking on human flesh, dying in our place, and then rising again to raise up our name To live forever, to be written in the Lamb's Book of Life. And Jesus is the one who himself was cut off from the land of the living. So that We who deserve more than having our mere hand cut off, but deserve to have our whole lives cut off from the land of living might have the promise of everlasting life. As we put our faith and trust in him. And he is the one who exercises perfect judgment and justice. He did so during his life, living in light of future justice as he gave his life in the place of his faint and weary people. languishing in sin and misery in the pall of death, so that he could perfectly preserve us from what we actually deserve, which is the judgment of Malek. We deserve the judgment they have they get here, which is to have our names blotted out of heaven and earth, and instead through repenting of our sin, putting our faith in Jesus Christ, following him Who had his life cut off in our place, we can have our future perfectly preserved and provided for us in Jesus Christ. As he writes our names in the Lamb's Book of Life. So, friends, this is what gives us hope. This is what assures us of future promises, so that we can and should view one another as we are in Christ, destined for future glory. So that we can and should have compassion for those around us, our neighbors and friends who do not yet know Jesus Christ. May Jesus be known among us. May He be known in us. May He be known through us. To the praise of his glorious grace as the provider of our glorious future. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for These reminders from your word that justice is, perfect justice is coming at the last day, that you have promised it, and that there will be this great separation. And yet, Lord, we thank you that though we know what we deserve in that separation, you have made a way for us to have the hope of future blessing promised to us in Jesus Christ. May you enable us all to live in light of these future realities that you have promised and by your word you have assured they will be. May we live in light of them now. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let us respond to God's word and ask him to apply it to our hearts and to our lives by turning in our bulletin to the hymn printed for you on page six, Holy Spirit. A wonderful hymn asking the Spirit to come and make true what we were just called to in the Word. Holy Spirit, come, abide within. May your joy be seen in all