Leo Tolstoy, the Russian author, is best known for that massive tone that we've all heard of, probably few have read, War and Peace I say war and peace, you probably imagine that thick all chonky book, thicker than the Bible, sitting on some stand, some table. When someone asks you, have you read Tolstoy? You probably think like me, no. No, I have not. You know, who has time for that? So be it. Here is the good news for you this morning in light of that, though. Tolstoy did not only write War and Peace, he also wrote a number of short stories. One of those short stories, incredibly short, is just called Repentance. You could go home and read it in three to five minutes and then join me in being able to say, I have read Tolstoy. That's up to you how you feel about that. Tolstoy's short story, Repentance, is the story of a man who lived an incredibly wicked life. He had done no good deeds, it says. Then at the end of his life, around 70 years old, he grows sick and is about to die, and with his dying breath, he cries out to God. He says, Father, forgive me, for I am a sinner. And then his life escapes him. The man is suddenly before the gates of heaven where he is asked. Well, what did you do with your life? A character, one called the accuser, recounts all the wickedness that that man had used his life for. All the things he had done. And upon hearing that uh story of the man's life, uh different people who are inside of heaven respond. First is the Apostle Peter, then King David, and both of them, upon hearing what the man has done, deny him entrance into the kingdom of God. But then the Apostle John hears. The man outside the gates, he argues with John. He says to him, You know, yes, I do deserve death and hell. But is not the mercy of God even greater than this? The end of this story is that despite all of his wickedness, he's let in Uh there's some tension there with that kind of story, right? Might have the idea of repentance. In some sense, we might hear that story and assume I mean that man just used the idea of repentance as his End of life, get out of jail free card, right? Uh who is this man to do uh whatever he wanted with his life? And then at the last minute, just punch the card to get in. Maybe there's a sense in which that kind of life strategy is appealing sometimes, right? Let me just walk how I want and uh you know do escape at the last second. What is the other alternative? A life of faithfulness and service to God, a life of dying to self and taking up your cross. That's not what anyone really wants to sign up for, right? You can imagine, in some sense, this story seems to echo a little bit the story of the ministry of Jesus. How so? Well, how did the people around Jesus perceive what Jesus was doing? Jesus came to promise salvation to those who would hear him. He said, repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. And as you reflect upon who did and didn't come to Jesus, things begin to feel a little uncomfortable. Who was around Jesus in that time? Well, uh there were the leaders, the priests the scribes, all the ones who are seemingly spending their life doing all the good deeds, all the good things. Well, how did they respond to Jesus? They rejected him, right? Who is it in the story of Jesus' life to end up welcomed into the kingdom of God? To whom does the kingdom of God belong? Seemingly the tax collectors, the thieves, the outsiders, the sinners, even imagine the Israelites around Jesus. Why them? Why them? Because they heard that call from God. Repent and believe. What is repentance? What is it? This is going to be a longer read here than what I normally do, but uh one of my most favorite sections of the Westminster Confession of Faith is what it says about repentance unto life. Hear this from Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 15, the first four sections of it. It defines repentance unto life this way. First, Repentance unto life is an evangelical grace, the doctrine whereof is to be preached by every minister of the gospel, as well as that of faith in Christ. Repentance unto life, by it a sinner, out of sight and sense, not only of the danger, but also the filthiness and odiousness of his sin as contrary to the holy nature and righteous law of God. And upon the apprehension of his mercy in Christ, to such as are penitent, so grieves for and hates his sin so much so as to turn from them all unto God, purposing and endeavoring to walk with him in all the ways of his commandments. A third, although repentance be not to be rested in as any satisfaction for sin, or any cause of the pardon thereof, for that is the act of God's free grace in Christ. Yet repentance is of such necessity to all sinners that none may expect pardon without it. Alas, this, as there is no sin so small, but it deserves damnation. So there is no sin so great that it can bring damnation upon those who truly repent. You've probably heard it before. Repentance is unique from guilt. It involves not just grief for what you've done. But also a turning, a turning towards God, if we were to break down the vocabulary of what repentance is in Hebrew, that's what it's talking about. Turning Turning towards God. As we work through the text of Jonah here, we're going to see a couple of different turns that happen. That's significant for us to see here. Why? Well, what did we hear in the confession? Without repentance We can have no expectation of pardon. But at the same time, here before us is a story of repentance. And along with that, a story of pardon. A story that is born out of God's plan for mercy. That's why what we're going to see this evening here as we look at the text is this. God's mercy is his good plan for those who repent. God's mercy is his good plan for those who repent. We're going to see that in three points today, at three different kinds of turns. First, it's this: the prophet's reprising. Second, the city's repenting. And finally, this, third, the Lord's relenting Let's look at that first point here, the prophets reprising. What we have here in the opening of this chapter, what we see is a kind of mirror image. of the very first chapter of Jonah. Here is a sort of second chance for Jonah. That's why at the end of chapter two, when we looked at that, we said, the story is going to begin again. It's going to begin anew. Remember, Jonah in chapter 1 was a prophet of God sent to the northern kingdom of Israel. And Jonah had been in the past sent to call Israel to repentance. Israel, we know from the various stories of the Old Testament, especially the Northern Kingdom, doesn't repent. They don't listen. So in the opening of Jonah chapter 1, God comes and commissions Jonah to do something different, to bring a message, not to Israel, but to Nineveh. Jonah doesn't like the idea of proclaiming judgment on Nineveh. Jonah hates that idea because he hates Nineveh. For us, that might sound a little weird. God commissions you to go and proclaim judgment upon those whom you hate. Sign me up. That sounds like a wonderful opportunity Why doesn't Jonah like the idea of being commissioned by God to do that? It's because he knows who God is. It's because he knows what God is like. That Yahweh, the God who proclaims this, though he is a God who judges evil. He is also a God who shows mercy to those who repent. And the very last thing that Jonah wants It's an opportunity for Nineveh, his enemies, to repent. That's why Jonah ran off. We said down. Down away from Nineveh, down into the ship, down into the sea. Jonah runs away from God Jonah is caught up in that storm. And then he's caught in the fish. And now he's been vomited out onto dry land to try again. As we read the beginning of this chapter, we see the author setting up the scene the exact same kind of way, nearly. What we have here for Jonah is a redo, a second chance. Jonah chapter 3, verse 1. And the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you. What we get here at the beginning of Jonah chapter 3 is the same kind of thing that we got at Jonah chapter 1, the same three verbs, the same three commands. Arise, go to Nineveh, and call out. It's very similar. That's intentional by the author. He's setting up a kind of mirror image here. Yet there are some subtle differences there, right? Chapter 1, the word of the Lord came to Jonah the son of Amitah. In chapter 3, the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time. In Chapter 1, call out against Nineveh, for their sins are great before me In chapter 3, call out against Nineveh, for they are a great city. You might say a great city to me. What is ultimately the biggest difference in what's presented at the beginning of these chapters? So in chapter one, Jonah breaks the prophetic pattern. Rather than get up and do precisely what God has said, that's what we see with the prophets again and again. Instead of doing that, he gets up and does Precisely the opposite. That's how chapter one went. What happens in chapter three? Verse three. So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Jonah here decides this time to follow the prophetic pattern. Jonah does what God instructs. Jonah has realized at this point he must follow God's command. Think about the recent history for Jonah here. Jonah had disobeyed the first time. He was swallowed up by the fish. Now he's on the beach, presumably covered in the vomit of the fish, and he gets his second chance. What's presented to Jonah as God comes to him again here? You want to try that again, Jonah? You want to do it your own way again? You want to do this God's way? Now the sequence, this shift with Jonah, it brings up a couple of major themes that are present in this book. Jonah knew that Going into this, that God is merciful. Now Jonah has experienced that mercy, right? He may be feeling the effects of the fish and his sins some, but he may be feeling that. But what is the case for Jonah? He's alive. He's not dead in the bottom of the sea. No, God rescued him with that fish. And here he has another opportunity What we'd be remiss, though, to not catch the other side of this, which will be important as we continue to work through this chapter, is that God gets his way. God said before, Jonah, this is what you are going to do. Jonah tried to thwart that, right? Tried to do the exact opposite. But here we are a second time. Jonah, what are you gonna do? Jonah, this is what you are going to do. Right? That's what God says to him again. It's in this whole sequence that we can see, you know, Jonah can say no to God's commands in some sense. But Jonah's denial of God does not mean that God's will can be subverted. Jonah tried that. Here we are again. One pastor said it like this. We get from God this kind of mafia scene here in a sense. We're gonna do this, Jonah. We could do this the easy way or the hard way. You tried the hard way. You want to try that again? God's shown He has the power to bring us right back here again. He is going to get His way. One way or another, what God says is going to happen. Now, God is not a mafia boss. Don't hear that. We know that God has shown mercy to Jonah. Jonah, are you going to change your mind? We can reprise this whole scene as many times as you want. As long as it's God's will, we will end up right back here. This idea is what we call God's sovereignty, right? God always gets his way. God has not been thwarted. He cannot be thwarted. God does not end up in a situation where he goes, Oh no, I guess I gotta come up with another plan. Now I have to change my mind about this and do something different. Remember that because that's going to run us into a little bit of a theological quandary later in this chapter. God is sovereign. He is not pushed into a place to change his mind. He gets his way. What's gonna happen? Jonah here has the opportunity to reprise the same exact situation and he says this time, I will go and do what God has asked. God gets his way. So verse three, Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three days' journey in breadth. Jonah began to go into the city. Going a day's journey, and he called out, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Jonah goes all the way to the city of Nineveh, a long journey And he preaches five words in Hebrew. It's more than that in English, trust me, it's five in Hebrew. Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Part point number two, the city's repenting. Jonah arrives in Nineveh with that simple message. This long trip, it is a long journey from Israel to Nineveh. Five words. It's kind of the definition of, you know, this meeting probably should have been an email, right? This is a great city, though, Nineveh. We've already seen it's one with much sin. One with so much sin that it has risen up to and roused God's attention. This city was great. That quip about being a three days journey in breadth. There's some debate about that, but it's a Hebrew idiom. It's an idiom to say it is a very great long place. If you are an Israelite and you're going on a short journey, you say it's a one-day trip. Medium journey, two-day trip. Long journey, guess what? Three-day trip. This is a great city. This is such a city. Nineveh is mighty and powerful. And Nineveh is the capital city of the Empire of the Assyrians. That means Nineveh at this point is primed, ready to become the world's superpower. Nineveh is even important before God. How do we know that? I mean, God sent his prophet there to speak to them. As some argue, the text makes that so clear in that in verse 3, that word for exceedingly, you know what word it actually is in Hebrew? It's the term Elohim. You know what that one is in Hebrew? That's a word for God. This city has that kind of significance. Jonah arrives in the city and he He cries out, yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. You know what they would hear with that statement? Because the people would hear that statement from Jonah, what they're hearing is 40 days, and God is going to kill you. Forty days, and God is going to unleash cosmic judgment upon you. The word there for overthrown. It's a word that's used again and again in the Old Testament to describe what God did to Sodom and Gomorrah. That's how the prophets use that term. Forty days, and God will rain down fire and sulfur from heaven to destroy you. It's clear that that's what the people heard, right? Because what is their response? Verse 5, and the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest of them to the least of them. It's abundantly clear to them right away that God is serious about his plan. This kind of God is one who gets his way. Notice what is not present in the message of Jonah, though, here. There's not present in those five words a call for repentance, is there? Just like God didn't seemingly give Jonah any options, doesn't appear that the Nineveh are actually given any options either, does it? Forty days and you shall perish. The end. What do we do with that? What do we do with a message like that? God is perfectly sovereign. He always gets his way, and he said, In forty days I will destroy you. If we were fatalists. Eat, drink, and be merry for 40 days? What should the response of these people be? We see what they do, right? And verse 5 said, and the people of Nineveh believed God. They believed the message of God, and they called for a fast. and they put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least of them. The way that the Wat R author writes this is such as to impress the immediacy and totality of the action of the people. There's no space between them hearing the message of God and their response to the message. That's very intentional by the author. It's for the sake of communicating the points they heard and they acted immediately in their repentance. We modern English speakers can get a little tripped up at this because of something present in the text here that we call dischronologization. That's weird. What's happening in the text? This is very normal in Hebrew, even though it's maybe a little weird for us. What we get right there from the author is a summary statement of the actions of the people. A summary statement that is going to be expanded upon. We're going to learn the story from that summary statement in the next paragraph there. The author is bringing this statement to the forefront to impress this is what they did right away. They heard the message and they respond to it. The whole city immediately repented. The author does this to impress the significance of how one should repent. You hear of your sin, you smell the stench of it, you are so disgusted by it. That immediately, your impulse, what you do is you turn in repulsion away from it. I think in light of that, of what the prophet's ministry to Israel has been You know, Israel has heard God's warning again and again. The Old Testament is filled with a numerous prophets, right? What is the response again and again? Israel hears God's warning over and over. They have even heard the additional call there to repent. Your God is a merciful God, so repent. Repent, for I am merciful, God says in Nahum. But Israel says again and again, we'll get to it later. Well we'll find time for that somewhere down the road, God. Here is a story of the outworking of repentance. What it looks like. What does it look like? Verses 6 through 8. First, the word reached the king of Nineveh And he arose from his throne, he removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes, and he issued a proclamation, and published through Nineveh, by decree of the king and his nobles, Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock taste anything. Let them not feed or drink, but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth. Let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands. The word first here comes to the king, and then the king, who has power to do so, calls out to all the people, and they follow him in repentance. Who is it here that leads the people of Nineveh in repentance? It's the king. Think about who's originally reading this story of Jonah. It would be the people of Israel, right? Who was commissioned to lead the people of Israel in repentance? We go back to the law, we see that's the king's job. The king is called to lead God's people in repentance. What are the kings in Israel doing? One of Jonah's contemporaries, Anos, he tells us: the kings are busy building their summer and winter homes, trampling over the poor. enslaving others, worshiping Baal. That's what's happening back in Israel is this is happening here in Nineveh. Here we are in that wicked city of Nineveh. You know, the sinners. And what do we find the king of Nineveh doing? Verse 6, he arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. Here is a king who hears the prophet's words and he humbles himself. He hears God's words and he debases himself before God, sitting in the ashes. He knows God is serious. And so he bows down in utter submission to God. He hasn't even heard that this is a merciful God Nevertheless, he knows I must bow down in repentance before him. The king calls upon the whole nation to follow him in this. What we get are a series of couplings and marisms. The greatest to the smallest, the noblest to the beast, the herd and the flock, all of us. This is all in totality. In all ways, we must walk in this. What must we do? Verse 8, call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands The same evil of ours which roused up God's attention, we must turn away from it. We must be done with it. We must turn to and call out to God. This is not the king saying, we're going to have to give up a little bit of something so that God can accept us. We must all join in giving over all of ourselves to God. We must turn to Him in repentance. And what does the narrative tell us? The king says this, and the people do it. We see here that Nineveh is this kind of great foil in the text to those who would be first reading the text. Because who are Nineveh? They are supposed to be the great enemy of God's people, the wicked, the tax collectors, the sinners. But what is it that they do in the text? They highlight to us what's so broken about the apparent protagonist of this story. They show us what is so broken about Jonah and by extension, what's so broken about Israel. Do you remember what the captain told, the captain of the ship told Jonah to do when he went down in the hold to find him? He said to Jonah, call out to your God. Jonah had someone yelling in his face in the midst of a storm, call out to God. What did Jonah do? Israel had the prophets calling out to them again and again, repent, call out to God. Here we have these wicked men of Nineveh. They don't even have to be told to repent. What do they do? They hear the word of the Lord. They don't even hear that what they should do in response is repent. They just know by nature of what they've been told they've done We must call out to God. We must turn from our evil ways. What hope do they have in repentance? They don't even seem to know yet that this God is a merciful God, right? That promise hasn't even come to them in the prophet's message. And verse 9, they're questioning it, right? Who knows? We haven't been told. Who knows? God may turn and relent and turn from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish The city is led by their king upon hearing the word of the Lord, such that they bow in utter submission to God, such that they mourn their evil deeds, such that they turn away from their wickedness. And they call out to God. Does God turn? One might ask it like Does God change? Does God relent? Point number three, the Lord's relenting. Verse 10: When God saw what they did, Nineveh, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that He had said He would do to them, and He did not do it. Here are these wicked Ninevehites who hear God's word, they believe God's word, they turn from their evil deeds. And then what does the text say? That God sees this. That God sees genuine repentance. Not them putting on a show for a minute. Not those merely sorry for the faith that is before them, but those who have been so faced with their sin that they turn away from it. That's the kind of picture of true repentance, right? Not the stuff we do for show. They see their guilt and admit it. They realize they deserve punishment for what they have done. And they don't make excuses. They don't go pointing the finger. Yeah, but you know, he, none of that. They own their sin. They turn away from it and towards. They go to, call out to God. And so what does God do in response? He relents of the disaster that he had proclaimed. He looks upon their repentance and he chooses to show mercy. The way that that's written in the text, God relented of the disaster. The word for disaster there is the word for evil. Does God do evil? And that's what it says He planned. Of course, God does not do evil. But God is just. The point is that God was planning to bring justice. And what is it that those people had done And the word disaster there, it's the same word for the evil that the Ninevites had done. God had planned to meet their evil deeds with its just deserts Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. We know that in a different way. The wages of sin are what? It's death. That's what the Ninevehes had earned for themselves. Now ask this. Had they earned mercy? No. They had earned destruction. Okay, what about their repentance? Has their repentance now earned them mercy? No. In repenting, they're simply doing what they should have been doing from the start, right? An important note about repentance to remember from our confession there. Chapter 15, section three says, although repentance be not to be rested in as any satisfaction of sin. Or any cause of the pardon thereof, which is an act of God's free grace in Christ. Repentance doesn't merit mercy. But God does freely choose to show mercy upon seeing it. There's a sense here in which we get from the text. God changes his mind. Now, okay, whoa, for us reformed folk, us Calvinists, the idea of God changing his mind Little iffy, right? Got to be careful about that one. If that was your impulse, well done. Me too. We already established it earlier, right? God does not change. God is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. But something's happened here that we have to wrestle with, right? God says he relents. You can imagine the way that Jonah is grappling with this. God, we, Israel, are your chosen people. Have you not changed your mind? And now you give up on us and welcome the Ninevites instead? Are you changing? It's the same kind of issue we're drawn into with the New Testament and the Gospels. We wrestle with when Jesus shows up and what is the response to Jesus? Jesus came, the true prophet. The Son of God, and he said, Turn, repent, follow me, and the supposed chosen ones Israel did what? Think to our New Testament reading earlier here, that parable. The landowner prepared a vineyard, he planted it, he left it in the care of some farmers. And when harvest comes, he sends his servants to go gather the fruits. And what did the farmers do? They beat, stoned, and killed those servants. God sends more and they do it again. And finally the master says, I will send my own son. What do they do with that son? Let's kill him too. We'll still get what we want out of the situation. Jesus asked Israel, what should the master do to those farmers? Israel answers, it's so obvious he should end them. He should end those men and take back the land, give it to someone else. That is what would be just. And so they confess with their mouths what God should do. But who's that story about? What is that the story of? But Israel itself, over and over. God sent his servants, the prophets to Israel. Israel would not listen. Again and again he sent them, and they beat them and stoned them and killed them. Then the New Testament starts it, and God sends his own son. They murdered him upon a cross. What should God do? Israel was so deaf they could not hear. They could not hear that call from the prophets. They would not hear the message of Jesus. Repent. Believe in me. Turn to God. Maybe someone else will hear. That's why Jesus ends the parable, verse 43. Therefore, I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits. Israel is so blind to God's call, who will listen? I mean, think about why this book was written, right? Because who's going to read it? These same people. Wake up. Look at what's happening. Who will listen? I mean in the New Testament, Jesus and his apostles decide: okay, let's go to the sinners. The Gentiles, the Ninevites of sorts, they go to those who will see the odiousness of their sin for what it is Those who will see it and recognize it and repent. Here is that sense Carefully stated, that God changes his mind. I mean, is that what's happened? Did Israel thwart God's plan by failing him? Is God fickle and maybe he doesn't have control over the situation after all? Is that what's being taught here? What is this really? The story of the Son is that He comes. Jesus came as the true prophet Jesus comes as the true King, showing us what it is to follow God, leading us in the Father's righteous paths, earning for Himself not death, but a kingdom and a people. Yet at the end of it, what does Jesus face? He faces death. Why? Because God can be thwarted? And because God no longer cares about justice, because God changes his mind, even about caring for and loving his very own son, who actually was obedient? No. It's because this is all part of the plan. It's because this is all part of God's plan. It's because God is a God of mercy. It's because God is one who looks upon those who repent, and so he relents. Is with Jesus comes as both the just and the justifier. The one who earns life and then looks at you who have earned death and says, I will take your death. So that you can have my life. So that Christian, Jew, or Gentile, any who have heard the truth of the gospel So that that same reality can be true for you. And for you who repent of your sins and believe in Jesus, God is a God of mercy. God's mercy is greater than the sins of the world. And remember what we've seen again and again so far in this story. Can God's plans be thwarted? Of course not. Everything is going to listen to him. It's the easy way and the hard way. We've seen that But what is God's plan? It is a plan of mercy for those who repent. Why would God have sent his prophet to the Ninevites in the first place? But to tell them, so that they might repent, so that he might show them mercy. God's mercy is his good plan for those who repent. So what's left for us but to do that? To be the kind of people who repent. to hear the truth and respond in gratitude to a God whose plan has been that the whole time. His plan the whole time has been To send his word to you, to send his son to die for you, to take your curse, so that you can have his life. That's what happens for the Ninevehites here. How do they receive that? They repent. Does their repentance earn God's mercy? No. Will your repentance earn God's mercy? No. But what has? It's Jesus. What did Jesus tell us the story of Jonah was about? Jesus was talking to Those same kinds of people he was talking about in our New Testament reading today. He was talking to those scribes and those Pharisees. Will I show you a sign? I'll show you the sign of Jonah. Someone will come and go into the ground for three days and be spat out of that grave. What for? To rescue those who repent, to show mercy to those who have earned that kind of death. Christian, that's what Jesus provides to you. There will be more to look at next time. There will be more to see about sometimes what repentance doesn't look like There will be more to see about the way that sometimes we fail to respond in repentance because sometimes we who have been so close to the temple of God think We're not as wicked as those Ninevehes. There is a message for us there too. Next week. Let's pray.