Our New Testament reading, our sermon text this morning comes from John chapter 18, starting in verse 12. We'll go all the way through verse 20. I've been preaching through the book of John, mostly in the evenings, occasionally in the morning. The text just previous to this, we see Jesus In the garden where he is betrayed by Judas, where Jesus is captured by the chiefs of the priests, by the officers of Rome. We see in that moment that Jesus has the power to stop everything that's happening. Of course he has the power, but he willingly is captured and Taken. And following that, we get this scene here in John chapter 18, beginning in verse 12. So the that band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus. And bound him. First they led him to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die. Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest. Peter stood outside at the door. So the other disciple who was known to the high priest went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door, brought Peter in. The servant girl at the door said to Peter, You also are not one of this man's disciples, are you? He peter said, I am not. Now the servants and the officers had made a charcoal fire. Peter also was with them standing and warming himself. The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching, and Jesus Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in the synagogues and in a temple where all the Jews come together. Ask me. Ask those who heard, who have heard me what I said to them. They know what I said. When he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand Saying, Is that how you answer the high priest? Jesus answered him, What I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong. If what I said is right, why do you strike me? Annas then sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest. Now Simon Peter was standing and warning himself, so they said to him, You also are not one of his disciples. Disciples, are you? He denied it and said, I am not. One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked, What did I Peter again denied it, and at once a rooster crowed. Here ends the reading of uh the Word. Let's pray together as we approach this. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have given us your gospel, that you have given us here. in the text we have read are the truth of who Jesus is, of what he has come to do, of what he accomplished, who he accomplished it for. For. As we read this story, as we reflect upon it, as we look to see what you have to say for us, may we come humble. May we come recognize Recognizing the tragedy and odiousness of our sin, may we see in a new way the incredible grace that Jesus has for us Well in the days of the early church there was a great debate uh within the church, uh many great debates happened. One of the things that we have to do is that the One of them though in particular was this. What do we do about those who have lapsed in their faith? What do we do about those who have Betrayed us. Uh go figure, being a Christian in the early days of uh the church back in the Roman Empire around two fifty AD, being a Christian then wasn't the easiest of situations. Actually, in 250 A. D. there was a new Roman emperor, a new Caesar, Emperor Decius, and he had issued a new. Rome. And the purpose of that new sacrifice was to declare a blessing upon this new emperor. Uh that sacrifice had actually had to be performed. in front of your local magistrate so that the officer, the magistrate, could give you a certificate certifying that you did this sacrifice and you're now good to go. You have the stamp of a Approval, the archaeologists have actually found many existing examples of those certificates from that time. If you were a Christian at that time, This edict, this instruction was a problem, right? Because Christians don't make sacrifices to false gods. So what ensued from that edict was known as As the Descian persecution. Local officers and magistrates would come to various homes, and when they came to Christian homes and asked for their certificate, when the Christians Had no certificate, they were given really two options. Okay, either you can bow to the gods of Caesar, obey, do the sacrifice now, do this offering. If you fail to do that, if you deny to do that, then you will be beaten and dragged off to the circus and fed to the beasts as entertainment for the people. Speech consequence, no? Harsh situation. That was the story for many martyrs of the early church. Those who refused to bow to Caesar's gods. There were many who endured such a trial, many who would not turn traitor to their Lord and Savior. So many did suffer. Many suffered and thankfully at least escaped death itself. There were still many who suffered and died. They were mourned and yet celebrated as martyrs for the cause, for the church, martyrs for Christ. When the Decian persecution ended, the drama was not over. There broke out then this debate among the church. Those who endured the trial, they were praised, yes. But what do we do about those who had failed in their faith? Who had lapsed? What are we gonna do about those who had bowed the knee to Caesar's gods? What do we do about those who denied Christ before the officers said No, I am not a Christian. What about those who, when it got tough, said, I am not a follower of Jesus? What do we do about those who have turned their back on the church that they Once swore allegiance to. Could we let them back in? And you could imagine a church filled with those who had suffered but survived, who were faithful through the interrogations and the trial and the persecution, many there in the churches whose own family members had died because they would not deny Christ. And then the ones who turn their back on you, they come back to the door and ask, what? Can I come back in? I wouldn't feel like a mom. Mockery to those who had suffered to let those people back in? Wouldn't it feel like denigrating the bride of Christ to say, yeah, just come back in? It's okay. Wouldn't it be the most unfair thing in the world to show grace to those who had failed such a trial? And to show grace to those kinds of traitorous villains. Surely there is grace, but could grace really run that deep so as to forgive them? In a sense, John's whole gospel along the way has been showing us a kind of trial, um particularly a kind of court trial. Jesus has been on trial before the world and at the At the same time, the world has been on trial before Jesus. John has been telling us things like John chapter 3. Jesus has been seen and he has testified. Nobody hears him. In John chapter 5, Jesus says, I bear my testimony. I tell you about who I am. I call you to Who follow me, and there are many witnesses who attest to it. And as Jesus is confronted by the officers of the world, and especially here, the Jewish leaders, as he is confronted by He is tested over and over. You know what's pretty uh particular about the way that Jesus is confronted and tested? Over and over, he is challenged. with legal language. Often, so often, John jumps at the opportunity, the chance to use courtroom language when Jesus is met, confronted by the people Jesus testifies to them. That's what we hear about in court, right? And yet these people will not accept Jesus' testimony. Well, eventually in the book of John, in John chapter 11, the Jewish leaders convene their own kind of secret trial. John 11, verse 47, we hear. The chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council together and said, They're gathering together formally as a council, and they said, What are we to do? For this man, Jesus, performs. Many signs. They gathered together, and particularly here, they gather after seeing that Jesus has raised Lazarus from the dead. And they're realizing if all the people find out about About what Jesus has done, then they're going to start following Jesus instead of us. And what's going to happen then? Well, then the Romans will come and they will take everything from us. The high priest Caiaphas, he gets up and he says this, verse 50: Do you not understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish? What does he mean when he says that? Well, John will reveal it to us. Caiaphas is making a point. John 11, verse 53. So from that day on, They made plans to put Jesus to death. John, in how he pieces his whole telling of the gospel story together, he actually views this event that Council meeting in John chapter 11 as the actual trial sequence. Well then what is John 18, what we just read? It may have the appearance and form of a Of anything about the conversation that happens between Christ and Annes, or Christ and Caiaphas. The other gospels make a point too. But John is making a point. Here, he's showing us that this is not a trial where testimony or witnesses matter at all. Because the decision has already been made about what to do with Jesus All Jesus is really going to say here is, I've already witnessed and testified. I've already answered all the questions. I have done it openly before the world. That's exactly what John John has shown us in the first 17 chapters of his gospel. John here seemingly disregards any legitimacy to this trial here, but he still tells us. That it happened. You know John, he's intentional about what he puts into the story and what he just leaves out. Why is John bringing this to us if he says this isn't the real trial? What is John showing to us? What's he doing? John is bringing us here to see a kind of comparison in trials. That he is going to show us in such a clear way why Jesus goes to the cross, who Jesus goes to the cross for, and how How deep the grace of Jesus truly runs. Who Jesus has grace for? The world is filled with unfair trials and unfair things. We know that. This world is filled with sin and it is filled with sinners. Jesus knows that. John knows that. He's shown it to us over and over. He'll show it to us this morning. We know that So easy to look around in life and see really nothing but villains around us. Even our heroes in earthly terms. Think about your heroes, who it is that you just look up to with such great esteem in this life. None of our heroes are really, in the end, that clean, right? Humans, honestly, just don't really make for great heroes. We do make pretty good villains, though. If we Take just a moment to uh look upon ourselves as some self-awareness, it's easy to begin to see and recognize I am often the villain. That's It's uncomfortable to say in some sense, but when I know the life I have lived and what I have done, who I have turned my back on, certainly there are some people in this world who see me as The villain. I've given them some good reasons too. John is writing this story this way to show us this truth. The grace of Jesus Is uncomfortably deep. The grace of Jesus is uncomfortably deep. We're going to break up that idea. We're going to see that in two points today here. This morning. First, it's this, the trial in the court. And then second, the trial by the door. There's actually two different trials that happen in this text. And John, we Weaves them together. I'm going to separate them for us so we can look at one and then the other. Join me in that first point here, the trial in the court. And for that, we're going to be looking at verses 12 to 14 and then 19 to 24. Look at that first section starting in verse 12. John 18, verse 12, if we read, So the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews arrested If this was John's Gospel, the musical, uh, this is the part to seeing where all the power players would come. Onto the stage, and they would do their little uh minor key number. They're all on stage. We see them all together. They've come together and they've gathered. And here we know from the previous text it's the Roman. Cohort has come. The Jewish officers have come and they are starting their evil deeds. They have bound Jesus and they are bringing him where? Verse 13. First they led him to Annas. For he was the father-in-law of Caiates, who was the high priest that year. Now, if you know the stories of this throughout the different Gospels, and this is kind of an Odd character to us on the surface because we don't necessarily all know the history of Anis and what's happened here. Uh if you just look at the text, sometimes even within this text itself. Sometimes he is called the high priest, and sometimes he's called the high priest's father-in-law. It seems weird and a little Consistent, right? The historian Josephus from that time, he writes about and he tells us that Annas was the official high priest. priest up until about 15 A. D. He was the official high priest for many years. And around 15 A. D. the Roman authorities decided, you know, Annis has become just A little too powerful for our likings. So Rome decided to remove him from office. Now for the Jewish people, that's actually a big problem because the office of high priest not one where you elect people for terms. I know it's perpetual. The office of high priest is one that you take on for a lifetime. It's like a Supreme Court justice. You can't just decide, ah, if we're done with you, you're out. But Rome did. Go figure, that's Rome. Why do you think good Torah-following Jewish people are going to feel about That action from Rome. They don't like it one bit. They're pretty upset about it. And so what they do is on through the rest of Annis' life, they continue on Calling him and treating him like the high priest. I mean, sure they listen to Rome and appoint other high priests along the way, but you know, every one of them that they uh a point, every one of them is a relative of Annis. And so every one of them then uh just defers to whatever uh their father in law, their uncle So now, here in this day, even though Annas isn't officially the high priest anymore, we see he effectively still is. Anis is still seen and treated as the leader. Politics, we get that, right? We understand that situation. Jesus is brought before him as this authority first and It's immediately there that we understand the collusion between uh that father-in-law, son-in-law relationship. Because verse 14, it reminds us that Caiaphas had already said back in John 11 That Jesus must die. It's already been decided. So we don't really here get any of that first conversation with Annas. hear much of anything. That's kind of odd. That's kind of odd because every time we see some kind of trial situation, John jumps on the opportunity to use legal courtroom discourse. Here we're finally in a physical courtroom? Nothing. That just strike us as a little weird. But John is making a point. Nothing is legitimate about this trial. This is no true or fair trial. It's all just Some kind of act. Fast forward with me to verse nineteen. The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. And so the high priest now is bringing These two questions for Jesus. They're saying, first, tell us about your disciples, and then second, tell us about your doctrine. And that again is kind of an echo of the situation back in Jesus. John eleven, because what mattered back then? We read part of it in John 11 when the people had gathered together. First they were concerned about Jesus' disciples. The great worry was if word gets out, and everyone will start to follow Jesus. They will all become his disciples. That's the first worry. And so now they need to know. They're asking, Jesus, how many followers did you end up getting? How many followers do you have? Who are they? And the second thing they question is Jesus' doctrine. And that's uh also what the controversy was back in John 11 and in John ten. We have a confrontation between Jesus and these same leaders, and they accuse Jesus of blasphemy. They say, being a man, he calls himself God. They see him as this blasphemer. Spreading false teacher. And they know that uh Deuteronomy 17 and 18 have told them what to do about someone who worships a false God, someone who calls themselves God, someone who is a blasphemy. That teacher must be, we already saw, put to death. They know that. So when they bring their accusations against Christ, how does Christ respond? to them? What is his defense? What does he he doesn't really make one, does he? What does he say in response to them? I mean everything I Did y'all have already seen it? Everything I said, you've already heard it. My whole ministry was very public. It was all out in the open. It's just driving this point even harder from John. If this in John eighteen were a real trial, what would we be seeing and hearing here? We would have a line of witnesses because So many people have seen and heard what Jesus has done. We would be hearing about testimony after testimony to what Jesus has done because Jesus did it all very public. The other gospels do mention maybe one or two of those testimonies, though they're fabricated. John here is making a point, though, about this situation. We don't see any of them. We don't get any of that. They know what is required of the law, these officials who are trying Jesus. Make your judgment upon the testimony of Not one man, but two or three. Maybe the Jewish authorities forgot about that rule, right? Well, except what has John shown us again and again? Everything Time they confront Jesus and Jesus says, I've testified, they say, Jesus, we can't trust your testimony. We need the testimony of two or three witnesses. So Jesus does bring out his witnesses, but they won't receive Jesus. Jesus' testimony. Suddenly now, Jesus, you are all we need to hear from. A little confused, right? They know what they should be doing, they don't care. Jesus then turns the tables on them here. Verse 21. He asks them what we should be begging to ask based on that. Why do you ask me? Ask those who've heard what I said to them. They know what I said. Reminding them, I said it in the synagogues, I said it in the temple. Surely you can find someone who can speak true testimony about what I have done. Done and said. Jesus' response there gets a pretty negative reaction, right? And verse 22, when he had said these things, one of the officers stands You can feel the tension and frustration here in the courtroom, right? This is uh the kind of lashback that happens. This is the way that people respond when they know that they've been caught in the corner. When they know that they're in the wrong, they just lash back with petty expressions of violence. Jesus knows through this situation. He knows what's happening. He sees through the whole situation. So he asks, verse 23. If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong. But if what I said is right, why do you strike me? Jesus is here before Annas, before the highest of priests, since Rome said this guy can't be the high priest. Jesus asks the question that John has been begging all along. Why? Why? Jesus has done nothing wrong So, why this? That's the question which haunts the whole passion narrative as we approach and then witness the cross. Why is this This perfectly innocent man, Jesus, one who will suffer and die as a criminal. Why is he stricken and smitten and a Why is he so wrongly condemned? Why is he crucified? When Jesus asks that question, why here in the text? Notice he doesn't get any kind of verbal answer, does he? He's met with silence from the high priest. We just see, and so he is bound up, sent on to the next Persecutor. John is, in a sense, showing us something by that silence, right? But there seemingly is no good answer to why. There is no good reason for these authorities to be doing. What they're doing. They know that. So they bind them up and they ship them off to die. The whole scene should leave us asking that same question. Why? But Jesus has done everything right. This is his end. Why? Anna in the text doesn't answer the question. But John will. John does show us why. To see that we have to look at the other trial that's happening just outside the courtroom. Now join me in that second point here, the trial by the door. We see this other trial going on concurrently here in verses 15 to 18 and then 25 to 27. It's with an old friend of ours here in the book of John. It's with Peter. Look at how the story starts in verse 15. Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered With Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest. John here mentions Peter and then another unnamed disciple. The general consensus, what we're going to see at the very end here, that's John. John doesn't like to talk about himself too often. But he says there's someone else here. There's an eyewitness who testifies to these things. That Peter is actually invited inside. the courtroom. But what does he do? He decides to actually just linger back by the door. Verse 16, but Peter stood outside the door. So the other disciple who was known to the high priest went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door and brought Peter in. The servant girl at the door said to Peter, You also are not one of this man's disciples, are you? Peter said, I am not. Peter is invited to come in. He starts to, but then he stops and he hears Here's this question. There's this kind of stark juxtaposition that's presented to us here. Jesus is inside the court before Annas, the highest of priests. Peter is here on the outside by the door before this lowly servant girl. Jesus is being questioned by the highest and the scariest. Peter by, let's be honest. lowest and the mildest, some servant girl. And this girl asks Peter this question. Hey, you're one of Jesus' disciples, aren't you? All Peter can muster up in response is, I am not. And then Peter here he sees the crowd huddled together. I'm making a fire and he goes over to them. Now think about it. Who is that crowd that Peter goes over to? It's the same exact people who came to Capitol. Jesus in the first place. Those officers and servants who have taken Jesus. Peter has gone over now to huddle up with, to be with With these people. There's a kind of verbal and then physical and so symbolic motion here from Peter of stepping across the aisle. Or we see that Peter 2 has turned traitor and gone to be with the captors. He denies Jesus verbally. He physically goes to huddle up with, to cuddle up with the enemy. Let's turn to the other side. When Peter's story picks up again in verse 25, John makes sure that we see this same situation. Verse 18, Peter was warming himself. There with them. Verse 25. Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they, the crowd, these captors, said to him, You also are not one of his disciples. Are you? Peter denied it again, saying, I am not. Peter gets asked that same exact question. Are you one of Jesus? Jesus' disciples. And again, all that Peter can muster up is the same exact words. I am not. Reach back into the context just before this passage, back into the garden where Jesus was taken captive. What do we see there? It's the same exact crowd who asked Jesus twice, Are you the one that They call Jesus. And twice, how does Jesus respond? He says, I am. The same crowd asks Peter twice. Are you Jesus? His disciple? Twice Peter answers, I am not. You see the comparison here, the parallel that John's making Right. Now who have we here? It's the I am and the I am not, the innocent one, and now here the guilty one, when it was crossed over to join with the band of traitors who's run by what person? Judas. That's who Peter has mentioned next. Well here's one of those guards relatives. Verse 26, one of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked Did I not see you with the garden with him? Hey, aren't you? Aren't you that man? You notice John intentionally chooses not. Not to quote Peter's response here, because he's keeping that parallel nature between Jesus and Peter, the I am and the I am not. John is making that point. John John is bringing us to. He wants us to see here the stark difference between these two, between Jesus and Peter. They're kind of being set up next to each other so that we can see, as we look at them together, the great chasm between them, the incredible difference between them. Jesus is bound up and led away in shame. Now who is he? He is all powerful, righteous, blameless. Carted off in humility, brought away to be murdered. Peter is hobbled up, warming himself with the wicked. He cannot bear to feel the shame of being connected to Jesus. won't be named as one of his followers, so instead he turns traitor. I mean, sound familiar, right, in the story? One of the other distinctions about How John tells his story here is that the other gospels, when we get to Peter's third denial, you know how they bring it up? They make mention that the people recognize Peter because of his Galilean accent. It's his accent which gives him up. The part that John brings up, though, for that third, uh, that third confrontation is what? Peter is recognized by one of the relatives. Now, both can easily be true at the same time that Peter is recognized both ways. This is not some kind of conflict here. What is John bringing that point up to remind us about, though? Peter, just a moment ago, you were so brash. You thought you were on top of the world. You thought here's a Roman cohort. Yeah, I can wave my sword around. You thought you were so mighty. So brave. What's happened? I mean, meanwhile. Here is Jesus who truly is all powerful, yet in his meekness bound. Jesus leaves the scene that way, right? Bound up And a shame which does not belong to him. Jesus is honest and faithful. He stays true and yet he is shipped off to die. Peter is going to leave He says, I am not a follower of Jesus, to the authorities of Rome, to the authorities of his Jewish officers. So seemingly in that he just gets off scot-free, right? Seemingly he just gets to run off all because he has denied Christ. Are you not one of his followers? Verse 27, Peter again denied it, and at once the rooster crowed. You know what? There is our answer. Why? Why? What I said is true. Why do you say Strike me, Jesus asks. Why does the honest, faithful, perfectly innocent man go bound? Go off bound? Why is he so wrongly condemned Why is he crucified? Well, because who here will go away from this trial in the end free? It's Peter. Right? Peter, who has shown himself to be a liar, unfaithful, a traitor. Peter is so clearly unworthy and guilty. Peter has denied his God. Did it is the one in the scene who clearly deserves death according to the law. The one who is born false to Testimony, the one who has denied his God, and yet in the end, he gets to go away free. Why? Apart from Jesus going to the cross, what would Peter's eternal end be? Eternal death. I mean, sure, maybe he would get to skip off in the moment here free. But what Peter has shown is that he is a sinner, that he deserves the wrath of God. That he Deserves the condemnation that not just Judah but Judas but Peter too is a traitor to our Lord, that he is a villain. Death is what what is owed by justice in the courtroom to that kind of villain, no? We could take but a moment of self-reflection. Are we not too In the courtroom of the heavens, and there would be a long line of witnesses to testify about our sin. Even those sins that we think we have gotten away with, we know our God knows them. He knew them before they would even happen, just like here with Peter. And did Jesus not testify, thrice, Peter, you will deny me before the rooster crows Peter denied him again, and at once the rooster crows. Why does Jesus go bound, go off bound to the cross? is because if he does not, then that death will have to be faced by Peter. It will have to be faced by you. And will have to be faced by me. Jesus must go to the cross. He does go to the cross so that traitors like Peter and villains like us might be saved so that we might see and taste of grace. Does that feel a little uncomfortable to say? To think about? That is because grace is so often very uncomfortable to us. Here, what do we see In the story, Jesus loves Peter. And so he will be carted off to die for Peter, even at the same time as Peter is denying him. Even at the same time as Peter is betraying him in earthly terms, that sounds so uncomfortably ridiculous to do or to say. And yet, here, what John is showing us is that is the love of God. That is the love of God expressed by grace towards Peter, and so towards you a grace which rescues and saves even those who have bowed to Caesar's gods. One which saves, which rescues, you who have failed in your faith, you who have lapsed in your convictions, you who may have even denied him Can grace really cover over that? Is it deep enough to swallow up all of that sin? That's what John is here to tell us This morning. Yes, it does. Yes, his grace is so deep that it does, it can, and it will rescue even you and even me and even the Peter that we see here in this story. Can you believe that? Do you understand Understand that. Hear this, the lesson of this story is not, okay, so we get to just go off and do whatever we want and willingly play the villain because Jesus died for it anyway. And so it doesn't really matter. If that's what you have heard, then what's clear is you do not understand grace. Uh Paul will say it like this in Romans six, verse one What shall we say then? Are we to continue on On in sin, so that grace may abound? By no means. For how can we who died to sin still live in it? Paul makes that clarify For us, very clear. But what is presented to you here is grace. A grace which has the power to forgive. and to save even the darkest of villains if they would but repent and believe in Jesus. You know, Peter's story will not end. In just a couple chapters we'll see Peter and Jesus meet together again. I don't want to give away all of that. I have a sermon to preach for that, however many weeks down the road. But know this. The end for Peter's story here on earth is going to be what? He too is actually going to go to a cross. He will suffer and die on a cross, but how? And not as one who denies Jesus, rather as one who Who loves him and is forgiven by Jesus. One to whom Jesus says, to him, Peter, I love you and forgive you. Do you love me? Peter will say yes. Peter will repent and say, Yes, Lord, I love you. I love you. I love you. So even though Peter goes to meet the earthly death of a cross, what is true of Peter's ultimate end, it is that he through grace is received after that death into eternal glory of life. That is what Jesus' salvation, forgiveness. Grace brings to you. You would but repent and believe. And may we go away here understanding grace, such That we welcome enjoy those who have lapsed in their faith back into the community. May we understand grace such that we believe in the forgiving power of Jesus. And so to ourselves forgive. May we understand grace such that we walk in joy and gratitude and love for our Savior, even if, like Peter, it brings us to our own death. We could bring out a long line of what may feel like to us unforgivable sins. Yeah, but what about When I thought that Christian, you are not unforgivable. Even though you may feel at times like an emotion imposter, even though you may have played the villain again and again. What we see here from John is that Christ has gone to the cross. Why? So that you can be forgiven. And so as you repent and believe in him, you are forgiven. He did not come to Save the pretty good. He came to save the wretched villains like Peter and like us. That is how great his deep grace is. Amen. May we trust in that truth. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the truth that we see here in the Bible that even though Peter To us to be such a villain here. He is who Jesus came to die for and to save. He is who Jesus died, a unjust death to save. In certain terms, Jesus didn't have to. We saw in the garden he had all the power in the world to say, I am, and make His captors fall before him. And yet Jesus chooses willingly to go to the cross. Why? To say Wretched sinners, so that he might be offered up as that offering, as that sacrifice for us. We might receive grace and forgiveness. And though we may meet death in this life, we will be offered through Jesus life everlasting May we rejoice in that truth. May we repent and believe because of that truth. May we trust in that truth So that we do not live hopeless in this world, but filled with the hope that comes from grace for sinners like us. It's in Jesus' name then which we pray. Amen.