What would RPC be without a little bit of linguistics for us? Anointed there. You know where we get that word from as far as the Hebrew goes. It's uh the term for messiah. That's what the messiah is, the anointed one. You know what that word is in Greek? It's Christian The Christ, Christ, Messiah, the anointed one. Our New Testament reading comes to us from John chapter 18, starting in verse 26, and we're gonna go All the way to chapter 19, verse 15. You can find that on page 904 of the Pew Bibles. This uh last week, this last Sunday Morning, we looked at the tribunal of Jesus before Israel, before the leadership of Israel. And here Israel has brought Jesus before the leadership of Rome. Because they want not just any kind of punishment, they want capital punishment. John continues on our text saying this, starting in verse 28. So then they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas, who was The high priest to the governor's headquarters. It was early morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters, so that they would not be defiled, but could eat the pass Passover. So Pilate went outside to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man? They answered him, This man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to To you. And Pilate said to them, Take him yourself and judge him by your own law. Then the Jews said to him, It's not lawful for us to put anyone to death. This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken. To show by what kind of death he was going to die. So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, Are you the King of the Jews? Jews? And Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord? Or did others ask it to you about me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me Me, what have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from this world. Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king. Jesus answered, You say that I'm a king. For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come. Into this world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. Pilate said to him, What is truth? After he had heard this, he went out back outside to the Jews and told them, I find no guilt in him. But you have accustomed that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? They cried out again, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him, and the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple robe. They came up to him, saying, Hail to the king of the Jews, and struck him with their hands. Pilate went out again Again and said to them, See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him. So Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe Pilate said to them, Behold the man. And the chief priest and the officers saw him, they cried out, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate said to them made himself the Son of God. When Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid. He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have the authority to release you and the authority to crucify you? Jesus answered Answered him, you would have no authority at all, no authority over me at all, unless it had been given to you from above. Therefore, you who delivered me Over to you has the greater sin. From then on, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, If you release him This man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar. Seat at a place called the stone pavement in Aramaic Gabatha. Now it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour And he said to the Jews, Behold your king. They cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucified. Him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? And chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he delivered him over to them. To be crucified. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we see here a gruesome, miserable, terrible scene. The scene of your son, the anointed one, the Messiah, the Christ, beaten, rejected, condemned to death, that he might die A literally excruciating death and crucifixion. Why? Why is this what rests for the sign? The true King, the one whom you have sent. Father, may you show us this morning why it is that Jesus died, how it is that he Establishes his kingdom, what it is to enter into his kingdom, to see him this way, to follow him as our true King. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. The enemy of my enemy is my friend. Heard that one, right? That's actually a very ancient proverb. We first find it in Sanskrit writings from the fourth century BC. Uh from that, though, we get this idea often: the idea of an un Unholy alliance. What is an unholy alliance? The first time that that term was coined was to describe an event from medieval history. Back when the French and the Ottomans decided to join forces. The French and the Ottomans had been warring against each other brutally for some 200 years. And suddenly they decide to join forces. Why? Well, because they need to fight off a new common enemy. The Habsburg Empires, the Habsburgs who had uh just started to wedge themselves between these two metaphorically and physically if you look at a map. Between the French and the Ottomans, hundreds of years of what we could describe holy wars set Aside, forming an unholy alliance. Why? Well, because the enemy of my enemy is my friend Friend, you know. The idea of an unholy alliance is on the surface a kind of baffling concept until you just realize how common It is for us. We're not unfamiliar with the idea here in our world today. Team up with whom. We so often see it as we look to the church, uh church which is so often willing to embrace whomever for the sake of power. Or influence or money. We don't have to abstract the idea from ourselves personally. We make unholy alliances all the time. We are so often willing to compromise in order to gain the power that we really think we should have. What do we do when we're dissatisfied with what God has given? To us. How quickly do we turn to the world? Are we drawn to turn to the world for our comforts, for comforts of the flesh? for delusions of the mind, for even just some sense of value or meaning, which we foolishly think this world, if we turn to it, could give us a better taste of. What God has prepared for us. The reality is we love to cozy up to, to take advantage of what we will believe, provide for us now. We want to live and find meaning on the world's terms, the terms of this world's kingdoms. Maybe what is so insidious Deceptive to us. It's that idea that you could form that kind of alliance with the world, still be perfectly rightly aligned to Jesus too. Why why can't I just have both in my pockets? John in our text this morning is going to show us exactly why not both. John this morning with certain Precision is going to show us precisely why there can be no alliance between Jesus and the powers of this world. And in this, John is bringing, pressing a question for us. John will show us this this morning. The kingdom of uh Christ here is opposed to the kingdoms of The kingdoms of Christ, uh the kingdom of Christ is opposed to the kingdoms of this world. So the question for us then is which Which will you choose? If you remember the context here, Jesus has been taken away. He's been taken captive following the Last Supper. And first Jesus was brought before. This Jewish tribunal, which turns out to just be a sham trial, because John had shown us they had already decided the verdict. This is no true trial. They have already decided they want to put Jesus to death. And here we're just going to publicly proclaim it. Well, then, in order to follow through with that, the people of Israel have to bring Jesus before Rome. They're not allowed to issue forth a decree of capital punishment. So they bring him to Pilate, the governor from Rome, who is here in the text with us. And it's here in our text where we seemingly see three different kingdoms at play. And those three different apparent kingdoms are going to be our three points this morning. It's first First, this, the kingdom of Rome. How do they interact with Jesus? Second, then the kingdom of Israel. Finally, the kingdom of Christ. Me in that first point here. It's going to take us most of the way through the text, so don't be too afraid if it's a little long, okay? The kingdom of Where do we arrive at first here in the text? We arrive at the governor's headquarters, and there we meet our representative from Rome. We meet Pilate. That Pilate really just does not care about what's going on here. Uh his overall desire appears to be uh for the Jews to just handle this their own way. He cares very little about the situation. He finds it beneath him. He finds it burdensome to him. So look at the interaction that he has. Starting in verse 29, Pilate went outside to them and said, Said, What accusation do you bring against this man? And they answered him, If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. Pilate said to them, Take in your Judge them by your own law. The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death. Right away the Jews bring up why they need to trouble Pilate. Pilate, we need this guy dead. We're not allowed to do that. So we need you. We need daddy's permission to do what we want to do here. So can you just give it to us? So Pilate then goes back into his abode to Trust us, bro. If he wasn't evil, well, we wouldn't have brought him to you. Just trust us. But they have told something else to Pilate. We see that because it's how Pilate responds to Jesus when he goes Goes inside, verse thirty-three. Pilate said to Jesus, Are you the King of the Jews? It's seemingly a clever accusation. If the Jews are trying to get a hold of Pilate's attention. Because when you live in Rome, guess what? You better not say, I am now the king. I have declared myself Caesar. No, guess what? There is but one Caesar in Rome. There is one emperor of God. The Empire. The accusation then is essentially that Jesus is a traitor trying to overthrow the powers of Rome here. That does sound like the kind of thing that Pilate should particularly address on Caesar's behalf, right? When Pilate asked the question, notice Jesus doesn't quite answer back Instead, he starts questioning Pilate back. Who told you that one? You come up with that on your own, verse 34. And Pilate is so clearly just. over the whole situation. Verse thirty-five, Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. So what have you done Jesus, obviously you've ticked off these people. Just can you tell me what's happening? Here that then Jesus actually goes back to that original question from Pilate. Right. Are you a king? Verse 36, Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, My servants would have been fighting it. I might not be delivered over to the Jews, but my kingdom is not from this world. We who've been stepping through this story John has already shown us how true this statement from Jesus is because back in the garden earlier this night what happened the soldiers came and Jesus flattened them with a word. They asked who he is. He says, I am, and the army falls to its knees. He reveals his power for a moment. But he relents. They get back up. So then the good old Peter says, Don't worry, waves his sword, and he waves it but once before Jesus stops. Him too. Say, Peter, this is not how we win. This is not how we fight this fight. This is not the nature of how my kingdom comes Here. Again twist, Jesus feels a little cryptic in response. Verse 37, Jesus answered, You say that I am a king For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens. My voice. Seems awkward here, the way that Jesus is interacting with Pilate. Pilate's asking pretty direct questions and uh Jesus is sort of answering them, but he's also sort of stepping Around them, right? Are you a king? You say I'm a king. Why is Jesus doing that? It's significant. It's intentional. Because if Jesus just said Yes, I am a king. What is Pilate going to do? Well then Pilate will import into his hearing of what Jesus has said all his typical Roman earthly expectations of what a king is and what a king does. If Jesus says that, then he will import into this idea the personal gain and the whole point that Jesus is making here is I am not a king like that. I am not that kind of king Jesus is showing Pilate, yes, I am a king, but I am a king of a kingdom that is built on something different. I am here to bear witness to my Father. I am here to call those who will listen to my voice. When we hear Jesus say that here, it should remind us of back in John 10. That his sheep hear his voice. So they come and follow him. For us who have read John's whole gospel to this point, we already know what Jesus said. Is saying here. We know that Jesus came from outside of this world, that he came from his father, that he came with a mission that his father gave him. And so Yes, I am a king, but not the kind of king that you are thinking of, Pilate. Upon hearing all of this, Pilate goes back outside to the Jews. What does he say? John eighteen verse thirty eight. I find no guilt in him. I would admit This man is innocent. What is the truth? He asks Jesus, and the very next thing Pilate says is what is so absolute And clearly true throughout this text. There is no guilt in this man. Pilate knows that. He proclaims that That. Remember that as we look at what Pilate proceeds to do here. Now, Pilate is actually going to say that same thing over and again throughout this text, three different times. The same words, I find no guilt in him. Pilate declares this and then continues on just trying to get the situation over with. So Pilate comes with a proposal, verse 39. You have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? Hey guys, uh, how about we just get this thing over with with uh the same thing that we do every year? We have this special loophole. We could do this thing where Where we call Jesus guilty, but then we just let him go. How about we do that? It's clearly Pilate's opportunity to try and get out of this cleanly. You think he's guilty, I think he's innocent. Have this loophole, let's just use it. Isn't that convenient for us? The response immediately then from the people is: no way. No way. Give us Barabbas. Now, the ESV renders this description of Barabbas in verse 40. How? Now, Barabbas was a robber. That can draw some confusions if you read the other gospel accounts because uh We hear other things in the gospels like Barabbas was a murderer. Barabbas was an infamous prisoner. Who is Barabbas? The word that John uses here to describe him, you know how else it can be translated? It's an idea that I think very well captures the whole of who Barabbas is. It's also Commonly translated insurrectionist. Barabbas was an insurrectionist. Barabbas is one who seemingly attempted at at some other point to overthrow the empire. Funny, that's the same accusation that's being made of Jesus here, right? Pilate responds in verse 1: How. I know Jesus is innocent. What am I going to do? He flogs Jesus Remember, he knows Jesus is innocent. He proceeds to beat him and whip him and flog him. Where does that come from? coming from. Why this? The idea is, well, maybe if we ridicule Jesus enough, then we won't actually have to kill him. So Pilate cruelly ridicules Jesus. They play dress-up with him. They put on him the garb of a king, a purple robe, and they crown him with thorns. And then they say, Hail. This is Pilate's plan. Maybe if we just mock him enough, then the crowd will be satisfied and we can finally get this. Over with. Along the way, we hear again what Pilate has already said. I find no fault in this man. So, what is the scene here? Pilate is beating a man senseless who he knows is innocent. Why? Well, all just to try and expediently get over Jesus. To try and finally get to a place where we can ignore Jesus. Sometimes when we read this text we start to try and let Pilate off the hook a little bit. Ah, see, he's he's trying to let Jesus get out of this at least alive. He seems to have some Sympathy for Jesus. John has shown us wrong. That is wrong. Jesus has been brought to Pilate because Pilate Pilate is the authority figure before Rome here. Pilate has the power, the responsibility, to uphold justice and to stop the prosecution of This clearly innocent man. What is Pilate's whole goal, his whole attempt here? His work here is not to try and preserve an innocent man. To ignore Jesus and just get this over with. Isn't that so often the world's response to Jesus? Maybe we don't need to murder Jesus, but Can't we just ignore him? Let's just get him out of the way. Let's just poke a little fun and then move along. Pilate then appears before the people again and does what? 19 verse 4 But went out and said to them, See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him. So Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, and Pilate said to them, Behold the man. Pilate knows in some sense here what he is Doing, but as we'll see later on, he has no idea how deep the symbol of his words go here. The crowd rejects Pilate's attempts To get over this. They're dissatisfied with his feeble amount of injustice, and they call to him again, give us Barabbas. Verse eight when Pilate heard this response, he was afraid, even more afraid. He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus Jesus gave him no answer. We learn from other gospels that part of Pilate's fear here comes from his wife's bad dream earlier that evening. Seen here, he's already physically lashed Jesus, right? Now he's got to do so verbally. Where are you from, Jesus? John has told us over and over where Jesus is from. Jesus remains silent. Pilate doesn't like that. So verse 10, Pilate said to him, You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have the authority to release you and the authority to crucify you? you Jesus don't you see I have the power? Don't you see that I have the keys to unleash hell upon you this evening Evening. I have the power to crucify you. When Jesus responds to him, Pilate continues on, can we just get this over with? But his attempts are rebuffed again, and this time it comes with a threat from the people. Verse 12. From then on Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews then cried Out, if you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar. Pilate, we'll tell on you We'll tell Caesar what you're up to here. And it's then that as soon as Jesus becomes problematic to Pilate's way of life, to his power, and to his position in all the worldly comforts which are the first time. Which come with it. Pilate again brings Jesus out. In verse fourteen, he said to the Jews, Behold your king And they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. And that's what Pilate does. You see the way that kings work in this world? You see what they're motivated by? You see what they expect from power and how they use power? And is this not just the way Of this world. The interest of Pilate and Rome is what? Do what's expedient. Do what maintains my power and my prestige. This is not sympathy for Jesus. It's rejection of him. Just maybe on less expressively aggressive terms. What about a kingdom that is supposed to be What do they say? Now join me in point number two, the kingdom of Israel. It's striking when we turn to see the other side. What these people of Yahweh have to say. John makes a point multiple times here to remind us that this is the time of the Passover. Here are people Who are waiting for their messianic king who will deliver them. And here we are in a season where they celebrate the deliverance they That God had brought to them out of the land of Egypt, that meal where they remembered that the firstborns died, except for those who were covered by the blood of the Lamb sacrificed for them. It's actually because of this festival that the Jewish leaders won't go inside Pilate's courts. They intentionally stay outside we read. Otherwise they'll become ceremonially unclean. They'd have to abstain from participating in that. feast. That's actually why this whole s sequence ping pongs back and forth. You notice pilot keeps going inside, outside, inside, outside. This tense dynamic between Israel and Rome. You can see that in the awkward tension here. The Jewish authorities have come to Pilate because they say, verse 31, it is not lawful For us to put anyone to death. The Jewish authorities and Rome, Pilate, they're not on the best terms. They never have been. They're not predisposed to be We all buddy buddy. But Israel's not allowed to enforce capital punishment by Roman law. So they come to Pilate. You know, Pilate, we aren't really friends, are we we? We won't come into your home, notice, because that would cost us. But we will come to you when we need you. Come to ask for some favors Before Pilate, they make two different claims here. We described one of them already. At first, they charged Jesus with being an insurrectionist. This man makes his Him out with a crown of thorns. Are you not satisfied? No, the kingdom of Israel is not satisfied with that. So these people cry out, crucify him. Him, crucify him. Don't worry, they have another accusation now. They charge Jesus with blasphemy. Pilate says, I find no guilt in him Verse 7, the Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law, he ought to die because he has made himself the Son of God of God. The kingdom of Israel has a law, and they invoke it here to say, Jesus is a blasphemer. Now they're hearkening back to Deuteronomy 17 and 18. He has said he is the Son of God, so we must kill him. You know what is so unbelievably ironic about both these charges is Who do they call to be released in Jesus' stead? Give us Barabbas. Give us Barabbas. Who is he? We already saw. He is the insurrectionist. He is the one who's been captured for attempting to overthrow the empire. He is the false wannabe king. Give us him. The irony couldn't get any Give us him. Give us that son of the Father. Here we have before Israel, the actual Son of the Father. The Son of God, and they are yelling what to him? Crucify him, crucify him. Give us that false son, Barabbas, instead. Who's here before us? Here in the kingdom of Israel, what do we find? Insurrectionists calling to overthrow their Messiah King, the one who Who here who do we have but blasphemers calling out, crying out to crucify the true Son of the Father, the Son of God, God in the flesh. Why is Israel so consumed with killing Jesus? Jesus. Why are they so consumed with rejecting him and murdering him? Why do they become the insurrectionists and the blasphemers When Pilate again comes out saying, I find no guilt in him. What do they do to their new friend Pilate? Huh. They threaten him Hey, we know you're on the rocks with Caesar. When Pilate brings out Jesus one last time. You know, remember what Pilate said? Verse 14, he said to the Jews, Behold your king. It's an echo of sorts from just a little bit earlier in the text when Pilate brought out Jesus after beating him. But you know this is not merely an echo from earlier this night. Uh it is an echo from far earlier in Israel's History, in the history of this kingdom, back the very first time that Israel was presented with a king in Samuel. That's what we read earlier this morning. That story of Saul. Why does Israel respond this way when God brings Jesus to them? It's the same reason. Reason they've always rejected God's kingship. Back in 1 Samuel, Israel goes grows restless because they want a king like all the other nations, a king like the world around them. them head and shoulders above the rest they say we are not content with God as our king we want a real king We want to look like these worldly kingdoms. We want all the power and might and prestige that comes with that. So God gives it to them. When God leaves Samuel to Saul, we want to say, You know what he says word for word there in the Greek translation? Behold the man. Sound familiar When Samuel then presents Saul before the people, you know what he says in the Greek translation, word for word? Behold your king. John is doing something very specific when he tells us this story. Here's he quotes the Septuagint version of Samuel. He's showing us, answering that question why why do they reject Jesus and Samuel the people engrossed received Saul because he looked just like The world. He's the kind of king they wanted. He appeared to be able to give them all the worldly kingdom blessings that they wanted. Where did that lead them? Here in John, God has sent his people the true King, the Messiah, the Son of God, God Himself again to be their King. Well think about what he looks like to them right now here. Beaten, bruised, battered, weak, helpless, humiliated. God sends his true king and the kingdom of Israel. John 19, verse 15, they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? And the chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. On the surface It seems we have uh two different kingdoms here between Rome and Israel. They seem to be uh in conflict with one another, but what do we actually have here? Well Rome and And Israel, they're really just one and the same, aren't they? We don't want the king who God sent to us. Let's just ignore him Away with him. Let's get rid of him. It's just like back in Samuel. We don't want God Himself as our king. His kingdom is too different. His kingdom is not of this world enough. Israel really just like in Samuel wants to be Rome. John caps that off then with that statement. Not we have no king but Yahweh. We have no king but Caesar. Israel swears allegiance to Rome. Because in the end, what Rome has isn't that what they really want? Jesus is in the way. Jesus is their enemy. The enemy of my enemy is my friend, right? So why not form an unholy Alliance. It's probably a good moment for self-reflection on how often are we drawn to wish that Christ's kingdom was just a little more like the world. Maybe you want a church which dominates with this kind of worldly power. Maybe you want the cultural sway and influence in this world. To form this world into something that you are comfortable with. And maybe you want to fight back against who you see as the blasphemers, and in that fight think we must fight fire with fire. It's time to be able to do that. to get a little dirty. It's time to team up with those unholy actors who can give us the worldly power that we need to accomplish those ends. Could some of those ideas be for uh righteous and just outcomes? Maybe sure. But is that the way that Christ's kingdom brings righteousness? And justice. What is the nature of Christ's kingdom here in this scene? Point number three, the kingdom of Christ. There are two distinct kingdoms here in the passage, but they're not Israel and Rome, are they? Those are seemingly one and the same. Rather it is the world and Christ As the world faces Jesus, what is clear? Look, behold your king. Here he is, beaten and mocked. Is he too shy? Shameful for you? Is he too weak for you? Think about it. Wouldn't Jesus have been rejected if he brought in his kingdom the way that was expected? With all the forms and shapes of this world's power. If Jesus came to bring the power and prestige and worldly glory that his people Wanted. Wouldn't that have just been more palatable? Wouldn't that be the situation where more people would say, yes, sign me up for that kingdom? We swear allegiance to Christ. Wouldn't a Jesus who is all about working to make the kingdom that I am trying to build for myself better? Wouldn't that be better? Maybe in our eyes for a moment. But that is not the Christ who God sent, is it? He sent one who suffers and is ridiculed and is Crucified. What does Christ ask people? He's asked again and again in this book. Come join my kingdom. We who were of the world might respond, well, what does it take? What do I get? As we look at Christ in this scene, we see what it takes. Takes coming in humility and weakness, comes recognizing we bring nothing. We come by knowing we are wholly unworthy Recognizing we are dressed in rags of shame, shame of our own sin, though. Homing ready to give it all up so that That we might gain him. What do we get then from it? We get this King Jesus. Who would want Jesus? Why would we want Jesus? Why would we want to join his kingdom? In worldly terms, it looks like a terrible trade-off, right? It looks like You know, that what he demands, that's hard. He doesn't seemingly offer any of what I'm looking for here. Why would we want to join his kingdom? Well, because Is what is Jesus doing here? What is Jesus doing as he is beaten and then mocked and crucified? He's not bringing temporal, worldly gain. He's bringing the world. Salvation and deliverance to sinners. Remember, it is Passover when we remember and celebrate that God deliver Delivers the slaves of this world. Here is God in the flesh, in this scene, being humiliated by his own creation. Why? Because they are sinners. Because they are guilty. We see that in the actions of these people in the text, and we see for ourselves that same reality that we are the same kind That we are like Pilate, wishing Jesus would leave us alone so we can continue on living our own way. That we are like Like Israel, wishing if God had sent a king, that it would be one who fulfills our desires for powers, not his. What is the end for such people? Even in worldly terms. A Christ's kingdom may be different from this world. That does not mean it has no implications for this world. radical ramifications. When Pilate said, Don't you know I have the power to crucify you? What did Jesus say in response Verse 11, Jesus answered him, Pilate, you would have no authority over me at all, unless it had been given you from above. Therefore, he who delivered me Over to you as the greater sin. Pilate, you think you're in charge? Oh no. All authority Heaven and earth has been given to Christ. He does truly rule over all kingdoms. I am the king. Yeah, you may have less sin than others here, but you still have sin. You still have a part here. Jesus has come this way, this time To suffer and to die the shameful death which sinners who come to him deserve. There is no guilt in him, there is in us. This is It's not his only coming. When you get a chance on your own, read the words of Psalm 2 in light of this story that John is telling. The world mocks the Messiah for a time, but he He will come again to bring justice and to crush the powers of this world. The first time Christ came, he came in meekness To save. He suffered and died to rescue those who would kiss the son. He suffers. He serves as a refuge for those who would hear his voice and come to him. Isn't that what he said earlier in this text? Those who hear the truth, who know it, they come to me. He came first to inaugurate his kingdom. In grace through suffering, inviting those who adhere him to join his kingdom. When he comes again, he will make all things right. And that means he will enact justice against all remaining sin. And he will not come then with worldly power. He will come with worldly power Ending power. The nature of Christ's kingdom is that He has the true power and authority. He is the God King over all that was and is And is to come, and though we have mocked him, and we have derided him, and we have murdered him, he has come in meekness to save. Hear that call. Look to him. Come to him. Not for worldly power and pleasure, but for salvation. Blessing for blessing that comes, yes, here in this life, but through that suffering, through that Christ's kingdom is one which calls us to join by suffering in meekness and humility. On the surface to the world that looks like Foolishness. But for those who do believe, who do come to Christ, for those who say we have no king but Christ, this kingdom is a promise of the Deliverance. A promise of deliverance. Life not suffering under the lies of this world, where you have to try and build your own kingdom for yourself, but rather in the truth And security of Christ. Life which does not end in the destruction of yourself and all that you have built, but in the heavenly glory of what Christ has Built and given for you. The kingdom of Christ is opposed to the kingdoms of man. So which will you choose? Temptation Is so often for us to try and merge these two, right? To say, I want the glories of this world and Jesus too. But look at Jesus in this world. That's not how he lived. That's not the option that he gives to you. So will you cling to his kingdom? Will you love His kingdom. Will you forsake trying to make his kingdom into the powers of this world that you might truly hold your king? Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice in the truth of what we see here. That Jesus is Our true King, that he is King over all, King over this world, King over Heaven. Here he calls us, though, to step out of the domain of darkness in this world into his kingdom. And we hear that voice May we listen to him. May we see his suffering not as the kind of shame which we should deride and avoid. The pattern that he has presented to us that we might live as he lived, die as he died. Father, may we see here that The powers of this world are not that which we should strive to merit for ourselves. That is not the way that we win this kingdom for Christ. Rather, we win through following him, living as he lived, and dying as he died. And we rejoice in his kingdom, seek to love Love it and live it in it. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. L