In the year 1914, some 111 years ago now, mine workers in the Colorado area sought to join the United Mine Workers of America. uh one of the first unions. Now the coal fields of Colorado at the time were ripe for harvest and they were nearly all owned by one uh group entity, CFNI, the Colorado Fuel and Iron Company. Uh CFNI was known for uh being a pretty shrewd company, especially when it came to relations with their workers. How they might care for or pay their employees. The way that they paid their employees actually was solely based upon the number of tons of ore which each person extracted for them. In some ways that can make some sense to us. You know, okay, this is what you've brought to us, so that's what you will get paid for. Until you start digging into some of the details of the situation there. Things like, well, who's setting the scales that measure how many tons of ore I've extracted? CFNI gets to do that. Who defines how much a ton is? You might think there's a standard definition. Don't worry, CFNI has their own about how much weight a ton is. On the flip side of that, who's operating all the additional machinery and laying the tracks that are needed and uh setting up any kind of safety infrastructure here? Well that's expected of you, the workers. But you don't get paid for that. That's not time spent extracting any coal for us So as the accidents began to pile up and so did the death count that start to see what the problem here is. In the year 1913 alone, it's recorded that 110 men died in CFI mines. Why? Sure, maybe you had some opportunity to build some safety here as a mine worker, but any time spent doing that was time spent not making money. It's what they called dead time. Tragically, you know, the avoidance of that dead time led to many deaths. Realizing the danger and the unfairness of the situation that these miners were in, they united in their cause to make better wages and have safer working conditions. And so they went on strike. Come to find out that the miners and their families all lived in CFNI homes. So guess what happens is as soon as you go on strike, you suddenly get evicted. So what the workers and their families did was they set up a kind of tent colony, an area called Ludlow. It was this valley. They set up their tents in. They all lived there as they continued on in their strike against CF and I. And they endured this all through a very bitter winter out in Colorado. Colorado's in the West. I've been there. Maybe you haven't. It is cold. Trust me. By the time spring came around, CF and I was pretty upset about the situation. They were ready to break this strike. And so uh in their frustration they put together a couple of different militias, uh partially backed by the Colorado National Guard, partially filled with some mercenaries that they contracted, partially filled with some ex-convicts. They put together these militias to try and break the strike, and on April 20th, as tensions continued to rise, multiple machine guns were mounted on a particular hill above the Ludlow Valley. Those machine guns began to fire upon the tent camp. It's recorded that in the fire some fifty-five women and children alone, forget the men, the workers. Fifty-five women and children were killed. That day is known as the Ludlow Massacre. We might think, you know We're not that grotesque. That is 111 years ago. That's the 1900s. That's not that long ago. A larger guerrilla warfare broke out. Over the next ten days until finally the federal government sent in troops to quell the situation, to end the fighting. The Ludlow Massacre was a watershed moment for America as it considered the significance of employee welfare. You might say in some sense though to the people there, I mean, well there were your union benefits at work, right? You went on strike and that's what you got. Probably didn't feel like benefits to those workers in that moment, did they, or their families? So we step deeper here into John 15 here in our text Jesus shows us, he continues to show us, that we are together in a kind of union. He shows that we are united to him. Even as we are united to one another. And we know that our union with Christ brings to us incredible benefits, that we are loved, forgiven, restored, saved by Christ, that we no longer face the condemnation of sin But rather we are chosen to be called righteous because of Christ. We are reminded of some of those sweet realities that we were reminded just last week as we looked at the first half of John 15 And we draw life from the vine as we are connected to Christ. And so we bear fruit. And so we ask of the Father, and He gives life to us. And we turn to this week's passage and we recognize that there are other benefits of our union with Christ, though not exactly the kind that we might typically label benefits. In verse 17, and just before this, Jesus calls out the beauty of our love for one another, that we must love one another. And in verse 18, he turns to say, If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before you. Jesus saying, you know, just a heads up, yeah, you better love one another because guess what? You can't you can't hope that other people are going to. You're going to face hatred from the world. Everyone else will probably hate you now. Oh, yeah, and Jesus says, that's actually kind of my fault. Verse 19, if you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: a servant is not greater than his master. They persecuted me. It will also persecute you. What Christ is revealing to us here is the truth that because we are united to him, we should, in some sense, expect to be hated by the world. Because he was hated by the world. We were once a part of the world. He says, but we have been chosen out of it. We have been drawn out of the darkness of that kingdom to join, to become a part of Christ's team. To join his kingdom, to be united to him. And so, because of that now, because we have changed teams, the world will now reject you Okay, and yet all of this somehow is going to be good news. It doesn't sound like it, does it? No doubt for you who love Jesus and have experienced some of this reality, it probably did not or does not feel like good news. It probably feels unfair. You've probably been frustrated by it. You can imagine the way the disciples around Jesus felt because what happens in their own lives We know the stories of their lives, many of them thanks to the book of Acts, that they are rejected and despised. They will be cast out of their heritage and their families. They get the opportunity to experience the sufferings of Christ on earth. Why? Because they are united to Christ, because they are in union with him. We'll see this truth today, friends, that that kind of harsh reality is in fact somehow good news for us. somehow it is a benefit to us. Jesus brings these words, this truth to us, he says, so that we will not be discouraged. Feels a little backwards, I know. These, though, are truths which we will face. So we must learn. Here, Jesus is showing us something, something about how this reality is good. He's showing us something about how we are not alone, something about how the hatred of the world in your life Is not evidence of your death, but rather your life. What we're going to see today especially is this this call from John here in the passage: hold fast in your union. Because the hate you face are signs of your Savior's strength. Hold fast in your union Because the hate you face are signs of your Savior's strength. I want to walk through that idea in three points today. They're this first the source of this hatred. Second, the trial of this This hatred. And finally, this, the defeat of this hatred. Join me in that first point here, the source of this hatred. Why does the world hatred for Christ's people? There's a kind of chain that Jesus builds here that he puts together for his disciples, and essentially it will go like this. He's telling them, you represent me, Christ. And Christ, I represent the Father. And what we know and have already established in John is that the world hates the Father You represent Christ. Christ represents the Father. And the Father is hated by the world. Look with me at verse 21. All these things they, the world, will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me. There's a kind of representation here that's built from one figure to the next. You know the example of what an ambassador is, right? It's kind of a two-fold reflection of the ambassador. The ambassador is sent to a foreign place to serve as a representative of the king. Now who is he a reflection then of? He's a reflection of the king. And that means two different things. On the one side, that representative, that ambassador, should do a good job representing who the king is. He should say what the king would say. He should do what the king would do, and so represent the king that way. But on the flip side, that ambassador then, he expects to be treated like the king. He expects to be treated like the one who he represents, and if the ambassador is sent home bruised and beaten, he is sent home mocked and derided. What does that say? How will the king receive his ambassador back? It'll be like the king himself had been bruised and beaten and mocked and derided. And so when God here sends his son into the world, what happens to him? We know Jesus is mocked and beated, rejected, and hated. What does that say about the people to whom Jesus came? Says that as they hated Jesus, so of course they hate the Father. There's a familiar pattern which Jesus brings here as he explains that. How is it that Jesus is rejected? It's two different things, things that John has shown us again and again. People reject Jesus' words. They reject Jesus' works. Jesus' words, verse 22. If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. Jesus says he's spoken to these people in the world. What John's reminding us again and again is that Jesus' words are the very words of the Father. How do the people respond to those words? They reject them. They deny them. They reject everything that Jesus says. Jesus is making a point here. I've said those words. I've spoken the Father's words. They have no excuse. They heard them, but they rejected them. Why else are they guilty? Jesus says it's according to the works. Verse 24 If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have seen and hated both me and my father. Jesus' words are his father, so he has told us multiple times in John, his works are his father's works And just earlier this very night, as Jesus is together with the disciples, you would rewind to John 14, and Philip says to Jesus Remember, Jesus, just show us the Father. Jesus says, Philip, ah, don't you know me? Haven't you realized who I am? I am in the Father, and the Father is in me. Then he tells Philip, haven't you heard what I've said? Haven't you seen what I have done? It's all of the Father. John has shown Jesus make this point numerous times in his gospel. Repeatedly, people reject Jesus. So here is Jesus saying, if I am in the Father, Father is in me, how's this going to reflect upon you? What's it going to say about you who are connected to me? You who I am in. This world hates my father. How should you expect them to respond to you? Now why is this? Now getting at the nature of that hate, Jesus continues in verse 25. But the word that is written in their law must be fulfilled. They hated me without a cause. Now think here for a moment about the precision of those words. The word written in whose law? Their law. You realize who that there is here, Jesus is comparing to, referring to as the world. Jesus is talking about his own Jewish brothers and sisters, the people of Israel. Who is he treating them lock and step with? It's the world. Jesus is saying, I'm going to show them according to their own law who they really are, who they're like. And the reference here was our Old Testament reading, Psalm 69. Let me reread just Psalm 69, verse 4. More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause. That's what Jesus said. Idi are those who would destroy me, those who would attack me with lies. But I did not steal, must I now restore? Psalm 69 is a song that God's people would sing, where they are claiming, we are God's people, so the world is attacking us. Jesus here and turning it around on those very people and saying, what? You are actually the world because I am the one who has not violated any of the law and yet what are you doing? You're attacking me for no cause. What does that say about you then? You put the pieces together. The Jewish people are supposed to be God's people. Yet they are rejecting God's own son. They are rejecting God's word, and so they prove who they are really like. Just like all the rest of the world, they won't believe Jesus' words, they won't receive Jesus' works. What's abundantly clear about them, Jesus has made plain, it's that they don't actually know God. Heard his words in Jesus, and they hated them. Seeing the Father's works in Jesus and they hated them. What conclusion is there other than that they hate the Father? So that's why they hate Jesus. This is the saying. That's why they're going to hate you. Those who reject God's people are those who reject God Himself. Who are we in this world? People who are a part of the body of Christ. We are Christians. What was that word made up to say? Oh, you are little Christs. Little representatives of him here in this world as you are his body here on this earth. In that, we are his representatives. He was of the Father. Sounds pretty dire, pretty hopeless. This is where Jesus brings us to see, though, that we also have a representative. Point number two, the trial of this hatred. And when you go to court, when you go to a trial, what do you desperately need in that situation? What you should really want if, I mean hopefully this is what you want, is a good lawyer, right? We have been given, Jesus is going to show us, the very best of lawyers. Look me at verse 26. But when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me, and you will also bear witness. Because you have been with me from the beginning. There's a theme here that's been laced, again, all throughout the book of John that we're picking up again. This is actually something we'll look really deeply into next Sunday morning, on the reality that the world is, in some sense, in the book of John, all on trial through Christ. The world is on trial. Think about what we've seen in John so far. John has told us about witness after witness. That's the word he's used. That we have heard testimony after testimony. And we have been given evidence upon evidence. And John tells us there's a reason for that. He is making a case. He is leading us to a conclusion. Who does Jesus say he is going to send to us? You're using the ESV, that's what I read from it. Probably says the helper. I think it's much better translated here. The advocate. Jesus sending to us the advocate. Christian, your advocate, your attorney We've seen this pattern in John of people putting Jesus upon trial, right? Pharisees asked him back in John 8, where are your two witnesses, Jesus? Prove yourself to us. We've used this legal language, and Jesus, throughout the book, has paraded his witnesses before us between his own cousin, John the Baptist. Abraham and Moses he's brought out, his words and his works as evidence. He said his father himself testifies of who he is. We give it just a couple more chapters here. We'll see. In the next 24 hours, they're going to run Jesus through three more different trials. They're going to bring them before the lower courts. And they'll bring him before the high priest, and they'll bring him before Pilate himself. What does all of that culminate in? Jesus being hung on a cross, which should stand to us as the greatest sign. that the world which crucified Jesus truly are the guilty party. What kind of wretched, unjust behavior that they crucify him. And Jesus knows that that's where this story is going. That's where he's headed to. This is his hour. But don't worry, he says. The trial that the world has been put upon It's not going to end as soon as I die. The world might be thinking, you know, as soon as we get rid of the plaintiff here, as soon as we kill him off. There's going to be no prosecution left, so this trial will be over. But Jesus is saying, no, that's not the case here. Because I am sending. The advocate. The language used here. It's the kind of language that you would use to speak of your attorney. And the one used in Greek to speak of a representative who comes on your behalf in legal proceedings. This is how Jesus speaks of sending the Holy Spirit, who he also calls here the Spirit of Truth. He says he is one who will come, who will be sent, who will proceed from the Father. Why? To continue on in this case. To continue on the prosecution. He will speak the truth. He will bear witness to Jesus. He will testify about who Jesus is against the world. Christian, how will he do it? Verse 27, he'll do it through you. And you also will bear witness, because you've been with me from the beginning. What are we by the Spirit testifying here in the court? In John 7:7, Jesus put it this way for us. He said to his disciples back then, The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that its worlds, that its works are evil He said back there to his disciples, the world cannot hate you. We've seen here that's going to change, right? Things are going to change dramatically here in the next little bit It's true of the disciples back then, but Jesus has now called them out of the world. He says, you are united to me. You are on my team. And so, not much longer, you are going to be hated too. The world hates Christ, he said, why? Because he testifies that its works are evil. The truth is that the glory of the goodness of Christ Should that the world is as evil as it is. And the glory and the goodness of Christ in his words and his works make very plainly clear That the world is broken and evil and in desperate need. So here is going to come the spirit of truth He will testify and he will bring conviction. He too will reveal how evil the world's deeds are. And of course, the world is going to hate that. They don't want to know the truth. Who does want to be told? Who wants to be shown how broken, needy, wretched they are? Nobody wants to hear that. And when you think about being told that, it begins to make sense why. The response from the world is to lash back in hatred, lash back in anger and frustration. Think about it for yourself. You don't want to be told about how evil and wretched you are. And the wrong person does it, of course, get a little frustrated. Question here then is, how will we deal with that? How are we going to deal with this truth? How will the disciples deal with it? Point number three here, the defeat of this hatred. There's this question here for the disciples and for us. How will we, how do we respond to the world's hatred Are we those who will persevere? Will we shrink in discouragement, shrivel away? Will we fail to continue on testifying of God's righteousness and goodness? Fear that others will reject it, and then of course, reject us. Christ continues here telling us why he's warning us about this reality. Look at chapter 16, verse 1. He tells his disciples, I said all these things. To you, to keep you from falling away. Jesus is telling them, I don't want you to feel like this is some bait and switch. I don't want you to be scandalized. That's actually the word he uses there. I want you to be scandalized about the reality of what is going to follow in your life. Then he gives some tangible examples of that to his disciples. Verse 2, they will put you out of the synagogues. We've actually seen that already in John, if you remember. There's this earlier story about a man who was born blind, and that man, you might remember him for getting really frustrated because he keeps getting put on trial. People keep bringing this inquisition against him. Did Jesus really do this? Yes, he did. What else was true in that story? His own parents were a little skittish about the questions. They didn't want to answer them, and they tell us why, because they are afraid of being put out of the synagogue. They are afraid that if they say, yes, this is what Jesus did, yes, this is who Jesus is, they'll face that persecution They come back to the man, they say, did do you swear that Jesus healed you? When the answer is yes, And what the parents were afraid of is exactly what happens. That man who was born blind is exiled from his whole community. He's cast out of the synagogue. Here is this man whose identity was about being a member of that life. He's cut off entirely from it. Jesus is reminding his disciples here that's what you can expect. That's what's coming for you too. That is what you will face. That's the kind of hatred you will see. He continues on in verse 2. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. John has told us about Christ's hour a couple of different times. That's another repeated theme in John. Oh, he's told us we're approaching that hour, that it's here upon us, and that hour is a reference to Christ's trial. his death and his resurrection and his ascension. What is said here is a little differently though, it's not a reference to Christ's hour This is a reference to your hour. This is what's coming for you. You who are united to Christ, you also have a kind of hour. For these disciples, nearly all of them. They too are going to be put to death. They too will be persecuted unto death, murdered by the world, all for proclaiming the truth of Christ in them. You see too how Jesus says it, the people who murder you, they think they are doing it to the glory of God. And they will think that they're in the right here as they persecute you. They will think that they are doing good in the world by rejecting you. We get that picture right away in the dawn of the church, right, with Saul of Tarsus, who's persecuting Christians throughout the land. Why does he do it? Because he believes he is loving God by doing that. Saul persecutes the Christians because he is doing righteous acts on God's behalf when Saul meets Jesus When he meets God in the flesh on the road to Damascus, do you remember what Jesus says there? What Jesus did not say is, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting my disciples? What he says, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And Jesus says this because his followers are so united to him. So connected to him that when he sees them attacked, he is attacked. When his followers are hated, he is hated just as the Father is. So we see exactly the truth about these people. They will think they are serving the Father. They will think they are doing what is good in the world when they hate you. But what is the truth? Verse 3, they will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor do they know me. When the world comes against you in hatred, clearly they'll think it's good. But it is not. It is because they have no idea what good is. Verse 4. And Jesus gives us this reminder here: I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes, you may remember that I told them to you. The disciples in the room with Jesus, this is very explicitly their experience, the hour that they will face. Certainly, Jesus is speaking these truths in the most immediate sense to his disciples. That's who's in the room with him. They will be hated. And why is it? It's because of their union with Christ. What is true of you, Christian, alongside? But the reality that you are just like the disciples in that you Christian are united to Christ, just like the disciples. When you are saying, I am united to Christ, I am in union with him, what you're doing in saying that is you are acknowledging his life, his death. and resurrection, and that they all are now your life, death, and resurrection. When we acknowledge that, when we say those things, we mean, along with that, all the benefits that come from that truth. When we say I am united to Christ, we're saying I am no longer dead in sin, but alive in Him. Always say things like, my life is now hid with Christ on high. That I have an advocate now, so Jesus is sending. I have the Spirit testifying in me and to me. As Paul will eventually tell the Galatians, I was crucified with Christ, and so it's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. When we say these kinds of things, what we're saying is, I will no longer suffer the consequence of my sin because Christ has dealt with it. I am no longer destined for eternal condemnation. But rather for eternal life, I'm no longer alone and hopeless, beloved and secured in Christ. beautiful benefits of our union with Christ. What else is true here? In addition to these benefits, are also the realities written to us here that some of those benefits are also that we will suffer here. Means we are, in a way, sojourners here. Those who do not belong. Those who are not a part of the world anymore. Those who are cast out to live in tent communities, these aren't our homes, this isn't our world, means we will face the hatred of the world because they hated Christ who is in us. Somehow that's a benefit. But it doesn't sound like one, right? Paul puts it beautifully when speaking to the Colossians. He says this in Colossians 1. 24. Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body. Rejoice in the face of sufferings. That just sounds stupid, doesn't it? Sounds ridiculous. But why can Paul rejoice in sufferings? Did Christ not suffer enough? He's lacking. Of course Christ suffered enough. What is lacking here is what Christ predicted here, that his people too will suffer. So Paul can rejoice because what is his suffering? It is the evidence that he is one of Christ's people His suffering is the evidence that he is sure and safe in the arms of Jesus because as it happens to him, it is an evidence of his union with Christ. But what do we see in that? The hatred of the world is in some way here self-defeating. Because as you, Christian, bear under it, as you face the hatred of this world, For Christ's sake, it is evidence to you that you are united to Him. It is evidence to you that you are His. And that you have all the benefits of his union, that Christ has died for you, that his life and his word are in fact then in you. As you experience these benefits, which don't feel like them, they are evidence to you that you have all of his benefits for you. Here is this call from Jesus. Hold fast in your union. Because as you face the hate of this world, they are signs of your Savior for you. His strength, signs that your Savior lives, signs that your Savior has gone before you and that you are his. You belong to him, and in that so all of his benefits belong to you In it you should hear his Savior speaking. In it, you should hear his Spirit speaking to you. Things like, you belong to Christ. This is what is true for you, he says. Who is the Spirit? He is your advocate. He is your attorney, reminding you that all that you face, they are proofs that you have been called righteous. They are evidence that you have been justified. It's worth a quick note here. If you face no hatred from the world ever, It may be a sign that you are not in it enough, that you don't experience enough of it. Maybe a sign that you are not living out the words and the works of Jesus. It's time to do so. At the same time here, hatred for being a jerk to people, that is not a sign of your union with Christ. It's not a call here to be just obnoxious and upsetting and frustrating to everyone you meet for the sake of it. We need to be wise and discerning in the difference, of course. What is true for you here, Christian, is the call to live out the words and works of Christ. It's the evidence that while you may face hatred for doing it, You stand in your union with Christ, though the experience may be daunting, it should also serve to encourage you To encourage you to see the greatness and truth of your Savior and remind you that you are His. Amen. It's backwards to call benefits these kinds of things. They are, and as we see them, as Christ has put them before us, we know this is true. Let's pray.