Turn with me if you would in your copies of God's Word to Titus 2. It's good to be back. It's great to see you all. I brought my tissue in case I Tear up, try not to look you in the eye. Uh and uh we're telling our children as we're coming in here, ours I think was the first wedding reception in this in this building. But I do remember being here having a little fire out and nothing but green here and Annie didn't even recognize it as we were pulling up because the trees are so large compared to when we were here when we were engaged. But it's great to be with you and to reflect upon God's word. Titus 2. I'm going to read 1 through 10. But as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith and love and in steadfastness. Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good. And so train the young women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind, and submissive to their own husbands. That the word of God may not be reviled. Likewise, urge the younger men to be self-controlled. Show yourselves in all respects to be a model of good works. And in your teaching show integrity, dignity, and sound speech that cannot be condemned, so that an opponent may be put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us. Slaves are to be submissive to their own masters in everything. They are to be well pleasing, not argumentative, not pilfering, but showing all good faith, so that in every thing they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour. For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. Waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness. And to purify for himself a people for his own possession, who are zealous for good works. Declare these things, exhort, and rebuke with all authority, let no one disregard you. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Once upon a time, there was a seminary student who needed to get to school But all he had was an old grand am whose transmission didn't work that well. The way to school was uphill. And if he could just maintain his speed. his car could make it all the way up the hill and he could get to class. But if along the way he had to slow down for someone turning off the uphill road, he would lose momentum and his car wouldn't be able to make it up the hill. What to do? Instead of stalling out, he came up with an ingenious plan. If he was in danger of stalling, going out up the hill, someone's turning in front of him, he would put the car in reverse. Turn around and drive backward up the hill. In reverse. Reverse worked. In this way, the seminary student could make it all the way up the hill and get to class on time. Now, this tale is based on a true story, but some facts have been changed to protect the identity of your pastor. Backwards up the hill. I love the frugality and the perseverance of this story. And it struck me as a fitting metaphor for how we're to continue to grow the church over the next 40 years. As we face various obstacles, people slowing down, people slowing us down, and disturbing our momentum along the way. Point the church to her past, and so gain the necessary power to push up the hill. And we do that by looking back at the Scripture, at our standards, and back at our youth. And how we got to where we are today. So, in order to ascend the hill of the next 40 years as a church, we need to look back at those younger than us and urge them on. I played lacrosse with David and Stephen Coleman in middle school on old Claggett Field, and sometimes I might spend the night over at David's house But a strange thing happened when I did. The family gathered in the living room of their rock ledge, Cape Cod. And Mr. Coleman would ask his sons very tough theological questions, and they would answer him precisely and wisely. I came to find out they were studying a thing called the Westminster Catechism. And this older man, Mr. Coleman, was meeting with the younger men, his sons, and I. and teaching us sound doctrine and encouraging us to have self-control. And this ethos permeated RPCB. And when I would occasionally take a break from my PCUSA Church, United Parish, just up the way, I would find in this church that there were older men. Who were interested in the things of God and interested in this young man. And that was very impactful on my Christian walk These men were not the only ones willing to meet with me and talk to me about the things of God, but they had a robust biblical system of doctrine, and they were a church. Something I knew was going to be important after high school. I needed something more than parachurch ministry. And as it turns out The very features that made RPCB so intriguing and so attractive to me those many years ago are the very things that Paul urges Titus to inculcate in his church. And Paul begins with instructing Titus. So let's listen in to their conversation and gain great insight into how we should function well as a church. And how you have functioned well as a church. Number one, what should we expect from a pastor? As for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine. The pastor is going to be overseeing this process of raising up the next generation. He's going to be communicating this very message to the church. Thank you. Therefore, he must faithfully handle the word of truth Paul is counting on Titus to faithfully convey this. And the more that you hear a pastor say, I know it seems like the Bible says this, but it really means the opposite. Look out. Teach what accords with sound doctrine. To sum up, my recommendation for the next 40 years from this text is full subscription to the Westminster Standards. Your pastors should fully subscribe to the Westminster Standards. The Westminster Standards, if you don't know what they are, they're a systematic summary of what the Bible teaches. They're in the back of your hymnal. And they were compiled by a biblically literate generation in the 1600s, hundreds of pastors. And it was ratified by the British Parliament in 1648. And subscription is signing on to all that. Subscribing Instead of each pastor having to come and say, articulate all that he believes, that everything that the Bible teaches, it's summed up already for us. By a more biblically literate generation, and we sign our name underneath of it. And American Presbyterians have toyed with not doing this. And it was a mistake. D. L. Moody, I think, is a famous example. They asked asked him, um, do you do you agree with the Westminster? Standards, these I I think I've read most of it. Generally, that's not what you're looking for. What you're looking for is sound doctrine careful precision when it comes to rearticulating God's word. And we have that in the Westminster Standards and one easy way for you to assure this and your pastors. Is for subscription. And for someone to be a pastor in this denomination, in our denominations, they have to take a theology exam and they have to state their exceptions to the Westminster And you as a congregation should look into this as a congregation with your future pastors. Even as I was coming in to become a member here. The session was asking me, just a little boy and a member, about these questions of theology from the standards. You should definitely be asking your pastors. And I recommend it because you're going to want officers to fully subscribe to the standards, and your best chance of having them trained is to have a pastor who fully subscribes to the Westman. It means you know where they're coming from with their theology. And he should not merely subscribe to the Westminster, but he should use it. I stopped asking people, even do you subscribe to the Western? I just asked them, do you use it? Teach it. And if these pastors are teaching good doctrine, get as much of it as you can. Do they host a Bible study? You want to be there? Do they host evening worship? You want to be there? Did they teach a Sunday school? Attend it. Do they teach a higher-level course? In seminary? As much as you can handle, listen to it. I've tried unsuccessfully. What should you expect from your pastor's good doctrine? And the way that generally works is subscription to the Westminster Standards. Study them, treasure them as they are a summary of Scripture's doctrine, and stand ready to ask future pastoral candidates about their subscriptions. Or there are their subscription or exceptions. Next point. What older men should be? Here's what the world expects older men to be: ornery, out of touch, old-fashioned, set in their ways. And if that's the case, no wonder people avoid them. Let them hang out with the other older men. But this is what the scripture says they should be. Temperate in their speech. Listen to their temperate speech. They should be calculated, careful, not overblown, not slanderous in their speech That's what they should be. They should be sophranos, saved in mind. Their mind should be saved and should act like it's born again. Semnus, serious, weighted, balanced Grave, a word we've taken out of RBCO, I think, and yet that seriousness is still here and should be here. It's in the scriptures. Semnus. They are to be steadfastly healthy in faith and love. Healthy. They've got good things coming in and good things coming out in their faith and in their love. This is older men we're talking about, those ornery curgens. And this is not only who elders should be, but who all older Christian men should be. If you have been with Christ for an extended period of time, he should have rubbed off on you in this way And we don't make younger men pastors because they haven't gained these habits from long exposure to Christ. And we don't recommend this Titus II model of discipleship unless this is happening. So I want to encourage older men to get together with younger men. But unless the older men are devoting themselves to Christ's likeness, this whole Titus II system of discipleship doesn't work. You're only training the younger men in foolishness. And anger. And even if Paul were successful in convincing older men to spend time around much younger men, it would be of no use if they weren't, in the first place, saved of mind. Self-controlled themselves engrave. Older men, if this isn't who you are, believe in Jesus. He died to redeem you from all lawlessness. Any way in which you aren't these things is lawlessness, and you have become a law unto yourself What you say goes if for no one else than you, oh, rather be redeemed and redeem the time, for it has grown short. Be purified, even as your Lord wishes to purify you for his own possession. You see, eighty-eight is not too late to pursue godliness afresh. And I have seen even this week old fools seeking to maintain their youth through casual t-shirts and childish foolishness. This is not where life and youth are to be found. And the youth are right in front of you. They're in your church. Disciple them. And not with the worldliness of your youth, but with the godliness that comes from long years of tenure in the school of Christ. Some old men give up and they say, I am a dry tree. Not while you have life and breath and walk this earth. You have a job to do. Be purified and disciple those younger than you in the faith. Start with those in your own household and continue from there. Where older women should be heated. Where should older women be heated? Look at Titus 2, verses 4 and 5. And so train the young women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind and submissive to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be reviled. Where? In the home. They say a man's home is his castle. But according to Titus, a man's home is her classroom Now there's been a lot of controversy in conservative Christian circles about women teaching. But here in Titus 2, we should all be able to agree that women should teach. They should certainly teach in the home about these domestic topics and Christian men should be the biggest cheerleaders for women teaching because notice what they're teaching about. Loving husbands and loving children. This is what Paul is telling Titus to tell the older women to do. Tell them to teach the younger women to love their husbands. Why? Why is that the first thing on Paul's mind to have the older women teach? Because he knows husbands are a hot mess. It's going to take a lot of encouragement and teaching just to love those loves. And yet a wife's love for her husband is such a critical building block for the church. Notice the advice isn't. Urge the older women to teach the younger women how to connect and serve in the church. That's easy. Women do that as second nature. Sure, there's gossip which can derail women's fellowship, but Paul addresses that too. Our focus is on the where in the home, in private, about the most intimate topics. that shouldn't be anyone else's business, not even mom's or mother-in-law's. Yet here, Paul says Any older women woman in Christ has free range to take up this topic with younger women. So whether it's older men telling younger men to be self-controlled or older women telling younger women to love their families in the Lord We have commands from the Scripture to cross generational boundaries, even bloodlines to do this. Because this is important. This is the basic work of building the church. And this takes boldness on the part of the older and openness on the part of the younger. And it should go without saying that this is meant to go across generational lines. But we have such a hard time with that. We only want to interact with our peers. Whether it's teens, toddlers, or retirees. When I gave a version of this talk earlier this year at a youth event, I asked them to name some someone younger than them who they would meet with. And they kept saying peers or near peers or just people shorter than them But Paul is talking about crossing generational lines, 20 years younger than you. And you're going to try and say something to them? You're like, I don't even speak Gen Alpha. It doesn't matter. When discipleship should happen. When should discipleship happen? When you're older. When are you older? Look around. Are you older than someone here? Okay. That means it's time. If you're a baby, learn how to take some time to learn how to communicate. We'll wait for you. If you're a baby Christian, take some time to learn the gospel and good doctrine that we spoke of earlier. But other than that, start discipling. Start meeting with younger people. Who should you meet with? Start with the people in your own home and spread out from there. Meet with whoever will meet with you. Jesus teaches us this way as he sends out the 70. Do you remember he said Bless the town, the house that you go into that receives you. And if they don't want you, wipe the dust off your feet. Be on your way. And the Lord, through his providence, will lead you to people who want to meet. Who want to grow in godliness in the things of the Lord. The Lord will lead you to young men who get this, get this, want to grow in self-control. They exist. The Lord will lead you to young women who want to grow in loving their children. And the elders who met with me to disciple me and Bui, um They met with me as they were doing the things that they were already doing. Reading, walking, playing games, being silly or being serious. So, older men, invite younger men to join you in what you're already doing and love doing. And encourage them in self-control along the way. Here at RPCB, when I became a member, the elders set me the task of discipling. I was a relatively young Christian, six plus years, and so they looked around for someone who knew less than me. It was hard to do. They finally found some first graders who were willing to meet with me. And we studied catechism together on Wednesday nights in 2000. Elders, I am still about that business. I haven't stopped. I'm still working with first graders on cadence. I've learned a few lessons. And the catechism, let me talk about that for a second. This is the summary of doctrine that I was talking to you about. And what's interesting about it is it isn't a summa. It isn't one man thinking, what does what are my great thoughts? What is the summary of all great men's thoughts on the Bible? The confession is many great men, many biblically literate men, thinking what does the Bible teach. That's the confession, but then we have the catechisms. Do you notice? You might not even notice they're in question and answer format. They're in a dialogue format. What does that assume That assumes that the older generation that knows the things of God teaches the younger ones as they ask, and then it becomes the older ones who ask the question and get that answer back to them. So again, I commend this mode to you. It is baked into the Bible. It is baked into Presbyterianism. Older generation teaching the next generation. But you're not too young or too old to start doing Titus II in a fresh, new way today. If you see a younger person today, introduce yourself. Ask their name. Ask how you can pray for them. Get to know them and encourage them in the things of God as the Holy Spirit gives you utterance. Put it in one of your prayer, one of the things you pray about each day. Lord, lead me to a conversation with a younger person. Why should the older speak to the younger? Paul encourages Titus, in verse 7, show yourself in all respects to be a model of good works, and in your teaching show integrity, dignity. I don't know how much Titus did that. But I do know how much our Lord Jesus did that. He is our model. He is our example. He was significantly older than the Apostle John, who is thought to be around 13 at the time of his discipleship. And if we look at the story of the temple tax in Matthew 17, 24 through 27, you can look at this this afternoon. Matthew 17, 24 through 27. They come to ask, they say, you know, Jesus, does your master pay the tax? And they're coming to get the tax. It seems that all the disciples are there, but they're only asking for the temple tax from Peter and Jesus. Hmm. Maybe they're the only ones that are old enough to pay the temple tax. And when I first considered this to be the possibility, disciples started making a whole lot more sense to me. Right? And they're always saying, who's the greatest? And they're not getting things, and it reminds me of teenage boys. In the movies, Jesus is largely depicted as the same age as his disciples, or as ageless as a hairy bearded man can be. But Jesus was 30, and John was 13. Jesus was speaking to young men, even as Paul is encouraging the older men to do in Titus. Why speak across generations? Because Jesus did. This is how Jesus built his church. Not by arguing with his peers, but by discipling, teaching. Urging, challenging young men. And that's what we should do too. And look, even if you disagree with me about this hypothesis about Jesus' relative age, the point stands, he was not spending time with his peers. Jesus was infinitely older than the disciples and chose to spend time with them. Chose to endure their games, their jests, their company, their personal habits, their lack of hygiene. He called them friends. You are the much younger disciple in this arrangement. You are the one who needs discipling, needs modeling, needs leadership, needs urging to do the most basic of tasks that you're supposed to do and want to do anyway. And it is the spirit of Jesus that motivates discipleship because that is what he did. This is who he was. This is how he lived discipling. The church began with Jesus discipling, the apostles discipling. And so as you are considering how to apply this truth to your life, if you are in Christ. You must admit that this was done to you on your behalf, if by no one else, then it was done by Christ. He stooped. He condescended to live holiness out before human eyes that you might see and be inspired. And I bet he's not the only one who did that to you. But he's so much more than a model. He did this before you, but he did this to you. If you've been discipled by older men and the older women, that was done through the Spirit of Jesus. And can we try to calculate for a moment how much time the older saints have poured into you? I quickly lose track. And so I know that as a Christian, it is my duty, it is my joy to disciple to. Because Christ the older spoke to younger disciples, so should we too speak to the youngest disciples about the things of God About the way Christians walk applies in the home, in the soul. And we do so with great thanksgiving for all those who have been so bold as to speak into our lives. And as we disciple across generations, looking back to what the Lord has taught us and how He taught us, looking back at the young people that God has placed in our families and in our churches. Let us take up the charge of Paul to Titus. Take off the spirit of discipling Jesus. And just as Jesus gave of himself to purify a people, so we should give of ourselves to disciple people in the purity and righteousness of Jesus. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you for your blessing on this congregation. We thank you for the good doctrine. We bless you for the older men and older women. Who have been so bold as to try to talk to younger men and younger women. And we thank you for the openness of younger men and younger women who have heard them. Fill us with your Spirit, Jesus, that cares across generations, beyond peers. And is so bold and so long-suffering as to endure and delight in those relationships May it mark Reformed Presbyterian Church of Bowie that this is a church that hears and believes and does Titus II. In the Spirit of Jesus, Amen