Many Samaritans from that town believed in him, that's Jesus, because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did So when the Samaritans came to him, Jesus, they asked him to stay with them. And he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you have said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves and we know that this is indeed the Savior. After the two days, Jesus departed for Galilee, for Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own home. So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast. And so Jesus came again to Galilee to Cana in Galilee, where he had made water into wine. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill. When this man heard that Jesus had Had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. So Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs And wonders. You will not believe? And the official said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. And Jesus said to him, Go, your son will live. Believed the word that Jesus spoke to him, and he went on his way. As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. So we asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever left him. And the Father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, Your son. Judea to Galilee. Would that would you pray with me as we approach this word? Heavenly Father, we see here a miraculous work of Jesus A sign of Jesus, the kind of work that Jesus comes and does here amongst the people. So often we're drawn to say, if only we could see That kind of sign, then I would believe. So often we are drawn to desire to call for your power in our moments of crisis and need. Father, may we see here as we approach this word, by the power of your spirit, the miracles which you do The miracles which you have worked through the person of your Son and the work of the Holy Spirit, even here and now. May the truth of this word Even this morning helped bring to us living faith, a faith which leads us to life. It's in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen. We step here into a passage in Scripture. We remember this scripture is old, is it not? Some 2,000 years ago it's written, an ancient passage. But it is one which very clearly speaks to us and our needs today. It's one which speaks to us concerning the ideas of when we desire to see God act. Alongside that desire, the desire to see God act, it draws this very question by nature. Do you believe that God acts? What kind of question is that? We could boil it down to this. Do you have faith? Do you Believe. So often the moments which drive us to God are the moments when we feel like He needs to act. He needs to act for me. Especially do that in moments of crisis, do we not? When does our our culture turn to God? Turn to say, we need faith. It's when we see that we are in great need. It's when we feel like we need a miracle. It's when we realize we have come to the end of our own ability here. We think about the person who has been incarcerated and how often it's that story which may drive someone to a kind of faith. Uh the person who may be on the brink of death. We get a picture of that ego. Even in this very passage. I mean for me, what repeatedly was that moment? It was uh this being the student who forgot that the exam was coming and God, I need a miracle. I need, I have come to the end of my own ability. I need you to do something so that I can make it through this crisis. It's from that place of need that we typically turn to God. And that's especially where we begin to try and make uh or try and do some divine deal-making, right? God, if you will help me get through this test. I will get back on the Bible reading plan. I will catch up and I will stay faithful to it. God, if you bring me through this need, then I will believe in you. Then I will trust in you. Now God, if you take care of what I see that is desperately needed here. I mean then I will really know who you are, and I then will really trust in you. We have a propensity to come to God in these hours of need, with this sudden conviction of faith. But how often is it that that need for God as it passes, suddenly our sensation of need for Him also passes. That not a common sensation. That as soon as uh the sudden surge of faith concludes, our faith suddenly dwindles And it feels like we don't quite need it as much. And along with that reality comes this question, if faith can just dissipate that quickly, my feeling of this need for God, I mean was it really ever Faith at all? Was that faith meaningful at all? That kind of experience should draw us to question and ask, what is Faith really? What really is faith? And the author of Hebrews gives for us a kind of definition in Hebrews 11:1. It's that famous passage. Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped. For the conviction of things not seen. And so often, though, we associate what we know, what we can have faith with, with what we can see. Do we not? That reality is actually even ingrained into the kind of metaphors and language that we use day by day. What is that common phrase about belief? I will believe it when I See it. Oh, there you go. It's actually baked into even uh metaphors we may not see so quickly. We may not realize so quickly. I could say, do you see what What I am saying, and what am I asking? Asking, do you know? Do you understand what I'm saying? Are you beginning to believe what I'm saying? We have captured into linguistically this idea that seeing is believing. And Jesus actually acknowledges that kind of human phenomena in this passage. If you look at verse 48, what does he say to the people? Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. Jesus is calling out that idea, right? You feel like you need to see The signs and the wonders, and then you will believe. We often internally tether our ability to trust something, our ability to see that thing Have you ever thought about how we do that? And now what is the problem with that? With making faith just something that's based in that idea? It seems like a reasonable prospect, right, to believe what it is. That you can see. And it is a good way to gain some kinds of knowledge. Seeing is a good way to begin to understand some kinds of things. But here's the problem. that Jesus is getting at when he says that line. Today the things which you know most truly, the things which you have your deepest conviction About the things which rest in the very foundation of your being, are the things that you turn to in those moments of crisis. I mean, they can't be the kinds That's a good point here to remind us of what it is that John the author is doing with this whole gospel. The reason that he has written this book particularly, he tells us in John chapter 20. In John chapter 20, verse 31, he tells us this: these are written, this whole book is written, so that you may believe So you may have faith that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name The kind of faith that John is driving us to, that he wants us to have, it's the kind that isn't just what you know by seeing, it's the kind which can bring life. He wants us to believe, to have faith in what it is that Jesus has done, so that we might have life in his name And Jesus' claims, what he does here in John chapter 4, it brings us very closely to this idea. What is faith really? What is it to believe? And the question which John leads us here today is this What is it that I have put my faith in What do I put my faith in? One of the ideas that we can hear from the culture around us is just the idea that faith is unnecessary. That you don't need faith. Some will say faith is a crutch for those who just can't handle the truth which we all can see. Let me offer Jesus is going to show us here in this passage. We all have faith in something. We just may not quite realize where our faith lies. The things which I entrust my heart to? What do I have real hope in? What do I ground my faith in? I mean, often for that, it's I look to this person. I look to that relationship with that person. I look to my bank account, of course. What is it that Morgan Stanley has to say about my security today? My attractiveness I've given up on that one. You probably have not done. The question is one which we need to be able to answer because when crisis comes, what is When the test of faith comes, what do I have hope and trust in? John is willing to help us answer that. truth today and what he's going to show us is this true faith comes not in seeing the power but in receiving the word And true faith comes not in seeing the power, but in receiving the word. We're going to walk through that idea idea today, uh, through three Points. Three points, and they're this. First, a fabrication of faith. We're gonna see a broken faith, a false faith, a made-up faith, the kind of faith which will fail. A second, we're gonna see a testing. Of faith, how it is that faith addresses the crisis and the problems. And finally, this a life of faith. The faith that life leads to Point number one, a fabrication of faith. Think with me about this. This story comes very intentionally right after a meeting, which is very famous in the Gospels. It's the meeting between Jesus and the woman at the well in Samaria. Jesus was traveling from Judea to Galilee, and as he passes through, he comes through Samaria, and there's this famous encounter where Jesus meets the woman at the At the well. And Jesus asks her for some water. And that brings up this whole conversation where Jesus tells the woman that he is one who offers living water. And Jesus begins to be able to do that. Begins to tell her about how the times are changing, the world is changing because the Spirit is coming. Jesus tells her that He is one who offers a new kind of water, living water. And Jesus even then begins to tell this woman about herself, that she cannot find life in the places she is going to. And there's this metaphor there. She acknowledges day after day, I go to this well because I need water to live. In a physical sense, that is true. True. Water is needed for life. But there's this metaphor behind it that Jesus is playing with because he knows, yes, you come to this well day after day for life. But where have you gone pursuing what will give you? Well he knows it. He says, Where is your husband? And she says, I have five husbands. husbands and Jesus is pointing out to her where has she gone to pursue the sensation of life in this life? Well it's to these men. These men Who cannot actually satisfy the life that she is looking for. And it's from there that Jesus says, I can provide you. With that life. I provide you with living water. I know where you have been going for life. And you need to come to me because I offer From there the woman goes out to the people of her town to tell them all about what Jesus has done, what he has said, and we see that in verse 39. That many Samaritans from the town Believed in Jesus because of the woman's testimony. She says, He told me all that I ever did. And the people listen to that and they respond. Verse 40. So when the Samaritans, these people who she's talked to, Come to Jesus, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his words. And they said to the woman, It's no longer just because of what you have said that we believe. For we have heard for ourselves and we know indeed that this is the Savior of the world. We get this initial picture Of what it is for faith to begin, for faith to develop, for faith to be born. Who are these people? They are Samaritans. They are not predisposed to trust in a Jewish Messiah. We know from the culture and from the stories, there is supposed to be animosity here between Jesus and Jesus and these people, there is supposed to be on their part a rejection of a Jewish Messiah. But the people here have come to him in faith. How is that? Why is that? Notice their faith here is not irrational. No, they come and they investigate Jesus. They want to hear from him to hear out who Jesus is to learn what he has done and may develop this new conviction and what is the conviction about It's about who Jesus is. They see, hear, and identify. Jesus, we now know you are the savior of the world. Okay, now it's with those two days, and this coming to faith in the background that we approach this story. And John brings us here very intentionally to a contract. Story. A different kind of faith. Look with me at verse 43 here. After those two days, Jesus departed for Galilee. Galilee. There's some oddity here in how these verses come together. Did you pick up on And we see immediately this proverb, a prophet has no honor in his hometown. And John inserts that here in Intentionally to emphasize this distinction that we're going to see. This distinction, Jesus says, a prophet has no honor in his hometown. What's that being contrasted with? Well, the Samaritans see and they receive and they honor Jesus. They believe and begin to have faith. In him. They see this person is the Savior of the world. And the question then is: Jesus is going back to his own people. How will they receive him? Will they honor him? Jesus chooses to go back to Galilee and he arrives. The response of the people appears on the service to be somewhat honorable. Right? They all come out to receive him, to greet him. Oh, Jesus, we have thrown this welcoming party for you as you arrive back home. So that's you a little at odds with the proverb. Well here's what we have to notice. Why do they receive him? Why has the welcoming party come out? Verse 45. The Galileans welcomed him having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast. This is a reference back to John chapter two. Where Jesus is at the feast in Jerusalem, and all the Jewish people have gathered to get there. And in John chapter 2, we get this other odd statement. The very end of the feast. John chapter 2, verse 23. You may remember it. We get this word from John the author. And when Jesus was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name. When they saw the sign. That he was doing. That sounds good on the surface, right? They're beginning to believe in him. But Jesus, on his part, did not entrust himself to them because he knew knew all people needed no one to bear witness about man. Why there do the people receive Jesus? Why do they honor him? Why do they come out with the welcoming party? It's for the sake of the Son. Which they have seen him do. The reason have come the people have come out to see Jesus is because they want to see the signs. They want to see the wonder and the magic, the power on display. I think about the reasons why they should believe in Jesus and then what their motives are here instead. Do they come out to honor Jesus for who he truly is, what he's claimed to be? Do they believe in him? As Savior of the world? Do they have faith in all that He has said He is? Well, that's not what we're told here, is it? No, they've come out to see Jesus because of the circumstances. Act that they want. To them, he's like an entertainer. He's not the object of their faith here. No, they're just kind of objectifying him. Jesus, what can you give us now? Show us the signs, show us the power, do something for us. The people have come out to make trivial withdrawals out of the apparent bank of Jesus' magic power. What are the things which Jesus said he is? Jesus said, I am the Word of God. Think about the Jewish response to that. Well We have the Word of God already in the Old Testament, so we don't really need to hear what you have to say, Jesus. And Jesus has told them, I am the true temple. We know the response to that. We have a great temple. We've been building it for 80 some years. We don't really need a new temple, Jesus. Jesus says, I bring new temple Birth. What's the response? Well, the people like their birth, their heritage. We're pretty happy as the sons of Abraham. We don't want to mess that up with a new birth here. There's no reception of Jesus for who he is. No, they just receive him for the displays of power. We don't really need you, Jesus, for who You are. We just need the miracles and the power. And there we see how any semblance of faith that is shown by the people is a mere fabrication. That's not the kind of faith that is going to hold up. This kind of belief, just a desire for the power, it is broken in and of its We know that on the surface of it because the displays of Jesus' power, they were never just miraculous displays of power for the sake of it. No, they were revelations of who Jesus was. The point of the miracles is so that the people will know who Jesus is, but they are just busy in awe and wonder at the miracles. They're just here for the signs. When we just come for the power, we don't receive the person, we fail to see the true miracle of faith at all. Does that not encapsulate so well exactly the problem, the brokenness of the kind of faith which can come for just a moment seeking the power? Seeking the answer to the immediate need. But then is just a faith which disappears as soon as the need disappears A faith based merely on the displays, seeing the displays of power. That is a fabrication of faith. And yet we are a attracted to, we're drawn into. We want that. We often want not necessarily a Jesus who is a savior, but a Jesus who could be just a helper in the times of Needs. We want a Jesus who comes with the power to help in the moment of need and who will then just go on his merry way as soon as our uh apparent desire for that need is over. As soon as we feel like, hey Jesus, we don't quite need you anymore. You can go do your thing again. A faith is not just the power to fix your immediate problems. A relationship may have the ability to get you out of the sorrow of the past. A money may have the ability to fix a quick problem. But faith is not just about Finding a powerful solution to the problem at hand. No matter how prone we are to treating it as such, it's a fabrication of faith. But that doesn't mean faith has nothing to say to the problems. Join me here in our second point, a testing of faith. Point number two, a testing of faith This story continues and it does bring us to a problem. It brings us to a particular problem. We see in verse 46 here. As Jesus came to Cana and Galilee, the place where he had made the water wine. He's at Capernaum, where there was an official whose son was ill. And when this man, this official, had heard that Jesus Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for his son was at the point of death. As we read through that story, there's a lot of action, there's a lot of things happening. Jesus has come to Cana and this official, this father, this ruler, he hears that Jesus has come to Cana, and so he comes. Down to Cana. And he implores Jesus. He charges him. He says, Jesus, I need you to act. Jesus, I need you to come down to my home because my son is at the point of death. If there was ever a test of faith, and of course this is the kind of moment which will try your faith, this is such a A deep personal point of crisis. My son is about to die. This if there's ever a time where that need would be felt to ask for Jesus Jesus' power, to ask for Jesus to do something. Of course, here it is. But then what does Jesus do? What is it that Jesus Jesus does in response to this request. Does he come down? Does he bust out the magical storm of power here with the people gathered around? No what Jesus appears to do. He turns around and gives a little kind of sermon. Jesus looks at the people who have come for the show and he tells them this unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. The use here, their plural use. He's saying you all. He's talking about all the people who have gathered. What is their mentality? Unless you see the signs and wonders, then you will not believe. And Jesus is calling out to all the people around, you all think faith is just about the power. And put yourself into the shoes of this father for a moment. Imagine his response to that. You can imagine there's probably some hurt, there's some frustration to that response from Jesus. Because it feels like Jesus is disregarding him. It feels like Jesus is turning away and abandoning, neglecting this great need. It seems like Jesus has no interest in saving this dying boy. It seems like uh Jesus just can't be good if he doesn't want to save the boy. A good Jesus, a good God is going to save that which is in need. Right? And the man presses in one more time. Verse 49. Sir, come down before my child dies. Something particular. About the way the man says that. What the man really says there, he says, curios, Lord, Lord, come down for my child. There's at least some kind of sense, some recognition about who Jesus is. Lord. And Jesus Jesus turns back to him, he responds, verse 50. Go, your son will live. The man is imploring Jesus to act. Jesus, you need to come. Come and do something. Come down to my home. My son is going to die. Jesus, go to see my son. And Jesus turns to the man, he looks at me and he says, You go. Why don't you go? You go for your son Will live. It's here, it's at this point that we see this incredible test of faith and this great crisis of life. The man really has two options as Jesus has spoken this word before him. What are they? He can go home in disbelief. Defeated, broken, that Jesus just has not come. Jesus apparently has not acted. Or on the other hand, he can go home believing Believing, trusting the words which Jesus has spoken. Verse 50, how does it go? Jesus says, Go, your son will live. And the man What does the man do? He chooses to believe the words of Jesus. By all appearances, by anything we can see, it seems that Jesus has not acted with any kind of power. Or has he? It's on his way home. The servants inform him someone has acted. Something has happened. He's on his journey home and he's going down. His servants met him and told him that his son Was recovering. Something here has happened. Because the sun is recovering. What is it that has happened? What is the miracle. You see, something much grander, much more ra miraculous than just the healing of a sick boy has happened. What would have been the situation here if Jesus had just gone down to the home and done the magic for everyone? I just healed the boy. Sure, they may have believed in the moment, as all these people do when they see the signs that Jesus has the power. Yes, the boy would have been healed from his physical ailment. But those realities, they are trivial in comparison to what Jesus really does here. The Father responds to his Servants how. Verse 52. So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour, the The fever left him. And the father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, Your Son will live. And he himself believed And all of his household. What has happened here? Jesus has acted, for Jesus has spoken. And yes, this son here, he is spared from physical death. The power does come in some sense for some time in that moment Way. But the miracle here that truly happens is beyond compared to that. As the man, the son, the whole household, what happens to all of them. They believe in the person of Jesus Christ. That the death of this son is not merely postponed to a future point, some maybe 50 years down the road, but they He and his father and his family. They are spiritually raised from the dead. For what kind of people are they now? They Are those who believe that they here have received true and living faith? That is the miracle, friends. We may have thought for a moment: Christ doesn't seem to care about dying boys or this father when he seemed to do nothing But what is the truth? Christ cared so much that he is not satisfied with just bringing temporary physical restoration. No, he came to bring no New and true and everlasting life. And how does this testing of faith play out here? The Father goes home, not disappointed that he Has not yet seen the work fulfilled, but rather trusting in faith in the Word, in the Word made flesh, in the person of Jesus. How is this all possible? How is this possible? Join me in point three here, a life of faith. How is it possible that such a miracle Miracle has happened. Jesus, God come in the flesh, he descends to earth, and he speaks And what does he bring? Yes, along with his speech and his acts in his life come displays of power. But what does Jesus bring? Spring. What does John say about Jesus as he began this book? It says that Jesus, he is the word. He is the word become flesh. And what has John shown us again and again that the word does it's that he brings life how is that A faith is not irrational, but it does shock and awe us sometimes. Because Jesus brings life by death. You see, there is a son in this story who does die. There's a son in this story who dies, and who is it? Jesus. Brings life by becoming the son in this story who dies. Think with me about it. Who is Jesus? Jesus. Think about the characters at play. He is the Son of God the Father, and he was not sick, and he was not dying, but he was He chooses to come down to this earth, a broken earth where he lives a perfect life. He chooses to walk in perfect faith, always trusting his enemy Father, always walking in faith. And John the author has been showing us, reminding us, that Jesus is moving somewhere. Jesus is moving where? John tells us towards his hour. One word Jesus will not be spared from death and its consequences. One where he will face all the penalty of our faithlessness and our sin. And all so that he can do what miracle. A fix your immediate moment of apparent need. Repair just the present cracks in your life No, it is so that by faith you can have true, everlasting life in Him We often buy into the peddled lie that seeing is believing. We do that in the forms of assuming that real miracles are the ones which we We can see with our eyes the spontaneous physical healing, the sensation of the supernatural. What we don't see uh that often is In this life are those things what appear, what we see as supernatural. So we begin to think as we buy into that life, I mean maybe God just does Don't do miracles today. Maybe Jesus just isn't presently powerful here and now. Maybe faith is just a fabricated wish. But what is the truth here? That Christian, you are a miracle. The miracle which takes true faith is what? It's that you who are once dead in your trespasses in the And sins. You who had not a beating heart, but a heart of stone, you who were destined for eternal death. Work of Christ's Spirit, which John has promised and pointed us to again and again, through that miraculous work, you have been Regenerated. You have been given a heart of flesh, and you are destined for eternal life in his heavenly home. Is that not what God promised to his people? Think of our Old Testament reading, that we find a kind of people Who are fabricating faith in false idols, who have abandoned their God, who have lived in all the kinds of sins which we live in Into and who have been scattered, who are by all appearances spiritually dead. What is the promise that God gave them in Ezekiel 11:19? I will give them one heart, a new spirit I will put in them, I will remove their heart of stone from their flesh, and I will give them A heart of flesh. That is the kind of miracle which Jesus is doing here in this story and which he is doing day by day here in this world today, and which he, Christian, has done for you. You. The miracle is a promise which has been given to you here by his word Now I know you can't see with your eyes necessarily this miracle as you walk this life, but that is because it isn't just a part I know it is a miracle of faith. It is a miracle of faith. The miracle is a promise which has been given to you here By his word, here in this age. What do we know about this age? That it isn't particularly the time for seeing, but it's an age Age for walking. It's an age for walking. Now think about the Father in this story. What does Jesus say to him? He says, Go home. Walk back home And there you will see that your son lives. It's a call to receive and trust the word of promise from Jesus. And how then does the Father Walk. How does he walk back home? He hasn't seen the power on display yet. He walks by faith. He walks Along this way home. And as he goes on his way home, I mean he receives words of promise. He hears of the truth that Jesus has acted That life does await him at home. But he doesn't see it until he arrives. Christian, what is this life for you? What is this for you? life to you, but a long walk to our heavenly home where you will receive true and everlasting life. Life which you've received, but there it's when you will see it. One in which Christ has told you, here in this walk in this life, I have true and eternal life for you. you. This is a life in which you receive along the way promises from his word, promises of this truth. It's a life in which you don't necessarily get to see with your physical eyes all that Christ is doing. But it is a life in which we are on a long walk. Home. And it makes sense in that walk that we don't see all the miracles that are happening yet. Because in this age, we walk like that Father. We walk by faith. We walk trusting not in the power which we have seen, but in the promised word which we have received. Walk by faith, not by sight. Is that not what is promised to you? This reality isn't necessarily easy. I recognize that. We don't get to see It all yet, and we want to see it. As we conclude, I want to fast forward in John for a moment here. Back at the very start, we acknowledged that John tells us why he wrote this story. It's so that we could hear the word and believe. I want to look at that passage for a moment. If you have your Bible, turn with me to John chapter. 20. Let's start a little before that passage in verse 24. It's a story you're probably familiar with. At this point in the gospel, Jesus has resurrected from the dead. But there's a particular disciple who hasn't yet seen Jesus. John 20, verse 24. Now Thomas, one of the twenty 12, called the twin, was not with the other disciples when Jesus came. So the other disciples to hold him, we have seen the Lord Lord. But Thomas said to them, Unless I see, unless I see in his hands the marks of the nails, and place my finger into the marks of the nails What is Thomas saying? He's saying, I haven't seen the power, so I just cannot bring myself To believe. Verse 26. Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. And although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here, see my hands, put out your hand and place it in my side. You're not this believe, but believe. It's a challenge, is it not right here? Thomas, let's call your bluff. You really need to touch? Did you really need to see? How does Thomas respond. Something a little reminiscent to our story here. Thomas answered him, my Lord and my God. Sound familiar? My Lord. Now follow along with me here. Verse 29. Jesus responds to him: Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believed. And now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written. In this book, but these ones are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. Christian, what has Jesus said? Blessed are you who do not see, but who believe You are blessed in this reality here. You are blessed, for you have something so powerful to help you believe. What does John bring us right to here? You have this book. You have his word. You have his word of promise. A word which you have received from God One which you have by faith in Jesus, a one by which you have faith in Jesus, a word by which you receive every time that you read it. promise of Jesus' word that you have life in his name. Christian, would you treasure that truth? Would you treasure his word as you Trust in his name. Have not just a wish for the power, but a desire to receive his word, to follow his word, trust in his Word as you walk the path of this life. As Jesus said to Thomas, this life is not for seeing, but what? For believing in his name. And it's by believing that we have this promise of the life to come. Amen. May we hope and trust and have faith in the work of Jesus for that life. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we see here a promise of life. Is that not what we all want? The good life, the true life? Through your son, you promised that. Your son has acquired that through his life, and also through his death, his resurrection Father, we don't see all the displays of power that we may want here in this life. But you have given us the power of the promise of your word. Jesus is one who comes to this earth and who speaks. And we have his speech, we have his words. We trust in those truths. May we embrace those truths as your spirit brings them to us and illuminates them to us as we walk by faith. Faith in this world, faith which we walk in as we look forward towards the life which you have promised to us in our everlasting life. Home. May our faith never be in the things which we can see, the promises that we want from this earth, Father. May our faith be in the person and the work of Jesus Christ, our rock in our salvation. So it's in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen.