Hear now the word of the Lord. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among the Saints. Let there be no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or who is covetous, that is, an idolater, has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ. And God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore, do not become partakers with them. For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of the light. For the fruit of the light is found in all that is good and true, good and right and true. And try to discern what is pleasing. to the Lord. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them, for it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret. But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible. For anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time because the days are evil. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit. Addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always, and for everything to God the Father In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. As we prepare to take some time and to dig More deeply into these words, this portion of Paul's letter to the Ephesians. Let's go before God in prayer and ask him to help us. Heavenly Father, we confess that as your word says we are blinded by our sin, we suppress the truth of your word in sin. When we come to a passage like this that That makes it hard, that is very clear about the darkness of sin and the light into which you've called us. Tempting to shield our eyes to retreat into the darkness and the blindness that our sin can cause. And so we ask you to, by your spirit, enable us to hear. Enable us to hear this passage and be corrected by it, confronted by it as we need to. And may you do that great work always of using your word, which ultimately is all pointing us to Jesus Christ. In our delight in Him. Grow us in our understanding of His beauty. His full revelation of you. Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, last uh weekend, um most of my family, well, our family was not here because most of our family was at the Labor Day retreat out at Camp Henlock in uh West Virginia. It's a beautiful camp, a bit rustic, but uh you get used to the spiders and the critters climbing over you at night as you're sleeping in the dark. One of the highlights of the trip, not the rusticness, but is uh what we do on Saturday night. Every year we go, we we play Mission Impossible. And it's called that because it's meant to be an impossible challenge. Challenge for the campers. Here's the way it goes. We about 9 o'clock at night, it's all dark, and we turn out all the lights in the camp. And then the counselors go out into the woods armed with flashlights. Then we camp out and wait. Till we hear a rustling, until we hear someone passing by, maybe see a shadow fleet before us. And only when we've heard or seen something can we flick on that light, say, gotcha. They have a little ticket they're trying to get to the end of the the woods into the field and we have to take that from them and send them back to go grab another ticket. You kids who've done this right, you young people, you know how torturous this is. It truly is mission. impossible most of the time. This year we went out there and it was so dark. And it was so dark because there was cloud cover. You don't have any of those lights of the stars shining. None of none of those possible. And so I was climbing through the uh the the woods and uh I was supposed to uh stake out by the creek and I heard tons of kids go in the creek into the creek and go right past me and I did not want to go into the creek or get too close to the creek because it was so dark and there was a steep bank and I didn't want to fall. You're not allowed to like shine your way to your spots because you might happen upon a camper and you're not allowed to catch them that way. You can only catch them if they make themselves So I was out there stumbling around in the dark, and I learned a couple things. First of all, it's striking how darkness is dispelled by so little light. You know, the moon. We talk the light of the moon. It's not nearly as light as the sun, but it can brighten up in the evening. I didn't have that. I was using a weird little red light flashlight, which is very dim and doesn't provide a lot of light, but Uh that's all you really needed to get around. Even a very dim light can help. Every now and then I turn it on to try to find my way, but turn it off very quickly. I didn't want to Break the rules too much. And um what I also noticed is that when you're in the dark, turn on the light. Darkness is dispelled. You can see things for a moment. But when you Turn off the light, the darkness gets that much darker. It's worth thinking of this reality. Light and darkness, it's something we're all very familiar with. We've had our own experiences of it, and we're We get the metaphors that you can build around it. And it's important for us to have that in our mind as we come to this passage because that is the metaphor. This is the reality of light and darkness, is what Paul invokes here as the image. To contrast the darkness of a life in sin outside of Christ and the light of walking as Christ followers in the glory of his research. Now here in Ephesians, we've moved from the first half of Ephesians, where Paul is just glorying in the good news of the gospel primarily. With some application points along the way. Now he's no longer in the same way glory in the gospel of grace. He's now thinking about how that grace should guide. A life lived in that grace. And specifically, he's calling the Ephesians and he's calling us as the church to what we would call new obedience. I don't know if you've heard that. That term. New obedience is obedience that is not based on the law. Trying to do what the law says to earn something To find the blessing that we might find through it, to make the lawgiver happy. New obedience is obedience that flows out of gratitude for already being put in right relationship with God. That's why that is the kind of obedience that we strive for as those who follow Christ. We don't need old obedience. Christ is then all that we need for our salvation, but we do need new obedience, call to live out a life of gratitude by living in accordance with what God has called us to. In Jesus Christ. Paul's already done this with the new the image of the new birth, showing that coming to recognize our sin, repent of it, believe in Jesus, and follow him is nothing less than a rebirth, a new life. He's talked about that in the earlier part of chapter, well, in chapter four. Here he's using a different image. And the image is that coming to faith in Jesus Christ is like coming out of darkness to what? This is actually the same image Paul uses in Colossians chapter 1, where he says, he's talking about the gospel. There he's in the first half of Colossians. He's glory in the gospel, and he says, the gospel can be summarized like this. He doesn't say that, I say that. What Paul's doing is summarizing the gospel. He says, the Father has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us. To the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. So, how do we live in the light of Christ's kingdom? That's what Paul is answering here in Ephesians chapter 5, verses 3 to 21. And here he exhorts the Ephesians, and he exhorts us through the Ephesians. is showing us how to live in light of this great transfer from the domain of darkness to the kingdom. And there are only two points here this morning, because Paul only makes two points. I make three points when Paul makes three points. Two points not. Paul had two big points in his book. But anyway, the two points are these. How do we live in the light of the great redemption that God has wrought for us in Christ? How do we live in the light of Christ's kingdom? And it's in two ways. First by vocab lesson. I know we we love this, don't we? It's the perfect word though. Eschewing the darkness. E-S-C-A- H E U, I mean E W. Issue. What does that mean? That means uh deliberately avoiding, abstaining from, abandoning, leaving behind We eschew the darkness and we engage the light. And those are the two points. How do we do this? So, first of all, we eschew the darkness. How do we do this? Well, Paul gives us a couple ways. First of all, he indicates that we need to be able to discern the darkness' character, first of all. We need to discern its character. We can't eschew something we don't know what it is. So he tells us exactly how to recognize it. How to identify it. He outlines the darkness of sin. And he shows us here in this passage that sin is both outward deeds and inward desires or motivations. They're all encompassing. And he he shows that in verse 3, right at the at the beginning. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you. As is proper among the saints. How do we eschew the darkness by discerning its character? And its character is both outward and inward. And those those are captured, those ideas are captured in those three terms: sexual immorality. This is uh from the Greek porneia, from which we get pornography. It's a very broad term encompassing all kinds of sexual sin, sexual behavior that that is outside of what's appropriate in the context of marriage. And you need to say that. You need to say that there even within marriage where God has designed sexuality to be sexuality to be enjoyed to be a great gift, a great blessing, it's God's. He made it. Of it. He delights in it. But even within marriage, there are immorality that can occur. So when we do premarital counseling, so often the question arises: is there anything that's off limits? And the answer is But outside the context of marriage, it's all sexual immorality. And then Paul begins to make this move, a broadening it. So sexual immorality is some very outward behavior, very outward acts. We do this with our bodies. Um even though it may be driven by imminent motivations, but in any sense impurity. In a sense, this broads it even broadens it even further. Not just Sexual immorality. It's any kind of impurity. And impurity, as soon as we hear that, it's it's something that is not just outward, but it's also inward. So this bridges bridges the two poles. And then third and finally, covetousness. Wow. That's heart. That's desire. That's something very inward. It could be translated greed. It's interesting because some churches tend to emphasize The sinfulness of the outward act, the outward sexual behavior, while maybe not worrying as much about things like greed, as long as it's motivating good hard work. On the contrast, you have other church contexts where the greed is always recognized to be associated, or so often recognized to be associated with injustice and uh abuse of power and such, and yet sometimes the outward behavior, hey, if it's done in love. Is uh allowed. Paul says, no, no, this is all part of the darkness from which we've been called, which we are to issue. Avoid, abstain from, abandon. As Paul goes on, he shows that sin is not just in what we do, but it's even in little things we can say. Verse four, let there be no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanks. Giving. It's not to say we can't tell jokes. Not to say that we can't enjoy some humor, maybe even satire. But we need to think about what we're doing. We need to recognize where there can be real ingratitude expressed. In wry statements noting irony, in some way, maybe even subtly accusing God for the effects. of his providence. I think Dario. Filthiness. Oh yeah, of course not. Crude joking, yeah. We recognize. Foolish talk? Hmm. Well, like covetousness, one that we probably at some point can all recognize in ourselves. Of course, these are just summaries of sin's darkness, but they give us a good picture. They kind of give us a range of what it looks like so we can begin to discern its character. They're a good picture, but we can fill it out a little bit more. We could fill it out by turning over to Colossians chapter 3. Colossians in many ways is a parallel book to Ephesians 5. Echoing a lot of the same ideas. And so the parallel passage in Ephesians 3, I mean to Ephesians 5 is in Colossians 3, verse 5. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you. So there's another way to describe The darkness of sin. What is earthly? Sexual immorality? Oh, that's the same one we just saw in our passage. Impurity, same one we just saw in our passage. Passion. Evil desire, covetousness, the same one we just saw in our passage, which is idolatry, the same point he makes in Ephesians 5. On account of these, the wrath of God is coming, and these two uh you two once walked when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away. Anger Wrath, malice, slander, obscene talk from your mouth, lie to one another, seeing that you put off the old self with its practices. And Paul acknowledges here that this list isn't exhaustive, right? Not only do we look over at Colossians and say, oh, this list can be expanded, but Paul even seems to indicate that it can be expanded to things that he doesn't even want to make mention of, verse 11. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them, for it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret. Nowadays a lot of things that were one day done in secret are being brought out into the open, and yet there are still things too dark. That even those engaged in them know that they need to be as hidden as possible. So to eschew sin's darkness, we need to discern its character. Be honest about where we see it, where we might be drawn to it, where we might be tempted by it, where we might need to eschew. it in our own lives and the lives of those around us. Second of all, we need to learn to dread its consequences. And Paul doesn't mince words here as he lays out where the darkness of sin leads, and he does so to warn, to warn God's people. Look at verse 5. He says, for you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or who is covetous, the same three words, C Just mentioned. That is an idolater. See, it's not just the Old Testament people who are idolaters. Idolatry comes from a covetous heart, a longing to have things and love things in the world in the place of God. That is idolatry. These have no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Wow. We're called, be transferred from the domain of darkness into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. But these things have No place, no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Well, at least it's only mentioned this one little place in the Bible. So maybe we can find A way to get ourselves off the hook of this warning, the consequences of sin. No, Paul says pretty much the same thing, different words, different languages. But with the same point. 1 Corinthians 6, 9 to 11. Galatians 5, 21. Then all the way at the end of the Bible, Revelation 21, 8, 22, 15. It just says the same thing. And I think the picture Paul and the other writers who reference this want us to see is they want us to see The kingdom of God for the wonder it is, then recognize that it's these kinds of things that keep us out. You know, the picture is of Maybe you can imagine this being on the cold in a cold night of winter in the darkness in freezing cold rain. It's not the winter of snow which is lovely and beautiful. Beautiful and bright. The winter of rain, cold, dank, dreary, and you're outside freezing, and yet you're looking in on a cozy, dry family cuddled up around a fire A couch with blankets. It's that kind of longing and desire that we would have if we rightly recognize the kingdom of God. And it's that kind of picture of being kept out. that Paul paints for us here in describing the darkness and the dread of its consequences. But he he goes on. He goes on and uh he he he addresses something else. You know it's interesting. I I think the uh uh the idea here Paul wants us to see is the to to recognize the glory and life and beauty and The unimaginable wonder and glory. Revelation talks about the kingdom of God is glittering gold and precious jewels, and the one thing that will keep us out is being left in our sin. And yet this image of sin's consequences may not be enough to bring dread. And I think Paul addresses that as we look on to verse 6, because verse 6 goes with verse 5. He after saying this will uh has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ, I think Paul anticipates somebody saying, Eh, I don't know if I want an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ. Or it really can't be that bad, can it? Let me No one deceive you with empty words. For because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Many today get uncomfortable. You walk into church and you hear mention Of the wrath of God. Yet the Bible, Jesus himself, speaks of the wrath of God quite often Jesus describes suffering the wrath of God as being in a place where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. This is a refrain in Jesus' life and ministry and teaching. And it's not because Jesus delights in this. As a thing in itself, per se. Although he delights in the justice. He delights in the ways in which that shows God's justice in condemning sin. him. But it's not that he or we are to delight in judging others, but it's meant to ward and motivate people. To dread the consequences of sin, to do whatever we can to escape the darkness of sin and find a way into this glorious kingdom of light, the kingdom of Christ. It's to help motivate us to escape sin in the world, to eschew the darkness of sin. As Paul exhorts us in verse 7: therefore do not become partakers of the darkness With them. Note the idea here is not to leave the world altogether, not to engage ourselves. Instead, the idea here is he's saying, don't Engage yourself with the darkness in the world. Don't be overcome by it. And don't let it come into the church. Paul, uh in a a passage that echoes in many ways, I think, what Paul is saying in verse seven. He expands on this in First Corinthians five, where he's addressing a situation in the church where there is the same word that we just had in our our passage, sexual immorality that is being tolerated in the church. And he says it's of such a kind that even pagans don't tolerate it. And he says in verse 9 of chapter 5 of 1 Corinthians, I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people. You say, well, how can I do that? I can't exist in the world. Paul recognizes this. He says, not At all meeting the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy and swindlers or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of this world. But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother. If he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, swindler, not even to eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? So eschew the darkness, discern its character, dread its consequences. Let's apply this first point a bit. As we saw in 1 Corinthians 5, I think what Paul is saying here in verse 7 is not that we spend don't ever spend time with unbelievers, even very sinful unbelievers. There's nothing wrong with doing that. In fact, we should. The whole New Testament expects us to be in the world, though not of the world. Jesus calls us to. Interacting with believers. How can they see our hope and ask about it, as Peter says in 1 Peter 3, if we're not with them, if we're not engaging with them? And yet we're to maintain the distinction of darkness and light even as we go out into a very dark world. And more specifically, we're I think specifically Paul i has the idea here in verse 7 in mind of not having fellowship. Partners, it's like uh fellow friends or something like that. Um the idea there is not uniting with them in the body of Christ. Not having fellowship with sons of disobedience as the people of God. Second Corinthians chapter six. Um I think gets at this uh this reality uh even more clearly maybe it where it says in verse fourteen, Do not be uh unequally yoked with unbelievers and that's it, the the yoking with unbelievers for what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness, what fellowship has And he goes on to say that it's his image is the one of the temple not being contaminated by bringing sin. In. That's the idea. Practical implications for this. How do we how do we do this? How do we heed Paul's warning there in verse 7 to eschew the darkness by not being united to it, not being unequally yoked. One very practical way is thinking through who we marry, right? The Bible calls us to marry only in the Lord. There is a fellowship, a union that happens in marriage. And so we're called to marry only those who share our faith. Also, where we look for the deepest fellowship, deepest friendship. Friendship. If we are only spending time ever and if we are only engaging with unbelievers and never engaging with the people of God, never engaging with those who can be spiritual, spiritually edifying friends, that certainly has a way of probably not eschewing the darkness the way We should. And then finally, I think this calls for robust church discipline. I think that's implied in verses eleven to thirteen, where Paul says, take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them. Now there, expose is the way you could translate that because we're talking about light and light exposes darkness, but uh really uh more literally it's uh uh instead of expose, it's convict, correct, The idea here is these unfruitful works of darkness need to be corrected, convicted. I think the call there is to apply church discipline, whether that's a rebuke or whether that's something more formal. For it is shameful even to speak of the things they do in secret, but when anything is exposed Convicted by the light, it becomes visible. I think here we can go back to our uh Westminster category. That says, while there is no sin so small that it doesn't deserve condemnation, there is also no sin so dark, so Deep so bad that it cannot be saved from, basically. So we expose, not just to highlight, not just to bring it out, but we do that to correct Bring out to to bring light into where there is darkness. So sad that many many churches, as deep dark sins, arise in their midst, try to cover Hide it. Expose it. Confront it with the light. Paul doesn't just exhort us to eschew the darkness here. Notice throughout this passage, he kind of does this back and forth. Don't do X, but do Why? Don't do X, but do Y. Verse 4, he does that. Let there be no filthiness or foolish talk or crude joking which are out of place. But instead, instead, let there be thanksgiving. Verse uh 17 is similar. Lord. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And verse 18, don't get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Holy Spirit. And that leads to the second point. Not only are it too issues Chew the darkness, we are to engage the light. Rather than a life of disengagement with the world, Paul calls the Ephesians, he calls us to engage more deliberately. More actively, more consciously, more carefully with the world. Not joining the darkness, but bringing the light into it. Isn't that what Jesus says in Matthew chapter 5? You are the light of the world. Let your light shine before others. If darkness is the sinfulness of the world, what is the light? The answer from this passage comes to us. The light is the righteousness. The holiness, the goodness, the truth, the life pleasing to the Lord, all of which shines in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Verse 9: For the fruit of the light is found in all that is. Here it is, good and right and true. And try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. How do we engage the light? How do we engage the world with the light? And that first by waking up to it. Waking up to the light. Now there are two ways to dispel darkness. If there's darkness and you're trying to get rid of it, trying to dispel it, what's the easiest way to get rid of it? Huh? Turn the light on, right? Click, right. Flashlight. You've been there, Linia. Yeah, mission impossible. You know it too well. Like you you turn that flashlight on, poof. You know, it's it's light. That's one way. There's another way to dispel darkness. And that's if you're in light, simply opening your eyes. Right? You have your eyes closed, you can't see, it's dark. Open your eyes And it's light. I just dispelled darkness multiple times by blinking. And that's the idea that Paul gives us here. As he goes on, he implies that, well, the world is dark. But it's not necessarily because there's no light in it. But it's because we're blinded by our sin. Or here we're like the sleeping dead who need to just Wake up and behold the light that's already shining, which is Jesus Christ, who has come into the world and is proclaimed throughout the world and whose gospel is spreading. In the world. Look at verse 13. But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible. For anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead. There's those two images. Open your eyes to the light. Wake up to it and rise from the dead. And Christ will shine on you. Jesus says about himself that he is the light. John chapter 8: I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. And notice waking up to the light is letting the light expose the darkness of sin wherever it is, including in our own hearts. Take no part, verse 11, in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead As I mentioned, this is uh certainly uh has to do with church discipline, some capacity, exposing sin, convicting of sin. Sin probably also has to do with very personal reality. Letting the light of Christ shine in our hearts and expose where there is sin that needs to be repented of. Where there is darkness that needs to be eschewed, even in us. It's a call to confess sin, to bring it out into the light, not necessarily making Private sins more public than they need to be, but bringing them out into the light enough for them to be shown to be sin, the sin that they are, and for the grace of the gospel to be applied. It's a healing balm. How do we engage the light? By first of all, by waking up to it. Second of all, by by walking in the light. By walking in the light. And there are three ways we walk in the light, according to Paul, here. One is by applying wisdom, one way is by absorbing the word, and third, by attending on worship verse 8 for at one time you were darkness but now you are light in the Lord walk as children of And how do we do this? Down to verse 15 to 17. We do it first of all by applying wisdom. Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time. Another way you could translate that, that I think I like better, is redeeming the time. Because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord. is. It's important to recognize that uh on the one hand we uh know the light we know uh what is light righteousness goodness truth holiness partly by what god says in his word he lays Lays out his law for us. He shows us very much his character. On the one hand, it's very clear if we're facing something, uh, decision and there's something sinful and not sinful, that should be very clear. But Paul seems to want to push us a little bit further. And says walking in the light is not just knowing what is clear, black and white, right and wrong, but it's also knowing how to engage in the more gray areas. Walking in wisdom, walking in wisdom This is why there are vast soaths of the Old Testament that are wisdom literature. Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Job. Big long books full of biblical wisdom to help us learn what wisdom is, how to apply wisdom to our lives. And this is really most of the decisions we make as God. God's people. And so he says, here's your apply wisdom. Apply wisdom. Bring the light to your life by applying wisdom and do so in a way that redeems the time. That makes the best use of this life, saying these days are evil. These days are not meant for us to amass great wealth. On earth, but to store up righteousness in heaven, right? These days are not meant for us to live our best life now, but to grow in godliness and grace. As we even suffer at times for righteousness' sake, suffer for the realities, the realities simply of living in a sin-cursed world. And yet this is hard. So many Christians want to do God's will. But how many times have you heard someone say, yeah, I think I think it's God's will for me to do this? And then they tell you what it is, and it it's just called Clearly foolish. It's like you can't point to the verse that says, Thou shalt not, but it's just not wise. I don't think God has led you that way. I'm not sure you've discerned what the will of the Lord is. And how do we discern What the will of the Lord is. Well, there's his revealed will. That's the one we're supposed to follow. That's clear in his word. That's pretty obvious, but that's not what Paul's getting at here. Then there's his secret will. Well, that's what he's decided to do, and even if we knew it, we we can't accomplish. He's going to accomplish that. Here I think he's he's saying what his will is in and what is wise. Apply yourself to wisdom and apply wisdom to your Life. So engaging the light, walking in the light is applying wisdom. It's also absorbing the word. Verse 18: Do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit. Now the Bible is clear throughout that there's not anything inherently sinful in alcohol itself. He uh God tells us in the Psalms that he made wine to gladden the heart of man. And wine makes the heart glad when more than just one sip is drunk. But there's something about drunkenness that is sinned. There's something about being filled with wine. And why is it that people do this? Isn't it to escape the darkness of the world? To escape the reality, the hardships, the difficulties. And Paul says, no, we're called not to escape this world, but to engage it. To engage it with the light. It's interesting, he says here, probably better translated, not be filled with the Spirit, as though the Spirit somehow fills us. I remember hearing And one pastor who passed for many years, he said, don't pray to be filled with the Spirit. Don't be prayed to be filled more with the Spirit, because the Spirit is a promise that Christ gives to us as his people. He pours him out richly on us. We have the Spirit if we are Christ. But here, probably a better translation is be filled by the Spirit. Having this idea of the Spirit is filling us up with what? And I think the answer for that is actually given to us in Colossians chapter 3, where it says, instead of be filled with by the Spirit, it says, let the word Christ. Dwell in you richly. And then goes on to say what Paul goes on to say here about singing h songs, hymns, and spiritual songs. The idea here is that the Spirit fills us with wonder and joy and awe as we soak up Christ in and through. His word. So walk in the light by applying wisdom, by absorbing the word. And then attending to worship together with God's people. That's verses 19 to 20. twenty one Addressing one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another. out of reverence for Christ. Now this does not mean that we as Christians are meant to go around acting as though we're living life as a musical. I'm sorry for all of those of you who love musicals. We can talk in ordinary voices as well. The idea here, I think, is that Paul is calling us to not just soak in the word, but to soak out the word, right? Not just soak it in and absorb the light, but actually be reflective. Reflecting the light of Christ as we engage Him as the light. We're called to worship, singing. With and to one another, giving thanks always and for everything, and we're called to mutual service to one another. That's that last line. submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. And Paul then will actually explore what that looks like in very practical ways in the relationships that we have together in the body of Christ. We'll talk about that more in the weeks ahead. But here's the idea: engaging the light of holiness and righteousness in contrast to sin's darkness is waking up to it as it shines in Jesus Christ, and then walking in the light through wisdom, through the word, through worship. Seems pretty straightforward, huh? Seems easy enough, right? But if it's easy, why does Paul spend all this time on it? The reality is it's often not as easy as it probably should be. Eschewing the darkness of sin, often we find it still Attractive. We find ourselves drawn to it. Walking in the light of Christ and his gospel is often hard for us. Sexual immorality is a struggle for many Christians in many ways, even after Christ. after coming to faith in Christ. Impurity, covetousness, filthiness, crude joking, foolish talk. All of these and more are often tempting for us, and we may even feel at times like they're more natural to us than walking in the light. Living lives of wisdom, engaging the word, committing ourselves to faithful worship, giving thanks always for everything That's not easy. It almost seems hopeless to think that we could ever walk in the light if that's what it is. And friends, it is hopeless, if not. It would be hopeless if not for the fundamental Transformation that happens in the gospel. And Paul gets at this in verse 8. And this is profound. He says this: for at one time in verse 8, you were darkness. Not you were in the darkness, you were the darkness. But now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. See, friends, by nature we are sons of disobedience, fully deserving God's wrath. We are blinded by our sin, darkened to our hearts, hopelessly lost, as Paul says in chapter two. Of Ephesians, we are dead in our trespasses and sins. You can't get more dark than that. But God, being rich in mercy, Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved through faith. He sent his beloved son to take on flesh as the man Jesus Christ. Christ and to come into the darkness of our world in sin in order to take our darkness of sin on himself. To absorb it in a sense. He let his very life be snuffed out. By the darkness of sin when he went to the cross. But as John 1:5 says, the darkness did not overcome him. Because he rose on the third day. And why did he do this? Why did he engage our darkness? Why did he absorb it? Why did he do so? Why did he let himself be Be taken and almost overcome by the darkness, so that the darkness of our sin could be lifted and he could shine on us, not a light of judgment exposing our sin in order to condemn it. But a light of his purifying grace that cleanses as it enlightens. So that as we are in Christ's light, not as though somehow Parts of us are removed. Well, certainly sin is removed, but in a very real sense, we are transformed and we become like little reflections Moons to the light of the sun that is in Jesus Christ. That's the good news of the gospel, as John so nicely summarizes it. in his epistle, 1 John. He says, this is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to you that God is light. And in him there is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, As he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Elsewhere in the same book, he says: if we say we have no sin, we. We lie, but if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin, and that is what brings us into the light. To walk in it. May we eschew the darkness, may we engage the light, may we wake up as sleepers to Jesus who is our light, and may we walk in the light even as he is in the light. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these truths that we have spelled out for us so clearly in this passage. Lord, sometimes we Struggle to engage this passage because it really is so clear. Lord, we confess that often we do recognize that there are still dark crevices of our hearts where sin remains. And yet we thank you that as we draw near to you, you draw near to us in Jesus Christ, that Christ shines on us with the light of his glory, his righteousness, his holiness. Driving out the dark corners of our heart where sin remains and sanctifying us, making us more and more like him so that we might reflect his light. Help us to walk in the light as he is. in the light. His name we pray. Amen