In 1973, in a particular city in Sweden, there was a famous bank robbery. Uh in that robbery there was a convict who was out of prison for supposed to be a short time on furlough. He walked into a bank and at gunpoint held four employees hostage. When the police eventually arrived, that robber demanded three things. He said, I want a car, I want cash, and I want another convict, my buddy, who's still in prison right now, to be set free. Uh in the midst of all that was going on, the hostages were forcefully brought into the bank vault and uh the police, actually the prime minister, uh Capitulated to one of those requests. He said, okay, you could have your friend. We'll bring him to the bank for you. The robber, his friend. The four uh people working at the bank were all barricaded then in the vault together with a phone. The hostages and the robbers stayed in that vault for six days together. Until one of the hostages called the police using that phone. They begged that the police would let the robbers go free. Uh the other thing that she asked for along with that was that the police would please let her go free with the robbers. Not exactly what you expect from a hostage, right? Uh the authorities said no to that one and then decided we're gonna have to storm this vault. As they were about to do that, then uh the robber and his companion said, okay, we will we will come out. Uh we will give up on our pursuit here. And then the hostages decided of their own volition as the robbers came out to act as human shields for those robbers, so they wouldn't be shot by the police as they left the bank. The hostages protected their captors so that they wouldn't get shot The oddities of the situation didn't end there. You might think, okay, maybe they thought somehow uh this is how they themselves would still exit free. Uh no, even after that, the hostages refused to testify against their captors in court. The hostages also raised money to pay for the defense counsel of their captors There is something bizarre about this situation, no? This situation where the captives have developed this bond with their captors. Such that they try to protect them. I already heard it from one of you, but the rest of you any guesses the name of that city in Sweden? Yeah, Stockholm. That's where we get the name Stockholm Syndrome. Ever since then, we've described that phenomena, falling in love with your captor as that, as Stockholm syndrome. But Stockholm isn't the very first place that kind of event is recorded. Paul is concerned here with the Galatians that they're encountering the same kind of phenomena. It's reasonable to ask, since the concern is raised of the Galatians, since the concern is raised here in Scripture, that kind of phenomena exists between us and the law. Now, Paul has been writing to the Galatians, and he is concerned that they want to go, in a sense, back under the captivity of the law. that they want to live under the law in the way that was required in the Old Testament. Why would they do that? Why would they go back to the law that way? And the question that Paul actually leads into this discussion with the f in the first place is Why did God give the law in the first place? You could think about the things that Paul has said about the law. It seems so bad for people to be ensnared by the law. Why did God give the law in the first place? Why did God bring the law to people? Maybe you remember where we left off a couple of weeks ago. Paul showed us the difference between the covenants made between Abraham and Moses. And if Abraham's covenant of promise came first. The question that Paul is leading us with, and God then gave the law with Moses. Why did God bring that law through Moses? Why does it happen at all? What Paul is raising the question there is a reasonable question. It's the one that he expects from us as we work through the text here. And so Paul calls out the question. But what Paul is going to reveal to us is that though that is a reasonable question, it isn't necessarily the right question. It's not the right question because the law itself is not an enemy. The law is not in and of itself actually a problem The law was not some kind of mistake by God that he then suddenly needed to erase. At the same time The point that Paul is making is the law is no longer at the center of our lives. Paul has been de-centering the law in relation to our lives For people whose lives have always been about the law's principle, do this. Do this so that you might live, or else, that's the law's principle. For people who have lived so long by that principle, the de-centering of that principle is very difficult. It's very difficult. Why all this negative speech about the law, Paul, is not because the law is evil. It is not evil. is because it is no longer the point of your life. The problem though, and what Paul is pointing out is the problem, is our truly fatal love affair with the law. The problem is that if we are not careful, then in our clinging to the law, we will forget who truly is at the center of our lives. The grand point that Paul is making here this evening is this, where the law graded us, baptism centers us in Christ. Where the law graded us, baptism centers us in Christ. We're going to explore that idea in this text here with three points, a few different illustrations that Paul uses in the text. First, a jailer. And then second, a guardian. And then third, a deliverer. Step into that first point here, a jailer. Paul asks in verse 21, the question we've all been asking, you know, is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Is Moses contradicting Abraham? And Paul then answers that with the most emphatic no that he possibly can give. Says then verse 21, certainly not. That is certainly not the case. The way that Paul says this probably reminds us of some other proclamations of no by Paul. In Romans 6, He says, should I go on sinning so that grace may abound? May it never be. That may be reminiscent to us because it's the same exact kind of no. Paul is emphatically saying that is absolutely not the answer. That may feel kind of odd based upon the kinds of things that Paul has been saying to us about the promise. And then about the law. Feels odd because Paul has been showing us how different the law and the promise, the law and the gospel are from one another He's told us that one demands, the other grants. That one has the power to give life. The other merely has the power to say, you are dead. Well which is it, Paul? It sounded the way you've spoken a lot like they're contrary to one another. What's the deal? How could they not be contrary? When Paul says here they are not contrary, he means it in a very specific technical way Paul is saying that though the law and the gospel, the law and the promise, may do very different things, though they may have very different natures, even though they serve immediately very different functions. They both still serve God's ultimate plan. They both still serve God's ultimate plan. They are two different tools. They have two different immediate purposes, but they are both an intentional part of the grand work that God is doing. You could imagine uh for a second a job site where there's various different tools laid out in front of you. There's contractors here who are building a home. That's the grand job. But of course contractors have different tools to accomplish that one grand job. You look at the tools laid out before you and you see a saw and a nail gun. Saws and nail guns do very opposite things, don't they? The saw takes something that is together and says, I'm going to blast that apart. The nail gum takes two things that are separate. and sticks them together. That seems very much like opposites in their immediate function, right? But you best believe if you're building a house, you still need both tools. Now you can't interchange those tools. You aren't gonna get a saw to do the nail gun's job, and vice versa. You need both of them. But in the immediate sense, they do very contrary things. They are not contrary as it concerns their grand function in God's plan. Paul has been teaching us to see. the differences between the law and the gospel. We must see the differences between them and see then in that that they are, nevertheless, not in competition with one another. Because they're doing two different things within God's one plan. Paul finishes verse 21. For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law. Paul saying, if there was a version of the law that could do what the gospel is supposed to do Then sure, there'd be competition. But that's just not the case. There isn't a saw that nails things together. Rather, these do two distinct things If you think about what we've heard the law does, the law does not give life. It declares you dead. Tells us why you're dead, tells us very clearly, and it's because you are a sinner, is not a tool which brings dead people back to life. So then why was the law given? Rewind to verse 19 with me. Why then the law? It was added because of or for transgressions. until the offspring should come to whom the promises had been made. The law was given because of, or to serve the purpose of, transgressions. Does that feel awkward, saying it that way? Why do that? Notice first here what Paul says there. He says that the law was added. If you glance through this whole chapter, you'll notice there's a number of temporal markers as it comes to living life under the law. You could rewind to verse 17, that the law came 430 years after Abraham. Here in our section, in verse 23, it served until Christ came. The immediate purpose of the law, how it's given, how people are to live under it, is temporary. Well, what temporary purpose does it serve for transgressions? Transgression is, again, a very specific technical term. We tend to think of transgression as being sin. And it is sin, but in a strict sense, it's used to describe a particular kind of sin. There are plenty of times when you sin without realizing it, or uh without it being super clear to you that that's the case. When transgression is used, it's used to describe, though, an intentional violation of a known statute. an intentional violation of a known statute. You could think about the child who says after they've done something, you know, oh, I didn't know I was supposed to touch that. You know, you look at the child, maybe they did, maybe they didn't. But either way, they weren't supposed to touch it. We all know that. You know, but there wasn't a sign saying right above the flame, don't touch that. So It isn't a gray area, but we see how it could feel like a gray area. That's not transgression. Transgressions are Yeah, I I knew I wasn't supposed to do that. You told me not to do it. I decided to do it anyway. We've all done that. That is a transgression. Now, both of those situations, they are still both sin. Ignorance is not an excuse to get away from sin. What the law does is it takes away those apparent gray areas. And it puts up signs everywhere saying, don't touch. Don't do that. You must do this. And it does that so that we will see those signs. And then have no sense of excuse, so that we will know in the process of sinning, yes, I am transgressing Yes, I am breaking the law. I am transgressing into sin. The law was given. You could think about it. 430 years after Abraham, there was already sin in the world, right? Plenty of it. The law was given into a world where sin already existed. What it does is make everything, in a sense, official. There's no more gray area. No more trying to make the excuse, oh, I I didn't know. You knew it. It was written right down there for you. This is the same kind of thing that Paul says in Romans 7. Romans chapter 7, verse 7. What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means. Again, that same, no, that's not it at all. Yet, Paul says, if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. And you see that principle there, what the law does puts before us clearly what our sin is. So continuing the question then, why did God give the law? Verse 22 of Galatians 3 The scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Paul is saying God gave the law, he codified the transgressions in order to put Israel under lock and key, in order to imprison them, to hold them captive. in this place where they will see very clearly that their sin is sin. That from there they will see its consequences. They are jailed under the law, held captive in a place where they will see very clearly what their sin is. They're jailed there until faith would come, he says. Well, how does that work? Think about what the law says says to you, do this or else. And we foolish people say, I don't want to do that. Allah swiftly replies back to us, that's a problem. That is a big problem, and here is your penalty for it. So before the law, there's certainly still sin. We still do what we want instead of what God wants. The point of the law is that it's making abundantly clear to us what our sin is. It's codifying it for us. The law comes to you and it sits on you and it makes abundantly clear to you that you know that your sin is sin. It holds you in that place where you know exactly what you are supposed to do and exactly what you should not do. And that is what the law was doing throughout Israel's existence. It imprisoned them and it convicted them and it condemned them over and over for as long as they were a nation. The analogy that Paul's used here is it imprisoned them. It was a jail keeper to them. It kept them there. Paul's illustration. Paul uses another illustration for what the law does then. He says, point number two, it was a guardian. Look at verse 24. So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. Again, a very technical term there. Guardian. Your Bible might say taskmaster or schoolmaster. This had a very specific definition in the Greek and Roman world. It referenced this situation where a wealthy person would hire someone who's called a guardian. to raise their son. A wealthy individual would hire this particular, often a servant, to train up their child. And we don't necessarily have the same exact kind of analogue today. This guardian, though, was usually a male servant, and they were charged to care for the master's son, and that involved a host of different things. Uh he would usually watch over that boy for some ten years. Maybe it started when the son was six years old and was going until he was 16 and watching over, guarding over that son. The job of the guardian did entail protecting that son from danger like kidnappers or getting lost But it also included teaching that son, teaching him into maturity. It would involve training the son in manners and in language and in philosophy It also involved partially disciplining the son along the way as he failed. This was all leading to preparing for a kind of graduation ceremony for the son. where the guardian would present the son to the father as mature and ready, one who is ready for adult life, one who is ready to take on the full responsibility of being a son for this father. In that whole scenario, that guardian was often a feared individual. You could probably imagine why. If you were the sun, that guardian is not going to be your favorite person in the world. The guardian's life often really did depend upon making sure that sun shaped up. Guardians who mess up the sun do not get a second chance. If at the graduation sunny uh ceremony the sun is a slob or presents himself unworthy, That's the guardian's fault. That's not gonna happen again. So what does that mean for the guardian's perspective? You best believe the guardian is going to whip that boy into shape. His life depends on it. Then think about being the son in that scenario. You're for a decade growing up under that guardian He's this person who is always over your shoulder, always correcting you, continually berating you, regularly beating you down. Is that anything from a slap for touching the wrong fork again at the table, to a verbal accosting for forgetting your recitation, to the severe physical chastisement when you missed your lesson This is life day and again under the guardian until he presents you to the Father as ready. That term for guardian kind of has a negative connotation. You can probably see why as you think about it. It was an important job. It wasn't necessarily the favorite figure in anyone's life. Paul says that is what the law was to Israel. That is who the law was. The law was that guardian to Israel until the fullness of time came. Israel needed the law to serve as that taskmaster, as Israel was a child. And so the law served this temporary purpose until the time of the Messiah. And the law was preparing Israel for that graduation day to come, or at least that's what the law was there to do. It was doing this, verse 22, so that the promise in Christ may be given to those who believe. Verse 25, in order that we may be justified by faith. What is Paul saying? The law was here preparing the way for Israel to see that justification. Them being righteous, them making that graduation must come by faith. Because what was the lesson they would learn under that guardian? It was that their works couldn't quite cut it. Your works can't. The law was there as that voice constantly telling them what the guardian says to the child. Do more. Try harder. Sit up straight. When you fail, smack. The law is here doing that so that when the Messiah comes, Israel and we may know Here is how we could finally truly be righteous. Here is a much better alternative. My efforts, my works, what I've learned under The Guardian is that they will not cut it. Here is an opportunity when the Messiah comes to trust in something totally different than myself. Here is an opportunity to step forward into righteousness by faith in the Son's doing, not in my own. That makes sense in light of what the law was doing. The law was never the thing that was going to make you alive. The law was never the thing that was going to make you into a righteous person. That's because that was never actually the law's job. It was here preparing us to see our need for Jesus, the one who delivers us from the prison. The one who actually presents us as mature before his father. Who is that person? Point number three, the deliverer. Think about Paul's argument so far. God promised Abraham a seed who would free and bless the nations. Then the law came in Moses. Why? The law came to prove to us so clearly how desperately we need Jesus. The law came and it served as our jailer, as our guardian, as our taskmaster, and all of this was meant to keep us in that place. seeing that truth again and again until Jesus came. And then Jesus does come to free people from that prison. To free them from life under that captor, to let them escape that guard. So of course, when Jesus comes, the time for the law, in the sense that Paul is using it here. Time for it is up. You were under lock and key. You were under the eye of the guardian Paul is saying, but now the son has arrived. The deliverer has come, and you do not need to live under this anymore. He has released you from them because their purpose in that way is now over. Because Jesus has come to justify you. And yet, what's going on in Galatia? The Galatians are, for some reason, saying We think we'd like to stick with the Guardian, actually. We think we want to keep hanging out in this jail. Why? How? For what reason? Why would you want to live under that Now you see what we have on our hands, the point Paul is making, though it's anachronistic to use the term, he's concerned that this is like a Stockholm syndrome situation. Where the captives have fallen in love with the captors. And it's not rational. It makes no sense at all. And yet, for some reason, it is what the Galatian Church is drawn to. Oftentimes it's the same kind of idea that we are drawn to. It makes sense why Paul is frustrated with the Galatians. Christ came to set you free, but you'd rather stay trapped under the law. Don't you know that the law kept you here so that you would see that Christ rescues you, going back to be under the law? There is nothing left in an ultimate sense for the law to bring you to. It was here to bring you to Jesus. It was here to serve you in this way until the Messiah came. It was here so that when the Messiah came, you would go, wow, amazing, that is exactly who I need. And then you'd step forward in faith with him. All that the law has left for you here if you want to live under it in this way, is just to keep condemning you how it has been. There are others who have come to the Galatians and told them, no, the law is still central. The law is still preeminent. That is what reigns over you. Paul has said, no, that is not the case any longer. And if Paul is right, what it means is that the law has been decentered. Not that the law has no capacity to serve any purpose, but that the law is not hanging over you in this way anymore. What is at the center then? What is over you? Verse 27. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ, it is you who have put on Christ The point here is that the law is no longer what identifies you. The law is not what rests at your center anymore. The law is no longer the thing that you wear on your shoulders. No, in baptism, it is now Christ who you wear. You are seen through your baptism. The way that Jesus is seen. What that means for you is that as you walk around, you have all of his rights and his privileges and his standings. You who have been baptized, who belong to Jesus, have been delivered by him. So you are no longer seen the way that the law sees you That's why, verse 28, there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male and female, for all of you are one. In Christ Jesus. You know, that's one of those verses that uh gets used to go off the rails in all sorts of different directions. Do you know what all of those categories are describing here in the context? They were different ways that the law graded you. There are different ways that the law categorized people. And in that framework of the law, it definitely was better to belong to one of those groups than the others. Think about the categories there. Jew or Gentile. In the law, it's definitely better to be a Jew than a Gentile. Even if you were a Gentile who uh got circumcised, decided I'm going to live under the law, you realize you never get to inherit any of the land, neither do your descendants. There's categorization there. It's not that Gentiles are subhuman. Law was very careful to clarify that. Gentiles are not subhuman. There is still gradation here. One is better than the other. Free or slave, again, Allah has plenty of things to say about what it is to be slave or free And in contrast to the ancient Near Eastern world, the law is still, again, careful to say, slaves are not subhuman, but it's still definitely better in the eyes of the law to be free than a slave. Male or female. Again, law is very careful here. In the eyes of the law, women are not subhuman. They are honored and esteemed But in the law, life is a lot harder for women. It still identifies this distinction. You can think about the way that it grades them. Sons inherit the land. Sons bear the sign of the covenant. Sons have a lot less to worry about when it comes to the cleanliness laws. You're not worrying every month about what's happening if you're a son and how that's gonna put you in a perpetual state of uncleanliness. The point that Paul is making here, Paul is saying is that that is not how things work any longer. Where the law once ranked you in certain ways. Where the law once held you captive and guarded you and berated you and made you see all the ways that you were less. Now in baptism, we all have the same rank. Baptism washes that old way away. You are no longer defined by your social order and your rank. You are instead seen and identified in and by Jesus. And no longer do you walk into the church and see the haves and the have-nots, but we see each and every Christian as though they are clothed in, identified by. Centered by Jesus the Christ. If they have been washed in baptism, what does that mean about the people who you see in the church? means that they have all of Christ's rights and privileges. That's not teaching baptismal regeneration. Don't get worried about that. That's Paul's using the sign of the new covenant as the identifier of what you now belong to. That you no longer belong under the law and what it had to say about you. That you belong under Christ. You have his rights and privileges. That you are one, equal in him What is that indicating to you? Oh, we heard part of it this morning, right? You are a full inheritor of all that Christ inherits. That you are a true son like Jesus. Now Paul, remember what he is talking about here. People will try to cram everything under the sun into this verse. People will use this to say all sorts of things about gender roles in this life here and now and who is called to be officers in the church. That is not what Paul is talking about here. Paul's talking about your inheritance, your rank, your privileges in Christ, who you are in Jesus' name. You think pastors or officers are a higher rank of Christian than others? They are not. We are not. Paul is talking about all the benefits of the promises that we have in Christ. On the basis of what? On the basis of faith. All of you are firstborn sons when it comes to inheriting the estate, because that is what Jesus is. Compare that with me to what the law had said about you, if you were still under the law. The law said you were underprivileged. Baptism says, your baptism says to you, you are the son of the king. The law said you were bankrupt. Baptism says you have a rich inheritance. The law said, you are dead, condemned. Baptism says to you, your life is hid with Christ on high. And none of this is because of anything that you have earned. You have earned death. Your sin, we still sin, right? We still see what it is. But the Messiah came in the fullness of time, and he fulfilled all that the law demanded, and he took your death upon himself. He drowned in the cup of wrath which the law made very clear belongs to you. He did this so that you might be delivered from all that the law has said about you. So why still live under the law? Why want that to be what clothes you? Why want that to be what rests at the center of your life? What you have the opportunity for is to rest in Jesus. Paul shows how the law, with its demands, was all about what say Let me say that again. Paul shows how the law with its demands was all about saying what is true about what you do. The law tells the truth about what you do. In that it has graded you, it has weighed you, it has imprisoned you, it has disciplined you, and of course along the way, it has found you wanting. All the law has ever had the power to do is keep you in that place seeing that. What Christ has done, what is true for you baptized people, you who are clothed in Christ. Is that Jesus has raised you up to his station, that he has made all of you who are baptized to be sons of God. What is left then to live out that truth, to live as those who are what we have now been called. To love our God and obey his commands as good and mature sons do. To learn from the law, yes, what we ought to do. To learn from the law who our Savior is, what the good son looks like. But not to live under the law as an oppressor. Rather to live as those who are made righteous by Jesus. Do we still wage war with sin? Of course we do. And hallelujah that the law still reminds us of that. We are no longer slaves to the law We are redeemed and delivered by Jesus. We are not any longer those trying to grade our own or others' worthiness. Rather, we are fellow sons, equal in our standing and inheritance. That's what Jesus delivers you into. That's what your baptism says about you, Christian. Let's pray.