Well, as we've been doing, uh when We have these opportunities where I get to bring God's Word on Sunday evening. We've been working our way through the book of Philippians, this letter of Paul's from prison, presumably. He references that from prison to the church of Philippi, trying to encourage them in their faith. And we get to Philippians chapter 3, verses 17 to chapter 4, verse 1, this evening. That's on page. of the Pew Bibles. We've been working our way through through Philippians, Philippians chapter 1, where Paul talks about his ministry, his Joy at the advance of the gospel, even if it's going out through people who are somewhat divisive in the way in which they are taking it. Paul's reflection on his life nearing death, he's He says he is rejoicing to see Christ and would welcome that, though he recognizes that to remain in the flesh It's better if he's able to use it to serve the Lord. And then he has reflected on the example of Christ and his humility as an example for us and the great wonder of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In chapter 3, Paul is setting himself up, or setting himself out there as an example of one who has come to know the gospel of Jesus Christ and come to love. It's grace, it's truth. Come to love the righteousness that is an alien righteousness, the righteousness of Christ credited to us, not the righteousness that we can muster for ourselves, but that which is given to us by Christ. He's talked really about justification and that idea in chapter 3, verses 1 to 11. Then chapter 12 to This part that we're looking at tonight, verses 17 to chapter 4, verse 1, he's he's beginning to talk, well, he's talked some about sanctification, how we grow in Grace. And then here he's turning toward the idea of our hope, how we look forward to what our eternal hope in Christ is. And that's verses 17 to 21. So let's give attention now to the reading of God's Word. Brothers, join in imitating me and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many of whom I have often told you, and now tell you, even with tears. Walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction. Their God is their belly. And they glory in their shame. With minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven And from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body By the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown Stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved Let's go before God and ask his blessing on our time as we think on these verses further. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word that is living and active. We thank you for the truth of the gospel that it sets forth to us. We thank you for the challenge that these verses are to us in how to think, how to have the mind of Paul, the mind of Christ, as we look out at the world and we consider our lives, may you use these words to Instruct us to equip us to live lives that are changed and transformed by the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. I have a question for you this evening. When you have a few minutes to relax, when the meal is over and the dishes are done, and yet it's not quite Bedtime. What do you do? Where does your mind go? Or when you're falling asleep and staking a while Or maybe you're awake in the middle of the night and would rather not be. Or maybe when you get up first thing in the morning, where is your focus? Is it on today? On tomorrow, on maximizing today's joys and minimizing tomorrow's sorrows. Or do you have some regular way in which you do what Paul exhorts us to throughout his letters? I think of Colossians 3, verses 1 and 2. He exhorts us to see Set our minds on things that are above where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God, not on things that are on earth. A heavenly-mindedness is what Paul regularly exhorts believers in Christ to have. And yet, maybe you've heard the accusation that comes at Christians who speak of this sort of heavenly-mindedness or who think of it as a good thing. It's the accusation that's well captured in Johnny Cash's song from 1977, No Earthly Good. That line, they're so heavenly minded they're of no earthly good. But is that true? Is that a reasonable accusation? C. S. Lewis takes it on in mere Christianity, and he says, I've heard this said. So heavenly minded, one is of no earthly good. But C. S. Wellis said if you actually read history, you will find that the Christians who did the most for this present world. Were just those who thought the most of the next. He mentions people like John Newton and William Wilberforce Whose faith and whose hope in the age to come motivated them to work tirelessly to abolish the modern slave trade in England. They were of great earthly good because They were so heavenly minded. And so as we turn here to Philippians 3, chapter 7, verse 17, to chapter 4, verse 1, what we find is God calling us. through his apostle Paul to a certain kind of mindset. And he does that by actually comparing two different mindsets. Comparing and contrasting two mindsets we find in the world today and calling us as Christians to have one over the other. Now again, I mentioned the context, Paul is setting himself as an example for the Philippians to follow, not because he's The perfect person, not because he's perfectly righteous or a paragon of righteousness himself. He's mentioned the fact that though he has a measure of earthly righteousness or Or righteousness according to law. He was also a persecutor of the church. He recognized himself to be a sinner. In fact, he calls himself the chief of sinners elsewhere. No, he knows he's not perfect, but he sets himself up as an example of what it means to live or to walk by faith. And here he recognizes that he is not the only one that can do this. He's one of many, as he says in verse 17. Brothers, join in imitating me And keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. So, what is it about Paul's example that he wants the Philippians that he wants us to follow? And the answer is that he wants them to see how He is an example of one who is warned against the dangers of earthly mindedness and who delights in the heavenly mindedness that we are called to in Christ. A kind of meditation on, or a kind of striving toward the hope that we have because of Jesus Christ. And so as we look at this passage, I want us to unpack Those two mindsets, the danger of earthly mindedness and the delight of heavenly-mindedness. And we see the danger of earthly-mindedness in verses 18 and 19. Where Paul says, For many of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears. Loved how one commentator just stopped. Meditated upon that. Paul was a weeping apostle, he says. Paul certainly is an example in those few words of of a proper sadness, proper mournfulness for those who are outside of Christ, for those who do not yet know him. Paul Wept for his fellow Jews who were rejecting Jesus Christ as the Savior. And here he's he's an example of that. Here many of whom I have often told you and now tell you, even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ, their end is destruction, their God is their belly, and they glory in their shame with Minds set on earthly things. And so we sort of ask: who does Paul have in mind? And commentators wrestle with that. Who are the many that Paul is speaking of there in verse 18? And I'm not sure we can know for sure. He's mentioned a few different people throughout this letter, so maybe it's some of them We don't necessarily know, but I don't think Paul gives us much to work with except that he gives us a description of them. And I think that's kind of the point. That for Paul, it's not so much those he necessarily has in mind, but those that he can describe that the Philippians can see around them. And so it's easy for us to take this description and then look around at the world today and say, who is it here in the 21st century who has this kind of earthly mindset? Or how is it that we can be tempted with this kind of earthly mindedness that Paul describes here. So he describes them as those whose end is destruction, verse 19. whose God is their belly, and who glory in their shame, and who have their minds set on earthly things. How might we do that today? Maybe one way is by falling into the materialism and the consumerism of our age. The constant focus on the things that we want, or the things that we need. Kids, back when I was much younger, I used to love right around Christmas time. I've mentioned it before. I lived overseas in Austria. Over there, everything was very expensive, especially with the way the dollar was at the time. So we just didn't get a lot of things. But at Christmas time, we would get in the mail the Sears and the J. C. Penny's toy catalog. They were thick catalogs with those thin pages, so lots of pages and all these pictures, and they were just toys. It was so great. And I remember spending hours pouring. We don't even have Sears anymore. We still have JC Penny's, but I would spend hours pouring over these catalogs because I'd pick and circle my things. And often my parents would look and maybe select one or two and then send that list off to relatives in America who then buy those things from the catalog and ship them over to us. I love spending hours pouring over those catalogs. What is it for you? Amazon scrolling through Amazon looking. I mean, it's a much bigger catalog, much more time presumably, could be spent scrolling through those things. But these are Just little examples of the way in which we are very material people and we're materialistically oriented, but it can breed a kind of consumerism. Finding our identity or finding our focus in life all about what we want, what we need, what we can acquire. That's maybe one way that we can be earthly minded today. Paul also says, their God is their belly. I guess this could refer to gluttony, don't they? I think Paul is using it maybe a little more metaphorically, that he's describing those who are earthly minded as those who are ruled by their appetites. There's so many ways we can be ruled by our appetites. The way we view sexuality in our day. Is very much having our God as our belly in the sense of making instincts and visceral appetites our God. In fact, the culture tells us that's what we should be doing. That sex is not only normal, but it's something we sh we need, that we deserve, and our our whole life should be about satisfying those desires. Defining ourselves by how we're engaging in sexuality or Or how we're identifying ourselves within those sorts of desires. Their God is their belly. That's earthly-mindedness. Maybe another way we can be earthly-minded is by In this way, it's sort of disguised as wisdom sometimes, but it's by an obsession with wise investing. There's nothing wrong with wise investing. It's very good. Rachel can tell you all the reasons why it's very good. But you know what's interesting? The two most listened-to radio shows, and I admit radio is you know going the way of the dinosaur, but But it's still out there in case you don't know. And the two most listened to radio shows, and they're listened to by something like 40 million people per month or something like that, the two most listened to are financial talk shows. People spending hours talking about, planning, dreaming about wealth, how to manage it, how to acquire it, accumulate it. It's interesting, I looked at podcast statistics and the top shows there aren't financial, they're like true crime. Podcasts. I don't know what that says, but anyway. Another way we can become vested in this sort of earthly mindedness or distracted by it. Maybe another way is by by maximizing or obsessing about physical health. This is sort of a new trend these days that I've observed that I'm seeing this idea of saying, well, we only have this life. But let's like let's live it to the fullest by being as healthy as we can be and avoiding all the illnesses that we we can. I think the list could go on and on. And every one of these things that I just mentioned should be noted that it's not necessarily inherently wrong, for instance, to buy things and own things. Right? We can do that without being consumed by materialism or consumerism. Sex in its proper context in marriage is a good thing and a blessing and something worthy of our time. and attention. We can and should save and invest and be wise stewards of our finances. In fact, there's a certain sense in which We should even prioritize these things in some capacity. You know, I've been struck recently. We believe that there is a Sabbath day. That's why we're here. Whole day, that God has set aside for us to worship Him. To set our minds deliberately and to take our whole day to set our minds on things that are above. There is a real reality that he has actually only said we need to take right now one day in seven. To devote fully to that. And he says, I still want you to spend six days working in the world, farming. Well, we don't do that anymore. Working to pay for your bills and to invest and caring for the needs, your own needs and the needs of those around you. So it's not wrong to give attention to these things. The problem is a worshiping of them, a devotion to them. When they become our obsession, when they become Our God, as it says here, their God is their belly. Their glory is their shame. I think they're getting at the idea of our shame is our Our earthliness, our temporality, our proneness to death and disease and corruption and an end. To glory in this life is to glory in our shame. To have our minds set on earthly things. The problem of earthly mindedness is when These good things, sex, wealth, uh uh uh health, become obsessions or become the main thing. That's when earthly mindedness is an expression of an underlying fundamental belief that this life is all there is, that this is all I've got, or that this is all I know I've got, and so I better make every bit of it count for me. I think here at Paul, in these two little short verses, he kind of pulls back the curtain on earthly mindness and he shows us how dangerously destructive it is in these little phrases that he uses. See how he he paints this as dangerous. There, first of all, he says it's embarrassingly shameful. They glory in their shame. In a sense, to make this life all we're about is a little bit like being the emperor who has no clothes. Remember that story, kids? The emperor who wants all the best. He wants to wear the best clothes. He wants to show them off to this whole kingdom. And so these tailors come in, they say, We can give you clothes that no one else Has ever gotten to wear. He says, I want those. How much? Oh, it'll cost you a pretty penny. But you'll see, you'll see. These are going to be the most glorious clothes you've ever worn. And so he says, go for it, gives them the money, checks in on them at some point, and they show them, and it's absolutely nothing, but He thinks he's the only one that can't see the garments, and so he says, Oh, they look great, and all his people around him say, well, if he can see them, then I should agree. And they all say it's all great until the point where he's finally gets the clothes and he puts them on. And he walks through town and it has to be a little kid who looks and says, wait a minute, the emperor has no clothes. Here he has been glorying in his shame He says the dangerous destructiveness of earthly mindedness is that it makes our our belly our God This is a a weird way of describing idolatry, that our appetites, our belly become our God as we're ruled by our impulse and our instincts, and really idolatry can be Described as that because in the ancient world, every idol was basically a way to get some earthly good and make our appetites, our desires, our things, our attention in this life our God. And it's dangerous to have any God as our God, if not for the one true and living God, as we read in Jeremiah chapter 10. And then not only is earthly mindedness shameful, not only is it idolatry. It's hopeless. He says their end is destruction because if we all we invest in is for this life, then when we die and pass away, everything we've lived for is destroyed along with us. This is the point that's made throughout Scripture in in John, first John chapter two, don't love the thing the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world The love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes, the pride of life is not from the Father, but is from the world, and the world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God abides forever. Or Jesus in Matthew 6. Don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. Why is the end of earthly mindedness, or those who have it, why is their end destruction? I think the answer is back in verse 18, because to live a life of earthly mindedness is ultimately to be, as Paul describes in verse 18. Enemies of the cross of Christ. And this is so dangerous because Christ promises that he will defeat. all of his enemies. First Corinthians 15, 25, for he must reign until he has put his enemies under his feet. Many people admit that Jesus Lived, that he was a great teacher who shows us love and compassion. That Jesus we meet in the Gospels is not just a suffering servant, although he is that. He's not just a new kind of teacher. And he is that. He's also God incarnate, creator of all things, King over all, who will come again to judge the living and the dead, to divide between those he calls friends. Faithful servants, whom he says to enter his rest, and those to whom he says, Depart from me, I never knew you. To be an enemy of the cross of Christ means we're headed in the direction of hearing, depart from me, I never knew you. That's why it's dangerous. To live a life of earthly mindedness. The earthly mindedness that Paul is describing here is so dangerous and deadly. So what's the alternative? What's the alternative to living? Such a life of dangerous earthly mindedness. And it's to have the mindset that Paul calls us to have here instead. And that is a heavenly mindedness. And so he shows us the delight. This is the second point. The delight of heavenly-mindedness. Having shown the danger of having our mindset on earth, I think Paul goes on in verses 20 and 21 to remind the Philippians and us of the Christian's perspective of what this life is and what the future will be. Look at verse 20. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. Now that word there that's translated citizenship could, I think, and maybe should be better translated commonwealth. Because we sort of say, well, how is our citizenship in heaven? I think maybe a little better way to understand this is our commonwealth is in heaven. Our commonwealth is in heaven. Now, what difference does this make? How does this help us understand the passage? I think here's the point. Paul is simply, in some sense, reminding the Philippians in these two little verses of the gospel promise we have, the hope we have through the gospel of Jesus Christ. That as we repent of our sin and trust in Jesus Christ, not just as a great teacher of love, but as God come in the flesh, putting our faith in Jesus Christ who died not because he deserved it, but To pay our penalty, the penalty that our sin deserved, as we repent and trust in him, his perfect record of righteousness, his sinless life is credited to us. That's what we We read about in chapter 3, verses 1 to 11. And just as he rose from the dead then, those of us who are in Christ have the promise. that we will rise with glorious resurrection bodies like he has. By faith we have the promise. Of eternal life with Christ in the new heavens and the new earth, that will live on the new earth with transformed bodies not like our lonely ones Given to decay, given to illness, given to weakness, given to death. But my body's like his glorious one. That is indestructible, that is beautiful. As C. S. Lewis puts it in weight of glory, we'll have glorious bodies such that if we saw them now, we would be strongly tempted to worship them. And the gospel tells us that Christ earned us an inheritance. He earned for himself, first, an inheritance of eternal heavenly land. And that he, as the only begotten Son of God, then allows us as we come to faith in him, he allows us to be adopted into his family. Adopted as children of God, and he calls us then co-heirs with him of glory. And I think that's the significance of reading this as a commonwealth that is in heaven. Verse 21 says, our commonwealth is in heaven, because the heaven is heaven, and the age to come is first Christ's wealth. He has earned it by his righteous life. He has earned it by his death in our place on the cross. He has earned it by his resurrection from the dead. But then he shares with us. Us. He makes us co-heirs with him so that his wealth, which right now is in heaven at the Father's right hand, is shared in common with us. That's much of what it says elsewhere in Titus chapter 3, verses 4 to 7. But when the goodness and loving-kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us not because of works we had done by a uh not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy by the washing of regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us on us richly through Jesus Christ, our Savior. So that, being justified by his grace, we might become heirs. Co-heirs with Christ, heirs according to the hope of eternal life Similarly over in Romans chapter eight, so then brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh, for if you live by the according to the flesh you will die. But if you by the Spirit, you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live, for all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God, for you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons. By whom we cry, Abba Father, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with them in order that we may also be glorified with them. And so that means a common wealth is in heaven. The wealth of glory is in Jesus Christ at the Father's right hand, and yet He has offered for us to share in it, to have a body transformed. In the resurrection to be like his. And so that is such a helpful and important reminder. The heavenly mindedness means that as we look back to our life on earth, we recognize that we are simply pilgrims. Sojourners here on earth while we are on our way to the glory that is right now kept in heaven for us, as Peter says. This idea of living the life of Christian life as a pilgrimage on our way is captured so well in the letter to Diognetus. This is an ancient church letter that is written by a Christian to a friend. Where he's trying to explain to his friend why it is Christians are like they are, or what it is to be a Christian. And he puts it this way. He says to Diognetus, Christians follow the customs of the natives in Greek and barbarian cities in respect to clothing and food and the rest of their ordinary conduct. But they dwell in their own countries simply as sojourners. As citizens, they share in all things with others, and yet endure all things as if foreigners. Every foreign land is to them as their native country, and every land of their birth as a land of strangers. They marry and they beget children, but they do not destroy their offspring. They have a common table, but not a common bed. They are in the flesh, but they do not live after the flesh. They pass their days on earth, but they are citizens of heaven. And the temptation for us is always to forget, isn't it? The earthly things around us, they seem so real. They can make it seem so much better, so much wiser to be earthly minded. To make that our focus and to put all of our attention on that. But Paul goes on to explain why Christi why the Christian hope actually is so real, is so sure, is so hurt certain that it deserves our attention. And it's so certain, it's so real, it's so sure because it is guaranteed by the Almighty God and King Himself. Verse 21, he says, What is it? Where is it that we can be confident that he will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body? He says, by the power of That enables him even to subject all things to himself. The almighty kingly power of Jesus Christ. Is what gives us sureness of hope that we will be raised to new and glorious everlasting life in the age to come. How do we know that we as Christ's followers have our citizenship or our commonwealth in heaven? That when Christ comes, he will raise us to glory? Well, friends, it's as sure as the king who promises it. We know because the king who promised us that glorious future is the one who said to a paralyzed man, get up, and he walked. We know because the one who has promised us this hope of everlasting life is the one who spoke to blind and mute men, and they saw and spoke. The one who we heard this morning said to the fig dream, May you never bear fruit again, and it withered in a day. The one who said to the leper, be clean, and leprosy was gone. The one who said to a storming raging still, see, be still. And it was in a second calm. The one who shouted at the grave of his dead friend Lazarus, Lazarus, come out! And the dead man rose to life and came out of the tomb. It's as sure as the one who said on the cross, it is finished, and then breathed his last and died, but who three days later rose And came out of the tomb, having risen from the dead himself, and then visited his friends, eating breakfast with them, entering locked rooms without a key. Friends, it is by this power that Christ subjects all things to himself. Even us who by nature are alienated from him and enemies of God, he is subduing to himself and assuring the promise of everlasting glory. Danger of earthly mindedness, the delight of heavenly mindedness. Let's close with Asking ourselves, how do we keep focused on heaven? How do we maintain a heavenly mindset when we are given six days to attend to the needs of this life? When God really says we need one that we attend to this reality all the time, but how is it that we can maintain the sort of heavenly-mindedness that Paul is speaking of here? And I think the first answer we get from this passage is look to godly models of those who go before, those who do it well. Paul says, look to us. Join in imitating me and look to others, right? Join in imitating me. Keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. Seems kind of arrogant at first, right? Only Jesus should be imitated. That's why we wear those uh WWJD bracelets, right? And Jesus is a model in some places. Chapter 2, Paul gives him as a model of humility. But there's lots also that Jesus did that we can't do and shouldn't. Most importantly, he died on the cross for our sins. And while we do sacrifice for others, we don't die on the cross for other people's sins per se. In addition, when Jesus rose and ascended bodily to heaven, there's a real sense in which he is absent. Now he's present by his Holy Spirit, but he is bodily at the Father's right hand. Paul says here in verse 20: from it, from heaven we await the Lord Jesus Christ. That's where he is, but he hasn't left us alone. He has given us models to walk with, to go before us, to model for us these things. Sometimes he's given us as models to others. Like in Pilgrim's Progress, as he's on the way to celestial city, right? He meets all sorts of people, many of whom help him along the way, and some of whom he helps. Along the way. So, one reason why the church as a community, a body of Christ, is so important. Most of us who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ would not be here if it weren't for some other mature believer. Who not only taught us the gospel of Jesus Christ and called us to repent and believe, but who could say to us like Paul, Imitate me as I follow Christ. Do we seek these types of people out? Do we spend time learning from those who are already have been where we where we are, who have already been where we're going? Or in the other direction, are we setting godly examples for those around us, of living a life of heavenly mindedness rather than earthly mindedness? of straining toward the goal of the upward call that Paul describes in verse 14, of awaiting the return of our Savior Jesus Christ, of being enamored with heaven. Without neglecting the callings God has placed on us here on earth, of loving and longing for our brothers and sisters in Christ To have this sort of mind, to have this sort of hope. I love how Paul says it there in verse 1 of chapter 4. He concludes, Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for. Those we love and long for, we ought to set an example for. My joy and my crown stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved Do we weep with those who are lost in earthly mindedness, or over those who are lost in earthly mindedness, as Paul does here in verse 18? Of course, we're not going to do this perfectly. We will strive and we will struggle. And that's why God has not only given us to others, but He's given others to us, and ultimately He has promised to be the one. The faithful Savior, who is in heaven, but who is interceding for us, who is praying us through this life, and who will ensure that we make it through, who will ensure that we one day lay hold of that commonwealth. That we have in heaven. But for now, let us be those who, as Paul does here in verse 1, whom he exhorts as his joy and crown, may we be those who stand firm thus in the Lord. Let us take this season, our time on earth, to grow in heavenly mindedness with a proper perspective on our pilgrim life on this earth, even as we press on and eagerly await the second Advent. In glory of the return of our Savior Jesus Christ. I'll close with these words of C. S. Lewis as he's wrestling with this idea of earth-heavenly mindedness. And hence he's challenging the notion that it'll make us of no earthly good. He says this: a continual looking forward to the eternal world is not, as some modern people think, a form of escapism or wishful thinking. But it's one of the things a Christian is meant to do, as Paul urges us here. It does not mean that we are to leave the present world as it is. It is, sadly, since Christians have largely ceased to think of the other world that they have often become so ineffective in this world. And he closes with these amazing words. Aim at heaven, and you will get earth thrown in. Aim at earth, and you'll get neither. May we be those who aim at heaven. Let's close in a word of prayer Heavenly Father, these are good words, good reminders for us. We can't imagine what it will be to have The glorious bodies that Christ has purchased for us by his gift of himself, his sacrifice of himself as the Lamb of God, slain. To take away the sins of the world, but may we meditate on this glorious reality. May we have our minds set on things that are above, where Christ is, seated at your right hand. May you work in us. A straining toward the goal of the upward call. May that delight us more and more, even as we attend to the realities and the needs of this earth. May we be those who are of such heavenly-mindedness. That we are of infinite earthly good. May we bring you glory as we go forth with these truths in our minds and our hearts. As we go forth to be the light and the salt of Christ in this world, in Jesus' name we pray all these things. Amen.