Well, one of the sweet realities of the Word of God of the Bible is that while it is an ancient text, no doubt about that. It is a text that still speaks very relevantly to us in our context today. Part of the nature of that is just the reality that The Word of God, the Bible was written to human beings, to people. And guess what we still are? Human beings and people. An example of this idea is as simple as the story of Job. Job was a man, if you know that story, who seemingly had everything that he could want. So he worshipped God. Until Satan shows up. Right? And Satan comes with this kind of proposition. You know, God, if Job were to face suffering If he were to no longer have everything that is good, he'd probably not worship you anymore. He'd instead, Job would probably start questioning you and denying you, and he'd curse you, God As uh ancient as that story may be, the idea of it is very modern because what is true of us when suddenly we face suffering and despair and want and need. What does our culture lead us to do the moment that we face that kind of darkness? We begin to ask questions like, how could a good God possibly allow this to happen? And what do we do in that moment? Well, we ourselves set up God on trial. We set up our own kind of internalized court case against God. It's quite simply an impulse that we have to think that we have the right to test, to prosecute God. We do that in very clear ways. We also do that in very subtle ways throughout our daily life. We see that kind of questioning in ways as simple as asking, you know, why should I see Jesus as anything more than merely a moral guide. Why should I have to receive him as God? Why should I believe in God if he's never really proved himself to me? Why should I trust a God who allows misery and suffering in this world? Why would God actually care if he is real about how I live my day-to-day life? Why is he concerned with that? Doesn't he have bigger fish to fry? How has he earned the right to say he has a claim over what I do in and with my life? How does he have the right to call me to serve him and to worship him? T. S. Lewis describes that idea this way, noting that we are the kind of people who have a disposition to put God in the dock. To put God on trial, to test Him, to think in that that we are somehow both the prosecutor and the judge, that we get to come and make a case against God, and that whatever our Personal decisions about him are final and lasting and true. We look through the book of John and the story that John has told about the life of Jesus We see that same kind of thing happen over and over. Time and again, people show up to test Jesus, to try him People are seeking different ways to discredit Jesus. People are finding new ways to reject him. People are finding reasons to say, I do not believe in Jesus. It's totally fitting that John tackle those kinds of questions and situations because he tells us what the whole point of his book is The whole point, the reason he is telling us all these things is so that you would believe in Jesus. We may be the kind of people who have a tendency to put God on trial. What John is going to make very clear to us this morning in this text is that when man steps into the courtroom, Although you may show up briefcase in hand and your witnesses prepared and your opening arguments all at the ready, what man finds when he enters into the courtroom Is that he is not, in fact, the prosecution. No, when we show up in the courtroom to put God on trial, what we find is that we are, in fact, the defendants. If you can imagine that kind of situation, that turning of rolls, that switch, it is the kind which should put fear into our hearts, no? And during a trial as a defendant, no matter what the case, is a scary endeavor. The idea through that trial that your life might be on the line, that your future is at stake. What Jesus has to say to you, Christian, today, in this text is this: God's divine judgment is good news for his people. God's divine judgment is good news for his people. To examine that in the text, we're going to break it up into four points this way. I know, aghast. Four points? What? Heresy. The four points are this. First, we're going to examine the counsel. Who is our lawyer? Second, we're going to examine the case that is going to be made Third, the deliberation, how we endure between the end of the case and the end of days. Finally, this, the sentencing. What is it that is said in the end? Join me in that first point here, the counsel. One of the greatest comforts that you can have in the midst of a legal trial, no doubt. Having a good lawyer. That is essential. You need a even if you are innocent, you need a good lawyer Now we saw a piece of the reality of who the lawyer, who the counsel is. Back in chapter 15, if you were with us last week in the evening, Jesus promised to his disciples, and he reiterates here, that he will send. the Holy Spirit. In our English text here, you probably read that he will send the helper. I would argue, as do many scholars, that That word, the helper, could be much better translated here. That he will send the advocate The advocate. The word that's used here is a Greek way of describing your attorney in legal proceedings. Here Jesus comes around to explain who the advocate he is sending to us is. He reminds the disciples with this. Verse 5. Now I am going to him who sent me. None of you ask, where are you going? But because I have said these things to you. Sorrow has filled your heart. Jesus says, I'm going away, and you haven't even asked me where I'm going yet. And the reason that you haven't asked is because you are so consumed, caught up in sadness over the idea that I am leaving. So with that, Jesus is setting up here that he is quelling that worry. He's coming to bring peace. Okay, you just said we're in the midst of a trial. That probably brings some worry. Where is the peace? Verse 7. Jesus turns. He says, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth. It is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper, the advocate, will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. This is part of a conversation that's been going on in the book of John for a couple of chapters now. This is the night before Jesus' death, and he's mentioned multiple times that when he leaves, he is sending someone in his place. The our immediate mindset probably thinks, Jesus, wouldn't it be better if you yourself just stuck around? Jesus says, no, that's not the case. That he has an even better plan than that. He's sending someone in his place. The previous chapter, chapter 15, he said, when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of Truth who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. Part of the context here, Jesus is acknowledging the reality that the world thinks they are going to kill Jesus. And as soon as they do that. Well then the case is over, right? If you've murdered the plaintiff, who's there to continue on the trial? And Jesus says, do not worry. I am sending the Advocate, and the Advocate will carry on this case in my place. And he's quelling the worry of the disciples here by acknowledging this is not just a mere backup plan. This is the plan. This is what I am setting into motion. This is what is good. This is what is even better for you than me staying here with you. How could that be the case? How is that possible? How will the Holy Spirit, coming to proceed with this trial, bring comfort to us? What we're told is it's because in verse 8, when the Spirit comes, he will bring conviction A little bit of an odd word for us here. Conviction. How is it that we usually use that term in spiritual context? Often we speak of internalized convictions, right? Either that I am convicted, I am certain that this idea is true The kind of internal realization of a truth. Or we say something like, I was just so convicted of my sin last week by an amazing sermon from Pastor Fix, the Reverend Dr. Fix. Amen. That is a good way to use the idea of conviction. But again, that's that's speaking of an internalized reality, right? and internal recognition. That's often how we speak of that idea of conviction. But in the context here, what kind of conviction are we speaking about? John is continuing this pattern of legal proceedings that we've seen throughout this book. John tells us about those who bear witness, like John the Baptist, those who testify, like those who have been healed by Jesus. In John chapter 5, we've got this whole drama of the Pharisees telling Jesus that his witness testimony is ineligible because he didn't bring enough witnesses. And Jesus says, oh, I got more. I have plenty. And he leads them into the courtroom, bears all of their testimony. Jesus has even said multiple times that he is the one who has power to render judgment. Here we are using, as we see the advocate approach, courtroom language again. And in that context, what is a conviction? What is a conviction? The spirit, the advocate, this prosecutor is running this case with the goal, with the end to bring about a kind of legal judgment. A legal judgment here. He's moving towards a declaration of who is guilty and who is not. Meanwhile, throughout John, the Jewish leaders have thought that they were the prosecutors. And what's being made very clear here is, no, they're not. And John is showing us again that Jesus has been running this court, and that has always been God's job, not man's. We saw it in our Old Testament reading, right? That God is the one who has the right to and who does bring judgment against the nations. Here, the Spirit is coming to carry on Jesus' work. Jesus will depart. Verse 8, when the Spirit comes, he will convict the world. Concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. The Spirit is coming, this counsel, this advocate to bring about a legal conviction Point number two, so what is the Spirit's case? What is the case that he will make? What we get here then, starting from verse 8 and on, is Jesus laying out what the game plan is. For this trial, that the Spirit has three different proofs that he's going to use to win this case, to prove his point. He's going to bring about conviction on the basis of sin and then righteousness. And then judgment. First, sin. He says especially the sin of disbelief, verse 9, concerning sin, because they do not believe in me Ah, we're not ignorant of the significance of belief in Jesus, right? You've read the book of John, Jesus has made it Incredibly clear that you need to believe in him. He said back to Nicodemus in John 3, 18, whoever believes in me is not condemned. But whoever does bel Let me say this again to make sure I get it right. Whoever believes in me is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And Jesus says the same kind of truth in John 8. Tells the Pharisees, I told you you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. The Spirit is first going to show who is guilty based upon the proof of their sin, of their unrighteousness, and especially that is true, in the rejection of Jesus Christ. That those who reject Jesus are guilty of sin. That's going to be seen most incredibly clear just by who will choose to kill Jesus the next day. The Spirit will bring conviction based upon the reality that the world is full of, that we are sinful people who reject God, whether it is in word or deed. Now the second case here that's going to be made is righteousness. That one probably feels a little odd. A little awkward to say I'm going to condemn them on the basis of righteousness. How is it? Verse 10. Jesus says, concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer. Why in the context of righteousness does it matter that Jesus is going to be with the Father? Well, first is the reality of This step that's about to come in a moment for how Jesus ends up before the Father. It's because we're going to kill him, and the world will kill him. Beyond that, what is true? What is said by the Father of Jesus and how Jesus appears before the Father Now, Paul actually details this idea both in Romans and in 1 Timothy, that Jesus ends up after death, before the Father. Jesus is resurrected and ascended, and that resurrection is a vindication that Jesus was truly righteous. Jesus is resurrected. He must be resurrected because he was righteous. Because he did not deserve to die. Because he lived perfectly, fulfilling all that God had called him to. And so Jesus must be resurrected by the power of the Spirit. What's the Spirit providing evidence of here? On the one hand, here is what it looks like to be sinful people. On the other hand, here is what it looks like to be righteous. Does the world match up to that? Of course not. But here is a perfect example of one who is righteous, and we know because he was resurrected, ascended, and sits at the right hand of the Father. The Spirit will use the resurrection of Jesus Christ as proof how the world is unrighteous. Third prong to this case here, judgment. Verse 11 concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. This might feel a little abstract to us, but makes a lot of sense in the original context. If you are in a nation, in the world, under a ruler, under a king, And that ruler has been condemned. What would naturally follow for you is that you too are condemned. You could think about it in just the idea of subscribing yourself to a certain leader, to a certain following. If you are following a leader, you say, I am with him, I am in cahoots with him. What is true if that leader has already been judged? Truth is that you too have been judged. We should assume by default that whatever the leader is judged by, that's also going to be your judgment. And who is the ruler of this dark world in Jesus' context? It's Satan. And Jesus said in John 12, 31, Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. What is true of Satan? That he has been judged, that he has been cast down. For those in the world who pledge their allegiance to Him, what should they expect their judgment to? The Spirit of Christ is the advocate. He is the attorney who comes with this case. And our disposition so often as to default to seeing the Spirit as simply soft. We often pigeonhole him as the nice guy in the Godhead, the comforter, the one who speaks softly to the soul and the spirit. Is that. Those realities are true. What's being made really clear here in the case that the Spirit builds is that the Spirit is not just that. The Spirit does come to bring us near to God. He comes to speak comfort. Counsel to the crushed and the brokenhearted. He is also here, the Spirit of the Lord who comes to bring conviction. To faithfully, diligently carry out the prosecution that is due to a sinful world. You can see from the case it's laid out here. He has a good game plan. He's going to do a good job. The nerve-parting, uh uh the nerve-wracking part of that is sitting and waiting to hear back what the answer to the case the Spirit makes is going to be. You can imagine you sit there, the case has been made in the trial, and you're sitting back and wondering What is the decision going to be? Commonly in this context that comes around with the simple question of, well, am I going to end up in heaven or not? What is God going to say of me? That should be the world's question. We should notice here alongside this that The case that is brought here is not only a case against the world. The Spirit is also one who makes a case, Christian, for you. Here is where, for you, Christian, what the Spirit does is what should bring peace to you. What has he done in his work showing and proving? Who is true, and who is righteous, and who is just. We'll see here as we get into verse 12. He demonstrates not just who is guilty but also who is justified. He demonstrates, Christian, for you, that you have been justified. The good attorney knows when he's done a good job. He knows, often you would hope, who the judge is and what the judge is going to expect, what the judge is going to consider righteousness and innocence to be. Now look with me in verse 12 here. And Jesus says to his disciples, I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own authority. Whatever he hears, he will speak. And he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine. and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said he will take what is mine and declare it to you. What Jesus is saying is that the Spirit is coming to complete both the words and the works of Jesus to you and through you. The Spirit comes, he says, and he's going to guide you. He's going to speak to you. Think about the jump that's going to happen from the stories of the Gospels here to the stories of the book of Acts. In the Gospels, we hear of how Jesus' work of redemption is accomplished. Jesus lives, and he dies, and he resurrects, and he accomplishes redemption through that. And in Acts, we hear of how the Spirit comes and he applies the work of Jesus' redemption to those throughout the world. How does he do that? He is sent and he calls and regenerates and justifies and adopts and he sanctifies. This is all the work of the Spirit, taking what Jesus has done. And applying it to God's people. And all along the way, what is the Spirit doing for you, Christian? That's what Jesus has promised here. He's telling you. He's making the case to you that what the Father has said is true of Jesus, that Jesus, the judgment made against him, is he is righteous. Christian, that is the same judgment which belongs to you. What Jesus has said of the Father, what the Father has said of Jesus. That Jesus is righteous. That is a truth which belongs, Christian, to you. So you too are righteous. That's the case that the Spirit is making daily to you as you trust and believe in Jesus. The Spirit knows this. So when he comes, he proclaims it to you. The case he makes to you is one of comfort. And yet what has been proclaimed is not always fully realized to us here in time now, is it? Because we are kind of in this deliberation time. Point number three, the deliberation. There is a sense in which, though we know the verdict, We still sit in this in-between time. What Jesus proceeds to draw out is the recognition that though there is sorrow for a time here, as we sit in this time of deliberation That sorrow will turn to joy. Look what John does here between verses 16 and 19. See if you catch on to this pattern. Jesus says verse 16, A little while you will see me no longer, and again a little while and you will see me. So some of his disciples said to one another, What is this that he's saying to us? A little while you will not see me, again a little while and you will see me. He says, because I'm going to the Father. So they were saying, What does he mean by a little while? We don't know what he's talking about. Jesus knows, he replies to them, is what you are asking yourselves what I meant by saying A little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me. John is doing something dramatic here for us as the readers. He's emphasizing something. Maybe you caught it. How many times did he say? a little while. What John actually does, if you think about him writing this out, this conversation out, he repeats the same exact phrase. Three different times. That's odd. That's weird. You don't often do that. Jesus is making a point to the disciples, and John is making a point to us. Jesus says this phrase. The disciples say it back word for word. And then Jesus says it back word for word to the disciples again. John is writing this out for us who are reading it because he wants to be clear. Jesus will be gone for a little while, and then he will return. Most of us know exactly where this story is going in the book of John. Over the next few chapters in just a little while, tomorrow Jesus is going to die, and then he will be buried in the grave Then three days later, in just a little while, Jesus will rise from the dead, right? Along the way, the disciples and the followers of Jesus are going to do what? And Jesus departs, and we'll see. They will mourn in sorrow. And then in just a little while, Jesus returns. And our sorrow in a couple of verses turns to joy. That's the experience of the disciples as this text unfolds. This is the immediate referent that they're going to have. There's also, though, a parallel story, a kind of in-between time for us. We the readers experience this same kind of gone for a little while before Jesus returns. Jesus departs from us for a time. How? It's in his ascension. After the resurrection, when he leaves this world, he ascends, and he tells us that in a little while. He will return. The key to Jesus' return, both times in that abbreviated sense, for the disciples, and for us here in this context, is what is the key to his return? It's resurrection. That just as the resurrection will bring Jesus back to the disciples, so the resurrection is what will bring Christians back to Jesus. We know that is true. We know John is lacing that into this idea here. Because Jesus is integrating what? Into this whole pattern. Not just that he is going to the grave, but also, as he said in verse 10, that he is going to the Father. And what is that most immediately? That is his ascension, his ascension into the heavens. And what is the point of this in-between time? It's kind of deliberation between Jesus' ascension and his return when the sentencing will come. We know that because of what Jesus has done, he's integrating something here. There is this kind of deliberation in time. And in that, there is a kind of reversal that is happening. There's a reversal. What does Jesus go on to describe to the disciples? It says in verse 20, you will weep and lament and be sorrowful in the here and now. On the other hand, what is the world going to look like? They're going to be rejoicing. They'll seem to be dancing on your graves. But this is just for a little while. Because when Christ returns, what is he promising? That is all going to get reversed. That will all be reversed and your sorrow will turn to joy. And Jesus uses the illustration of giving birth. And needless to say, there is anguish in those moments, and it may feel like an eternity. It felt like an eternity to me watching Ashani go through it, and I didn't do anything. You women are superheroes. Wow. And now what is the truth of that moment? It may feel like an eternity, but it is only a little while For any who are yet to be fathers, don't say that in the moment. Don't worry, this will pass. Maybe hold on to that one. But it is true in the scheme of things, on the other side of that suffering comes what? The joy of that child in the mother's arms. Jesus is saying there is this incredible reversal which occurs from our sorrow to joy. On the other side from that, from the world's joy to sorrow. Because when Christ returns, what happens? It's in that moment that we are resurrected and our suffering in this world will be over. And we will be raised up into perfect union with our righteous Lord in eternal. What is going to be true of the world? That their rejoicing in that moment will turn to sorrow and weeping and gnashing of teeth. They will realize then that though the first time Jesus came for salvation, When he comes again, he comes in judgment. What do we have now to help us endure this time of suffering in this world? And Jesus tells us here, what we have through him is access to the Father. Access, in a sense, to that future reality we're waiting for. Verse 23, in that day you will ask nothing of me. Now truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Till now you've asked nothing in my name. Ask though and you will receive that your joy may be full. Because Jesus has ascended, he's saying, We now have access to the Father. He's saying in that we can have here and now in the face of sorrow and misery of this present world, access in a sense to a taste of that future. We have the promises of God for that future here and now. We can go to him. We can confidently go to him because what has been said is true of us, that we have been justified. We can go to the Father in confidence now because we already know what has been declared of us in the last day. He loves you. He has said, you are righteous. How do we know that? Because he sent the Spirit to us. The Spirit who seals to us and testifies to us what is already true, though may not yet be fully realized to us here and now. And we'll close with this point four of the sentencing. This in-between time we see here will come to an end. And what will the sentence that is handed down be? Jesus says to his disciples, verse 25, I've said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my name. I do not say to you, I will ask the Father on your behalf, for the Father Himself loves you. Because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God. I came from the Father. I have come into the world. And now I'm leaving the world to go to the Father. What Jesus explains here is remarkable, but for his disciples, not quite a reality for them yet. They are still for a short bit in the disciples' point here on the before side of the cross, right? They haven't seen the cross and resurrection. The disciples respond to what Jesus says here. They go, oh, finally, we get it. They don't. They basically never do. It's going to take the cross and the resurrection for them to And Jesus says, he answers them, oh, now you believe? Let me give you the proof that you still don't get it, because you all in a moment, when I die, you are going to scatter. You're going to mourn. You're going to hide. That's exactly what the disciples do, right? The disciples might think they understand now. But they still don't quite. They won't understand until they get to the cross. And they won't understand until they've seen their resurrected Lord. They won't understand until they've seen The proof of the evidence, the sentencing that the Father has given to Jesus. Because the resurrection of Jesus is that sentencing for Jesus. Though Jesus may appear condemned before the world as he's crucified, the Father's decision is made clear and plain and declared when he says, My Son is righteous. And because of that, Holy Spirit resurrect him. That resurrection is that declaration. It is the sentencing that Jesus is victorious. Verse 33, I said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, for I have overcome the world. What does this sentencing of Jesus at the end of the trial, this declaration of Jesus, do for the disciples? Notice it does not free them from tribulation in the here and now in this world, in the midst of this deliberation. But Jesus says it does give them peace. It gives them peace because it shows us, it proclaims to us what the end surely is It reveals to us clear as day what the judge has already decided, that the world is condemned, and that you, Christian in Christ, are justified. What does that reality and truth do for you, Christian? What Jesus is saying here is it enables you to live in peace now. That you can live in peace because you've already heard what the end of this trial is, what the end of the court case is, that just as Jesus has been resurrected, So you can be sure that you will be resurrected. And you know that all that is evil in this world, though it seems to prosper now, will be condemned. And that what will be left for you is to reap the rewards of all that Christ has won for you already. A Christian, that's the promise of the sentencing of Jesus here. That is what has been promised for all who trust in Jesus. You could think about that. For me who have been sinful For you who have lived in unrighteousness, for you who belonged once to the power of the ruler of this world. For you who have continually tried to put God on trial instead, as though you knew best. What Jesus is saying, Christian, for you who have done all those things. Because of faith in Jesus. It is what Jesus has done for you. It is possible through the cross where Jesus has taken your judgment upon himself. that you can be declared righteous and justified, that you can have a future of resurrection. And for you who believe, not just that you can have that promise, You do have that promise. Sentence for you will be righteous. That's what Jesus has earned for you, what he has given to you. Hear from Jesus in this revelation of peace that though this court case may feel long as you endure it here in this world, And it's only a little longer. It will only be a little longer, and you can have peace now because of Christ's life and his death and his resurrection. So, what does that mean for you who believe? The judgment of God is good news for you. Because what he has said is that you are righteous. He's declared it for his son. He's proven it through his son's resurrection. He has promised that for you. A Christian, you can have peace because you know how the story ends. Amen? Let's pray.