I invite you now to open in God's Word to 2 Samuel 23. Page twenty hundred and seventy-five of the Bibles, the few Bibles provided for you underneath the seats in front of you. We're coming to a conclusion of the books of 1st and 2nd. Samuel that we've been studying for a number of weeks now. And uh this is uh the next to last passage that we'll be looking at, 2 Samuel 23. We have seen how these final chapters of 2 Samuel are reiterating or recapitulating, recounting For us, the main themes of the books of 1 and 2 Samuel. In a sense, it's like a little epilogue saying, just in case you missed it, here was the point. So that's very helpful. We can go back and correct ourselves if we weren't catching the point before here. 2 Samuel 23 probably echoes the uh it seems to me echoes 2 Samuel 1 to 10 This picture of David finally coming to his throne and reigning in glory in a kingdom that is a picture of the consummation of God. So with that, let's look at 2 Samuel 23. It's really two major sections. The first section is this uh final song of David, uh basically a song. Of his coronation and his enthronement, and then a list of his mighty men. Here now the reading of God's Holy Word. Now these are the last words of David, the oracle of David, the son of Jesse, the oracle of the man. Who was raised on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel. The Spirit of the Lord speaks by me. His word is on my tongue. The God of Israel has spoken. The rock of Israel has said to me: When one rules justly over man, ruling in the fear of God. God, he dawns on them like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning, like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. For does not my house stand so with God? For he has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things and secure, for will he not cause to prosper all my help and my desire? But worthless men are like all the thorns that are thrown away, for they cannot be taken with the hand, but the man who Who touches them arms himself with iron and the shaft of a spear, and they are utterly consumed with fire. These are the names of the mighty men whom David had. Joshe Bathsheb, uh Tachemenite. He was the chief of the three. He wielded his spear against eight hundred. whom he killed at one time. And next to him among the three mighty men was Eliezer, the son of Dodo, the son of Ahohai. He was with David when they defied the Philistines who were gathered And the men of Israel withdrew. He rose and struck down the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clung to the sword. And the Lord brought about a great victory that day, and the men returned after him only to strip the slain. And next to him was Shama, the son of. Of A. G. , the Hererite. The Philistines gathered together at Lehi, where there was a plot of ground full of lentils, and the men fled from the Philistines, but he Took his stand in the midst of the plot and defended it and struck down the Philistines, and the Lord worked a great victory. And three of the thirty chief men went down and came about harvest time to David at the cave of Adam. When a band of Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim. David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then at Bethlehem. And David said longingly, Oh, that's Someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate. Then the three mighty men broke through the camp. Of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem that was by the gate, and carried and brought it to David. But he would not drink of it. He poured it out to the Lord and said, Far be it from me, O Lord, that I should do this. Shall I drink the blood of men Men who went at the risk of their lives, therefore he would not drink it. These things the three mighty men did Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zariah, was chief of the thirty, and he wielded his spear against three hundred men and killed them and won a name beside the three. He was the most renowned of the thirty and became their commander, but he did not attain to Of the three. And Benea the son of Jehoiada was a valiant man of Kabziel, a doer of great deeds. He struck down two aerials of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in a pit on a day when snow. Had fallen. And he struck down an Egyptian, a handsome man. The Egyptian had a spear in his hand, but Benea went down to him with a staff and snatched the spear out of the Egyptian's hand and killed him with his own spear. These things did Benea, the son of Jehoiada, and won a name beside the three mighty men. He was renowned among the thirty, but did not attain to the three, and David set him over his bodyguard. Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem, Shamah of Herod, Elikah of Herod, Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ichish of T Tikoa, Abiazer of Anathoth, Mabune the Hushathite, Zalman the Ahohite, Mahairai of Natotha Heleb the son of Bainah of Nitopha, Ittai, the son of uh Ribbi, of Gibeah, of the people of Benjamin, Beneah of Pirithon, Hidae of the brooks of Gaash, Abai Albon the Arbathite, Asmabeth of Behuram, Eliahab, Elibah, sorry, the Sheelbonite, sons of Jashin, Jonathan, Shamah. the Harite, Ahaion the son of Sharar, the Harorite, Eliphalet the son of Ahasphi of Maiaca, Elion the son of Ahithophel of Gilo Hezroh of Carmel, Pairi the Arbite, Igile, the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite. Zelak the Ammonite, Naherai of Biroth, the armor-bearer of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, Ira the Ithrite, Gaireb the Ithrite, Uriah the Hittite, thirty seven in all As we prepare to take some time to meditate further on God's word, let's go before Him in prayer and ask Him to help us as we do. Heavenly Father, we do thank you and praise you for this opportunity to be gathered here together to hear your words as you speak. Lord, give us hearts to hear. Give us attentive ears to listen. May you soften our hearts and enable us by your spirit to hear the truths that you would have for us. The truths of the reality of sin in this world and the hopelessness that we are in left to ourselves, but the same reality that on the flip side is a message. Of hope as we humble ourselves and turn to you in faith and receive the promises of your forgiveness, of your grace, of the everlasting blessings that you've prepared for us in your kingdom. And so we pray that you use these words this morning to work a mighty work in our hearts and our lives, bringing us to faith, nourishing our faith, and strengthening us. To live lives following Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, yesterday I attended the funeral of a friend's daughter. She was only forty years old, and she seems to be one of really the many who in recent years have lost hope, given in Into despair and take in their own lives part of a broader, what we could call a crisis of hope. Carol Graham, a writer and researcher for the Brookings. Institution has written a number of scholarly articles on this topic and has summarized her work, and as she does so, she says, We currently have a crisis of premature deaths caused by suicide, drug overdose, and alcohol related. related diseases, all the consequences, she says, of high levels of despair. She says the single most consequential comp Component of subjective well-being is hope. And it's exactly hope that seems to be being lost all Graham defines hope as this. She says, it's not simply the belief or feeling that one's circumstances will get better. That's just optimism. Rather, hope is that optimism combined with the belief that one has the agency to make things better. So what's her solution? Well see if she suggests the government to get involved, government to develop ways to track hope. Despair and well-being study its effects and maybe find ways to address it on a broader scale. She also encourages community leaders to To offer mentoring to young people to help them cultivate a sense of hope and give give opportunities for older people to volunteer, which gives meaning and purpose to life and to walk in nature. Apparently, that helps us have hope. The problem I have is in reading through Graham's analysis of the situation Is that she says hope is having both the confidence that circumstances will get better and the agency to make them so But that's simply a description of a hope that we can have for this life. I mean in the end we all face a grave reality that isn't getting better. And that's death. The end Sadly, I think the reason for this hope crisis is because we believe that death is All there is. That more and more as a society we're abandoning the only true hope that can be found, and that is the hope that is offered in the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ that we find in God's Word, the Bible. This hope that though this life is fraught with trouble and suffering and sin, that God is building an eternal kingdom of glory, of beauty, of wonder, of peace. And he invites us to join others on the narrow path that leads there. A path That is through faith and following Jesus Christ. Now what does all this have to do with 2 Samuel 23? Well, I think it has everything to do with 2 Samuel 23. Because to be moved or drawn to pursue a goal, to walk, especially walk a narrow path to this kingdom hope, we need a vision. of what that hope is, of what awaits. You know, like Pilgrim's Progress, where he sets off on his journey to celestial city having heard about the city. And how great and glorious and grand it is, that that that vision of the future is what motivated him to walk through many hardships and trials and tribulations and yet to continue. And press on. We need a vision of what this kingdom that we're headed to is like, and that's what 2 Samuel 23 is all about. It describes for us a little picture, a little image, a little snapshot of the character of the consummated coming kingdom of God. And as a reminder, this is part of this epilogue that I think maps very well onto what comes before it. So if we connect this passage, 2 Samuel 23, With a section of 1 and 2 Samuel, I would argue that it mirrors or echoes the section of 2 Samuel 1 to 10. And what we notice there is that section was all about. The king, the one after the Lord's own heart, finally coming to reign as king over the kingdom, bringing the glory and the power and the might and the wonder, uh, a little picture of what the consummated kingdom. of God looks like. And as we see that idea echoed and reflected here in 2 Samuel 23, What we see is that this passage shows us the character of the consummated kingdom's space, the consummated kingdom's subjects, and the consummated kingdom's Sovereign. And those are the three points I want us to consider. The consummated kingdom's space, subjects, and sovereign, and how they're characterized here. First of all, the character of the consummated kingdom's space or place. And we see this in the first section in David's last words in verses 1 to 7, this hymn of coronation that David sings reflecting on his having been raised to kingship by the Lord, the fact that God has given him the Davidic covenant, the promise of a lasting, eternal kingdom. Kingdom as he does in Second Samuel seven and look what he says in verse one. Now these are the last words of David. We know he had other words, but these seemed to to be the last prophetic, the last oracles of David, or maybe a hymn that he he wrote or sang or reflected on at the very end of his life. The oracle of David, the son of Jesse, the oracle of the man who was raised on high. Notice, he didn't raise himself on high, he didn't rise on high, he was raised on high, the anointed of the God of Jesse. Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel, or as your note says, or the favorite of the songs of Israel. And this section seems to mirror specifically, maybe even more tightly, 2 Samuel 1-7, where the Lord finally establishes and raises up David as and establishes as kingship. and brings to an end the strife, the conflict, the unrest that troubled him all the way in his rise to the throne, finally reaching this place. Of victory and rulership and power and glory as he settles in Jerusalem. And what we saw when we were looking at those passages is what we see here. That the kingdom of God that is coming, the consummation kingdom of God is a space, is a place full of justice. full of peace where God reigns by his word and blesses by his king. That's how we could summarize this picture that David paints in this Final oracle. But if we drill down and we look at the details of this Oracle of David's a little further, we've got a few subpoints here. And that is how do these verses picture the place, the space of this consummation beginning? First of all, it's a place that is Emptied of evil. Utterly emptied of evil. Now that's at the very end of his his story. He talks about being raised on high, being established, the glory of a of a king who exercises justice and rules in the fear of the Lord, then at the end there's a butt. But worthless men are all like thorns that are thrown away, for they cannot be taken with the hand. But the man who touches them arms himself. You can't be taken by the hand. Like, you don't take worthless men and bring them to be a friend, to walk alongside you. Instead, he who touches them arms himself with iron. The picture is putting on an iron glove. so that you don't get pricked by these thorny, worthless men and a shaft of a spear, and they are utterly consumed with fire. There's this reality that there are two kinds of people, and one is not welcome in this space. Evil. Worthless men, those characterized, admired, and lost in their sin and wickedness, are not part of this. consummation kingdom and the space that David characterizes here. Of course, we saw this in David's ascent to the throne. He had to vanquish all sorts of usurpers. The consummation kingdom is characterized by being emptied of evil. And isn't that how John sees it in the book of Revelation? As he at the very end of inspired scriptures, he sees this final vision And what does he say in Revelation chapter 21? The same sort of thing that the kingdom is one emptied of evil. Listen to this. Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man, he will dwell with them, and he they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall they be. Shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away. And he who is seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. But Verse 8. Revelation 21:8 As for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion We'll be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is second death Two spaces. One, the conservation kingdom of God empty of evil. What a vision. I have a friend who used to work for government intelligence. And he doesn't go into detail because he's Good. Uh government employee and is faithful to the the promises that he's made. But every now and then he'll he'll share how he reflected on his time. You know, he's They had to do all sorts of spying and surveillance. on and they don't need to. But it has to be done because evil never rests. Are constantly those plotting ill will for their enemies. Imagine living in a world emptied of evil. What a place. That's the character of the coming kingdom space. The second characteristic of this space, of the coming kingdom, the consummation kingdom of God, is that it is a place, a space that is lush. With life. With life. Human flourishing. Peace. Not peace, like just absence of war, but peace. Like the biblical shalom. Richness, fullness, beauty. And we see that in verses three to five. The God of Israel has spoken. The rock of Israel has said to me: When one rules justly over men, ruling in the fear of God. A description of David at his best. A description of the kind of king that God has promised for his kingdom. He dawns on them like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning, like rain that makes grass to sprout from. The earth. For does not my house stand so with God? For he has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things and secure. For will he not cause to prosper all my help? And my desire. The images here are powerful images of blessing, prosperity under a just rule of God's chosen King who rules in the fear of God. He's like light, sun. He's like rain. Well, why those two things? Well, because those are the two resources necessary to enable human life to flourish on earth: water and sun. That's what God's king is liking to hear. That's what his kingdom is like to a place where the sun never sets, where the rain always comes in due time. He says this kingdom is a place lush with life because it is secure. It prospers because it's under this everlasting covenant. As a culture in our day, in our world, a culture where we seem to no longer be operating much under the fear of the Lord. We're terrified of losing the sun and losing water, climate change, nuclear war Artificial intelligence, all these things are these existential threats, are now things of great fear. But the consequence Kingdom has no such concerns. It's a place of promised permanence, emptied of evil, lush with life. And third, it's grounded on God, on his word, and on this king. I say that because at the very center of David's poem here, you know, it's one of these structures we've talked about before, a sandwich structure. So at the center, it's meant to draw your attention to it and and see it as the center of whatever whatever is being talked about. Here the kingdom's space is being discussed. So what is at its center? At its center is God speaking. Look at verse 2. The Spirit of the Lord speaks by me. His word is on my tongue. The God of Israel has spoken. The rock of Israel has said to me. When one rules justly, and so on. So the Lord's word is introduced, and then God speaks. That's the center of his kingdom. At the center of the consummation, kingdom of glory is the word of God, or God speaking a word of blessing through his king. Friends, isn't that the same picture we get in Revelation? The picture of the very Word of God, Jesus Christ, as the Lamb of God, slain to take away the sins of the world in the center of New Jerusalem. In the center, providing its light. And from whom come the waters. That's the picture of Revelation 22. It's also the picture that's there in Revelation 21. I saw no tent Temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God Almighty in the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will nations walk Kings of the earth will bring their glory. And down to chapter 22, the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb. Through the Middle of the street of the city. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, his servants will worship them, they will see his face, his name shall be on their foreheads in night. Will be no more. They need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. How do you apply this first point, this vision? Of the space of this consummation kingdom, of how it's characterized. Friends, the space, the place we long for that is emptied of evil, that is lush with life, that is firmly grounded and secure. Which it can only be when it's founded and s grounded on the word of God's promise and on his glorious king. That's the vision. That we're given for our future, the promised hope we have that God lays out for us, that's foreshadowed in David's reign and fulfilled in the coming consummated reign of Jesus. Jesus Christ our King. Are you ready to have your mind blown by that reality? This is a little poetry that's given to us to picture it, but it falls so far short. And we see that when we go to Revelation and the images that are used to describe just often sound foreign and strange, it's because it's so glorious you can't quite put it into human words. That's the character of of the consummation consummated kingdom's space. What about its subjects? The second point. Its subjects. Well not only do we have here a vision for the character of the consummated kingdom Kingdom as a space, a place of peace and justice. But we also have a picture of it being full of glorious subjects who are no less than mighty conquering humanity. That's what the rest of the passage is about. And this is so significant because, you know, don't we all feel like uh the friends who are around us often say a lot about us? kids. It's kind of why you want to be part of what you think is the cool kids' crowd, because you think somehow if you're surrounded by them it makes you look good. And that's the idea here. David, as this glorious king, to have the glory that he has, it must be reflected in those around him. his. These are mighty men. These are his elite troops, the king's special subjects. And they come in a set of three Which is the cream of the crop, and 30, who are the cream of the crop of all the rest. That's how it's divided up here. And if we ask ourselves, okay, what are these subjects like? How are they described? How are they characterized? I would argue, again, there are three ways they're characterized. First of all, they're characterized as conquerors, as victors, mighty warriors who win. Look at verse 8. These are the names of the mighty men whom David had. Josheb Be-Shebas, a Tachemenite. He was the chief of the three And we find out why. He wielded his spear against 800 whom he killed at one time. Wow. Only Samson is said to have killed more in the Bible. He killed apparently one thousand, at least he claimed to, in one sitting. No wonder Joshab is the chief of the chiefs. Think about it, if you had a hundred of Joshabs, you could, with one hundred Joshabs, you could defeat an army of 80,000. But there are more. Verse nine. Next to him among the three mighty men was Eliezer the son of Dodo, the son of Ahoi. He was with David when they defied the Philistines who were gathered there for battle, and the men of Israel were with David. withdrew. He rose and struck down the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clung to the sword, frozen in place, and the Lord brought about a great victory that day, and the men returned after him only to strip the slave. They didn't have have to come back and kill those who are dying on the battlefield. He just had to strip them. That's the idea. What a victor. And then it goes on. Verse 11, the third. And next to him was Shamah, the son of Ajah, the Herorite. The Philistines gathered together at Lehi, where there was a plot of ground full of lentils. You know, the kingdom's only as safe as you can grow a garden, plant a garden, and have it not be destroyed by marauders and shamma. Shham is the guy you want protecting your family. Look at this. There's a plot of ground full of lentils. And the men fled from the Philistines, but he took his stand in the midst of the plot and defended it and struck down the Philistines, and the Lord was Worked a great victory. What's the point? These guys are not just heroes who fight hard. They are victors, conquerors. No wonder the kingdom is a place, a space of peace and safety. With conquerors like this as its subjects, right? But they're not only conquerors, they're also deeply committed and devoted And we see this in this powerful vignette about David that comes in verses thirteen and and following. Look at look at those. And three of the thirty chief men. Now we don't know if this is saying that the three that just were described, or some other three that were uh mighty among the thirty, went down and came about harvest time to David at the cave of Adulum, when the band of Philistines was encamped in the valley of Raphaeon. Now Uh we don't know exactly when this happened, but probably it happened around the time of 2 Samuel 5, which is what we're echoing here, right? Um, because it tells us about a time when the Philistines were camped in the valley of Rephim. uh Raphaim. And David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then at Bethlehem. Now Bethlehem is the city David grew up in. It's his hometown. And it's Teeming with Philistines. David's hiding out in a cave. And David said longingly, Oh, that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate. And commentators said, St. David's not there, you know, trying to goad his men to go get some water. He's not there probably literally wishing he could have water. He's longing for what all that would represent. That Bethlehem would be safe in Israelite hands. That he could go back there and visit his relatives from time to time. He could drink the water of Bethlehem that probably he grew up drinking, that had a its own distinctive flavor and and remember all the joys of childhood. All that's being robbed from him now. He's enmeshed in this battle with the Philistines. That's probably what he's longing for, but his men take him literally. Look at how committed. Look at how devoted they are to their king. The three Might have been broke through the camp of Philistines. They they couldn't just walk up and grab it. They had to fight their way in. And drew water out of the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate and carried and brought it to David. That's about a twenty-six mile. Hike there and back. But he wouldn't drink of it. He poured it out. And you think, what? They must have been shocked. They must have been so annoyed. We got that for you to taste and to drink. He poured it out to the Lord. He said, This gift is worthy. things the might three mighty men did. And notice, not only are they committed and devoted to him, David, their king, but he shows The same devotion to them. He recognized the sacrifice, the risk of their lives. And he said, you know what, I'm not going to take their lives lightly enough. I don't deserve the kind of honor they're trying to give me. You Lord deserve that. And so he gives their offering to the Lord. So the subjects here are characterized as conquerors, committed to their king. And third, throughout, they're characterized as being utterly conquered. Courageous, utterly courageous. We see this as we read on through the list. Verses 18. Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, we know this guy And we know this guy had courage. He's the guy who who went with David and headed right into the Philistine camp and grabbed the spear. I'm sorry, he went with David, now the Philistine camp. Saul Camp and grabbed the spear of Saul with David. This guy was fearless, courageous. But look at what he does here. He was chief of the authority. He wielded his spear against 300 men and killed them. And won a name beside the three. He was the most renowned of the thirty and became their commander. But this Abishai, who we know, is so courageous, he didn't attain to the three. Those guys that we've just talked about, they were even greater than he. They were all so courageous. Look at Benea. Beneah the son of Jehoiada was a valiant man of Cavzeel, a doer of great deeds. He struck down two aerials, and we don't know exactly uh what these are. Different options are there in your notes. Um mighty men, some sort of Animal of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in a pit on a day when snow had fallen. It's freezing cold. You can't get a good footing. And he goes and takes care of a lion even in that sort of situation. And he struck down an Egyptian, a handsome man. The Egyptian had a spear in his hand, but Benea went down to him with a staff. Snatched the spear out of his The Egyptians' hand and killed him with his own spear. These things Vineah son of Jehoiad did, and won a name for himself beside the three mighty men. He was renowned among the three, but he did not obtain to the three. David set him over his Uh bodyguard. The snowy lion killer. That's the guy you want. To be over your bodyguard, don't you? Yeah, and then the list goes on. We're not gonna read through all these names. It's uh it's hard enough to Do it once, let's not do it twice. Probably all of these guys were famous in their own day. Kids. For the early readers of this text, it probably sounded a little bit like, and then there was Superman, and then there was Batman, and then there was Spider-Man, and then there's Iron Man, and then there's Ant Man, and whoever your favorite superhero is. That's what this sounded like. These were real life though. Real life superheroes that lived among God's people. The implication is that all these subjects of David, this list of names, they each had their own story. Of courage, of commitment to him, of conquest. So, what should we do with a list like this? How do we apply this second point of the characterization of the subjects of the consummated kingdom? Well, first of all, I think let's be comforted by it. The Lord not only provides a mighty king, but he provides mighty subjects who can win his battles too, who can fight alongside us and with us and for us. Imagine living in Israel at this time. And Benea, the snowy lion slayer, is your next door neighbor. Ah, you wouldn't be too worried about what happens at night, right? He's got me covered. Or maybe you're somebody who would like to be like a banana. You like he can teach me a thing or two. Your kids go to the same school. That would be a place you feel confident, safe, at peace. We should also recognize here that this characterization of the subjects of David's mighty men who are specifically listed here is actually a characterization that is to be true of all of us. As servants of God in some capacity. Spiritually speaking, we're all called to courage, a courage of faith, as we stand like lion slayers. Against the devil who prowls around like a roaring lion, as 1 Peter 5 says. We are all called to this kind of a commitment and devotion to our King, like he's Three men, unnamed men, who run off to Bethlehem. We're called to love the Lord our God with all our heart, all our soul, our mind, all our strength. It means we're willing to put our life On a lion to serve and follow him. We are called to courage, to commitment. We are called to be more than conquerors, Paul says in Romans 8, as we fight the spiritual battles of this life. You know, that's the promise throughout Revelation, as Revelation is really specifically a whole book that's oriented or focused on our future hope, and it keeps saying over and over again to the one who comes. Conquers, I will give this consummated kingdom of glory. That's a challenge How can we rise to it? Well, the answer is just like these men did. Yes, sure they were courageous. Sure, they were committed. Sure, they conquered. But look how Verse 10. Talking here about Eliezer, the son of Dodo, he rose and struck down the Philistines until his hand was weary, his hand clung to the sword. And the Lord brought about a great victory. That day. Verse 12. This is talking about Shema. But he took a stand in the midst of the plot of lentils, and he defended and struck down the Philistines, and the Lord worked a great victory. So the call here, as we look at the characterization of the subjects of the king, as we see in them a call to us. To be characterized in similar ways. It's not a call for us to be Dwayne the Rock Johnson's, physically or spiritually. No, instead, we're called to lean. on the Lord and to find him as the one who makes us courageous in faith, who cultivates in us a commitment, a love for him, a devotion. As we simply love him back, as simply we are devoted to him after he has first devoted himself to us. We're called in him to be more than conquerors. That's how Paul says it in Romans eight, where he's talking about being more than conquerors. What is it that he says, starting in verse thirty one, he says, What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be conquered? against us. See, that's how we're more than conquerors, by God fighting with and for us, by God giving the victory. And then down in verse 35. Why who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? Oh, these battle imageries, all sorts of stuff we've seen in these mighty men of David. As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No. In all these things we are more than conquerors. Through him who loved us. So that's the character of the kingdom, the consummation kingdom Space or its place, the character of the consummation kingdom's subjects, and third and finally the character of the consummation kingdom's sovereign or king. See, the question we should ask here with this vision of the consummation kingdom is this glorious space full of glorious subjects, we should ask How do I get in? How can I be part of that? Especially since most of the people, the largest number of people mentioned in this chapter aren't part of that community. Kingdom. 800 Philistines plus 300 is 1100 on my count, and there were more. Here, the people, the subjects of the kingdom are only maybe four. 40. It says 37 at the end. But yeah, David and Joab is mentioned and a few others, and maybe you get up to about 40. How can I be part of that kingdom? How can I have that kind of kingdom as my host? And friends, the answer is by knowing the sovereign of that kingdom, the king of glory. Who is the king of glory? Who's the sovereign who rules this consummated kingdom of God? Friends, it's not David who's ruling here, but it's David's greater son, Jesus Christ. And we see this as we look through this passage We step back and we see all this glory shot throughout, right? We can imagine the nostalgia this might have engendered in those who lived through this time. We can imagine the longing that it might have cultivated century after century for those who lived through Israel's history as it marched on. A kingdom eventually divided, northern and southern. A kingdom that eventually had wicked king after wicked king after wicked king leading, not a king King like David, but kings like Saul and worse. A kingdom, the north of which fell to the Assyrians, the south of which fell in exile to the Babylon Babylonians led off into exile. We can imagine the Israelites reading this and thinking, ah, if only we could get back there. To that kingdom of David, full of those courageous, conquering subjects But on closer read, we must recognize that such sentiments ought to have been challenged by a closer reading. Because while this passage does paint a beautiful picture of power and glory in this image of the consummated kingdom, Did you notice how it ends? You read through this list. Superman. Iron Man Names that we can't pronounce, but clearly these guys that are renowned. And then verse 39. The last name mentioned. The last of David's thirty mighty men in this list of names, Uriah, Hittite And all of a sudden, the worst of David's sin, all the worst Of David's failure in his reign comes pouring back into mine. The lust, the adultery, the lies The murder, the betrayal of one of his most loyal, devoted subjects It's such a clear reminder. As great as David's kingship was, it could only ever serve as a picture, shadowy picture at best, of the consummation that God has promised, that He promises to David, in such grand and glorious categories as we see here. And as we reel from that realization, we can go back over the passage and as you do, you realize, oh We should have gotten hints of it before Uriah. Hints that not all was perfect in David's kingdom. That David himself did not rule justly. always that he did not always rule in the fear of the Lord as he declares in verse 3. And we see this in the repeated mention of Joab. Joab Who is the general of David's armies? Who's over all of these guys? And yet all he gets named for, he's not even counted as one of them. He just gets named as one who's a reference to his brothers. Abishai the brother of Joab. Asahel, the brother of Joab. It's like he's been excommunicated because of his brutality, his violence, his disobedience of his king. And then there's verse 34. Eliam, the son of Ahithophel. Oh, I've heard that name before. Well, a lion is Bathsheba's dad. Another one of David's mighty men commits adultery with his daughter And Ahithophel is the one who then sides with Absalom to lead in Absalom's rebellion. No friends, the ultimate glory of the kingdom Space and subjects is dependent on the sovereign. And because of David's sin and failure, he can't be the forever. perfect king. And that's how this whole passage is meant to cultivate in us and in God's people throughout the ages along Not for a bygone kingdom in the Palestine, a kingdom of Jews under the rule of David, but it's meant to cultivate in us a longing for a coming kingdom. That covers the whole world, that is full of every nation, tribe, and tongue, and under the kingship of our Lord Jesus Christ. He is the great David's greater son, a king like him in all the ways that David was a man like after the Lord's own heart. Every way in which David was a man after the Lord's own heart, Jesus is, but but he's not like David in all the ways that David was David fails, betrays, sins. Like David here, Jesus had his own mighty men, loyal troops. While David had thirty, Jesus only had twelve. While Davids were mighty warriors, Jesus were twelve fishermen and a tax collector. His twelve didn't fight the Roman Empire, but they did do wonders nonetheless, healing the sick, casting out demons, raising the dead, even converting pagans. To faith in Jesus Christ. They went out in war. They won people for the kingdom of God rather than destroying them. And we're called to join in this apostolic ministry of victory as we attend to God's Word, as we Continue in prayer as we hold fast to the faith. Like David in the midst of battle, Jesus had a wish, had a longing. Not for a little cup of Bethlehem's spring water. But he had a longing that the Father take the cup of his wrath away from him. And yet rather than granting that wish, the disciples fell asleep while praying. praying. And then fled when it got too hard to follow. Unlike David, who was eventually who who himself eventually betrayed his loyal servant Uriah, Jesus is the king who Who was betrayed by one of his servants and one of his friends, Judas Iscariot. And then Jesus, as king, humbled himself and did the work of these mighty men, these mighty subjects of David. He did the work that he calls us to follow him in, but he did it first and foremost. He stepped forth into battle alone, waging war with the ultimate enemy, sin. Satan and death, drinking the cup of God's wrath to its dregs on the cross, so that he could become a source of living water. For us as he pours forth his spirit on all who have faith in him and leads us by the spirit to eternal life, leading us out of the darkness of sin and misery Into the light of his kingdom. And Jesus did all this to win for us a hope, so that his kingdom could be one where people who are sinners by nature, like you, like me, like David, even. Could come under the glorious kingship of Jesus Christ. Don't have to be banished and removed like the Philistines here, so that the kingdom can be emptied of evil, but we can actually We can be emptied of evil. As we come to faith in Jesus Christ, as we're conquered by Him as our King, as we're forgiven by Him, as we're cleansed by His blood, as we're sanctified and welcomed into His kingdom. Because he has loved us and called us and worked a great victory in us and through us, we can have that hope. Thanks be to God. May we praise his glorious grace. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this picture we get of what lies ahead. Lord, how we thank you that it's not just a picture that we look back on, but one that As we look back on, we realize was meant to point us forward. How we thank you that in Jesus Christ the King has come. How we thank you that He's at your right hand, that He's building, He's He's preparing the space for us to dwell with Him. In glory forever, and we pray that you give us hearts of faith to lean into this truth. That you fill us with hope as we look ahead. That you fill us with that prayer: come quickly, Lord Jesus. And that you might answer that prayer soon. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.