You're either growing or you're dying. Have you ever heard that idea, that maxim proclaimed It's a popular phrase in both the business sphere and often self-help spheres today. In many ways, it encapsulates So much of the way that we often think. You're either growing or you're dying. We are a motivated people, or at least we think that we should be motivated, right? Conquering the task ahead, getting on to the next thing, knowing that if the bank account or the self-worth or the skills are not growing, Well then what does that mean? It must be dwindling and dying. They must be contracting. So what do we need to do? We need to get to work to keep those things growing. That phrase, you're growing or you're dying, was popularized in the business sphere by a man named Ray Kroc. Do you know who Ray Kroc was? He yes, you do. Great. He was the milkshake machine salesman. who took over that one lone burger joint in San Bernardino, grew it in his lifetime to over 7500 locations, in his lifetime sold over 50 billion hamburgers. You already know it, many of you, the name for that joint did not come from his own name. It came from two other brothers, Richard and Maurice McDonald. In describing the secret to the success of McDonald's, uh Ray Kroc would go on to champion that particular idea. How did I do it? Well had that mentality, either you're growing or you're dying. Part of what Kroc would say then, the secret sauce to that growth. How do I grow? What's the winning formula, the magic touch? What he said specifically was it's just grinding it out. Grinding it out. What does that mean? I go to work and I work and I work and I work some more. Does the burden to do that, does that mentality resonate with you? If I'm not improving, well then I must be dying. So of course it's time to pull myself up by my bootstraps. and grind it out. Get to work. Now oftentimes that is a winning formula here in this world, or at least oftentimes it appears to be. That's probably why we're so consistently the kind of people who bring that mentality into all different spheres of our lives. Is that the kind of mentality which you bring into your spiritual life? Is that the mentality you have as you think about how do I grow spiritually? Think about it, you become a Christian and what is the American impulse? Well, how do I improve in my Christian walk? What must I do to become the greater Christian, the superior Christian? How do I grind out this whole Jesus thing so that I'm growing and not dying? You know, maybe you don't say it out loud in such crude terms. But certainly we ask ourselves that kind of question, right? We should ask ourselves that question in a sense, how do I grow in the faith? The question is then, how do I do that? Is it the same way that I grow in the rest of earthly terms? There are countless books and resources out there seeking to answer that kind of question for you. showing how one might improve their family or their work or their daily experience in spiritual terms. And oftentimes these resources sell well because they make a sort of promise. Now, if you follow these five steps, do these things, then you will grow in your Christian experience. Here is how you can grind out the Christian growth plan. Just do these three simple things. Now listen, I'm not saying that you need to go and throw out all your Christian living books when you get home. That is not the application here. Far from that. Oftentimes books have many good, helpful truths for us to learn. But at the same time, oftentimes, and what Paul is going to be bringing to light this morning. We fall prey to the idea that we should measure progress in the Christian life the same way that we measure it in earthly terms. And Paul's going to show us that's just not quite the case. Often we are drawn in to think that the primary way I grow and don't die spiritually is by Grinding it out, doing more, producing. But what Paul is going to show us here in the text this morning is this: In the economy of God, growth comes. By death. In the economy of God, growth comes by death. We're going to see just two points for that this morning. They're this. First, the spell of production. the spell of production. And then second, the spirit of sanctification. Join me in that first point here, the spell of production. We mentioned that at the beginning of this epistle, Paul kicks it off with some harsh terms. He starts off this whole letter for the Galatians a little more aggressively than he does most of his other letters. He begins it in chapter 1. I cannot believe you have abandoned the gospel. Meaning, okay, whoa, Paul, hold your horses. That's I mean a little strong, right? Then we get to this chapter. We see Paul isn't done with the aggression, is he? Verse 1, oh foolish Galatians. Paul opens up this portion of his letter essentially with some name-calling of sorts. Sometimes when we look at The text how it's translated for us, uh, we kind of miss the idea. That's not the case here. This looks like some aggressive name-calling, and that's what it is. Paul is being provocative as he calls them fools. Look then how verse 3 starts too. Are you so foolish? I mean, run those together. What's Paul saying to these people? You foolish Galatians, are you really this dense? Hey dummies, seriously? That's the way that Paul is speaking to them. That's how this comes off. And Paul does this not for the sake of being crude itself. Because this church needs to wake up to the seriousness of their error. Paul doesn't see the way that they've been led astray by other people come up from Jerusalem. as trivial here. It is deeply serious. So the seeing here is intentionally and rhetorically provocative. And it's strategic in that way. He's saying, wake up. Wake up. If there's any football fans in the room, this is a kind of coach Bill Belichick moment Bill was not the kind of coach who was willing to watch you make a mistake and then let you come over to the sideline and give you a hug and say, it's okay, buddy. No. No, Bill would look at the greatest football player of all time, Tom Brady, and say, after an errant pass Really? You think that was a smart move? You think you think that's what you should do? I remember uh seeing he did that to a rookie receiver, uh Pop Douglas. Pop fumbled the ball after he caught it Bill invites him over. He says, Really the right choice? You really think you really think that was a smart one? Here's what you're gonna do, Pop. You're gonna hold this ball since you like to drop it and you're just gonna hold it the rest of the game. And every for the rest of the game, you pan over to the sideline. There's pop holding the ball That's in effect what's happening here with Paul and the Galatians. It's this kind of rebuke that is communicated through some chastising language. And it needs to be, because the error of the Galatians is so deadly serious. Now, Paul isn't treating them with soft hands like we might say he does to the Corinthians. Paul has come with stern rebuke. Because the Galatians have so badly fumbled their understanding of the gospel. Paul sees this issue as so preposterous. That he says, for this to have happened, you must have been hexed. You must have an evil spell upon you. Look at the verse 1 as it continues. O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? How could this have happened? You must be under some sort of spell. A wooden rendering of this would be something like: Who has put their evil eye upon you? It's because in ancient times the way that you put a curse or a hex upon someone, a spell of sorts, would be that someone would look at them very funny with their evil eye. That's why their eye is upon you. Suddenly, as they look at you that way, you're bewitched. Paul says, Who did this to you? Who has made you look so foolish? It must be some kind of evil voodoo that has led you to do something like this. Led you to think this ridiculously To act, to think how you are, it must have taken the work of an evil sorcerer. So what the Galatians have done then to get this kind of reaction from Paul is what? What have they done? It's what Paul actually brought up in the prior few verses to this. That the Galatians have gone back to thinking they could be justified. At least in part under the law. The case Paul made if you were with us last week in the evening was, he says, you know, Peter and I, we grew up in the old covenant. We grew up under the law in the old ways. And you know what we learned doing that? We learned that that way doesn't work. What we learned was you cannot be declared or made righteous by following the law. Paul had communicated, you know, we tried it, our fathers tried it, our whole nation tried it for a thousand years, and what we learned is that the law just cannot quite do it. It cannot quite make you righteous. Let me reread part of it for us, verse 15 of Galatians chapter 2. Paul saying, Peter and I, we ourselves are Jews by birth, not even Gentile sinners. Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law. But through faith in Jesus Christ. So we have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ. And not by works of the law. And we did this because by works of the law, no one will be justified. Paul says, no one will be justified by doing the works of the law. It just does not work. We taught you this, O Galatians. I taught this to you, and what have you decided to do? What have you decided to try out? Galatians chapter 3, verse 2. He continues. Let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain, if indeed it was in vain? Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law or by hearing with faith? What Paul does is go step by step and show them how foolish their new way of thinking is, because it's the old way. Paul has already said, my whole people tried to find favor with God by doing the law, and it just didn't work. So what are you all gonna try and do? Well what what is Paul said they went on to try and do The Galatians do want to find favor with God. The Galatians want to progress in their Christian experience. Good. Paul has told them, works of the law won't do that for you. And the Galatians have said, we got it. We're going to grind out that law again. So it's no wonder he calls them fools. Notice the way that Paul has responded to them. It's with these questions. He asks a series of them. Verse 2: Did you receive the Spirit by the law? Verse 3, did you become perfected by the flesh? Verse 4, did you suffer for no reasons since it didn't get you anything tangible? Verse 5, did the miracles come by works? The point that Paul is making here is think about your whole Christian experience and how it has happened so far. Think about how you came alive to Jesus Christ. Think about how you were reconciled and invited into favor with God. Was any of it started by you accomplishing, working, producing? The answer is of course not. So on what planet does it make sense that suddenly you doing the works of the law is now the way forward? Paul effectively tells the Galatians, you know, the most absurd thing you can try and do is think that you will cement God's favor with you by doing what? You're doing the works of the law. Paul actually says it's some kind of evil voodoo that has cast a spell upon you to make you believe that. It must have taken a hex or a curse to convince you to think that your productivity will make God happier with you. That's not exactly the way that we usually think of the devil working, right? Yeah, he puts spells on you. What do you think of the devil doing? You think of him on the shoulder there promoting lawlessness and licentiousness? sowing the seeds of cultural degradation and debauchery around us. And the devil does do that. I'm not saying he doesn't do that. But he doesn't only do that. He also comes tempting and bewitching with the message that the Galatians have heard. tempting us to believe that we could actually be good with God by our productivity And snaring us with the idea that we have to do the law to stay acceptable before God. And that's confusing to us because it feels backwards, doesn't it? Paul says Satan tempts us to do good things? In a sense, yes. But these aren't actually inherently good. Why? Well, think about it. He's tempting us to believe God will love and accept us on the basis of us doing good things. Think about what that is. When you believe that you can become acceptable to God by you doing good things, where is your faith in that moment? Is it in Jesus Christ? Oh no. It's in me Paul's point summed up is essentially twofold. Believing your productivity will make you good with God is essentially foolish and demonic. And yet it is a spell which constantly ensnares humanity. And the irony is, that spell sells the promise to us that this is how we will grow and live. But that spell is actually incredibly deadly. Because what will really kill you Is buying into the belief that you can endear yourself to God by your own self-improvement, by your own productivity, by grinding it out. Does that make sense? Point number two, the spirit of sanctification. Paul, in showing the Galatians their folly, does not leave them there. Paul isn't saying that this life and how we live it is irrelevant. Paul isn't saying there is no such thing as growth in the Christian life. There surely is. But Paul does show that in the sphere of grace and the gospel, growth comes to us in a different way than we expect. What Paul points us towards is what? It's the cross. The case he makes, in essence, is that the very thing which began the Christian life is the same thing which completes the Christian life. Think again about some of those questions that Paul asked the Galatians here. In verse 2, let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law, or by hearing with faith? Verse three, are you so foolish having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? What is the built-in logic of Paul's questions? He's saying you started this way. What makes you think that things change? This is the journey that you've started on. This is the journey you're taking to completion. Why do you think this is going to suddenly change? What Paul was saying here is designed to contradict the Galatians mentality, which is we will start by faith. And we'll continue and make that faith really good. We'll make it better. We will enhance it. We will complete that faith by adding our good works to it. But what Paul's questions show us is actually that the way things started is the same way that things find their end. The way that the Christian life starts. The way that it is born is the same way that it grows and the same way that it finds fulfillment. What is the twofold nature of the dawn of the Christian life? What Paul presents essentially as this twofold but unified idea. Christianity is born by receiving the gospel and by receiving the Holy Spirit. That's how the Christian life starts. Look back through the text. There's three different times he talks about how you received the Spirit. And how is it that the Spirit comes? You could think about the context here in the early church and the book of Acts. consistently in the book of Acts, when you look through the stories of people hearing the gospel, what goes hand in hand The refrain again and again is, these people received the gospel, they believed in it, and then the text makes clear, and the spirit fell upon them. People hear the truth of the gospel. They receive the gospel, and then what immediately comes? The Spirit of God. Those ideas of receiving the gospel and receiving the Holy Spirit are so united together. They go immediately together. And that's what our theology teaches us. That the Holy Spirit comes and brings people to life as they receive the truth of the gospel. That the Spirit makes the Word of God effective in the lives of His people. That the Spirit transforms dead, stony hearts. to living, breathing hearts as people receive the gospel and faith. That's exactly what was promised under the new covenant Isn't that what we read in our Old Testament reading? It's what's repeated throughout Scripture almost every single place there's a reference to the new covenant That the new covenant, part of what makes it new and so different and so special to us is that promise of the coming of the Holy Spirit. What Ezekiel specified is that the sign of the new covenant was that Spirit being poured out upon God's people. You may remember from when we looked through the Gospel of John, that was something Jesus said over and over. My spirit is coming. He is coming and he will give you new life. Paul here brings forth this beautiful sign of the new covenant. Reminding them. How did you begin? Who has come to you? It is the Spirit of God. He's reminding them this in the midst of the Galatian people doing what? Trying to go back to the ways of the old covenant. Trying to retreat back to the way people lived under the law of Moses. Christians, Galatians, you've received the Holy Spirit, the surety of the new covenant. Thanks, Paul. We love it. We're going to go back to that old covenant stuff. No wonder he calls them fools. What was life under the old covenant? Said it a few times. Do this and live, or fail and die. You want to go back to the law? When the gospel has said to you, here is the gift of life. Not do this and live. Receive this truth and live. And you will be sealed by God's own spirit. You want to go back to the old covenant? Under the law? Part of what Paul makes so clear in the previous section to this text is that we have already failed the law. So what is left for the law to offer us except for death? That's why Paul said, I died to the law through the law. But Christian, the gospel that you receive is this gift of life. It is what you receive. And how has this life been received? Isn't that the question that Paul asks? Verse 2, let me ask you this one thing. How did the spirit of life come to you? How did you receive new life? How has miraculous work come to you? How did you receive all of these things? Was it by works of the law or was it by hearing with faith? Paul says the way that this all came to you, the way it started. Of course, it is the same way that you will move through this life and even progress to the end of this life. The way that things started is the way that things will end. The way that Christians grow is the same way. same way that the Christian life has begun. The way that the Christian life is born is the same way that it grows to perfection. And Christian, were you born by your doing the works of the law? Or were you born by hearing through faith? Those are the two options that Paul lists. Is it by doing or is it by hearing? Look again at verse 1 O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. If you know your New Testament pretty well, that's probably a little confusing, isn't it? The last time I checked, Jesus Christ was crucified on a hill outside of Jerusalem, not in Galatia. So how is it that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified before the eyes of the Galatians? When did the Galatians see this? What does their seeing this have to do with Paul says about their hearing Paul says, you saw Jesus presented to you as crucified. Well, how did the Galatians see that? Christian, it's the same way that you've seen it. They haven't seen this through their eyes. They have seen it through their ears. Because what Paul did for the Galatians when he came and visited them is the same thing that he did for the Corinthians and the Philippians and the Colossians and everywhere else that he went out. Paul went and vividly proclaimed wherever he went to the people who he met that Jesus Christ was crucified for them. And it is by hearing that with faith. It is by knowing and affirming and trusting that that is true, that Jesus Christ died for you. It is by that that we are justified, that we are made to be righteous. that we are brought to newness of life. It was by receiving in faith this message that Jesus Christ died on a cross for them that the Spirit came. And gave new life. That's how the Christian life begins. Seeing by faith Knowing so well that you trust it like you've seen it with your own eyes that Jesus Christ died for you. That is how the Christian life is born. Paul's point is that it is the same exact truth which will carry you all the way to the end of your life. How will you, Christian, grow? How will you flourish? How will you be even perfected, the text says? It is by hearing and receiving in faith the truth of the gospel, by doing that again and again and again. That's how we grow. That is how we are transformed. That is how we are sanctified. We do not begin by getting the gospel and then moving on to the law to make the gospel better somehow. No, we look to the cross and we keep looking and we keep looking. And what happens as we keep looking to the cross and trusting in that truth, trusting that Jesus died for us. What happens is that same spirit who brought you to life, that same spirit will be at work in you, growing you. Making you holy, sanctifying you, showing you who Jesus has been for you, and making you to be then more like Jesus. The hex, the evil voodoo in Paul's communication here is the idea that you can become a more valuable Christian by doing the law. But the counter-spell here, the magic kiss to that hex is what? Jesus presented as crucified before you. This all is precisely why Fix and I are so careful in our preaching each and every week to leave you with what? What we foremost leave you with is not your checklist of five steps to become the better you. Our main goal is not to give you three fresh ways to grow in patience. That said, we believe in application, and sometimes we do provide helpful wisdom from Scripture in how to grow in patience. Of course, the Bible is applicable in ways like that. But the primary goal of our preaching is always to leave you seeing something, or rather someone. It is Jesus Christ, him crucified for you. It is Jesus Christ who lived the righteous life that you could not live. It is Jesus Christ who died the death that you deserved on a cross. It is Jesus Christ who was then raised from the dead so that you too might be raised to life. And it's by looking to Jesus, who died for you, that you are grown and matured and perfected. In earthly terms, that seems pretty ridiculous. You're telling me you grow not by grinding it out, but by looking to a dead man on a cross. Yes. Yes, that is exactly what the gospel tells us. The world will hear that and say, oh, you foolish Christians. But is it not written that Christ crucified is foolishness to this world? And yet it is the very wisdom of God. For we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God. So that we may grind out the law and this become pleasing enough to God? Oh no. So that we may understand What God has freely given to us. It's 1 Corinthians 2. 12. Christian in the economy of God. Growth comes by death. The death of Jesus Christ for you This world may try to bewitch you with its spell, may try to tell you that you must do the law so that by doing the law you might live. But what Jesus Christ has told us already is it is finished. Christian, for you who look to Jesus in faith. That is true. It is finished. The obedience that God needed to be well pleased with you has already happened. Jesus obeyed and Jesus bestowed his righteousness upon you. Now the life that God calls you into is not a life of lawlessness and sin. But it is also not a life that is dependent upon your doing of the law. It's a little ironic that the New Testament does go on to speak of doing something to your sin. It's killing it, right? Mortifying the flesh, putting to death the deeds of the flesh. That is part of our life. But we are not alive because we have grown and grinded it out. We are alive because of what Jesus has done And we go on living and we grow because of the Spirit's work in us. The Spirit alive in us. The way into this life is by faith in Jesus. The way through this life is guess what? By faith in Jesus. And even the way that you will be ultimately perfected is how? By trusting in Jesus. That's not to say that you will be perfected in this life. But that the Spirit will bring you through this life to the other side, where all the things that Jesus has said are true of you will be realized in you. That's in heaven. Amen. Christian, this is not a message that says obeying God has no bearing upon your life We should seek to love and trust and obey what God has called us to. But we don't do that so that God will be pleased with us and make us alive. We do that because we are grateful to God for the life that He has given us in Christ Jesus. Look to Jesus. Trust him in faith. And he by his spirit will grow you. Amen. Let's pray