Our New Testament reading, our sermon text today is John chapter 9. If you're using the Pew Bibles, that's page 895. We're going to be working through this whole chapter. We'll survive. It's one story. It will make sense. We'll be good. John chapter 9 begins this way As he, Jesus, passed by, he saw men blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Having said these things, He spit on the ground, and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and said to him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent. So he went and washed, and came back seeing. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? Some said it is he. Others said, No, but he is like him And he kept saying, I am the man. So they said to him, Well then how were your eyes opened? He answered, The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind. Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed and I see Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was division among them. So they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him since he opened your eyes? And he said, He is a prophet. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight, so they called the parents of the man who had received his sight and asked them, Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind. But how he now sees, we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him, he is of age, he will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be the Christ, He was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said, He is of age, ask him. So for the second time they called the man who had been born blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. He answered. Whether he's a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see And he said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? And he answered them, I've already told you, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? And they reviled him, saying, You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, Why this is amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he's opened my eyes We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshipper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that any one open the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us? And they cast him out Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him And Jesus said to him, You've seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? And Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we see here as we approach your word, this text in John. We see because we have the gift of sight. And yet, so often we do not understand. So often it is difficult for us to know what you are doing, how you are working, and alongside of that, how we need to hear what you are saying to us Father, give us ears to hear and eyes to see what you've put in your word before us, that we might be transformed, that we might see Jesus for who he is and embrace him. as our Lord and Savior. It's in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen. Have you ever heard of the medical condition Anton syndrome? It's a real medical condition. It is rare. It's one in which someone is absolutely convinced that they can see perfectly fine. but is in fact blind. Sounds a little scary, right? How would that work? How would that happen Someone who has Anton syndrome has eyes which function perfectly fine. Their eyes can genuinely see things. But there's typically a issue with their occupital lobe, a lobe in the back of your brain that interprets what the eyes see. How do you develop this condition? It's usually some kind of heavy brain trauma that injures that part of your brain. If you're sitting here today and you know I have two fingers up right now, you probably don't have this Condition. You're in the clear. Don't worry. It leads to very bizarre situations, though, this kind of brain trauma. Someone who has this condition, what would it be like? Our brains are powerful. Our brains have the ability to generate images and present them to us, even if it's not what we're really seeing When you have this condition, that is what happens. You could take someone who has Anson syndrome and tell them, oh, would you please describe to me this beautiful landscape before you? And they would stand and and look and tell you about the flowers and the sun and the landscape around, and you know they have this condition because they're just staring at a blank wall. They can't actually see anything. But they will be convinced that they are Telling you what is before them because their brain is generating this image and they're seeing it. A part of what makes this condition so devastating, you can imagine, is that people who have it do not realize it. And they just cannot accept it. They are convinced that they are perfectly fine, but they are blind. There's just about nothing harder to treat than someone who is absolutely convinced that they are perfectly fine It serves as a clear illustration for the kind of situation which John shows us here in this chapter, here in John 9, because it sinks so well with the symptoms and condition of spiritual blindness. The kind of lies which we often tell ourselves in the flesh. The idea that we can handle the things that are before us, the difficulty before us. The idea that we can tackle and take care of the sins which beset us all on our own. The idea that we don't really have any personal, deep, spiritual need. Or at least we aren't as needy as the sinner next to us. Anson syndrome is almost a little too dead-on here to really call it a metaphor, huh? It tells us pretty clearly what the situation is. What we're going to see in this chapter of John is a description and healing of both physical and spiritual blindness. And what we're going to learn is this: John will teach us this. The light of Christ heals those who know they are blind. The light of Christ in this chapter heals those who know they are blind. We're going to see that as we step through three phases in this text, three points. The first is this, the healing of a blind man. Then second, the trial of a blind man. And then last this the response of a blind man. Man. The healing, the trial response, okay? Let's dive into the beginning of this text in that first point. The healing of a blind man. We see right at the beginning how Jesus and the disciples encounter this man with a deep problem. And it moves them. It moves them to a conversation. Verse 1, as he Jesus passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents that he was born blind? They see this man, and it triggers this whole response between Jesus and the disciples. And the disciples bring in this question, which is loaded with theological assumption. Rightly, they know that all ailment, all death, all sickness flows in some way from sin. They know that the reason the world is flooded with sickness and death and despair and even blindness is because of sin. But the disciples here want to take another step beyond that, don't they? They want to pin this blindness, this man's experience of blindness. some kind of judgment for a particular sin. Jesus, did this blindness come as judgment from the sin of the man himself? I mean He's been born blind, so ostensibly some kind of sin he committed while he was still in the womb. Or was it his parents' sin? Did his parents' sin bring this kind of judgment upon him? If you think back through other Bible stories, this kind of theology is a little reminiscent of Job's friends, right? That compulsion to just pin the sin itself to pin the experience, the condition here, on some kind of immediate sin We often are tempted to do that in different ways, to assume this experience is an immediate result, an immediate judgment of this sin here. Jesus, in his response, answers the question that lies at the heart of this, but not necessarily exactly the question that is asked. What is the question at the heart here? Why is this man blind? Their assumption is that it's because of some kind of sin, but Jesus answers here: it was not that this man sinned. Or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. Jesus directs the disciples to see. Listen, God has a plan. God is going to reveal Himself through this. God is showing us something about His promises and His purposes through this man, through even what this man is experiencing. Now, not exactly the answer that the disciples were looking for. God doesn't always give us immediately the answer to the question that we are asking. Always uh He doesn't always give us the rationale for the circumstance. probably often because we just wouldn't understand it. But he does show here what? That in spite of this, he has a promise. And he has a purpose. And Jesus gets into that. He continues here. Verse 4: We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day, for the night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Jesus is bringing into this now how He is doing God's work. Here I am, the light of the world, and I am doing what God, who I came from, sent me to do Now Jesus is saying, I am the answer. I am the light. And with that, he brings us back. He connects us back to the very last chapter, right? Because what was the last chapter about? It was back in John 8 that Jesus announced in the midst of the temple courts: I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness. And who is here before Jesus and the disciples? But a man who has walked in darkness his whole life? Consider it for a moment. Ask a new question here. What would happen if this man would Follow Jesus. What will he do? Look at verse six. Having said these things, Jesus spat on the ground. And made mud with the saliva, and then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and said to him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent. So he went and washed and came back seeing. Jesus does what? Probably not immediately for us the way that we would want to be healed, right? Uh most of us probably be kind of grossed out by spit and mud in the eyes. Uh he he takes uh he spits on the ground, he mixes up this mud paste, he spreads it on the blind man's eyes. And he tells them to go and wash in the pool of Siloam. That pool, if you've been tracking along through the book of John, is a little familiar to us. You might remember it. We engaged that pool recently back in John chapter 7. What were John 7 and 8 about? It's actually a connected event where the people are celebrating the Feast of Booze, the Feast of Tabernacles. And part of that feast was a water ceremony where the people would go down to the pool of Siloam, that same pool, and they would bring water back and they would pour it onto the altar. And that was the same water, the same pool about which Jesus announced back in John chapter 7: if anyone is needy, if anyone is thirsty, come to me. Come to me, from me flow rivers of living water. It's the same exact festival from which he announced too. I am the light of the world We're still here in John in the midst of these themes. We're still here in that kind of context. What does the man do? He doesn't ask any questions. The man knows he is in desperate need his whole life. Think about him, he's had to beg for food. His whole life, he has stumbled in the darkness. Everything about this man's existence screams, Jesus, I am needy. Whoever is needy, come. Yes, Jesus, I am needy. And here to this blind man. Jesus has come He presses the mud on his eyes and tells him, Go and wash in that pool. And what happens? When he went, he washed, and he came back seeing. The man who is born blind, he heeds this word from Jesus. He follows his commands and he washes in the waters. Suddenly now he no longer walks in darkness. He walks, we could say, quoting Jesus, in the light of life. That's how this man is healed. Now, what about the second point: the trial of a blind man? There's this beautiful melding here. Hopefully you've picked up on it. This melding of poetry and history together as we think about how this story is working. The light of the world comes to this blind man, and now the blind man sees. And just on the face of it, it's fantastic storytelling, right? God writes beautiful stories into history. And following that, we would hope or expect for all to rejoice at this scene, to embrace this miracle, to celebrate Jesus' work, to congratulate this man's parents, to hoist up in love this man who has been healed. Well, maybe you would expect that if you hadn't been tracking along all the way through John. If you've been reading John, you know that just keeps not being how any of this works. Just not how things tend to happen in this book. What ensues is a kind of trial, an inquisition, not even a condemnation of the works of God. And that's going to happen here, we'll see in three cycles of three phases. We're going to see this cycle repeated again and again. First There's going to be a questioning, and then there's going to be a division, and then there's going to be a confession. We'll see that three times. Track with me. The first cycle here starts in verse 8. Look. John 9, verse 8. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? So there's this question from the people right away. Hey, is is this that guy? Is this that blind beggar who we've seen at the gates? Day after day after day. And then there's immediately what? Division about the answer to the question. Verse nine. Some said, It is he, and others said, Uh no, but it's like him. And here's the man. He keeps saying, I am the man. I am that man. Now right away, even there is his confession. It is me. Trust me, guys, it's me. And here also the man answers them by confessing, proclaiming, the one who has healed him. And they asked him, How are your eyes open? He answered, The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight I think about the order there for a moment. He was blind, and Jesus sent him away to wash. And it's after that washing that this man can now see. Do you realize what that means? The man here hasn't actually even seen Jesus with his own eyes yet. He's heard him. He's talked to him a little bit. But he hasn't actually seen Jesus. That's even evidenced right here. He only knows his name. That's all he knows him by They say back to him, the crowd, where is he? Jesus could be right there in the room. The man wouldn't know. And he says, I do not know. Then kicks off this second cycle here. Verse 13. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind. Let's bring this man to the Pharisees, but as in this book at least they keep making things better, right? And of course not Maybe the Pharisees know the right questions to ask this guy. And so here we go. We see them bring this man to the Pharisees. As we get there, what does John drop along the way? What a little hint, what little tidbit of information. It's in verse 14. Oh, this was all done on the Sabbath. Gosh Jesus, did you not learn your lesson? Like, wasn't that a problem last time? Could you not have waited till Monday? It's the Sabbath again. The Pharisees now question that man, verse 15. The Pharisees asked again, how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed and I see. You can guess the response that's going to happen here, right? Because they know Jesus did this here on the Sabbath. You better believe that the Mishnah, the rules that the Pharisees have made to protect God's rules. They have their own sub-rules. They have very particular rules about how you need to extra specially care for, take care of the Sabbath. And of course, they're going to find a way to say what Jesus has done has broken those. That was the first thing Jesus did. Oh, he needed. K-N-E-A-D-I-N-G. I don't know what uh he needed, like how you make dough. Okay, he's needing. One of the things you cannot do on the Sabbath. is kneading. You might say, well, Jesus made bread. Well don't worry. We have a very clear definition of what kneading is. Well you cannot do on the Sabbath in the extra special, not God-made, but man-made rules here. You cannot mix a liquid with a solid into a kind of dough or paste. And we'll lump mud in there too this time, right? And you can only mix things which were already mixed together and then separated on their own. So if you have that like kind of natural peanut butter that you know the oil all raises to the top and you have to stir it, you're allowed to stir that on the Sabbath. But you can't stir something new together. You can't mix something new. But here is Jesus making, gosh, brand new mud on the Sabbath. So he's broken the Mishnah. There's another thing Jesus has done here. He's done a special anointing. In the Mishnah, in these bonus rules, you can do ordinary anointings with oil on the Sabbath. But you can't do special anointings. And you better believe mud, that is a special anointing, because who's anointing with mud? Nobody. Right. So these people are upset. They're frustrated. They feel like Jesus has broken their rules. Here we see this miraculous healing. And once again, just like that scene with the lame man in John 6, what are we going to get as their response? It's anger and it's division. Verse 16, some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath But others said, how can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. Notice nobody blesses or congratulates the blind man who's been healed. They just break into argument. Some say this is a high crime against the heavens, and some say, I mean, does God really empower criminals to heal people? So from this division, more questions are going to come, which brings us to this confession. Verse 17, they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him since he opened your eyes? The man confesses what? He is a prophet. What do you make of this, Jesus? Last time the man said, I don't know anything. I just know the name. That's all I've heard. This time, as he's thought about it, as he's been pressed and questioned, he takes it a step further, right? Well, he must be a prophet if he's done this. Here we spring into this last cycle. Verse 18. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight. Let's start up some new questions. Let's uh call in the parents. As we walk into this, we really need to realize that this is being set up like a kind of court case. There's an investigation that's happening. We're seeing people gathering evidence. There's discovery and examination But the Pharisees in the process of this are certainly not going in the order that they're supposed to to do that. We know that because what are they starting with? They're starting with the conclusion. They're starting with a particular conclusion. This Jesus must be a fraud. How are we going to prove that? Well, let's generate uh maybe if this is true, then we can prove Jesus is a fraud. How could we prove that? Well, maybe the man was never born blind to begin with. And that seems like a stretch, but I guess it's something. Who would know if this man was born blind? Let's find his parents. Let's ask them. They bring essentially three questions to the parents in verse 19. Ask him, is this your son? Was he born blind? And how then does he now see? Parents respond pretty quickly to the first two, right? Verse 20, we know that this is our son, and that he was born blind. Okay, well there, the whole theory got thwarted. Maybe they'll come up with something new. What about that last question? Verse 21. But how he now sees, we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him, he is of age. He will speak for himself. It's pretty clear from how the parents respond to that last question that they're trying to distance themselves from it. They're not really interested in getting into that. You know, our son, he's of legal age. He's allowed to testify for himself. Well, how about you just go ask him that one? Why do the parents want to get away from answering that question? John tells us why. Verse 22, his parents had these things because they feared the Jews. They had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be the Christ, The Messiah. He was to be put out of the synagogue. The parents see what's happening here. This is a setup. They know this is a almost like a witch hunt. And they know the leaders have already had the conclusion. They aren't going to budge on that. And they're looking to pin judgment on someone The man's parents, they don't want to be ones who are cast out of the synagogue. I mean, the synagogue is the center of their cultural and religious life. It is essential to the standing they have in their community. Who wants to be cast out of that? So the Jewish leaders call back in the man who had been healed. Hear what they say. Verse 24. Second time they've called him in. They say, give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. The way that they open this here, give glory to God, that's intentional. What they're doing there, they're swearing this man in They're making sure that whatever testimony he gives here is going to be legally binding. And whether it's you know a slip of a tongue or they're just so brazen, they let their conclusion be known, right? We know that this man is a sinner. You're going to agree, right? That's what's implicit there. I mean replies to their question, verse 25. Whether he's a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know that though I was blind, now I see The thing about the man here, he hasn't even seen Jesus yet. He's heard his name. He's experienced one thing. How am I supposed to know if he's a sinner What do I all I know is I woke up blind this morning and now I've been healed. You can imagine for him, that's a pretty good situation for me. There's not much they can do with that though. So they press a little harder. They said to him, Well, what did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? It's the same question that they have already asked him, right? They asked him back in verse 15. Chances are a number of these people had already heard him answer the question even before that in verse eleven. The man's pretty sick of being questioned over and over, and so he replies, I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to be his disciples? And do you catch what the man said there? Do you need to hear so you can also become his disciples? What is he saying there about himself? You want to follow him too? He's admitting here in the questioning that he's starting to figure out who Jesus is. Jesus is someone worth following. Maybe Jesus is someone he should be following. And as these Pharisees are pushing him. As the Jewish authorities are pressing him again and again, what are they doing? They're pushing him towards Jesus. Huh. Jesus did do this. Maybe he is worth following. Do you want to too? It's here that heated division just sparks and catches flame. Verse 28, they reviled him, saying, You're his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. They're saying it like it's a capstone to their whole argument here. Uh for us who have read John, we know how silly this is We've dealt with this again. It's the same old thing. Jesus already told them he is greater than Moses. Jesus already told them he is the God of Moses. Jesus has already told these same people that when real judgment comes, you know what Moses is going to do? Moses is going to stand and accuse them They bring back the same old song and dance. In verse 29, we know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not even know where he comes from. They still don't know where Jesus is from. And we've heard that before, haven't we? We know Jesus has told them again and again. And these people Just refuse to see it. Here's where uh somewhat sarcastic people just fall in love with the man who's been healed. Verse 30, he replies to them. Why, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. Guy has been able to see for less than a day, and he's already just throwing bullseyes at him, right? It's beautiful. Finally, we get this grand confession from this man. We know that God does not listen to sinners. But if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. The man is breaking down a kind of theology lesson for these theology teachers. And we can quibble a little bit with the wording if we strip it out of its context. But if we leave it in the terms that have been used, God working his power through who does this man identify Jesus as? A prophet. We know God doesn't go about imbuing false prophets with power to do his work. The sign of a prophet is that his words and his deeds are true, that he does God's work. God listens, God works through true prophets, his worshipers. And who in this text is God speaking through? Who is he working through? Who is God healing through? It seems pretty obvious, right? In verse 32, the man continues: Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. He's saying here, when we look at the evidence, when we start with the evidence, what conclusion do we have to get to here? Just this man comes from God. That Jesus is sent by God. That confession from that man is just more than the Pharisees can handle. They answer him, You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us? They cast him out. Think for a moment, remember, how did this whole scene start? There's a question posed by the disciples to Jesus, right? Whose sin caused this man's blindness? Who can we blame this on? Who is being judged and condemned here? Jesus answered how. Hey, whoa, this this man isn't blind as a judgment for sin. What here is the Pharisee's answer What's their answer to that question? You, sir, were born in utter sin. They pretty clearly think they have the answer to that original question. And now that he's suddenly unblinded, they're bringing their own judgment on him. You're cast out. You're excommunicated. Bye-bye, buddy. They can't see the truth. They cannot see what is right in front of their face. They cannot see that God is working. and putting his glory on display. They cannot see with this man who's barely been able to see for a near day and see right there. They're blind. They're blinded by their pride and their hubris and their self-righteousness. Do you remember what we saw in our Old Testament reading? Back in Isaiah 42, what did God promise his servant, his Messiah, who he would send, would do? Isaiah 42, 7 says, He would come to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison those who sit in darkness. That is exactly what has happened for this man. From the beginning, we've never known anyone who can do what God promised back then. And now, here is one who has. Isn't it clear as day who he is, where he is from, what he is doing, who Jesus is. Brings us to this last point here, point number three, the response of a blind man. Recap with me for a moment the path of the man who was born blind here. He started life blind and in absolute need, right out of the womb. And finally, here he meets Jesus. Healed, he's given new eyes, he's learning to see the real world for the very first time. We see this trajectory over the course of the day As surely his physical sight is becoming clearer and clearer, he starts realizing something more clearly and clearly spiritually. He starts realizing who Jesus is. At the very beginning of the day, he knew nothing but his name. He hadn't even seen him. And as he's questioned, he starts putting the pieces together, right? Oh, yeah, if he's done this, he must be a prophet. If that is what he's done, he must be someone who I should follow, I should become his disciple. He must be the one who has been And sent by God, just as his physical sight is getting clearer and clearer, so his spiritual vision is getting clearer and clearer throughout the day. And now, finally Jesus steps back into the picture. Verse 35. Let's let the verses John has written speak for themselves here. Verse 35 Jesus heard that they, the Pharisees, had cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshiped him. Here is the picture of a man who is known since the day of his birth how desperately needy he is. And he has met Jesus. And what is the response? He bows in submission and he worships him I mean it is this beautiful picture where what God promised he would come and do, he truly does Both physically and spiritually, the works of God are put on display through this man's healing by Jesus' wonderful power. And the healing of his physical state here, it is united symbolically and historically to us with this picture of spiritual sight. From spiritual blindness to spiritual sight, that is the even greater miracle that happens here That's what the God man came to do, right? To bring light to those who are in the darkness, to save even sinners. Even those born in utter sin. You know what though? It's that beautiful salvific work which Jesus does. That also reveals to us here a kind of judgment. That's why Jesus continues. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world That those who do not see may see, those who see may become blind. In his salvific work, there is a judgment revealed. For those who think that they can see perfectly fine on their own. That becomes clear to us as we see what's contrasted here in the picture of the Pharisees, who apparently are around. Because they hear this in verse 40, and some of the Pharisees near him said back, Oh, are we also blind? They're just chirping back at Jesus sarcastically So you think we're the blind ones, right? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. And Jesus is drawing out here what's been laced throughout this whole story. The man who was blind and knew it, he now has no guilt. He has no guilt. You've been saying he's blind because of his sin, or maybe his parents. So he must have some kind of guilt, right? So he must be cut off and ostracized. But what was the truth? He was blind, so that God's power and glory could be put on display He knew he was blind, and God saved him, and now that man has no guilt. How is that possible? Why could that be the case? And even we know that though his blindness may not have been an immediate judgment for sin, every man sins. Surely that man had some level of sin in himself. How could he be guiltless? It's because the same Messiah serving of Isaiah 42, who frees the blind, who heals them. Who releases people from the darkness? He is the same exact Messiah servant who will say that he bears on his own shoulders what Our guilt and our iniquity. He is the one who will be crushed for our sin, so that true guilt can be dealt with and done away with. There's kind of a double meaning in there with what Jesus says: that he comes for judgment. Because what ultimately happens to him. He takes the judgment that we deserve upon himself. He comes to be judged on our behalf. He is crushed. That is why it is so important here for us to see our need and our blindness. To call out in faith to the one who can save. Because we need that for ourselves. Here is the light of the world who will come and be hung on a cross to take our guilt and shame, to face that judgment which we deserve. So what when the Pharisees snapped Back. Oh, so were the blind ones? How did Jesus respond there? If you were blind, you would have no guilt But now that we see, now that you say we see, your guilt remains. You know what is so much worse than being born blind. It's being blind and being so delusional, so self-deceived, that you just cannot realize you are blind. To think that you are certainly not the needy one. Well, rather, you know, the judge who sees all things perfectly and can just issue the condemnation. Think like these people that you have no need for Jesus. Here we see from Jesus this incredible subversion and inversion, because what is he saying to these Pharisees? This man's blindness was not a result immediately of his sin. But your blindness, you know what? You are blind because you reject the help. Because you reject the light of the Savior Himself, you are guilty because you are blind and you just cannot admit it. One New Testament scholar, Herman Ritterbassi, summarizes the scene here this way: He says, it is not sin that cuts a person off from what Jesus wants to give. It's the illusion that one can manage without Jesus as the light of the world. That is why the sin remains. If it does not become an object of forgiveness, It remains the object of judgment. What do we see here? What do we need to walk away with and learn We need to be people who know our blindness, who know our weakness, who know that we are desperately needy. Why is it that the man born blind can be left guiltless? Can be healed both physically and spiritually here It's because he can and in humility call out to his Savior. Because he knows his desperate need for Jesus And on the other side are what? Those who know beyond a shadow of a doubt that they have no need for Jesus Who know, in no uncertain terms, we're not blind. I can see the landscape perfectly fine. Christian, the light of Jesus comes and heals those who know they are blind. So we recognize and express in humility that need. How? Just a couple of simple examples, a couple of practical elements. You know, one of the things that we do every single Lord's Day Uh in our liturgy, every single time is public confession of sin. You know what we're doing there? When we confess our sins, we are confessing aloud, saying, I am needy. I am a failure. I have broken the law. I should be guilty And I've been blind to it all along. We confess our sin. Would you treasure that time on Sundays? And embrace that for what it is. And of course, in that moment, we aren't left there. What do we receive on the other side of our confession? It's that assurance of pardon that yes, Jesus does heal sinners. Yes, he saves sinners. He sees and he saves you needy person. I mean, hold on to that moment on Sundays. It is so sweet. We express that too, similarly as we express on Sunday mornings our confession of faith, right? What are we saying when we confess our faith together? This is what I need to believe. This is what I need to hold to. And it's Jesus and His work. He is the one who heals. And I trust for that here and now. I know he has done that for me spiritually here and now. And I trust that as he has opened my blindness here spiritually, he will open and heal my ailments. And blindness, even physically, and in the heavens. That's what we confess and hope in. And what's the danger on the other side here? It's that we walk as Pharisees. We walk as those who think they have no need. You know what the evidence maybe that we walk that way is sometimes? One like the Pharisees were those people who just announce condemnation on those around. Us. When we look at everyone around us critically and label them as sinners, uh, you were born in utter sin. I already know the conclusion there. I already know what happened. I know who you are and what you've done. Maybe even like them, just cut that person off. What we need is Jesus. The Jesus who heals the blind. That's who's offered to us here in John 9. And that is who we see: a Jesus who reveals our sin and shows to us, in spite of that, the salvation that He offered. He is a God of amazing grace, one who opens the eyes of the blind, and we trust in him. Amen? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the truth revealed to us here that just as Jesus walked this earth and even healed many people physically He heals spiritually. He heals our blindness here and now. As we see this man washed in the waters and healed And we know that as we have been washed by the waters of spiritual baptism, which we signify even physically with baptism, we know that we have Been buried with Christ, and rise again to new life. May we be people who walk knowing that need and trusting in Jesus as our Savior. And not ourselves, not our own works, but Jesus Christ. May we demonstrate faithfully that we need him Thank you for this grace and this truth made alive to us in the person and work of Jesus. It's in his name that we pray. Amen.