And join me as we pray to hear God's word clearly today. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word incarnate The person of Jesus Christ, through whom you speak, the true and great prophet, the one who has come to bring us forgiveness. The one who is good and gracious and true and faithful. We pray that as we approach the words of this prophet Hosea today And that you would help us to see Christ. Help us to see the truth of who Christ is to us as your word made flesh. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Well, we are beginning this series through the book of Hosea. Love stories. We love love stories, don't we? There is something persistent and compelling to us about a good love story. And that's not just a sentiment that rests with us here in this time or as post-romantic. It's a sentiment that runs throughout time. Think to the literature that we have of old, the classics. Some of you in this room have read Homer, you've read the Iliad. And yes, there are many themes that run through that book, such as fate, glory, pride, but what sets off the plot? Oh well it's forsaken love. Helen swept away by love to Troy. And we see stories of love even today in many of of the clean and pretty Disney princess stories. Well sleeping deity, Snow White, Cinderella, will they be swept away, saved by the prince? Will they stroll off happily ever after into the sunset? Sometimes Disney presents love stories as being a little simplistic to us. Love can be complex, though, can't it? Love is complex. I think that's part of what makes it such an enticing experience to us, part of what makes it gripping to us. It's part of why we often define ourselves or describe ourselves according to the people or things that we love. I mean, after all, who is Chris Calvey? He's a Christian and he's Ishani's husband. And there's other things that I love to do that I might tell you about as well. Not today. Here in the book of Hosea, we get a most unconventional love story. And yet a very, very real love story. One that does involve some of the typical romance tropes, and yet one that acknowledges, grapples with the very real messiness. of love in this life. Part of the tragedy of love is that our experience of it is often very messy, isn't it? We don't always have, we don't really ever have stories that totally end happily ever after. We have stories that involve betrayal, that involve unfaithfulness, that involve brokenness. We prize marriage as A premier symbol to us of undying love, a promise, what we call a covenant, that I shall love you through every trial until death. And yet we know the statistics. Half of those marriages. half of those covenants break apart. They fracture in a divorce lawsuit, which tells the story of our brokenness. Hosea comes to tell us a love story. But the books of the prophets are also often seen as God's covenant lawsuit. God comes to give his side of the story in how this marriage has broken apart, how the love has fallen apart. God has betrothed himself to his people. And yet their relationship has collapsed. We get a very real sense of that in this book, in the book of Hosea. And so as we introduce this Story. As we begin to look at this love story, I want to look particularly at the context of it. To set us up well, I want us to understand the environment in which God comes to speak through the prophet Hosea. I want you to see where we are in the midst of God's love story. And I especially want us to ask this question this evening. Who is the hero of my love story? Who is the hero of my love story? Who is the hero that comes to save the princess? We're going to explore that question in the context here by looking at three points, three sub-questions. Who has the ability to be the hero? Who has the ability, the strength, the wisdom, the knowledge, the ability? Second, who has the grace to be the hero? hero. And finally this. Who has the faithfulness? Who has the faithfulness? Join me in looking at point number one. Who has the ability? Who has the power and strength to be the hero of this love story. If the prince has to slay the dragon, he needs to show some power, some might. He needs to be able to slay the dragon, right? And here in the introduction to Hosea's book, we see that Hosea has come to the northern part of Israel's divided kingdom. And the northern kingdom of Israel is fighting off a dragon of sorts. They're fighting off the Assyrian Empire. What is the story of God's people up to this point? What's the story of Israel? They came into the promised land under Joshua. They lived through the time of the judges, and eventually they established a true king. We've been studying that king for the whole time I've been here and far before with Pastor Fix. We're getting close to the end. The true king, David. And David is a flawed individual, right? We see him messed up even in the kind of context we're describing here. But what is David marked by? He is seen as a man after God's own heart A man after God's own heart. And so, because of that, Israel thrives. David's reign is the high point of Israel, of the kingdom. After the next king, though, after Solomon, the kingdom splits apart. And we get Israel, what we call the northern kingdom. Up in the north, and the kingdom of Judah in the south. And that's what's mentioned here in the very first verse. That's why we get two different kingdoms. The word of the Lord came to Hosea, verse 1. the son of Biri in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, and they were the kings of Judah. And he came in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, who is the king of Israel. Two different kingdoms here. And we if if we focus in particularly on the northern kingdom where Hosea is, who's the king that we mentioned? It's Jeroboam, who we often call Jeroboam II, because there's actually a Jeroboam even before this. one. We'll hear about him a touch. What does the reign of Jeroboam the second look like? We get a picture of it in the book of 2 Kings, chapter 14, starting in verse 23. And if you have your Bible, it might be a good idea to turn over there. We're going to spend a bunch of time pulling parts out of this because here in this part of 2 Kings, chapter 14, we're seeing what the context is around Hosea. And the the chapter 14, this section tells us this. In verse 23, the author writes In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, it's then that Jeroboam the son of Joash was king of Israel. He began to reign in Samaria, and he reigned forty-one years. And he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the first, the son of Nabat, for he had made Israel to sin. He restored the border of Israel from Laba Hamath as far as the Sea of Arabah, according to the word of the Lord, the God of Israel, which he spoke by his servant Jonah, the son of Metai. The prophet who was from Gath Hefer. For the Lord saw that the affliction of Israel was very bitter, for there was none left, bond or free, and there was none to help Israel. But the Lord had not said that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven. So he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Joash. Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam and all that he did in his might, how he fought, and how he restored Damascus and Hamath to Judah and Israel. Are they not written in the book of Chronicles of the kings of Israel? Here we get a picture of the northern kingdom, and leading into this situation, they are suffering under the impending oppression of the Assyrian Empire And this new king, Jeroboam, fights off the Assyrians. Israel is under oppression, and then under a new military leader, they rise up to fight off the oppressors. And so Israel here sees Some reprieve. They feel like they are on an upward trajectory. We started at the bottom, and now at least we're up here. We're on an upward trajectory. We're moving up. What's natural for someone to feel in that kind of situation, in that position? We feel like we're able. We like to give ourselves a little pat on the back. We love to step into the role of the hero. Say, look what we've done. Look what we have accomplished. We're moving back up in the world. And it feels good. Spiritually, though, where are the people at? Jeroboam and himself as a reflection of the people. The text says, do what is evil in the sight of the Lord. We know that the people still see themselves as in some way connected to the God of their heritage. But they also want to accommodate to and worship other gods as well. And from their own perspective, it seems to be working out for them. It seems to be a a decent situation. They think that they have the ability to be the hero in this story. They think that they have figured out what they need to do that they have the ability to execute on what they need to. Port that kind of expectation for a moment into our own lives. We love to be the hero, especially when we feel like we're able to. There is something about that sensation of accomplishment. It makes us feel alive, like we are kings, like maybe we could be heroes. Look what I can do. Look what I have earned. Think about the love stories of this world for a moment, then, with those kinds of expectations. Oftentimes it's it's somewhat unspoken, but so often there is this sentiment that love is earned according to our own abilities And that we have the opportunity to earn love according to what we can do. When we think about love, we want people to look at us and And see what. Look at how strong I am. Look at how smart I am. Look at how successful I am. Look at how attractive I am. What are we doing in that moment when we start detailing out all these reasons for why people should love us? We're basing love in our abilities. And people can. People should love me because I have, because I can, because I am X. And what do we do in that moment? We say, I have the ability. I have the ability to be loved. I am able to do all these things, and so people should love me. If we step in with that kind of expectation, What does that mean suddenly when the things that we can do suddenly we can't? When the things that we are suddenly we aren't When we step into the situation saying, I have the ability, I have the strength, I have what it takes, I could be the hero, what happens when suddenly we can't? It's a point of failure. Am I suddenly unlovable? Who am I really? Who will we see in this Story has the ability to be the hero, the strength, the wisdom, the knowledge. Even in the context of our story here in 2 Kings, who is the character that actually takes action? Verse 27. But the Lord had not said that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven, so he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Jim. Joash. A critical element of what Hosea will teach us through this story is that God is the one with absolute ability. God is the one who is sovereign. He lifts up and tears down nations. He steps in to take action. He knows what was, what is, and what will be to come. God is the one who has the ability. The strength, the wisdom, the might to be the hero. We cannot look to ourselves for that. But being the hero in the love story isn't just about the strength and the might, right? Which is why we have to ask the second question. Who has the grace? Who has the grace? When we look at love stories, we do recognize it's not all about machoism and bravado, right? There's qualities of compassion, affection, grace, and we desire, we embrace those qualities, at least in theory. As Christians and non-Christians alike, what Bible passage gets read at every single, not every single, at many, many weddings, whether they're Christian or not? What we call the love chapter, 1 Corinthians 13. Love is patient and kind. Love does not envy or boast. It is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own It's not irritable or resentful. Love does not rejoice at wrongdoing. Love bears all things. Love believes all things. It hopes all things and endures. all things. We love this picture when we are in love and we desire to fulfill its calling. The sweetness of love. Does Israel here, at the moment when Hosea shows up, exemplify these qualities? Well, what did we just say about the whole of Israel? It's divided. There's enmity between brothers. There's strife where one brother says to another, I cannot bear with you any longer. The nation is divided in half. Love is kind, but Judah, I cannot be kind to you. Love does not envy or boast, but look at how we have rescued ourselves Love does not rejoice in wrongdoing, but look at how we do whatever we want. We don't pursue what God has called us to. We do what we want. The picture of the kingdom of Israel here, in the time that Hosea arrives, it is not forgiving. It is not kind. It is not gracious. It is quite the opposite. Hosea will lead us through this book to ponder, do I have these qualities? Israel doesn't. I mean, do I at least? These are qualities of love, but when rubber meets the road, how do I respond? Do I have the grace to be the hero of my love story? We thrive so often on the pursuit of not love, but vengeance We are very quick to have tongues ready to lash back even at those who we say we love with how they have wronged us. To fight back, especially with those who we know well, who we love. We tend to know what will hurt the most, don't we? We often store up records of the wrongs which we have borne. And then when push comes to shove and uh there's confrontation in the relationship, they are pretty quick to pull out the record and remind the other person of what they have done, who they are. Are we the kind of people who actually have the grace needed to be the hero of the love story? I mean, maybe in the easy times we do. But what about when life actually gets hard? When people totally fail to live up to the expectations we have set for them, when you have to forgive that person again and again. Again and again. I mean there's a limit, right? At some point there's there's a breaking point. Here is where Hosea will take us though. Do you know who has the posture of the grace in this love story. God does. Think even about the little glimpse of God's action that we get here in secondary Second Kings. The people have done evil against God. They have scorned him and rejected him. The kinds of things for which we find vengeance, the kinds of things for which at the least we're happy to stand by and let someone walk into their own misery. Face the consequences they've brought upon themselves. What does God do? But the Lord has not said that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven. So he saved them. God does not revile back. God does not stand by forever. No, he steps in to intervene. He comes to rescue them. The God who comes to tell us this love story, he is not the kind who responds to his scornful lover's need by rejecting or neglecting. No, he shows grace. race. So often hurt we keep the walls up. We say I see your need. Maybe, maybe I can forgive. But at least they have to come and say sorry first. God God says here, I see your need. I will show grace. God is the one who can be gracious. Point number three, who has the faithfulness? The hero of the love story must be faithful. There is something about the character of a real hero. One who in the face of adversity perseveres, who when tempted, stays true, who is fixated upon their purpose. There's a reason that my mom cried. at the end of the Return of the King when Samwise Gamgee keeps trucking up the mountain and sees his friend who he loves and says, I can't carry the ring, but I can carry you. And there is something about the faithfulness of Sam that is just so enduring that shows to us, oh, he actually is the hero of this story. Of course, in love, we prioritize faithfulness. There's a reason that the example to us of what can break the marriage covenant is infidelity. It's unfaithfulness. Faithfulness to the promise of love is what we expect. It is what we demand. Stay true to this promise to love one another, forgoing all others. Israel, though, as we know, has been unfaithful. They're characterized as adulterous Israel has flirted around in this time with other nations and other nations God. At first it doesn't strike us as an outright rejection of God. It always starts subtly. It starts with saying, Yeah, yes, I love you, and I really like that too. Israel, for the sake of seemingly practical reasons, joins together with other nations. I mean look what they have. Isn't it isn't it good idea a good idea to get them on our sides? Wouldn't that be prudential of us? See how much stronger, how much safer we could be if we just aligned with the nations around us. But just as God had told them through Moses and Deuteronomy, this kind of coziness with the neighbor, it's not going to stay that way. No, the coziness becomes flirtation. The flirtation becomes desire, and the desire becomes compromise. Suddenly Israel is all right with inviting the worship of other gods. Alongside theirs. Suddenly Israel is fine with joining in with the worship of other gods. A slippery slope of the kind that we see, that we know again and again Again, as we invite sin and idols into our lives. Israel is at a place in their history where they have invited the worship of other gods into their home. And what husband is fine with another man in the bed? It's the kind of spiritual struggle that we fall into again and again. Am I really Really faithful? Or do I fall prey to the snare of other lovers? We see it in the love stories of real lives, that there is something about us which fails to stay faithful to what we have. We have promised. We have this love. We give ourselves over to it. We promise ourselves. And then the next shiny beautiful thing walks by. It catches our eye. It's an apt way to describe what is often our spiritual experience. God, I will follow you. God, I will listen to you I will treasure it in my heart. I will walk how you have called me. And yet, how quickly do we day after day see something else that looks just a Little bit better, at least for today, and we compromise and we chase after and we give our heart over to another. A very messy love story, and yet a very real one because of how acutely it hits us in this idea. And again to be spiritually faithful to God. But Hosea writes this book to tell us that God is faithful He is the faithful one. God is not one to blot out the name of his lover. No, God is faithful. And what is incredibly striking, what we will see in this story, is that God walks into this marriage fully knowing that his bride will never be faithful to him. And yet he loves her anyway. Yet he comes to her anyway, and he lives out all of the faithfulness. Who in their right mind would look upon the one who they know will cheat upon them and say, I love you and I will marry you anyway? Who in their right mind looks at this situation where someone is unfaithful again and again and again and says, I forgive you? I forgive you. I forgive you. Who would ever, knowing the betrayal and robbery and neglect to come, would offer up the greatest of their possessions to this person? What Hosea will come to teach us through this book is that God is the faithful one. That God comes to those who reject him. and who revile him. The God comes to those who will accost him and abuse him. And that is what God has done, is it not? God comes in the flesh through Jesus Christ, and Jesus is rejected, and he is reviled, and he is accosted, and he is abused, and he is crucified And he knowingly, willingly endures this all because of his love for you. Because Jesus Christ is the faithful one. Because he wants to make you whole. He does not want the relationship in this marriage to be broken. He wants to reconcile us to himself, even though we are unfaithful. Jesus knows full well before before he shows up on this planet that we will be unfaithful. That even when we go home tonight, we will be unfaithful faithful. That even throughout this week we will be unfaithful to him. And yet he comes and suffers through all that he has Because he is faithful. That is why he can be the hero of our love story. He loves you. He loves us. Some things we'll learn as we read through this love story together. God is mighty and able And we are very weak. We will see the sinfulness of humanity, our weakness, in a very particularly upsetting way in this book A way that is upsetting to people today. Are you ready to identify the kind of weakness shown in this book in your own life? life. Are you ready to confess that? To see it, to grapple with it. We can do that knowing that the good news is God is strong and He is mighty. We know God is gracious. So often we step in assuming at this point this one is unforgivable. God proves through this story He is gracious and He forgives again and again and again. And He may for a time allow you to see the misery of your sin. But he will always show grace. God is faithful. Hosea comes to teach us that God is faithful. One of the confusions we often encounter when walking through life is the idea that our salvation is based in some way upon our own faithfulness. No, sir. No, ma'am. It is not our faithfulness. If it were this message, the gospel would prove very unworthy to us, unhelpful. Because as we'll see, we are an unfaithful bride. God has come to teach us, to show us that his gospel message is that he is faithful to the bitter end. What Hosea proves to us is God is faithful. He does not abandon his bride. No, he chases after her. A God has come to save his bride. Ride. So he can be the hero. Amen? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we approach this story Hoping and trusting that your Spirit will show us our sin and yet through our sin show us. How truly we can rely and trust upon you, not on ourselves, not patting ourselves on the back. I'm not thinking that we have the means, the grace, the faithfulness to walk through this life on our own. No, Father, here you will show us, yes, how desperately We have sinned, and how desperately we need you, and how truly we can trust you. For you are faithful You are through Christ Jesus our sure foundation, what we can hope and trust in. May we be convicted as we work through this book May we also rejoice in the truth of who you are to us, our God, our heavenly husband. It's in Jesus' name that we pray.