Well, for our New Testament reading, you may think that I just want to take us back. We just finished the book of John Taking us back to John chapter 14. And I do recognize that we've looked at this passage not that long ago, Pastor Chris. led us through this passage a number of weeks uh go, although he did all of chapter 14, and it is a a rich um exegesis, a rich reflection on the whole of that passage, the whole of this chapter, which is related to what we'll speak about tonight. But what we want to do tonight is look at John 14 and specifically focus in on these verses 15 to 27 where Jesus is teaching about the Holy Spirit whom he is going to send. And that's what we're going to focus on, really more of the idea of what we learn about the Holy Spirit in this passage, rather than looking at the whole of chapter 14 and thinking about how that That teaching on the Holy Spirit fits into the greater point of the passage, which as Chris pointed out, was Jesus' comfort to his disciples, announcing that he's going to be leaving, and yet they don't need to be afraid because he'll be with them. So with that, let's look at John chapter 14. It's on page 901 of your Pew Bibles, and uh we're going to look at verses 15 to 27. If you love me, you will keep my commandments, and I will ask the Father, and He will give you another helper to be with you forever. Even the Spirit Of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you will know that I am in the Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, it it he it is who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my Father. And I will love him and manifest my Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world? Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him Whoever does not love me does not keep my words, and the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you, but the helper The Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled. Neither let them be afraid. Here ends the reading of God's word. Let's go to the form of prayer and ask his blessing on our time as we meditate on it further. Heavenly Father, in some ways these are simple words. The meaning of them seems on the one hand obvious and yet they're full of depth and incomprehensibility as they instruct us in this doctrine of Who you are, Heavenly Father, as our God and Father, together with the Son and the Spirit, and specifically who the Holy Spirit is. And we ask as we reflect on this question of who the Spirit is and what he does that you might Open our eyes and our hearts to know him and to know his work and to be led by him to where his focus is, which is on our Savior Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, who is the Holy Spirit? Or if you have the King James Version, the Holy Ghost. I don't prefer that translation because I think ghost has connotations in our day, connotations that we think about at this time of year, but the Holy Spirit, who is he? And uh uh a number of weeks ago uh I sort of started this short topical series uh on the Holy Spirit. And and I don't know if I mentioned last time why? Why why is it worth us Pausing and taking some time to think specifically on the Holy Spirit, who he is, what he does. Part of the reason I think it's worth us taking our time is that I get a lot of opportunity to examine people on theology. So I sit on our credentials committee for our presbytery and I'm interviewing candidates for ministry. uh we get to sit down with uh new members and interview new members uh for membership in here. Even we did new member meeting uh today And occasionally we get to interview people who are taking up the office of elder or deacon, and we give them examinations and we talk about theology. And inevitably, a common theme in these conversations Is that we have a pretty good grasp of who God the Father is. We have a pretty good grasp on who God the Son is as the incarnate, Jesus Christ. If you don't have a good grasp on it, we're getting a good grasp as Chris is leading us through, kind of grasping what who is God the Son in his incarnation. And then we get to the Holy Spirit. A lot of question marks. How do we talk of the Spirit? Who is he? What is he doing? And I would argue there's actually a good reason for that That the Holy Spirit the Holy Spirit is okay with getting less attention As he tends to in scripture and in teaching. And there's a reason for that. And we'll talk about that later. But the reality is, let's be honest, today, when people think about the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, even in the context of Of churches, we tend to associate him with intangible things, feelings, right? Emotions Being moved with having your brain checked, right? Being moved maybe in your heart or in your in your gut. Almost like a vibe in the room. Or feeling in your gut. And there's this common phrase in our culture, I'm spiritual but not religious. And this seems to often Couch the Holy Spirit as sort of reflected in our vague feelings of transcendence without necessarily much real theology, truth. or authority. Even in many churches, the Holy Spirit becomes a little more than a mood enhancer, if you will. Sort of invoked when the music swells. There's the Holy Spirit, or you know, when you feel really moved in your gut, when the lights are just right, ah, the Spirit was present. But the biblical picture is, I would argue, far richer. Far more real and far more rooted. That the Holy Spirit is, He is not a mood, He is not a force, He's not a feeling. He's a divine person sent from the Father and the Son to bring us into communion with the risen Christ. through the word. And so today what I want us to do is sort of step back. And you know, really in many ways this is This probably would have been a better beginning to this short series where I want to step back and think about uh f before we get on to more of what the spirit does. Think through who the Spirit is, his person, and a little bit of what he does, as it's reflected here in John chapter 14. This is a great passage that's like an intro. to the doctrine of the Holy Spirit here in John chapter 14. And so basically I have two points. And somebody asked, do they alliterate? I guess they do. It's who is the Holy Spirit and what the Holy Spirit does, but they're not very creative, just who and what. First, who? Who is the Holy Spirit and what is he like? If you're asleep in the middle of the night and you hear a sudden noise, last night it was our Our fire alarm went off. I have no idea where there was no fire, it's fine. But but say it's uh a scratching or some s some sort of bump. You might say, what was that, right? But if you wake up and you hear keys jingling, And put into the door, and the door handle being turned, you don't say, what is that? You say, Who is that, right? So based on what the question is, indicates what you're expecting the answer to be. What might be a tree scratching on the side of an answer? House. It might be a little mouse scurrying through the house. Who? You're talking about a person. And so the very question of this point, who is the Holy Spirit, begins to answer that question. And the answer to that question is really twofold. The Holy Spirit is a divine person, a divine person and a distinct person. A divine person who is the third person of the Godhead And a distinct person from the Father and the Son. So let's think about both of those for a moment. First, the Holy Spirit is a divine person, not a force, not a feeling, not a power, but a divine person. This is how Scripture speaks when it speaks of the Holy Spirit. And we can notice that here in verse 26, for instance, where it speaks of the Holy Spirit and it uses a personal pronoun. This is grammar now. But personal pronouns are used for persons. And look at what it says in verse 26. The helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things. and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. If you fast forward just down a little further in the in the next passage in chapter 15 verse 26 Jesus says there, but when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness. about me. We can see the same thing in chapter 16, verses 13 to 14. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak on his own authority. But whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. So, in the way the Spirit is spoken of, he's spoken of personally as a person. And notice further, and this is now we're getting a little deeper, when it's very interesting in Greek because the personal pronouns used, you know, personal pronouns, he, she, it, we have a few in English. Now we uh distinguish those he, she, and it, right? Masculine, he, feminine, she, it, neuter. So a little grammar lesson. The Holy Spirit, the word for spirit in Greek is neuter. But when the Bible speaks of him, often it will use masculine pronouns. Why? Because it's not proper to speak of the Spirit as an it. He's a he. He is a person of the Godhead. And this is true more than simply in these few verses here. His personhood is seen throughout Scripture in how the Bible speaks about Genesis 1:2, their first introduction to the Holy Spirit, we looked at last time, where he's hovering over creation. Well, he's hovering. Forces don't really hover. Beings do. And that's what the Spirit does at creation. He is there, hovering over the face of the waters. This is why I like the ESV's translation of that verse better than the NRSV that says, a wind swept over the face of the waters, making that reference to the Spirit there totally impersonal. Now, you can argue for that because the word for Spirit in both Greek and Hebrew is the same word for wind. You have to know from context. But I think there it's God, the Holy Spirit, hovering about ready to accomplish God's creation as he speaks. But furthermore, the Spirit is spoken of as a person in what he in the how he's described in acting. He speaks In our passage in Isaiah 63, he can be grieved. He can be lied to in Acts chapter 5. He can be outraged. Forces, impersonal powers, feelings don't speak. Uh unless you're in uh with an inside out, right? There feelings speak. But that's that's made up. Feelings don't speak. Persons do. People do. Persons do. And the Holy Spirit is not just a person. He's not a human person, for sure. He is a divine person. Truly God. Like we confess in our Nicene Creed. I believe in the Holy Spirit. The Lord and giver of life, who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified. It's a nice summary. Where do we get that? From the Bible. We get this idea from the whole of the Bible, how he's described. He is not just described in personal terms, he's described in divine terms. Terms. Think about what the Spirit does. He does things only God can do. The Spirit creates. Genesis 1. 2 and elsewhere. The Spirit is said to be omnipresent in Psalm 139, omnipresent, everywhere present. That is an attribute only true of God. The Spirit is omniscient, all-knowing, 1 Corinthians 2. 10. That is an attribute only true of God. It says the Spirit regenerates and resurrects. John chapter 3, Romans chapter 8. Only God can regenerate. Only God can resurrect. And it says that the Spirit spoke through the prophets in Scripture, which 2 Peter 2. 1 says Scripture is the word of What? Who? God. The Spirit is speaking, and it's God's word. You see that? The Spirit is called Lord in 2 Corinthians 3. The Spirit can be blasphemed and sinned against. These are terms only used. These are realities that can only be spoken of. And as I've argued, Philippians 3. 3, I would argue, says that we worship the Spirit, and only God is to be worshiped. Now, not only is the Holy Spirit described in terms that are only appropriate for God, but it's interesting how in throughout Scripture He is given completely equal status with the Father and the Son. So, what does Jesus say? At the end of his life in Matthew 28, he says, Go, make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Well, to line them up as equals would be utterly blasphemous if the Spirit is not a divine person. The benediction in 2 Corinthians 13 has the same thing. You often hear this. We close our service. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, the Lord Jesus Christ, God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. Be with you all. And here it's interesting in verse 16, Jesus says, I'm going to send you another helper, or advocate, as you could translate that. You say, well, another, who's the other? Who's the one besides the Holy Spirit? And the answer is, and we'll talk about this in a moment, it's Jesus So, he's equal in power and glory with the Father and the Son. He is a divine person. But He is also described as a distinct person from the Father and the Son. And here we're starting to get into some of the deeper waters of theology in our doctrine of the Trinity. We've already been in these deep waters this morning. So I know you're ready. You've got your, you know, you've got your uh you know floaties on so you can just keep from drowning in the deep end. The Holy Spirit is a distinct person who proceeds from the Father through the Son. What this means is the Holy Spirit is not a mode of God. He's not like a mask that God puts on when he doesn't want to be as visible or something like that. No, he's a distinct person from the Father and the Son. And while the triune, our triune God is one God, we affirm that, just like Deuteronomy 4 says, Hero Israel, our God, our God is one. We have one God, and yet in three persons. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, who can be distinguished from each other, and they're distinguished from each other not In power, glory, not in their attributes, omniscience, omnipotence, infinity. No. They're distinguished from one another by how they relate to one another. In their eternal relations in the Godhead, and in their work in relation to creation and redemption. How they relate to one another. That's what we call the imminent Trinity. Write that down. It's hard to remember. But the imminent Trinity, right? Here we say the Father, Son, and Spirit are distinct because we can say the Father begets the Son, but he is not begotten of the Son. So there's a unique relationship there. The Son is begotten of the Father, and the Spirit proceeds from the Father, and the Son. In the way we confess in the Iceene Creed, or maybe a little more specifically through the Son. So these are their relationships, their relations. In the imminent Trinity, how God has how God, Father, Son, and Spirit have related to each other throughout all eternity. But then there's this Not the imminent trinity, the economic trinity. I know these deep waters. We're about to about to come up for error. But there's also the this distinction and how each person of the Godhead relates to us in creation and redemption. And there we see we it's important to get the order right. The Father works in the Son through the Spirit. That's the shorthand. And then you can run their the work of God through its paces. Because in the end, every work, every act of God, they God is doing it as Father, Son, and Spirit, united in purpose, united in will. They have one will, they have one mind. But For instance, in creation, the Father speaks, the Son is spoken, and the Spirit accomplishes what the Father has spoken in the Son. In redemption, the Father sends the Son, the Son comes and is incarnate. And then the Spirit proceeds from the Father and is sent by the risen Christ. There's distinction without division, and at this point, maybe your head is spinning a little bit, and that's uh that's okay. And yet it's worth us reflecting on this deep theology. One of the guys who does this the best, and you may have read the book already, Michael Reeves' book, Delighting in the Trinity. It unpacks the depth of this Trinitarian doctrine in accessible ways. So you read it and it's deep, but it's it's understandable, I would argue. And he does such a wonderful job arguing things like, for instance, you know, if you don't have a triune God, if God is just like Allah, as the Muslims confess, like one God all alone from all eternity, Then for him to be even called a father means he's defined by his creation. He needs us to be defined that way. But our God is Father from all eternity because of the Son and the Spirit together Existing. And so that how does that relate to the Holy Spirit? Well, the Holy Spirit is not only a divine person, but a distinct person in the Godhead. Hermann Bavink, who's this great Dutch Reformed theologian. As he's talking about this doctrine of who the Holy Spirit is, he makes this profound claim. He says the entire dogma or the doctrine, the entire doctrine of the Trinity. The mystery of Christianity, and it is mysterious, the heart of religion, the true and genuine communion of our souls with God, they all stand or fall with the deity of God. Of the Holy Spirit. Did you hear that? All the dogma of the Trinity, the mystery of Christianity, the heart of religion, the true and genuine communion of our souls with God stands or falls with the deity of the Holy Spirit. So it's worth us. Reflecting on it, knowing it. Let's apply this first point. What do we do with this truth that the Holy Spirit is a divine person who is distinct from the Father and the Son? Well, first of all, we should acknowledge that the Holy Spirit is not just a person, he's God himself. And what that means is that if we have the Holy Spirit dwelling with us, that means God is here. God is with us. Wow. That should delight our souls that we have access to God because God, the Holy Spirit, dwells with us and will be in us, as Jesus says. in verse 17. Furthermore, since the Holy Spirit is divine, a divine person, it means he is ultimately utterly incomprehensible. Don't try to comprehend him completely, to understand him exhaustively. Instead, like with all of these doctrines, Jesus, one person, two nature. Creatures, the the Godhead, one God, three persons, the Holy Spirit, as a divine person. These are things that we we need to speak about carefully, rightly. We can learn how to speak of them biblically, but then also we need to beware of trying to say too much. And going beyond what the Bible says. And I think this is a good warning because I think often with the Holy Spirit is an area where people overclaim And attribute to him things that we can't necessarily know are from him. Things like certain feelings, convictions. Often we talk of being led by the Spirit when our mind is disengaged. And that's not actually how Scripture speaks of the Spirit. Scripture speaks of Him as using His creation, our minds as well as our hearts. In leading and guiding us, but not just by our feelings and senses, but by his word. His word that he inspired by the prophets. The Holy Spirit, he is not a force to tap into, but he is a person to know And we see that there in verse 17. Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him, you know him. For he dwells with you and will be in you. Well, if we can know the Holy Spirit, How is it that we can recognize him? How is it that we come to know him better? How is it that we can learn of who he is and and and how we should think of his work in and through and with us? Well, the answer comes in the second point, what the Holy Spirit does. Because you can know a lot about a person by what they do. In fact, most of us base a lot of our identity in what we do. So I I pastored, and so I'm called a pastor. I sometimes kind of used to garden, and when I did, I was a gardener. Now I'm not so much a If you're a computer, if you do computer programming, you are a computer programmer. And it's similar with the Spirit. His work reveals his identity. And Jesus says this, I think, in John chapter 3, where he's speaking to Nicodemus. And he in verse 8 he has that statement. He says, the wind blows where it wishes, and that word for wind there is pneuma, it's spirit. The wind or the spirit blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born. Of the Spirit. The implication here being: how do we see the Spirit? Well, we can't look at the wind and see it. How do we see the wind by its effect? Where is it that we see the Spirit? It's where the effects of the Spirit are obvious. And so most of these sermons will focus really on the work of the Spirit. We talked about the work of the Holy Spirit in creation. We'll uh next time look at the work of the Holy Spirit in conviction. But here in John 14, there are a few things, a few actions of the Spirit that tell us something about Who he is, how we can know him and his work. And here in John 14, we see very briefly that he is an indweller, he is a truth speaker, and he is an advocate. An indweller, a truth speaker, and an advocate. First, he is an indweller. The Holy Spirit is God's personal presence With us. We see this in verses 16 and 17. I read 17 a moment ago. And I will ask the Father, he will give you another helper to be with you forever. Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees him nor knows him, you know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. Now, this is not something we can always tell by feeling it. There will be times when we feel very distant from God. Instead, it's a truth. It's a promise. If we are Christ, he has sent his Spirit to dwell with us and in us. And we see this throughout the Old Testament, that the Holy Spirit is God's personal presence with his people. We saw it in the passage we just read in Isaiah 63, where it speaks of the Spirit coming in in fire and the glory cloud, leading Israel. Through the wilderness. The Spirit coming down in the cloud to fill the temple, inspiring the prophets to speak God's word to his people. Even Jesus, who comes as God incarnate, is conceived by the Holy Spirit. He's anointed by the Holy Spirit in his baptism. He's empowered by the Holy Spirit in his work. And when the Holy Spirit is sent by Jesus, he specifically mediates. The presence of the risen Christ. I would argue that's what's unique about the Spirit today, in contrast to the Spirit in the Old Testament. And we saw in Isaiah 63 the Spirit's there. The Spirit's working. The Spirit's with God's people. What is the difference that happens in the Spirit coming at Pentecost? It's that the Spirit comes as the Spirit now of the risen Christ. He comes as the one sent by the risen Christ from the right hand. of the Father. I think we see this in Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8, verses 8 to 11 Paul writes, Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you, anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. In this sense, the Spirit is the fulfillment of Jesus' promise: I will never leave you, nor forsake you. Friends, Jesus, the risen Jesus Christ, is here with us by his Holy Spirit as the indweller of his church. Yes, God is omnipresent. He's everywhere present, but the Spirit brings the personal covenantal presence of God. In this sense, it's the contrast I've talked about this before, the contrast of Living with your spouse and going on a date with your spouse. God is always everywhere. God is always with us. And yet when we gather as God's people, the Spirit mediates the special presence of God with us. Not only is the Spirit the indweller, he's also the truth speaker. The Holy Spirit reveals Christ through his word. And we see this in verses Verse 17, even the Spirit of Truth, Jesus calls him, and then in verse 26, where it says, The helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all. that I have said to you. Friends, the word of God always comes to us by the Spirit. The Spirit who conceived and empowered Jesus Christ and brought him as the incarnate word, the spirit that Peter says in 1 Peter 1 is the Spirit of Christ in the prophets. As they wrote the inspired words of Scripture. 2 Peter 2, no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit, right? So the Spirit speaks God's truth first through the prophets, then the apostles, and then now through the written Word of God. And the Spirit not only has the Word of God written, but he is the truth speaker in illuminating God's Word for us. Now, what does this illumination mean? Often I think we talk of the Spirits illuminating us in God's Word by and we think it means that when we go to God's Word, if the Spirit is there and present working in us, then we'll have new insights into the Word. We'll see things that we couldn't have just seen if we'd just been reading it on our own. It's not exactly what the illumination of the Spirit is. The illumination of the Spirit is How he clears away sin and the blindness of our hearts in sin to enable us to see what we should be able to see. That the Word of God is accessible, it's readable, it's understandable. Even those who don't believe it to some degree can be great scholars who help us understand what it says. But the illumination of the Spirit is necessary to remove the blinders of our sin so that we can hear it and be cut to the heart by it, be convicted by it, and actually know the truth it sets up. us free. Believe the truth that sets us free. It's interesting, what did you say, okay, he's the truth speaker What is the truth he speaks? He speaks God's word, but what is the word of God that he speaks? This is not some vague spirituality or insight. It is specifically the truth of Jesus Christ. We see this in verse 6, right? So Jesus says, he is the Spirit of truth. That comes a few short verses after Jesus has said. I am the way, the truth, and the life. And then later on in verse 26, I read it a moment ago, but the helper of the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance. All that I have said to you. See, the Spirit indwells us with the special presence of Jesus Christ by inspiring Scripture and then illuminating. Illuminating us as uh by Scripture as we read it. He's the indweller, the presence of the risen Christ. He is the truth speaker about Jesus Christ, and finally, he is the advocate like with or for Jesus Christ. I mentioned it a moment ago. Jesus says, I will ask the Father in verse 16, and he will give you another helper. And that word for helper, if you look in your notes there in the ESV, it says or advocate. I like the term advocate a little better because the term here is a legal term. An advocate gets at this legal idea for us. Here we need to think of the word meaning something like defense attorney. A defense attorney. I mentioned a few weeks ago that I recently had to go to court and uh I I went there all by myself and tried to give a defense for myself and if you remember it didn't go very well. I did not win the day, and I felt very vulnerable, shall I say, up there standing in a room with a bunch of lawyers around, the judge, people who know the drill, and I don't. That's what a defense attorney brings. They bring help, they bring comfort, right? That you know you have someone with you as your advocate. That's what Jesus calls the Holy Spirit. Furthermore, some translations don't translate this word for helper or advocate as helper or advocate or comforter, as some translations have it. Some translate it as counselor. And you can, again, that idea of advocate includes that. Your legal defense attorney will give you counsel even as they advocate on your behalf to the judge. And notice that Jesus doesn't say, I'm going to send you a different advocate, a different helper. I'm going to send you another one. Another one implying that he'll be much like your other advocate Which is none other than Jesus Christ. That's what we find in 1 John chapter 2. Jesus is spoken of as the advocate. Literally, the same word is used in 1 John 2. 1. My little children, I'm writing these things to you. So that you may not sin, but if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. An advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. The same idea as God did in Romans 8:34. And so the Spirit is another advocate, a second advocate. Not in heaven pleading our cause with the Father, that's Jesus, but on earth assuring us Persuading us of the sufficiency of Jesus Christ and his salvation Look at chapter 15, verse 26, just a few verses down from ours. When the helper comes, whom I will send you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness of or about Me. So the idea here, well, and look at verses 13 to 14 of chapter 16. I read it a moment ago. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak of his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will declare. Or he will speak, he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. So I think the idea that God, through Jesus' words here, Jesus is trying to convey to us is that the Spirit is another advocate on earth. Pleading the cause of Jesus in his cross and applying it to us, even as Jesus does so. At the Father's right hand. And here's the point, friends. Why do we need an advocate? We need an advocate because the Bible says we have a cosmic legal problem. We were made to be holy, we were made to be good, we were made to be righteous, we were made to perfectly reflect the goodness and the righteousness, the holiness of God. But do we? No. Absolutely not. We can look outside and see the world and its chaos and the horrors of sin around us, and we can look into the depths of our own heart. And sadly, see it all too often reflected there as well. We are rebels, sinners who break God's law, and we don't really care oftentimes that we do Because we want to be our own gods anyway, and write our own rules. And there are consequences for this rebellion and sin. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. Ultimately, death itself is the consequence. There is a judgment coming before an Almighty God, and we will have to give an account for everything we've done. And friends, That judgment that is coming is why we need legal help, cosmic legal help in the course of the God. That's what we have in our first advocate, Jesus Christ. That's the good news here. In fact, the good news of the gospel is right there in that word, another. Because the implication is that we have a first advocate, Jesus Christ, the righteous, as it says in 1 John 2, who it goes on and says, John goes on in 1 John 2 to say Jesus is the propitiation for our sins, and the propitiation is the sacrifice that brings pleasure. He is the propitiation for our sins, not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Jesus Christ the righteous is our advocate as our propitiation. That's what Jesus is doing in heaven. He is advocating for us. And for our salvation. Romans chapter 8, verse 34. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who is raised, and who is at the right hand of God? Who indeed is interceding for us. What does that look like? Father looking down Oh, see, fix, yes. He's sinned again. Jesus says, no, that's not his sin. It's mine. And I paid for it in full. He is righteous. He is forgiven. His sin has been paid for once for all in my body and by my blood on the cross. Friend, maybe you're here tonight and you're not sure where you stand with God. Maybe the idea of standing before a divine judge feels overwhelming. It should. It is. Because the Bible says that we all have to give an account, but there is good news. We don't have to stand there alone. We can stand before Almighty God with an advocate. An advocate who doesn't just plead God's mercy, but pleads his justice. There's no more punishment that can remain because I have borne it in full. That's why 1 John says. God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins as we come to Him through faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus is our first advocate. He offers himself to you as your defense, your advocate if you will trust in him If you've never looked to him as your righteousness tonight is the night to stop trying to defend yourself and start depending on Jesus Christ as your advocate. That's what Jesus is doing in heaven. But The good news of the gospel goes a little further. Another. Here's gospel in that word. But Jesus says here, I will send you another advocate. The good news of the gospel is we don't just have one advocate, we have two. Jesus Christ ascended in glory at the Father's right hand. And what Jesus is doing in heaven before the Father is what the Spirit is doing on earth here for us. To us. As we see our sin, he convicts us, helps us, illumines us, right? To see, oh yeah, that is sin. That little white lie. No, that was not truth. That little thing that no one noticed. Yes, God sees all. But then the Spirit, as our advocate, assures us again of the sufficiency of the work of Jesus Christ on the cross. John chapter 16, verses 7 to 14 seem to speak of this, where Jesus says, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper, the advocate, will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you, and when he comes, he will convict. The world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me, concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer, concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. I I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. But when the Spirit of truth comes, he will He will guide you into all truth. For he will not speak of his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. What is to come for those who are in Christ? The blessing of salvation. He declares to us. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it. So the application of this second point as we wrap this up. First of all, the Spirit is an indweller, so be dwelt in by the Spirit. Be filled with the Spirit. Ephesians 5:18 calls us to that. How do we do this? Well, it's not by emptying your mind and just trying to feel, but it's by engaging our mind with God's Word. Hearing it, reading it, reflecting on it, meditating on it. Colossians 3:16 says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. That's how the Spirit dwells in us, by the word of God. It's very important to realize this: to be filled with the Spirit means to be enthralled by Jesus. Because the Spirit seeks to bring faith in Jesus. To bring attention to Jesus, to cultivate devotion and love for Jesus. The Holy Spirit is spoken of by theologians as like a spotlight shining on Jesus. And that's why it's so hard. Sometimes when you look directly at a spotlight, you get blinded. But if you look by the spotlight at what it's shining on, oh we see What is the spotlight? Our Holy Spirit shining on, he shines the truth, the light of the truth, God's word, on the content of the word, who is the person. So if you want to see a church where the Spirit is at work powerfully, don't go looking for a church that just talks about the Holy Spirit all the time or that looks for supernatural signs and wonders beyond God's word. Go find a church that talks about Jesus all the time. Because then you know that is a spirit-filled church. Find a church that looks to the word and studies it and sees Jesus in it. And looks to the sacraments where the Spirit promises to use them to assure us and unite us to Jesus Christ and to assure us of our salvation, to advocate To advocate our case to our own consciences, even as Christ advocates our case before the Father. And where God's people are indwelt by His Holy Spirit, friends, we are not looking for people performing miracles and healings and speaking in supposed tongues or languages. Instead, where do we see God's people indwelt by the Holy Spirit according to God's word? I would argue it's where we see God's people quietly bearing the fruit of the Spirit. Which really looks a lot like Jesus. Because Jesus is the ultimate example of one who loves. Who is joyful? Who has peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, self-control. And yet the Spirit promises to work those fruits in us as we follow Jesus Christ by faith to the praise of his glorious grace. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the gift of your Holy Spirit. How we thank you that you, Lord Jesus, have sent the Spirit of you risen in glory. To be our helper, to be our advocate, to indwell us with your presence, to teach us the truth of who you are, and to be our advocate. Assuring us, quieting our consciences, as he applies to us your perfect and sufficient work On the cross and in your resurrection. Lord, we pray that we would grow as those who reflect being spirit-filled, full of the fruit of the Spirit, and may you get the honor and the glory. As we do, in Jesus' name we pray, Amen