Well, for those for those of you who have been around a bit, you know that we've been uh when I've been preaching on Sunday evenings, we've been going through the book of Philippians This letter written by Paul to the early church, a wonderful letter written to a church calling them to joy. Joy in the gospel of Jesus. Jesus Christ, joy even in sorrow and suffering, and calling them to live together as the body of Christ in harmony. We saw how Paul concludes the letter in chapter four, encouraging uh syntachi. who somehow have some disagreement to unite and agree in the Lord. And he's stated his final greetings And uh we really have kind of looked closely at all of Philippians except for verses 21 to 23 of chapter 4. That final little section. And often these are parts, you know, these final greetings, sometimes the initial greeting are parts that we read through and we say, oh, those are just historical. Adiapra. Those are historical uh circumstances that really don't bear much on the meaning. But I thought it'd be worth us taking a moment and pausing and seeing if we can't recognize in them some important reminders of important truths. And I think I think we will. I want to read verses twenty-one to twenty-three, but I'll jump back and actually we'll read the greeting in the beginning as well, chapter one, verse one, as well as chapter four, verses twenty-one to twenty twenty three and kind of put that all before us as these bookends of the book. So here now the reading of uh God's well let's see let's see I've got verses ten to twenty three Uh I have that in there. We're gonna skip those verses. We've read them before, we've worked through them. I uh yeah, we'll we'll just change it up a little bit. Do short shorten and hopefully Hopefully keep it tight. So verse one, Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi with the overseers and deacons. And then jumping over to chapter 4, verse 21. After he has said, To God our glory, uh to God, to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your Let's go before God in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these these words, this these words that you inspired. That of all the things that you could have given us to have, to to hear words of life, you've given us even These short verses at the beginning and the end of this book. We pray that tonight you might open them up to us, enable us to draw truths from them that are important, reminders for us of who we are and who you are. And of both how we ought to be convicted before you as our holy God and how we ought to have great confidence standing before you covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. Christ. Well, uh you may have seen may have seen the nineteen ninety-seven animated Disney film and a Anastasia. Anyone here? Yeah, I see a few of us have. It's not the most common one. Don't worry. I'm sure they're gonna do a live version soon. You know, that's what they keep doing. But if you've seen it, you know that it it tells a fictionalized story that's based on Russian uh Russian legend. It was never really true, but a Russian legend about a forgotten Forgotten and lost identity. It's about uh this girl, Anastasia, who uh was the Grand Duchess of Russia, the country of Russia. She was, I believe, daughter of the Tsar or related to the Tsar at one point and and she was alive during the Russian Revolution. She was a little girl at the time of the Russian Revolution, uh, when uh they came. The the revolutionaries came and they put to death her whole family. Family, the Tsar and his family, but she got away. And yet, as she fled and got away, something happened and she lost her memory. So that she didn't know who she was. She ends up getting put in an orphanage and growing up under the name Anya instead of Anastasia. Until years later, as she's grown up and an adult, various events happen that start bringing her memories back, and she begins to remember she is Royal. She is heir to the throne of Russia. And it's a fascinating story because while while Anastasia, or Anya, as she's called in the orphanage, While she's in the orphanage, that seems to be who she is. Her identity. She's an orphan. No parents, no wealth, no money to her name, no honor, no status. Forgotten Her identity is forgotten even to herself until it begins to come back and she realizes that all along the way, all those years in the orphanage, she truly was royalty. And I think that's a great way to capture, sadly, how we often live the Christian life. We often live as Anya. Orphans forgotten. Wandering around the world, getting our identity from the people around us, what they think about us, getting our identity from what we think the world values and what we think we can value. Hold on to, all the while losing sight, forgetting, almost like the amnesia of Anastasia, forgetting who we truly are as followers of Christ, the identity that we're given. Given through faith in Jesus Christ. And it says we look at these two passages, The greeting there in verse 1, and then this little ending here in chapter 4, that we see in Paul's simple, you know, hi and by. Some very important theology in the titles that he gives to himself and God's people. And so that serves, these little passages serve as reminders of who we are in Jesus Christ. And specifically, we see in these verses, our true identity in the gospel and through the gospel of Jesus Christ is that we are slaves or servants, siblings, and saints. Three simple points. Sib slaves or serv siblings slaves or servants, siblings and saints. Why do I say slaves or servants? That's the first point. Slaves or servants. It's because the same word in Greek can be translated. Translated either way. Look at verse 1. Paul says, as he greets the Philippians, Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus. And if you have a little, if you have an ESV there, you see the little footnote, it says or slaves. Now this is the Greek word doulos, and it's hard to translate because it just means slave. But a slave in the Roman period was not necessarily what we often connote with the idea of slavery or a slave. We often think, sadly, in the United States, of the history of slavery in our own country, where slavery was you know, slavery is never a good institution. It was not a good institution in Rome. own. A lot of people suffered under it. But the one difference was there it was not as racially based. You know, anyone could be a slave. You could be Roman, you could be Italian, whatever, you could be from a far distant land or a native of the land there. Anyone could be a slave. Furthermore, in slavery in the U. S. , there was never a way to get free. Slaves in the ancient world in Rome often could, if they were skilled enough, could earn money for themselves through their work and buy their own freedom. some point. So there was a little bit more ability to get out of this slavery. But what's interesting is that it was at Most important really is a slave. It wasn't wasn't as much if you were a slave or a servant. I guess the difference to be a slave couldn't really leave until they bought their freedom. A servant just sort of hired themselves out But really more important than whether you're a slave or a servant, you know, you're just a dooloss anyway, it's whose slave or servant you were. If you were a servant or slave of someone of great status, you yourself had status. If you were a servant or slave of somebody lesser, you yourself would probably have lesser status. Now, Paul calls himself and Timothy's slaves or du loss servants of Christ. Can we apply that to ourselves? Yeah, we're not apostles like Paul. We're not all pastors like Timothy was. What does Paul say in Romans six? Romans 6, Paul is going on and on about the gospel of grace, about justification through faith alone in Christ alone. And he says justification brings freedom from slavery to sin. The Exodus. Not an Exodus out of Egypt, an Exodus out of slavery to sin. And he says, we've been freed through justification from sin and so it to be what? Romans 6. 22. Now that you have been set free from sin, you have become slaves of God. Slaves of God. The same word, doos, that Paul uses for him. And Timothy. How does that feel to you? To have this grand identity given to you through faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ? Christ. And it begins, you're a slave, you're a servant. Well, I think the first question should be, of whom? What status comes with that? Because it it's all based on who the master is. Paul says we are slaves of God. Timothy and Paul are slaves of Jesus Christ. No greater master. There's no greater Lord to be a slave under. In fact, to be a slave of God is to have an incredibly high status. In all creation. And that's why, as the psalmist says in Psalm 84, I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. And you say, well, what's so great about dwelling in the tents of the tents of wickedness. The idea is dwelling in the tents of anyone else. Wickedness in comparison. So we are slaves, and yet what's interesting is that slavery is freedom. 1 Peter 2, verse 16 says, live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as Slaves or servants of God. Our slavery is not one that is imposed on us. It's a gift given that we can impose Grace, choose, as we are freed from sin, to be slaves, servants of Almighty God, servants in the house Household of a creator of the universe. That's what we're called here. Do we, you know, this is probably not a new idea? I'm probably just reminding you of something you've heard over and over again. I mean, we've we see it there at the beginning, we we see it elsewhere in Scripture. But do we live in light of this reality? What would it look like to live in light of this reality? To live day by day recognizing I am a slave, I am a servant of my master. Do we like Paul consider ourselves slaves of Christ, servants of God? Or do we walk around thinking, I'm a free, self-made American? I can choose whatever destiny I am able to choose. Friends, this reality of our identity as we're reminded It ought to lead to great confidence, but also a great care in the way we live our lives. Confidence, because it's a badge of honor to be slaves of the greatest household in the universe, the household of the living God. And yet it also bring it ought to bring great care as we live our lives. If you were a servant in the ancient world, when you went out of that household and you were walking around, what you did reflected on your master. It reflected on the household. The kind of person you were in the world reflected on who you were associated with, so it ought to bring great care, not to bring shame or disrepute on our But it's interesting, th th we see that term slave do los right there in verse one of chapter one, but there's also it there's actually a reference probably made to other servants or slaves in our passage, and that's in verse 20. twenty two, where Paul says, all the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. Those of Caesar's household. Now that could imply, or that could signify that This is some of Caesar's family. Maybe. Possibly. Probably less likely. Probably this is some of the slaves, some of the servants of Caesar's health Household are Christians, are those who Paul knows and who are sending their greetings to the Philippians church. Church. And if you've been reading through the book of Philippians, you say, not shocking at all. Paul says in Philippians 1, verse 13 that some of the imperial guard of Caesar had heard the gospel and were Receiving it well. So it's not shocking that some actually had become Christians in Caesar's household. Maybe not, but then think about who Caesar was at that time. Because most likely this Caesar is none other than wicked Nero. Some of his slaves, some of his servants. Are actually slaves of Jesus Christ. And that opens up to us this reality: that as servants of God, slaves of God, servants of Jesus Christ in this world. Actually, part of submitting to Christ as our master is to submit to the authorities that He's put in place. Romans 13 says that the civil authorities are ministers of God for our good. That in a sense, Jesus has said, I want you to submit to them if they don't contradict me, if they don't call you to do something that I forbid or call you not to do something that I command. We always obey God as our ultimate master and lord and king and God, but if they don't, then you're just Honor them. Serve them. You can be called servants of Caesar and be a faithful slave of Jesus Christ That's what Paul says in Ephesians 5, uh 6, 5 to 7, where he says, bondservants. Obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart as you would Christ. Not by the way of I service as people pleasers, but as bondservants or slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man. Can you believe? Those would be instructions Paul would give to those of Caesar's household, of how they were to engage with Nero. Serving him with fear and trembling, with reverence and respect, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ. That raises the challenge for us, doesn't it? What about us? Is this how we relate to the authorities, the masters that God has put into our earthly societies? Do we obey our bosses with reverence and respect? Children, do we obey our parents with a sincere heart? Or how about this? How do we talk about our elected leaders? I think the first time I preached through this passage, George Bush II was in office. And Ever since then, I think we could say, do we how do we speak of Bush and then Obama and then Trump and then Biden and then Trump again. How do we speak over the coffee pot? How do we speak over the water cooler? Does it reflect what Paul describes there in Ephesians chapter six? Not that they are masters as presidents. Elected leaders aren't necessarily Caesar per se, but But there is a reverence, there is a respect that we're called to. So the people of God, believers, followers of Jesus Christ, are slaves and servants of God, which includes a call to submission, to honor, to service, to earthly authorities as they represent Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, not just in the civil sphere, but also in Christ's Church. But that leads us to our second point, and that is Christians are also siblings. So Paul says in verse 21, Greet every saint in Christ Jesus, the brothers who are with me greet me. Now, whenever you see this term brothers, if you're saying brothers and sisters in this time, you just say brothers. It's just, it's kind of like in the old days, or even today, you someone say, you know, all mankind. And it's not because it's all men, it's all humans. In a similar way, when Paul says, Greet the brothers who are with me, or I'm sorry, the brothers who are with me greet you, probably he didn't just mean men. He probably meant men and women. Brothers and sisters, the siblings. Of the people of faith here in Philippi. Your brothers. Your sisters. Now, this is something we're all familiar with again. We all know that in the body of Christ we're called brothers and sisters. of one another, even though we don't share literal bloodlines. We're called brothers and sisters in faith, spiritually brothers and sisters. And so you say, yes, Fix, tell me something I don't know. It's like, well, I'm not. I'm reminding you of something you know, but I but maybe it's worth us pausing and thinking Thinking about this for a moment, reflecting on it. Have you thought about the implications of this? Let me suggest, uh I mean, I think we've we've thought about it probably in relation to one another, that the person sitting next to you, you are to treat as brother or sister. in your family. And not not like you do in a dysfunctional family. Let's let's clarify that. Like in the ideal kind of loving family where those blood ties really hold you together and make you committed across even hardships in your relationship. Make you committed to even spend Christmas together even when you've had a falling out and try to make amends. Why? Because you're kind of stuck together. Because you're the same family. That's what we're called to in the body of Christ. But here, think about this for a second. If you're a Christian, you are brother and sister of not only your sibling, not only of everyone here. But everyone around the world who today was gathering for worship, millions and millions of people. That's why. But now let's now let's think not just in space, let's think in time. These brothers and sisters mentioned here are your brothers and sisters through faith in Christ. Paul is your spiritual brother. Timothy is your spiritual brother. The Philippians are your spiritual brothers and sisters. King David. Your spiritual brother. Moses. Abraham. And why? How how how can we who are from a myriad of different ages and Periods of history and families and bloodlines. How can we be called siblings? It's because we've been adopted into the one spiritual family. Family of Almighty God. He is, through faith in Jesus Christ, he becomes our loving, beloved Heavenly Father, whom we can approach to and say Abba. Father, my father in heaven. And here's a profound reality. We're not just siblings to each other. Not just siblings to each other here, not just siblings to the brothers and sisters around the world, not just siblings to brothers and sisters throughout all of history. Here's a profound reality. With God as our Heavenly Father, we're siblings with God Himself in the person of Jesus Christ the Son. That's what the Bible calls us. Romans 8:29 says, those whom God foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, Jesus Christ. In order that he, Jesus, might be the firstborn among many brothers. Brothers and sisters. Could say. Hebrews 2. 11 says the same thing. 2. 17, John 20, 17 says the same thing. So, on the one hand, our identity as servants of Christ shows his lordship over us. Jesus is our great master, King of kings, and Lord of lords. He's also our brother, our elder brother, through faith in him. And why is this important It's because in Jesus, as our elder brother, we see the future of the family inheritance That's what Romans 8 says. Right? Romans 8 21 says he's the first one among many brothers. Rewind a little bit in Romans. Romans 8:15 to 17 says this: For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. And we are called slaves, we are called uh servants, but we don't have a spirit of slavery, right? But you have instead received the spirit of adoption as sons By whom we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God? And fellow or co-heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. That's a lot. What great theology packed up into this term we throw around left and right, brother, sister, siblings, one another With our elder brother Jesus Christ, having that inheritance of his as our promise through faith in him. Do we think and act and live in light of that reality? Sometimes we we could just ask, do we live in light of do we live in the basic level like that we are siblings? Often that's hard enough for us to do, let alone think. Beyond the world around us, to the ages past, and to Jesus Christ, our elder brother When we call each other sister or brother, do we remember why? It's because Christ has first called us his brother or sister. sister. He's invested us with that identity so that we can go out and truly know that is who we are in Jesus Christ. Maybe you're thinking, I don't get that much out of this analogy, this metaphor, because I don't get along much with my family. And the same may actually be true here in church. You may look around and say, I struggle to like, let alone love. Which one's easier? I don't like love. W whichever one's easier. I struggle to do the harder one, let alone the the easier one. But friends, just as you love your annoying brother, because he's your brother or you should because he's your brother. Just because you just as you you you you spend Christmas with family because they're family or we know we should. We don't always have to see eye to eye with one another We don't always have to feel as like we really like one another, but we're family. We're called to love one another. No matter what. We're called to stick with each other. Like Paul says to Yodia and Syntechi, just a few verses earlier, he's like, You're sisters. What does he say? He doesn't say, you know, uh, like you do this, you do that. He just says, just Just agree in the Lord. Agree in the Lord. Christians are slaves, servants to Jesus Christ our Lord, and then his ordained authorities on earth. We are siblings of each other. And of our elder brother Jesus Christ, with one Father who is the God of the universe. And finally, Paul calls Christians, followers of Christ here, he calls us saints. This is a common denominator throughout all these verses. Paul over and over and calls believers all believers. Saints. What is a saint? A saint literally means a holy one. Verse 1. Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints. Verse 21, greet every saint. Verse 22: all the saints greet you over and over again. Now again, nothing new here. You've heard this term. You read any one of Paul's letters. In fact, it's interesting, Paul uses this term almost more than all the times in the rest of the Bible it's used. I think he uses it 35 times. Elsewhere it's used maybe 42 times, something like that. He uses it all the time. We're used to seeing this term, but do we have we pondered the significance? of being called Saint You know, we don't use the term all that often. Oh, I was hanging out with Saint Fix last week I visited another church, the saints there were maybe we've heard that before, but why don't we use it more often? I think one reason, maybe because the Roman Catholic Church is sort of called a saint. Who's said above. Like it's not just believers, it's someone who's a real believer. It's not really how the Bible uses it, it uses it of all followers of Jesus Christ. All are called saints. But it It maybe still feels a bit presumptuous? Arrogant? Saint. I'm a holy one. I'm set apart. I'm a pure one. These are things ways in which you could understand. So what is a saint? Why is a saint called a saint? A saint is set apart or purified to be able to enter into the presence of a holy Holy God. A saint is one who's set apart, that's what holy one means. Set apart one. Set apart for what? For the purpose of worshiping our Holy God. The problem is if we're honest with ourselves, I think, why don't we use this term more regularly? I think because if we are honest with ourselves, we peer deep into our own hearts and minds, we know that we're often far more sinful than sin. Saintly. We're born rebellious, we're born bent on our own glory. We don't like We don't like submitting even to God's lordship. Maybe you felt that even when we were talking about that idea of being a slave or a servant of God. I don't want to be anyone's servant or slave, is often our feeling, our sense. I don't even want to be God's. The Bible says this is because of the bentness of our heart in sin. Isaiah 53, 6. All we like sheep have gone astray, and we have turned everyone to his own way. That is our nature outside of Christ, born in Adam. Rebellious, sinner. And rebellious sinner is an antonym, the opposite of saint. Sinners, saints. So how can any of us Who left to ourselves really are sinful sinners, not saintly saints, how can any of us ever rightly be called saints without it being a big old life? And the answer is read on. Verse one, I stopped short too quickly. Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, not there, to all the saints in Christ Jesus. Oh, verse 21: greet every saint in Christ. Jesus. See, there's the answer. There's the answer. We're not just saints arbitrarily because we decided to come to church tonight, because we Took the vows and became members of the visible church, or because someone let us be part of it? The only way anyone can ever be called a saint Given our sinful predisposition and sinful nature born in Adam, the only way is if we are in Christ Jesus. See, to understand the significance of this title, saint or holy one, we have to look both backward and forward. We have to look back and see its significance in the Old Testament. In the Old Testament, worship was all about holiness. You have the temple set up, and at the center of the temple, where everyone wanted to get as near as they could was the Holy of Holies. This holy place. And why was it holy? Because that's where God was specially present and accessible to his people. But there this was shrouded in layer after layer, and only holy things could enter and human priests who needed to be washed, had sacrifices made for them to atone for their own sins, and to be uh be made pure and purified so that they could be holy enough to enter in to the holy presence of God. And so also saints, holy ones, are only holy enough if made holy. And that's exactly what we are in Jesus. Christ. Our His holiness is so grand, so great, that as we come to faith in Jesus Christ, and we come into union with Jesus Christ, right, by faith, his holiness is covers us, is credited to us. Paul has sort of unpacked this idea of justification and sanctification in Philippians chapter 3 where he says Paul says, I had a great righteousness on my own. I was a pretty good Jew, but I I gave I considered it all rubbish, dung, because I've got a better righteousness. Righteousness is Jesus Christ's righteousness credited to me. And the same is true of our holiness. We're called saints, not because how saintly we are left to ourselves, we're called saints because we're in the Jesus Christ. Holy ones, because we're in Jesus Christ. How does this happen? How can we be saints in Christ Jesus? Friends, it happens very simply. It happens by faith. Faith in Jesus Christ, knowing him, trusting him, trusting and knowing in him and his righteous life lived for us, his undeserved death on the cross for us, in his resurrection from the dead, and the life he has promised to all who are his. Saints. How can sinners be made saints? It's through the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ. As we're united to him by faith, and his holiness covers us And is credited to us. So to understand the significance of the title saints, we have to not only look back to the holiness described in the Old Testament and see, we're made fit for the holy holies in Christ Jesus. But we also need to look forward. It's interesting, the term saint, other than Paul, one of the most common places it shows up is in descriptions of the angels. Of the heavenly consummate reality. Revelation. Daniel 7. It's full of talking about the same. The saints that surround the throne of God. The saints that are there, the saints that are gathered before the throne and are given the kingdom. Because friends, even if we we don't always look like saints here on earth, that is our future in Jesus Christ. To be not just credited with Christ's holiness, to be actually made holy as He is. is holy. That's what sanctification. Sanctification is this from the same word of saint means being made holy. Time. That's what God is doing in our lives as we follow Him by faith. The point is, friend, you may feel like a sinner, weak and wandering, but in Christ your name is. Saint. Saint. Not because of what you've done, but because of who you're united to, the Holy One of Israel himself. Jesus Christ. When the Father looks at you, he sees his Son. Spotless, beloved, glorious, holy Saint in Christ Jesus. So here, let's apply this final point as we conclude. Do you know Jesus? Do you know him, the one who knew no sin? Are you trusting and resting in him as a saint in Christ Jesus? If not, friends, the good news is you can. You too can repent of your sins a day, you can respond to Jesus in faith, receive the grace that only Jesus can offer, the forgiveness of sins, the cleansing from all unrighteousness, the holiness and sonship in his kingdom forever. That's held out to any one of us. Who simply receives and rests in Christ alone. If you are a believer, if you are a follower of Christ here tonight, then hear your identity. Wake up. You're not Anya, you're Anastasia. You're royalty. You are inheritor of a grand kingdom, together with your elder brother, the king. King of that kingdom, the king of kings and the lord of lords. In Christ Jesus, you are saint, sibling, and a slave or servant of all my Almighty God. Remember these titles this week as each one of these calls for a response. You're a slave. Your master is no longer the world, the flesh, and the devil, but your master is the one and only Lord Jesus Christ, the God of the universe. You are a sibling. Not only are we siblings of one another, brothers and sisters, but we have a common father who's Almighty God. God, the Heavenly Father, who created the world, who holds in his hand all things, who is sovereign over all. That's our Father, and we have an elder brother, Jesus Christ, who has loved us enough to welcome us into his family and share His inheritance with us. You are a saint. We already have a heavenly identity. We are already holy in Christ Jesus, and our citizenship already is in heaven. Why would we live like those who have no hope? We are born sinners, but we're renamed with new titles, slaves and servants, siblings, saints. Or to put it another way, if you are in Christ, then even now. Regardless of how you feel, regardless of how others see you, you already are a servant with a purpose, a sibling with a family, and a saint. With a heavenly home. And Paul's final words here are for you. His final words are a benediction, a good word that is pronounced upon the Philippians, but it's pronounced for us. Us as well. May we ever know and ever grow in grace, in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, as Paul says here in verse 23: the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with us. Your spirit. Amen. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these truths, these very simple truths, ones that I know are familiar to all of us here. And yet, Lord, we so often forget Our identity in Jesus Christ. Forgive us for that and help us to remember. Keep us awake this week as we go. To live our lives as servants, your servants. As siblings of one another and of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, part of your family, as saints, those that you see as holy, and who you are making holy as we walk with Christ by faith. All to the glory and praise of your holy name