In the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land, and a man of Bethlehem in Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons were Melon and Kilion. They were Ephraith. I should have practiced that. They were Ephraiths from Bethlehem in Judah. They went into the country of Moab and remained there. Allow me to pray. Heavenly Father, as we approach your word this morning, we ask for your spirit. We ask for your spirit to reveal to us who you are. We ask for your Spirit to reveal to us our sin. We are those who look to your word, who look to your rule, and then look back at ourselves and say, I know better. I know better. Father, help us to see our need for your son. Your son, who is the perfect Almighty King. Help us this morning to see our need for you that you know best father amen well good morning Good morning. Have you ever stepped into an environment where leadership was desperately needed? And yet it was nowhere to be found. What will inherently ensue from that situation? The answer is chaos. Chaos. Maybe you've experienced that in a work environment where there was no leadership and everyone just did what they saw best and nothing actually got accomplished. Maybe your own home is that way sometimes. Maybe you're like me and you show up at a store and you can't find anything. And you can't find anyone to help you. And my immediate reaction, what I will say, is, who runs this joint? Uh if the answer is no one, then uh it makes sense it makes sense the problems. While that might be uh silly or funny, that sentiment resonates with us, doesn't it? When there is no leadership Structures break down. When there is no rule, we fall to disarray. Today we are beginning a study in the book of Ruth. I know just two verses. Don't worry. There is some leadership here. This is not going to take 600 weeks to get through But I want to take a little time here at the introduction to set the context for this book. To look at the context around this book. Ruth is a book which people love. It is this short story, it's this romance, it has this sweet fairy tale ending to it. And yet the context For this book is incredibly dark. This book begins by informing us that its events occur during the time of the judges. This is a time of incredible pain. And darkness in the history of Israel. This is Israel at their very worst. And why is that? Because there was nobody to rule. If there's one verse that summarizes the time of the Judges, it's Judges 17, 6. It says, In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. The conclusion which Scripture draws here is that without a king Without a ruler, without someone holding the standard for the people, everyone will go off and make up their own way for life. They'll do their own. When there is a power vacuum like that, what will happen? Something will fill that space People will decide, I know what's right. I can make my way through life. I can find my own way. I can decide what is right. I can follow my own heart's desires. I can do what I want. It's our party. We can do what we want. Thank you, Hannah Montana. And now that sounds like freedom, doesn't it? That sounds like freedom But is it? Is that freedom? This passage begs the question of us today: who will rule your heart? Who will rule your heart? Maybe your answer is nobody. Nothing can do that. I've got this. I can get where I'm going on my own. I have eyes. I can see what is right. If that's you, I sympathize. I am terrified of something controlling me. So much so that I won't have coffee every single day just in case. The caffeine begins to control me. That might sound like a good habit. It's not motivated from goodness in me. It's just fear. We are terrified of something controlling. Us. What Ruth is going to teach us is why saying, I can control my life does not work. Why does Israel need a king? Why can't I rule my own heart? Ruth is going to show us the answer to this and how the loving Creator King can fill that void, can fill that power vacuum. Who will rule your heart? We're going to explore that idea in two points today, just two points of this. Where our need starts. And then where our need ends. Where our need starts, and maybe better stated, in whom our need ends. You'll notice we're barely tipping our toes into the book of Ruth. That's because we're going to spend a lot of time in the context here, a lot of time looking at the book of Judges, what happens in the history of Israel here. Let's get into this. Let's start with that first point. Where does our need start? Well, let's look at the book of Judges. Where does the need of the people here start? The time of judges, the book of Judges, it focuses On this history of cycles, of repeated patterns of sin and destruction. What is the history? Well, leading up to the book of Judge. Israel is coming out of Egypt. The book of Exodus starts with the people enslaved in Egypt. They are oppressed, they are abused, beaten down, and God God delivers them. He rescues them. God brings them under Moses up to the front steps of the promised land. And when they arrive at the doorstep of the Promised Land, do the Israelite people trust God? Well, no. No. Do they obey him? No. So God brings them into the wilderness and they wander around and around for 40 years. They wander and wait until the disobedient generation dies off. And then God brings them to the promised land again under Joshua. And under Joshua, God gives the people the land. He lets them inherit the land. He lets them conquer the land. And God makes clear in Deuteronomy 9: I'm not giving you this land because you're some amazing people. No. Deuteronomy 9. 6, God says, Know that the Lord your God is not giving you this land to possess because of your righteousness. And then God adds, For you are a stubborn people. You've learned that over 40 years. The people did not earn the land. God gives them the land, though, because the people already living there, the king Canaanites, they are so wicked that they must meet judgment. They must be cast out of the land. And so God gives the people of Israel. the land. It seems in the book of Joshua like they're obeying. They follow what God says, they go in and they begin to take over. And and God makes very clear at the same time though. He says this you must drive those people out entirely you must devote them to complete destruction why God tells them why, because if you don't, if you don't get rid of these people who I have brought judgment upon, you will be drawn to serve their gods. You will see what they have and you'll be drawn to reject me and serve their gods instead. So what do the Israelite people do? Do they obey? When we get to the book of Judges, in the very first chapter, seven different times we are reminded they failed to drive out the people. So who will rule their hearts? Who will rule their hearts? Throughout Judges we see this cycle over and over. They forget God. Step one in the cycle, they forget God and they bind their hearts to other gods and other rulers. Step two, so God judges them. He says, you want those, you you want that? You can have it. You can have it. He sends other rulers to oppress them. If you want other gods, you can have them. Step three, the people who are abreast and conquered, the Israelites, they realize their plight. They cry out to God. That they cry out to mercy, God, we forgot you. We need you. We need your mercy. So step forward, God sends a judge to deliver them. God is merciful and delivers them. And so long as the judge Rule over them. The problem with this cycle though is it's not like things get a hundred percent better each time. No, the people's sin gets worse and worse The rebellion is deeper and deeper. They fail greater and greater. And so the judges who deliver them are weaker and weaker. Israel descends into chaos. They do not follow God's law. They won't be ruled by Him. Here's how the book of Judges ends. At the climax of this book, in Judges 19, we meet a Levite. What is a Levite? He's supposed to be a teacher of the law. He is supposed to teach God's people what his law says. And he takes it concubine from Bethlehem. That's problem number one right on the face. That's not allowed in God's law. This man does it anyway. A concubine from Bethlehem, this man saying, let me do what I want. It's right in my own eyes. Let me take what my heart desires. So they travel from Bethlehem to another place in Israel. Uh here's problem number two though, as they are traveling from Bethlehem to their destination, there's a Canaanite town in the middle. Oh why? Because we We forgot to drive out the people of the land. And at least this Levite knows we shouldn't stop there. We need to go around it. And so they begin to go around and head towards Gibeah. In Gibeah, they meet a man who is willing to house them. And as they go to his house, other men in the town squares They see this visitor. Let me let me be careful in communicating this. These men of Israel see this visitor and they go and knock on the door of the house he's staying in. And they demand in Judges 1922, bring out that man who came into your house that we might know him. A euphemism for Taking advantage of this man. And the man at the house he says, no, no, no, don't do that. Don't do that to this visitor. But he brought a concubine from Bethlehem with him. Have your way with her instead. And the Israelites do. And they are so brutal that they return her dead at the doorstep the next morning. That's the land of Israel here at the end of the book of Judges. That's what the people are like. In desperate need of one to rule. Of one to make things right, of one to bring justice. Their need is incredibly great. And now what about the beginning to Ruth? As Ruth begins, we come back to Bethlehem. And there is darkness embedded here, too. In the opening of Ruth, the very first verse we read: In the days of the judges, There was a famine in the land. A famine has struck the promised land. Again, God's judgment has arrived. We know why famine chose. Up. God tells the people, He promises them, when He will send famine. He says in Deuteronomy 28, if you will not obey the voice of the Lord and be careful to do all these commandments, all these statutes, and the same thing. All the ones that I commanded you today, then these curses will overtake you. A curse shall be you in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field. Field. Cursed shall be your breadbasket and your kneading bowl. Cursed shall be the fruit of the womb and the fruit of your ground. Cursed shall you all be. God promised to send curse, to send famine, if they abandon him. Here we're mirroring exactly what happens in the cycle of judges. They have forgotten God, they have abandoned him, and so he sends him. That's where the need in Ruth begins. Now God isn't cruel, He provides a remedy to this. He tells them how they can get out of the curse, how they can end the famine. In Deuteronomy 30, God says, when the curse is come. Return to the Lord your God, you and your children, and obey his voice in all that I command you. And if you do that, then the Lord your God will restore you. If they would just repent, then God will relent. So here we meet a family in Bethlehem sitting in the famine. And what will they do? Will they repent? Well God loves irony. God loves irony. He has a unique way of making it work too, being sovereign and all. He kind of just put it together. Here we meet a man of Israel, a man from Bethlehem, his wife and his two sons, a man living in the promised land, which should be flowing with milk and honey. A man from Bethlehem. What does Bethlehem mean? If we wanted to translate it really literally, it's the house of bread. They have no bread. It gets better. This man, his name is a limelech. What does that mean? Alimelech? It means my God is king. My God is king. Now, what will Elimelech do? Will he repent? Will he turn and say, Yes, my God, you are my king Well, of course not. No, he digs his deals, uh he digs his heels deeper into his rebellion by picking his family up and moving to Moab We get this, right? We love to double down on our sin, on our rebellion. You get caught in that lie, and there's this moment. I could go behind door A. And I could fess up. Or I could look behind door B and just we create another lie, you know, to try and get me s get myself out of that. Nine times out of ten we We choose another lie. We double down. Maybe a spouse or a friend confronts you on some kind of sin. Do you take what they've confronted about? you about at face value. Of course not. You you counter back. Well if you had just dot dot dot we love to double down And it's textbook disobedience. It's textbook rebellion. It's men looking and saying, Well, let me just do what is right in my own eyes. God's told the people, just repent. Just turn from your sin. Come back under my rule. Would you just obey? Would you obey with your heart and your soul? And a little ex says, no. I'll do this my way. I'll find a resolution to this problem my way. So he leaves the promised land. He runs away from God's rule. He turns his eyes from God and towards the bread of a foreign land. Why isn't that us all the time? Isn't that what our hearts tend towards? I know God has said this, but let me just chase after what I think think will give me satisfaction now. Let me go after what will fill my stomach, what I can see with my eyes. Let me tether myself to what I think will make my heart whole. Right now, Elimelech runs to the land of other gods, of another king. He runs to Moab. Where is that? If you tracked via GPS the route that the Israelites took from Egypt, they escape oppression in Egypt, they come down and then they z they go like they wander in the wilderness forever. And then they pass through Moab and then they get to Israel. Elimelech is turning right back around and he's heading towards Israel. He goes into Moab. He's heading right back into the oppression. escaped. Where does his needs start? He needs to come back under God's protection. He needs to come back under God's rule. Elimelech, my God is king. He needs the king. He needs the king. So do we. Well, in whom does our need end? In whom does our need end? Elimelech of Bethlehem needs a king. Elimelech of Bethlehem needs a worthy ruler. Do you see how Ruth is mirroring judges to us? That we mirror this too in our own lives. Your Disney fairy tale mantra is eerily similar to judges. Follow your heart. Follow your heart. When we do that, when we all do that, everyone will just do what is right in their own eyes. When everyone does what's right in their own eyes, the assumption Is that this will free you? But the truth is that this just enslaves you. Just as the Israelites fall again and again into enslavement. So we are entrapped, enslaved, blinded by, bonded to, so we are ruled by sin. And sin is a vicious and cruel Lord. The Apostle Paul, he'll write, begging of the Romans In Romans 6, he says, Let not sin reign over your mortal body to make you obey its passions. Are you a slave of sin? Sin leads to death. It's not a worthy ruler. Sin is not the answer. So where do we turn? The whole book of Judges is pointing us toward this. It's the need for a very particular king. What should a king do? Well, a king should impose the law. Plenty of kings have imposed horribly unjust laws. Well, we need a king who is powerful, who will fight for his people. Plenty of powerful kings have crushed their own people. Israel needs a king who is Is good. Israel needs a king who can direct them in piety. A king who knows God's law A king who will guard them from sin. Israel needs a king who will lead them in righteousness. Where is it that we can find that kind of king? Well, here we are in Bethlehem, a town whose name has been soiled beyond belief in the book of Judges. Here we are in Bethlehem, the home of Elimelech who is running away from God. Here we are in Bethlehem, the town in which this book does not just begin. But we'll also end. This is where we will end. An old friend of mine, uh Jessica, as soon as she got invested into a book, she would go and she would read the last few pages of it I was just you are ruin you're ruining it. Well, why are you jumping to the end? You're ruining it. She would say, well listen, if the world ends, I need to know what Happened here. I gotta figure this out. We're following Jess's example today. We're going to the end. Ruth ends in the Book of Bethlehem with a son with the birth of a son. Do you know the story of a son born in Bethlehem? Ruth has a son named Obed. Obed has a son named Jesse. And Jesse has a son named David. See, even here in the darkest of times, famine in the land, rejection of God, everyone doing what is right in their own eyes Even here, God is at work perfectly bringing about his purposes for his people. God hasn't abandoned his people. God hasn't left them to ruin because here in Bethlehem a son will be born, and the son David will be a king. Israel needs a king like David, a king who honors God's law, a king who will lead them in righteousness. A king who will lead them in singing like Psalm 145, I will extol you, my God, my king. Even David, though, fails Even David fails. We know his story gets dark like judges. Murdering a friend, assaulting a woman and all. David isn't good enough. As a king, David is not good enough. We need a much better king. But you see, another son, another king will be born in Bethlehem. Him. One in the line of Ruth and in the line of David, a king who will live out the law perfectly, a king who will always, always honor God. A king who is the very son of God, a son and a king who will be sacrificed on a cross. Bearing upon himself our sin and our shame. One who will sit under the wrath that my lawlessness merited, paying the price that your rebellion has earned. And why would he do that? To deliver us, to deliver us from the domain of darkness, to usher us into the kingdom of the beloved Son. To bring us redemption and forgiveness of sin. Jesus Christ is the King who God offers to us. A king who he offers to Israel so that we can repent, so that we can turn back to his ways. A king he gives to us so that we won't go on in the misery of following what is right in our own eyes. A king who he gives to us so that we may freely obey God. And not to earn his favor. We can't earn his favor. A king who frees us So that we can live in the glory of obedience by rejoicing. An obedience that says, yes and amen, I can rejoice in the Lord. Not be enslaved in my sin. The Son has earned that for us. This Son, he is the Christ. He is the King. And he is the one in whom our need ends. He is the one that we need. So what for us now? What for us now? Friends, repent of your desire to rule over yourself. Sin promises freedom, but it can only enslave you. You. When you're drawn by your heart towards that lustful decision. When you are provoked to respond in anger, when you've sharpened that word, ready to respond at that person, ready to cut them deep. That's what your heart wants, isn't it? Is that the decision you are going to make? When the envy rages because you know everyone loves that person instead of me. Who will rule your heart in those moments? Who will rule your heart? If you say I will Will. If you do what is right in your own eyes, will only bring destruction But if you say, May the Lord Jesus Christ rule in my heart today, that is where Freedom and joy is found. Praise the Lord. We have a King. And his name is Jesus. May he rule in our hearts. Let's pray.