Stumbles with them. Who there is Israel's actual dependence upon? Who are they believing in? Are they trusting in the God that they are going to make sacrifices to? They're trusting in themselves. Though maybe they do the physical actions of faith. Where is their faith actually? Not in God. No, it's in what they can muster forth. themselves. God repeats that sentiment in verse 13, when Ephraim saw his sickness, Judah his wounds. Then Ephraim went to Assyria and sent to the great King, but he is not able to cure you or to heal your wounds. Israel, when you are in need, who do you turn to? You turn to God? Israel Israel says, We have a better idea. Let's go to this pagan king. I bet he can help us out. That seems like a good idea. The king of Assyria, let's go to somewhere that we can find some earthly stability. To make this peace treaty. We'll deal with the physical problems, run away from the spiritual problems that got us here in the first place. They don't turn to God, they run from Him. Run away towards other things that they think can cover over their needs. Their deeds Do not permit them to return to their God, for the spirit of whoredom is within them, and they know not the Lord. The consequences of the sin bear out the evidences of their hearts. That's why Hosea says in verse seven, They have dealt faithlessly with the Lord, they born alien children, and now the new moon shall devour them with their fields. It is so easy to get caught up responding to God by playing these kinds of games, running faithlessly to do certain actions to try and cover over our wrongs. Often at the same time running faithlessly away from him to put our hopes in ourselves. How do you respond to the guilt? Of knowing that God knows all about you. Do these examples of the Israelite people resonate with you? Our response, though, isn't the only one that matters. What also matters here is how God responds to his knowledge of what the people have done and who they are. That's our second What we see here from God in his exposition of this case is a very scary judgment from God. God does have a response to the people. He has words. Verse 1: Hear this, O priests. Pay attention, O house of Israel. Give ear, O house. of the king. For the judgment is for you. Don't think you can ignore this. Don't think that if you just put God off long enough, he will forgive you He won't. He knows. He's not the kind of God who will simply forget what you have done for no reason or because you have ignored him long enough. No, he is the kind of God who will respond. It's a grave matter. Verse 8: blow the horn in Gibeah, the trumpet in Ramah, sound the alarm at Beth-Aven. Hosea gives us two different illustrations of God's response, two different animal analogies. First one, verse eleven: God is like us. A moth. His judgment comes like a moth. Ephraim is oppressed, crushed in judgment, because he was determined to go after filth But I am like a moth to Ephraim, and like dry rot to the house of Judah. creatures, like it's gonna bring the most severe level of destruction upon you. Oftentimes the moth feels more like a nuisance. You maybe swat away at it a couple of times and then forget about it. You're not often running away in terror. But we know what the potential of the moth is, right? Up in the attic, left to itself, it gnaws and eats away at what is valuable. It consumes the fine linens, the cash that you've stashed up. And it is a Especially dangerous. Though you don't always realize it at first, the effects of the slow burn, it isn't always felt at once once. The draw right in the dry rotten house it doesn't always magically appear at once. Doesn't really Shock us typically until we see the end result of its damages. God here is like a moth. His judgment is Persistent. His judgment is consistent. Might feel like nagging for a time. It has real effects. He is faithful to continue to remind you, little way after little way, the destructiveness of your sin, where it is leading you, what it is bringing you towards. It may seem like a nuisance in the moment, but he is faithful and consistent in his persistence to remind you of the effects of your sin. What it is doing to you, the judgment that it brings. The second animal here, God is like a lion. He says, For I will be like a lion to Ephraim, like a young lion to the house of Judah. I, even I, will tear and go away, I will carry off, and no one shall rescue. I will Return again to my place, my den, until they acknowledge their guilt and seek my face, and in their distress earnestly seek me. One of the most menacing and terrifying of the beasts that's used as an illustration in Scripture is the lion. The lion is used as an image throughout all of ancient Near East. Eastern literature to inspire fear in people's hearts. We don't have to look much further than what Hosea says here to understand why. The judgment that's listed here is severe. I will tear you apart. I will drag you away. No one can dare to rescue you. I will bring you back to my den and pick the bones clean. It is AO. Hopeless and terrifying picture. This description of judgment is what sin deserves. The one who goes after filth and evil like Israel, they should bring judgment upon. themselves. This whole chapter details to us in pretty disturbing ways the judgment that being found in In sin brings. This whole chapter details the reality that God knows you. Your sin, and God also knows the judgment that you deserve. All the things which you don't want anyone to know about you, all the things which you know, and man, they knew this about me. There is no way that they could love me. That's what God knows. And God knows that this evil sin deserves judgment. It must be judged, and that is what he promises. Evil must be judged. That reality is ingrained in us. It's in our basic thinking. It is Written on our hearts. We know justice must be rendered against evil. It isn't always that we recognize and know the evil we've committed But sometimes you catch a whiff of it. You remember who you are, what you have done. Justice must be rendered against evil, and that is what God. promises because he is just great. So the answer is that God is just a destructive judge and there is no hope for me, right? As difficult as it may seem, this response from God is the response of a God who loves. How on earth is that where could that possibly seem? This God is coming to ruin what I have, coming to tear me apart. You call that love. Love. The God who comes to bring this case against his people, though, he does not want to leave them in destruction. What does he want? He wants them to be woken up. He wants them to realize the destruction of their own path, and he wants them to repent. He will be as faithful, as persistent as the moth. He will be as loud as the roaring lion to evoke this response out of them. And yes, it is Take a sneak peek with me into the next chapter. Look just a little further with me into God's response. Hosea chapter 5, verse 15, he says this. I will return again to my place until they acknowledge their guilt and seek my face, and in their distress earnestly seek me Keep going. Chapter six verse one. Come, let us return to the Lord, for he has torn us in order that he may heal us. He has struck us down. And so So he will bind us up. After two days he will revive us. On the third day he will raise us up so that we may live before him The Lord is at work. And the Lord, through this prophet, is speaking mysterious, yet incredibly beautiful words. He has torn us up in order that he may heal us. He has struck us down so that he may bind us up. Those sounds like Oxymorons, right? Those how could those possibly serve each other? How could being torn apart lead to being healed? After two days he will revive us. On the third day he will raise us up that we may live before him. Do those words sound a little bit familiar to you When Jesus was walking with his disciples in Luke 24, which we read, on the road to Emmaus, just after his own resurrection, what did he tell us? Tell them. These are my words that I spoke to you while I was with you. That everything written about me in the law of Moses and in the prophets and in the Psalms It must be fulfilled. Thus it is written that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance for the forgiveness of sins Sins should be proclaimed in his name to all the nations. Paul picks up on that same kind of language in 1 Corinthians 15 that Christ died and was resurrected on the third day according to the scripture. In Luke, in 1 Corinthians, what are they both saying? Somewhere it is written that the Messiah should suffer, and that on the third Third day he shall rise again. Anyone know where that is? Uh Jesus makes some kind of reference to it in the book of Matthew when he talks About Jonah, Jonah who emerges on the third day from the belly of the fish. Okay, that's that's something that's subtle, but it's something. Here in Hosea 6, what is spoken? The Septuagint, the Greek translation of this idea, it renders it almost exactly the way that Luke and Paul do. That the one who is torn apart and laid to rest for two days. That by that there is a resurrection on the third day. What is Paul's whole point when he talks about the resurrection in first? Corinthians 15, that through Christ's resurrection on the third day, we shall be resurrected. We shall find healing. That through Christ's resurrection, through Christ who was torn apart on the cross, through him we can find healing. That through Christ who suffered and died, we can find life. That the love of God is on display in such a miraculous and mysterious way because God's reaction to our sin, God's response to his knowledge of who we are, It is such that he chooses to bear the wounds and the consequences of our sin upon himself, that he is torn apart. He is wounded. He is drawn into the pit so that we can be healed. So that he can bind us up. So that we may be Resurrected and live before him. Christian, that is how God has responded to his knowledge of who you are. That even though You are the kind of person who has sinned in ways you would want no one to know about. Even though he knows all of it, he has seen fit to love you. To offer up his very own son, to be torn apart on a cross, to be eaten away by the moth, to be torn apart. by the lion so that you can be resurrected. So what is his call? Come, let us return to the Lord. Can you Your response to knowing the darkness of your heart be one of repentance? Can you be willing to acknowledge that missions of self-righteousness are futile? The effort to just cover over your own sin, to try and make it up to God, it will not work. Self-righteousness never does. And what you need is the healing work of God. That through trust in the life, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus, that is where you can find That is where the Lord's resurrection lies. The Lord is good, He is kind, He is loving. Do you know that? You know him to be that way. That is who Hosea tells us God is. God is the kind of God who must bring justice. Upon sin. There is a judgment resting for those who are not his, but for those who repent, who turn to him. promises a resurrection in his love. Many gods call us to suffer for the sake of themselves. Suffer for what this false God has called you to. What other God says, I have suffered for you. I have been torn apart for you. And through that brings you a resurrection. Direction to life. Can you know that God? Do you want to know Him? Let us be a people who've repent then and trust in Him. Let us pray Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are the kind of God who is just, who will render every wrong right. Who will bring true justice to all the wrongs that we have experienced, how desperately we cry for that. And yet also, God, you are One who has chosen in your mercy to show grace to us, to provide a resurrection for those who are Are found in Christ. For those who know you, Lord, we pray that we would be moved by your Spirit to respond by what we see here. To turn in repentance to our sins, to not try to cover them over, to not try to ignore them, but to respond to what you have done through Jesus Christ In love, a desire to know you and to repent from our sins, Father. We praise you and thank you that our end is not in the destruction that we see here. Here, but in a resurrection found through how you brought that judgment upon your own son. May we trust in him. May we trust in the blood of Jesus Who did suffer and die this death for us. May we hope in the resurrection that is promised here for us through him. It's in Jesus' name which we pray. Amen.