Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. So the Pharisee said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony is not true. And Jesus answered, Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true. For I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I'm going. You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one. Yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true For it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me. In your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about But no one arrested him, because his hour had not yet come. So he said to them again, I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I'm going, you cannot come. So the Jews said, Will he kill himself? Since he says, where I am going, you cannot come And he said to him, You are from below, and I am from above. You are of this world, and I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. So they said to him, Who are you? And Jesus said to them, Just what I have been telling you from the beginning. I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world. World, what I have heard from him. They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father. So Jesus said to them, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He. In that I do nothing on my own authority but speak just as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. As he was saying these things, many believed in him. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him: If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. They answered him, We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The Son remains free. So if the sun sets you free, then you will be free indeed. I know that you are offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. I speak of what I have seen with my father, and you do what you've heard from your father. They answered him, Abraham is our father. And Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works that Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth that I heard from God, this is not what Abraham did. You are doing the works your father did. They said to him, Well, we were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. And Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me, for I came from God, and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father, the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning. And does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God And the Jews answered him, Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? And Jesus answered, I do not have a demon But I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, as did the prophets. Yet you say if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham who died? And the prophets died? Who do you make yourself out to be? And Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God, but you have not known him. I know him If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him and I keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? And Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. Let's approach this word together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we see here strong words from your Son, Jesus Christ, as he speaks to these people, people who should know you. People who have studied your word, people who see themselves as righteous and true and good, and yet what does Jesus reveal to them? It's the ways that they don't act. like him. They don't act like you, but act like a different kind of Father. We pray that your Holy Spirit would make clear to us the ways that we walk in patterns of sin and not the patterns that your son has. Has walked in, not the patterns that you have described. Most importantly, that we would be led here to trust in Jesus, that we might live as adopted sons of God of you. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Some of you know that this last week Ishawnee was out of town for a work trip, and so my sweet baby son Isaiah was just left in my arms. I had him for uh Monday through Thursday, and guess what? It was a sweet time, and he survived. And I survived too. And yes, we both missed mom by the end, but it was a great sweet experience, a father-son experience. One of the experiences of being a parent is realizing that your kids really are your kids. And Isaiah is truly my son. And that is evident by both his words and his deeds. The things he says and the things he does Isaiah is truly my son. How do we know? He has something to say about everything. And most of it is unintelligible, right? There I am. Ishani is picked up on even as a little baby, he is very detail oriented. He cares so much about uh the order of things and the structure and how it's put together. He's a little O C D and sh every time she sees that she goes Hey, he's your son. Uh we're already even seeing just his stubbornness for the sake of being stubborn. This little kid As soon as he realizes that is what mom wants me to do, he says, not doing it. There's no way I'm gonna do that. And that is me to a T. If you tell me, Chris, you have to do this, it's about a surefire way to make sure that Chris is not gonna do that or does not want to do it. Even just this morning, Ishani desperately wants him to nap. He needs to nap. It's clear on his face at church, he is incredibly tired. But he just refuses to sleep. He fights it and fights it and fights it. And if you go and look into the Calvi family archives of home videos, you will find little baby Chris Calvey on his first birthday being told He needs to go to sleep and just my face is about to fall into the cake. No, I will not sleep. I will not sleep. I am not tired. He's my son. He is me to a T. We use and understand the term, the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. And we use that, we all know that term, because all things considered, it's pretty true, right? If you're a parent, maybe you've had that kind of experience where you look at your son or daughter and you think, I just cannot believe you would behave that way. I cannot believe you would do that. You cannot believe it until you remember exactly where they learned it, right? They learned it from you And you think, oh yeah, I've done exactly what I cannot believe they've done. You could be the child, uh you could be the son or daughter, and wake up one morning And something just sets you off, something you you have a particular kind of response to something, and it's a little odd, and uh over time you think about it a little bit and then you realize, why you think, why did I do that? Why did I respond that way? Oh, because I am my mother. Because I am my father. It works both ways. We see this kind of thing, we know it. Why? Because the apple just often doesn't fall far from the tree. Here in John 8, we're picking up on that conversation that happened back in John 7. And Jesus introduces the crowd around him to this discussion about spiritual fatherhood. He challenges them to see and know who his own father is, and also who their father is. Why? Because even spiritually, the apple just doesn't fall far from the tree. And the way that Jesus does this is significant to the people he's speaking to, and even to us, because it demonstrates so much to us about who we are, how we act, why we do what we do, what it even means about our future. Jesus here in the text is essentially going to show that there are two different spiritual families in this world. There are two different kinds of spiritual families in this world. This, who your father is, who your spiritual father is, has everything to say about you. Who your spiritual father is has everything to say. About you. We're going to explore that idea in three points. They're not that parallel, but they work. Grant me grace. They're this. First, issuing the paternity test Second, who is the father of the son? And then third, the father of the slaves. We're gonna look first at issuing the paternity test. How is it that your who your father is? determined. Why is that important? Second then who is the father of the son? Finally, who is the father of the slaves? Join me in that first point. Issuing the paternity test. What happens here? What sets the stage? We said that this discussion here in John 8 picks up where that conversation left off in John 7. We see that if we look at verse 12, it reads, Again Jesus spoke to them, saying I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Do you remember what the scene was in John 7, what was going on there? Jews from around the world were gathered together for the Feast of Booze, the Feast of Tabernacles. They've all come together to celebrate this particular feast in Jerusalem. We mentioned that there's a ceremony they do each morning as they celebrate that feast. It was the water ceremony. Each morning they would gather together and parade through the streets and uh through the town and out the gate and down to the pool where they would draw water from the pool, and they would bring that water back and pour it on the altar. It was this uh this ceremony celebrating how God had provided water for them even in the wilderness and provided a harvest for them. them here and now. And with that ceremony in the background, Jesus stands up in John 7 and he says this in verse 37: If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart flows rivers of living water. What's Jesus announcing? Essentially, he's saying to the crowd as they participate in this celebration, in this ceremony, hey, I am who this ceremony is about. I am living water. I am who you are here to celebrate. The water that you're participating in, what you're doing, this is about me. Okay, there's another ceremony that goes on at the Feast of Booze, and it's one that happens in the evening. There's a morning ceremony, that water ceremony. What do they do in the evening? Each evening, the people would bring out these fifty-foot lamps, these giant lamps, into the court of the women. This part of the temple courtyard and they would light these bright, vibrant lamps. And it said that the lamps were so bright that they would illuminate all of Jerusalem, all the neighbors. All the neighborhoods of Jerusalem were so bright just from these lamps lit in the courtyard. Okay, think about that, and then pick up where the story continues here in John 8. It's the next thing that Jesus announces. Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life What's Jesus doing? He's echoing that same kind of sentiment, just as he is the water of life that God provides, so he is the light of life And he says there, not even just the light to the Jews, but a light to the whole world, light which is offered to any and every family. Jesus is picking up on this Old Testament imagery of God as light. When the Israelites were wandering through the wilderness, back where they were thirsty, as we thought about in John 7, how did God lead them? He led them as a great pillar of fire, lighting the way before them. And the Psalms and the Proverbs remind us that God's word is a light unto the path of the blind. Who's here before them? It's God's word incarnate. He is the light. The prophets would say: uh when the Messiah comes, who will he be? He will be a light. Even to the Gentiles. And so here he is. Here Jesus is. And what's he announcing? He's announcing these things. I am the light of life. And with that, Jesus makes a particular kind of request. What does he say? In verse 12, whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. As Israel followed that pillar of fire, as the lamps light your way, Jesus is saying, Follow me. Whoever follows me has life and life eternal. It's here then that we enter into this kind of legal discourse. Now this kind of courtroom scene pops up as we're in the court of the temple. Jesus is speaking, and the Pharisees are here, and they engage in this kind of paternity court case. Verse 13: So the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony is not true. It's this accusation from them. What are they saying? Jesus, your testimony is invalid. It's out of order. Why? Because you're just one witness, because you're just testifying to yourself. They're pulling that even a little bit from what Jesus had said back in John 7. Hey, Jesus, remember just a chapter ago, just earlier in the day, when you said if one testifies about himself then they're false. Well, uh Jesus, isn't that what you're doing right here, right now? And and Jesus will go back around to that. He responds this way, verse 14. Jesus answered, Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going But you do not know where I came from or where I am going. And Jesus establishes this first. My testimony is true on the basis of who I am. Where I came from, where I am going, who I am, testifies that my testimony is true. But I don't just have that. Jesus makes a second point here, verse 16. Even if I do judge, my judgment is true. For it's not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me. In your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. I am the one who bears witness about myself. And the Father who sent me also bears witness about me. Jesus is making clear: I don't say these things alone. I'm not saying these just on my own myself. My father also says these things. And so Jesus brings into the courtroom here a reminder about what their law does require. Yes, it requires two or more witnesses. And Jesus says says, I have plenty of witnesses. And what's been true all along the way? Yeah, I have plenty of witnesses. You just keep not liking them. I've testified to you and you don't like that. And my father testifies and you don't like that either. And it's here that we get this question, which then ignites the rest of the discussion in this case. This hinge pin for this whole encounter, verse 19. They said to him, therefore, Where is your father? And Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father, for if you knew me, you would know my father also. Where is your father? That's the question that the people are asking Jesus here, and it's the question that Jesus is going to turn around and ask them. And it's the question in many sense which the text is asking. us here as we look at it. Who is the Son of God? Who are the children of Abraham? So we'll get to even who are the children of the devil You can imagine here maybe a kind of reality TV talk show style reveal that's going to go down. He is your father. But the scene here isn't so much a talk show set, it is a courtroom. And that's why John takes up courtroom language here as we step through this. Jesus has witnesses. If you've been following along through the book of John, you know that John has been showing us witness after witness. We've received testimony after testimony about who Jesus is. John the Baptist has come and testified. The Father has testified. The scriptures have testified. John has said, even Moses has come and testified. What we get here is a kind of lawsuit determining Eternity. Jesus, who is your father? And Jesus will file the countersuit here. Who's my father? Okay, we'll answer that. But we also have to ask and engage with this question. Question, who is your father? And he'll lead us into that with this revelation, verse 19. He said, You know neither me nor my father, for if you knew me. You know my Father also. So here's the test that we're going to work through a couple of times. What is it that Jesus says, and what is it that Jesus does Alongside that, what do these people say? What do they do? Point number two, the father of the son. Christ recognizes here that we need to deal with and know who he is. They're asking that question ultimately of him, and he's going to take that seriously and answer that question. And he does that initially here simultaneously by bringing us both to the beginning and the end. Verse 21. So Jesus said to them again, I am going away, and then you will seek me. And you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. Do you remember John 7? And that might sound a little bit familiar. Jesus says a little bit of something similar about him going away and him not being able to be followed. Jesus also talked about his origins in John 7. Right? You don't know where I've come from. And we got this kind of conflict back in John chapter seven about Jesus' origins. What would the origins of the Messiah be? Some came and said, No one will know where the Messiah comes from. from. And some said that, well, the Messiah must come from Bethlehem. And what the crowd all together decided was, well, Jesus just can't be the Messiah because he's from Galilee. Jesus told them all there, you know, you all have no idea where I came from. You can't. He tells them here, you have no idea where I'm going. We can't know that either. He takes us back to this place again. Not only do you not know where I came from, you don't know where I'm going. And what is Jesus doing in that? Where is Jesus going? We know ultimately he said before in John that he's going back to the Father. But by what path is he going to do that? He said he's going back to the Father, but how is he going to get there? It's by what road? What path? It's by the path of the cross, right? Jesus said in verse 21, I am going away, and you will see. Seek me and you will die in your sin. Where I am going you cannot come. It kind of sounds on the surface like Jesus is saying Uh once you all see me die, then you're finally gonna come to me wanting me, but you can't have me, so you'll die. Uh that might sound like it, what What's being said on the surface, that's not what Jesus is saying. That's not what's happening here. What's he saying? He's saying, once I die, once you all kill me, you're also going to want a Messiah. You're going to come looking for a Messiah. And you're going to be looking for that Savior, but you're never going to find him. You can't find him. Why? Well, because I was him. I was the Messiah. And it becomes clear as we see the response from the people in verse 22. So the Jews said, Will he kill himself since he says, Where I'm going, you cannot come? That's such a simultaneously just tragic and ironic question, right? Because Jesus isn't going to kill himself. What may appear similar, quite the opposite happens. Jesus is going to do what? He's going to lay his life down. His friends. It isn't suicide, but it will be self-sacrifice. And we recognize the difference between those. We know the difference. So why won't these people be able to find Jesus Why don't they get him? And Jesus shows it's not just a lack of knowledge problem. There's a lot more to the problem that they have. It's uh that Jesus is this otherness. He's different from them. There's a spatial problem that he brings up. There's an essence problem that he brings up. There's a moral problem. Verse 23. He said to them, You are from below, and I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. And Jesus takes us to his origins again. Right? I am from a totally different place than you all. I am from heaven, and you all are from here. I am life, and you are bound to sin and to Adam. We just have different origins. We are different. In a spatial sense, we get that idea a little bit if you've ever traveled to a different country, if you've traveled somewhere where you don't know the language, where the culture is very foreign to you. If you've done that and gone somewhere and been alone and can't speak to anyone, suddenly it's a very vulnerable place, right? That's a place where you would get into a lot of problems really quick. Why? 'Cause you just don't understand what's happening. Chris Calvey has walked into I've walked into those kinds of problems here in America. You can imagine me in China or Albania. I've walked into some problems, places where I didn't speak the language. That's just the nature of it. When you don't understand because you're from a different place, Christ is saying, uh, you can't understand this in one sense just because you're from a totally different place because we are different. He says you can't get it unless Guess what? Verse 24. I told you you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. Our English translation has kind of smoothed that out a little bit for us in what I think is an unhelpful way. If we take really woodenly what Jesus says here, it's this. You can't come unless you believe that I am. You will die in your sins. The Greek doesn't give us that extra he there that the English English uses to smooth it out a little bit. What is Jesus doing there? He's challenging them with testimony about who he is. He's saying, unless you believe that I am. And in that, what is he saying? If you're familiar with your Old Testament, you know that's pivotable. That's significant. Those are big words. We see I am, and where does our mind go back to? It goes right back to Exodus, right? In that scene at the burning bush where God reveals himself to Moses, and who is God? He says, I am. Here, particularly, the way that Jesus is echoing him. It's not necessarily exactly the way that we find in Exodus. It's actually, though, very similar to our Old Testament reading in Isaiah 44. In Isaiah 44, 6. We read, Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts: I am the first and I am the last. For besides me there is no God That's the kind of grammatical structure with which Jesus is saying it. I was there in the beginning. I created. I am sovereign. I am Lord. And Jesus is telling me. Unless you believe I am. We could say, unless you believe that I am God, unless you believe that I am your God, you will die in your sins. We do get a little bit of debate amongst commentators about the grammar here, but there is no doubt by the end that this is what Jesus means. And we know that because what's going to happen at the end of this? Jesus is making a claim, I am God, and the people will recognize that because they will pick up stones to stone him as a blasphemer. Where did Jesus come from? He establishes, I come from the beginning, even before the beginning. Now put that into the context of the claim he made about knowing his father What has he said? I know you can't believe in God because you don't believe in me. And I am your God. He shows by his testimony who he is and who his father is, that he is the Son of God. That God is his Father. And Jesus also shows us, not just by his testimony, but by his deeds who he is. And who his father is. And the people are perplexed at what's happened, and so they ask, verse 25. They said to him, Who are you? And Jesus responds. Just what I have been telling you from the beginning. I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true And I declare to the world that I have heard from him. They did not understand that he had been speaking about the Father. What's happened? Just as Jesus predicted, they don't understand it. They don't get it. Go figure. When will they get it? Verse 28. So Jesus said to that When you've lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am. When will they know? What do we know this is a reference to? When will they lift up the Son of Man? When will they lift up Jesus? We know how they lift him up. They lift him up on a cross. How can we most clearly see and know who God is? Where do we see that? By what action? Where do we see the greatness? Of God's love and his mercy and his justice and his holiness and his grace and his glory, it's through what action? It's through Jesus being lifted up on the cross. To know the Father, you need to see the Son on the cross. And it is by what Christ does on the cross that we know who the Father is. Who his father is. That's how it's revealed. Who is the father of the son? It is God Almighty. And Jesus is God, and Jesus is him. His son. He tells us by his words. He will show us by his deeds. Point number three here, the father of the slave. We get this leading line in verse 30. And he was saying these things, and many believed in him. Okay, well that sounds like good news, right? They believed in him. Well, what's happened? We've seen this many times in John so far. And if you've tagged along through John, you know, just because people say they believe doesn't really mean that they believe Verse 31: So Jesus said to the Jews, those who had believed him: If you abide in my word, then you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Jesus tells these people as he's told them again and again, believe in me, come to thee, abide in my word, and that will lead to you being set free. That sounds beautiful, right? We know this whole phrase, the truth will set you free. We love that. We love to say it. We don't always think about uh the necessary consequence of that claim, what that claim is saying about us What's the necessary implication made in that statement? If you need to be set free, what does that mean about your current state? It means that you are a slave. It means you're enslaved to something. The crowd here picks up on that really quick. And so they respond. Verse 33 They answer him, We are offspring of Abraham, and we've never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? What are they saying? Whoa, buddy, buddy. We are sons of Abraham. We have never been slaves. Now, okay, if you know anything about the history of the Israelite people, All right, uh you're scratching your head a little bit. Uh remember Egypt. Remember the Philistines, remember Assyria and Babylon and Persia, and I mean even where are we right now? Are you really free? Are you under the thumb of Rome? The Israelite people, their whole history is just laced with them being enslaved. It's come on guys. These Jews cannot be so dense that they're forgetting their entire history, right? Uh they see Did you see what Jesus is getting at here? Jesus has been talking about the truth and about the Father, and they recognize that Jesus is talking about spiritual slavery That's what he's been getting at this whole time. And they say in return here, what? We have never been slaves like that. And they're asserting, we've never been spiritual slaves. And we see that because they describe themselves a certain way. They say, we are sons of Abraham. And what is implied by that? Necessarily, they're saying we worship the true God. We serve the living God. We are his spiritual children. Now think about the situation for a minute. Jesus comes to Jews who are celebrating this feast that God instituted, the Feast of Tabernacles. the feast of booze. And so the assumption of these people as they are gathered around Jesus is, well, we're pretty good people. Uh they're once would be considered righteous. They're obeying what God has instructed them to do. Uh we know there are Pharisees Here. And so those are basically the pastors, right? So what is Jesus doing saying, I'm talking to a bunch of slaves? He says, you are slaves to sin. Until you know that, until you realize that, you will never be free. Those are going to be pretty offensive words to the people who are hearing them. The people who Jesus is speaking to are not going to take lightly to that. And they are offended. And he said emphatically, we have never been slaves to anyone. And Jesus said, if you abide in my word, And listen, then you will be my disciples. They've just started believing. If you listen to me, then you will be my disciples. What is the first thing they're saying? they do. They hear his word and they say, no way. No way, Jesus. Probably a good sign about how this is going to, how their belief is going to turn out, right? The evidence is what? They say we are sons of Abraham. Jesus grabs onto that claim and he challenges it. You think you are sons, not slaves. Okay, let's test that. Let's bring in the paternity test and see. Verse 34, Jesus answered them: Truly, truly, I say to you: everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. And what is the difference between a son and a slave? Verse 34, the slave does not remain in the house forever. The son remains forever. That reminder, you know, slaves can come and go. Slaves can be bought and sold. Slaves can be ousted out of the house. Sons, though, true sons, they get to s Stay. Sons are beloved. Sons, children always have a place in their father's home. His sons and daughters are always welcome. They always get to stay. And Jesus is reminding them, I am the Son. The Father loves me like that. The Son is free. And what's he offering here? It's an opportunity to be adopted by his father, to be adopted into that family. So if the son sets you free, verse 36, you will be free indeed. It's implicit in there. This offer, you could be a son too. You could be a free son. You could come with me. You could abide in me. You could follow me. He says, verse 37. I know though. I know you are offspring of Abraham, and yet you seek to kill me, because my word finds no place in you. I speak of what I've seen with my father. And you do what you have heard from your father. What's happening here? Jesus is saying, and they pick up on right away: we have different fathers. You and me have different fathers. I know that you descend genetically from Abraham, but who is your spiritual father? Because I know who mine is. And you all act a little bit different. You all act like you might have a different kind of father, huh? They retort verse 39. Abraham is our father. What is That what their words and what their deeds show. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works that Abraham did You know, on the surface of it, fair enough, right? Like father, like son. Where's the apple? By the tree. But what do you actually do? Verse 40, he says, but now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth that I heard from God, that's not what Abraham did No, you are doing the works your father did. They aren't going to take very kindly to these words from Jesus, right? No, they're they're actually going to get quite cross and quite crass in their response. In verse 41, they said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. They're saying what? Oh, okay, Jesus. Well, who's the one whose daddy, Joseph, got married pregnant before the wedding? And they are saying it that way. They are saying it with some j There's intentional innuendos here to kind of slap back at their assumptions about his physical heritage. Verse 41, we have one Father, even God. But is that what the evidence, is that what the paternity test here shows? Jesus replies to them, verse 42, if God were your father, you would Love me. For I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but He sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? Is it that you cannot bear to hear my words? What has Jesus said all along the way? He's showing them again and again. You are rejecting the truth. You are rejecting what I've said in. And what I say is the truth, and you are rejecting God, and he reminds him here, even you are now trying to murder me. And where did you all learn that from? Where did you learn to do that? What apple tree did you drop off of? What father does that sound like? Verse 44, you are of your father, the devil. Your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. This is showing them so clearly. You walk like him, you talk like him, just as he came Came into the garden to murder your first parents. Here you are now come to do what? Oh, to murder me. Verse 45, but because I tell the truth. You do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. I mean, not only are you not spiritual sons of Abraham, Jesus says to these people. people? You are not sons of God. You are the devil's children. Obviously in the story, not going to go over well. Right? Verse 48, the Jews answered him, we're not right in saying you are a Samaritan and you have a demon? uh what's the code behind that? Uh Jesus, you're discrediting our birthright. So you must be a Samaritan. What's this perspective of Samaritans? You must be doing what all those supposed half-breeds try to do. And on top of that, you you must also have a demon, because you seem to be doing a pretty edgy job of it. But Jesus answers them, I don't Not have a demon, but I honor my father, and you dishonor me. And I do not even seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say. To you, if anyone keeps my word, you will never see death. He's on, I have no demon. I have just come to do what? To say what my father told me to say. to do what my father told me to do. And in that, what do I bring? What do I offer? To offer eternal life. If anyone keeps my word, He will never see death. It's the reaction to that that escalates things even further here. What do they grab onto? Verse 52. Now we know that you have a demon. Why? Well Abraham died, as did the prophets. Yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham, the one who died? And the prophets who died? Who do you make yourself out to be? What are they asking? Are you greater than Abraham? What happened to Abraham? He died. And you're greater than the prophets? What happened to the prophets? They died. But Jesus, what have you come to do? John has got to be laughing as he writes this because he's answering the Answered this before. What has happened when they say, who do you think you are? Jesus, you think you're greater than Abraham? Back in chapter 3, right? Jesus said, uh yes, sir is I am greater than Abraham. I'm the God of Abraham. So deal with that. What's happening here? You must have a demon Jesus. Because you think you have power over death? Abraham didn't have that? The prophets didn't have that. How is it possible you think you could beat death? How will Jesus answer the question? You think you're greater than Abraham? Jesus answered, verse 54, if I glorify myself, my glory Glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God, but you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say I didn't know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I keep his word. And your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. Jesus just said, you don't know God. What part is it that they are still getting hung up on? Verse 57. They said, You're not even 50 years old yet. How have you seen Abraham? It's a lot about Abraham, right? That's the father we care about the most here. Jesus says to them, verse 58, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, most of our English translation, Are clear this time. I am. And Jesus has said it again. I am What is he saying here? I am Abraham's God. I am the one who Abraham waited on. I am the one who Abraham worshipped. I am What incredible irony because what do these self proclaimed righteous sons of God do? Verse fifty nine, so they picked up stones to throw at him. But Jesus hid himself And went out of the temple. A little reminder there of where we are. Christ, God in the flesh, has come to meet the people at the temple. And how do the people who meet God here respond? And they should have worshipped him. Abraham worships God when he meets him, and how do they respond? Oh, let's try to murder him. But Jesus is, we've seen before, his What does the paternity test clearly show about these people and their words and their deeds? And all of this, what's clear from what Jesus says? He's showing very clearly there's there's just two different kinds of spiritual families here. There's two fathers. They're about two totally different things. There's the father of death and the father of life. What is Jesus promising all along the way here? What's he saying to them? That even though you may belong to the Father of God, Death, even though you have spoken like him, even though you have acted like him, all you've learned is from him. It's so clear: the father of death, the devil, he is your father. You have lied and you have hated. And we know here in the text they've lied and hated Jesus himself, God in the flesh. And yet what does he offer? He offers what? That even Even though you may belong to the Father of Death, even though you have spoken and acted like him, what could happen for you? He offered He offers an adoption in life to those who would do what? Believe in him. Have faith in him, true faith For those who would abide in him, there is an opportunity here to escape the dark, lying, enslaving father of their past And to join his family of light and life, to come under the headship of a loving father. But what's so clear along the way? That Jesus This is the only way. So it's a call here from Jesus, right? To trust in Him, to believe in Him. To walk in the light of his path, to abide in his city lit by the light of his grace. Jesus comes to a people who see themselves as righteous But what does the truth show of them? They can't depend on their own righteousness. They need a new father. They need to embrace the loving arms of a true father. They need to trust in his true Son and what is faithfully offered to all Who do that? Sonship. That they might become adopted sons and daughters of the living God. And so what's clear for us here? I mean would We trust in Jesus like that. Trust not in our own works and our own abilities, but in the work of the true Son. How is it possible that we could be adopted like that? It's because of the work of Jesus Christ. And what he stated that he will come and he will die. He is lifted up. And what is the result? Those who would believe can be adopted by the Father. Can we abide in Him for those reasons? Can we trust in Him for those reasons? I pray that we can. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we are thankful that we approach you as Father. That is who you are to your people. And we pray in that that as we follow the path of your Son, we would learn to speak like you. You, to act like you, to act like all the ways that you have shown yourself to be through the person and work of your Son, Jesus Christ, one who is an example to us in all ways. May we not revile him. May we not bite back when we do not like your ways. But may we trust that you are able to A good and true Father. May we rejoice and be thankful that from your love you have begotten your true Son, Jesus Christ Christ, and he is our Savior, and He is our God, and He is the one who has offered up Himself for us. Father, we love you. May we live into this truth. So it's in Jesus' name that we pray.