We hear God's answer to that prayer that we've just sung as we approach His Word and seek to heal. We get his answer by turning in our Bibles to Isaiah chapter 59 this morning. And your few Bibles, that's on page 618. This is uh a passage in the book of Isaiah. If you're familiar with it, Isaiah is divided up So if it's divided up in a few different ways, but it begins in Isaiah's chapter one to forty, really in many ways, bringing oracles that are oracles of judgment, speaking of the fact that Israel has Sinned against the Lord, broken his covenant that he made with them at Sinai, and that they are going to experience the same kinds of judgment that the Lord brings against the nation. And then in chapter 40, there's a turn, and Isaiah begins to bring assurances of comfort. Promises of hope of the gospel, and and yet sprinkled throughout here are recognitions of why that hope of God's salvation is needed. And that's what we really see in Isaiah 15. This is a meditation on the sinfulness of man, of human beings, and why we need salvation so badly. So let's give attention. to God's word as He helps us to look at ourselves as though in a mirror Isaiah chapter 59, starting at verse 1. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, or his ear dull that it cannot hear. But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. For your hands are defiled with blood and your fingers with iniquity, your lips have spoken lies, your tongue mutters wickedness. No one enters suit justly. No one goes to law honestly. They rely on empty pleas. They speak lies. They conceive mischief and give birth to indignity. Iniquity. They hatch adder's eggs. They weave the spider's web. He who eats their eggs dies. And from one that is crushed a viper is hatched. Their webs will not serve as clothing. Men will not cover themselves with what they make. Their works are works of iniquity. And deeds of violence are in their hands. Their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity, desolation, and destruction are in their ways. The way of peace They do not know. And there is no justice in their paths. They have made their roads crooked, and no one who treads on them knows peace. Therefore, justice is far from us, and righteousness does not overtake us. We hope for light and behold darkness, and for brightness, but we walk in gloom. We grope for the wall like the blind. We grope like those who have no eyes, who stumble at noon as in the twilight among those in full vigor. We are like dead men. We all growl like bears, we moan and moan like doves. We hope for justice, but there is none. For salvation, but it is far from us. For our transgressions are multiplied before you, and our sins testify against us, for our transgressions are with us, and we know our iniquities, transgressing and denying the Lord, and turning back from following. Our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart lying words. Justice is turned back, and righteousness stands far away, for truth has stumbled into public squares. And uprightness cannot enter. Truth is lacking, and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. The Lord saw it, and it displeased him that there was no justice. He saw that there was no man and wondered that there was no one to intercede. Then his own arm brought him salvation. And his righteousness upheld him. He put on righteousness as a breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head. He put on garments of vengeance for clothing. clothing, and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. According to their deeds, so will he repay. Wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies To the coastlands, he will render repayment so that they shall fear the name of the Lord from the west and his glory from the rising of the sun, for he will come like a rushing stream which the wind of the Lord drives. And a redeemer will come to Zion, to those in Jacob who turn from transgression, declares the Lord. And as for me, this is my covenant with them, says the Lord, my spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring. says the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. Let's go before God in prayer before we take some time to reflect on this passage and our shorter catechism. Questions and answers for today. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your truth that is really in many ways reaffirmed over and over again throughout your scriptures. Truth that we need to hear because in our sin we're blinded to it so often we we forget. We forget our sinfulness, our plight that we're in The misery and the sin that the fall has brought to us and we too often are ready to to miss its sight, forget it, and therefore also miss the vision of who you are. Are a God holy, righteous, almighty, all-powerful, sovereign, who who will judge the wicked. We pray that you'd open your word to us this morning as we. We come to it and come to you to hear your truth applied to our hearts and our lives. We pray that you do so in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Well you may have heard of the new term. I think it's of somewhat recent coinage in the last four to eight years, maybe. It's called doom. scrolling doom scrolling have you heard of that I I think it refers primarily to when the the activity of scrolling through uh news articles on your phone And why is it news articles specifically? I I think it's been broadened to other things, but the reason it's called doom scrolling is because that's what makes up most Of the news. Right? Stories. Bad news stories. Stories of horrific murders, incredible fraud, perversions, all sorts of horror. Of the fall that are manifest in the world around us today and they're news because they keep coming at us. New moment after new moment, there's another story of doom. And the Bible says this is all due to the fall into sin. John Stott, a famous theologian from the Great Britain, in his basic Christianity, he says, says, in case we're In case we're tempted to miss this reality of the fall around us, he says, much that we take for granted in a civilized society is based upon the assumption of human sin. Nearly all legislation has grown up because human beings cannot be trusted to settle their own disputes with justice and without self-interest. A promise is not enough. We need a contract. Doors are not enough. We have to lock and bolt them. The payment of fares is not enough. Tickets have to be issued, inspected, and collected. Law and order are not enough. We need police to enforce All this is due to man's sin. We cannot trust each other. We need protection against one another It is a terrible indictment of the human nature. Now, we've been reflecting as we've been going through the shorter catechism, and we've been walking through these questions in the last couple weeks, we've been reflecting on this doctrinal truth of the fall into sin. Last couple weeks ago we looked at how it happened historically, the event of the fall. Last week we looked at the extent of the fall that it It b it has affected all of us, all mankind descending from Adam by ordinary generation sinned in him and fell with him. in his first transgression, as we looked at last week. This week we begin two weeks on the effects of the fall. And that's because there are two effects of the fall according to our catechism. It says in question answer 17: into what estate did the fall bring mankind? The fall brought mankind into an estate of sin and misery. Yeah, two effects of the fall. This week we're going to focus on the first effect, the fall into sin, which is unpacked in question and answer 18. So we're looking at 17 and 18 of the short account. Catechism, if you don't know what those are, are hymnals on page 870, I believe, or maybe it's 71 by now, that question and answer is there. Or these questions and answers are there Sorry, I selected Isaiah 59 because in many ways it captures very well the truths that these questions and answers, 17 and 18, unknown. Unpack for us of the fall's effect, specifically focused on sinfulness. As we unpack these truths, I want us to see, and here are the three points for this morning. First of all, the effect of the fall is a switch of state. They're all essence. So switch of state. Second of all, the effect of the fall is a sunkenness of sin. And third, the effect of the fall leaves us supplicating for salvation. Supplication. Crying out, praying, longing for salvation. First of all, the switch of state. The fall has caused a switch of state of state. Why do we call the fall into sin a fall? And first of all, it's worth noting this. I don't know if I've done this before, but uh Reformed Theologians don't usually call the fall a fall from grace. You might have heard that language, a fall from grace. And the reason we don't call it that is because we don't believe that Adam needed grace. In how he was created. He needed God's goodness, God's ongoing providence. But Adam was righteous before God. He could stand before him in uh without fear, be in his presence, uh, without concern, because he was righteous. He didn't lack original righteousness. He needed God's goodness. He didn't need grace in its more technical sense, which I understand and theologians tend to talk of as God's goodness given to those who deserve his wrath. Adam didn't deserve his wrath. So he didn't fall from grace. But he did fall. And we talk about him falling into sin. And the reason we call it a fall is because it was a switch. of state. It was a change to a lower condition. What is an estate? It's just a condition. A static. A state in which one exists. And that's question answer 70. The fall has brought a switch of state. Into what estate did the fall bring mankind? The fall brought man into an estate of sin and misery. I don't think it takes too much to defend this point. You look around. Go do a little doom scrolling. Right? The headlines on any given day. Sin, misery. It's a good way to capture their overall content. It doesn't mean that everything around us is all bad all the time. Because of God's common grace, He preserves a measure of good in this world. The rain that falls on the just and the unjust. A sense of civic righteousness. Even those who deny God's very existence can do good things. It can be a source of general common grace good. But sin and misery captures the reality that nothing is Unaffected. Nothing is unmarred by the effect of the fall into sin and misery. And while the focus of question answer 17 and the following questions and answers are on our present state. Right, the fall, question 17, brought mankind into and a state of sin and misery. I think that a state is one we probably don't have to think about too much because we know it so well. But what I want us to think of, this switch of state in this first point, I want us to consider how this state that we're in is different than than the former state from which we fell. See, if this state we're in is a state of sin and misery, What was that former estate? And that was actually back in question 13 where it says our first parents fell from the estate with wherein they were created. What characterized that estate? And I would suggest it's the opposite. Of what characterizes ours. If ours is characterized by sin and misery, the estate from which we fell was a state of holiness. Happiness. Holiness instead of sinfulness. Happiness instead of misery. What would that even look like? What would it look like if we lived in a state of holiness and happiness I think we have a little bit of a sense of what happiness might look like. Isn't that what we all want? It's enshrined in our founding documents. We have the right to have well, not to happiness, because we are in a State of misery. We have a right to the pursuit of happiness. Why? Because we all want it. Desperately. Don't we want happiness? We get happiness, but I'm not sure we always associate happiness with Holiness. Often our idea of holiness is a dour pietism. People who don't smile. Oh, that person's holy because they don't ever smile. What a lie from Satan that is, right? God who is holy, more so than any other being in all of creation. God is holy and yet God is happy as well. God laughs, the Bible says And he invented, he created laughter as a really a necessary part of a healthy existence to laugh, to be happy. We get happiness. Maybe we even get the idea of holiness. We just don't see them fitting together. But I would argue that holiness and happiness necessarily go together. Our struggle to see this is because we have too dim a view of holiness usually. But if we think of holiness as the Bible describes it, we start to get a different Picture, and we start to see that holiness is necessary for true happiness. See, holiness is the atmosphere produced by the Holy Spirit. What kind of atmosphere, what kind of place, what kind of space does the Holy Spirit? create? Well the Bible tells us, Galatians chapter 5, the fruit of the Spirit. The question becomes, if we lived in a truly holy estate, how couldn't we be perfectly happy? What if everyone, what's the first fruit of the Spirit? Love. If everyone was loving perfectly all the time, what would that look like? First Corinthians gives us a glimpse of that, right? It would look like people all around us and ourselves always being patient Kind, not envying or boasting, not arrogant or rude. It was striking, I think this might explain part of the Because it might be explained because of our misery and sin. Most of the descriptions of love are not descriptions. Not things you're so familiar with. Not envying or boasting, not arrogant or rude, not insisting on its own way, not irritable or resentful, not rejoicing at wrongdoing. At the truth, bearing all things, believing all things, hoping all things, enduring all things. What if everyone were perfectly loving? What if everyone were perfectly joyful? All the time. What if everyone was a peacemaker, a peacekeeper, peaceable? What if everyone were patient? Even after accidentally being cut off by a Maryland driver? What if everyone were kind, truly kind? What if everyone were good, faithful, gentle, self-controlled? That's what perfect holiness would look like. How could that not be a happy place? How could that not be the kind of place we long for? The point is, when we recognize the great switch of state that's happened, It should make us sad. It should bring a recognition of the loss that the fall has brought about. As good as our lives may be at points and moments, and friends, there are good moments in this life. God is so kind in granting moments of goodness, even among those who reject Him by His common grace, but especially among those who are as people. We know many good things in this world. And yet still our lives are lived in sin and Misery. How far we've fallen from the holiness and happiness we were designed for into this estate of Sin. Thomas Watson, in his commentary on the catechism, says, In our sinful state there is an aversion from good. Man has a desire to be happy, yet opposes that which should promote his happiness. He has a disgusting. Of holiness. He hates to be reformed. Since we fell from God, we have no mind to return to him. Doesn't that capture the flesh? That fleshly instinct in us so well. Do you recognize this switch of state? Does it bring about a proper sense of sadness and loss of the holy happiness in which we are created? Or have we too often fallen prey to the lie that this world is actually basically pretty good? That we maybe could make heaven on earth if we only do X, Y, or Z? Whatever somebody's trying to sell to us. There's a reason we long for happiness and holiness when properly understood. It's because we were made for it and we've lost it. Because our state has been switched. due to the fall. That's the first point, the second point, the sunness in sin. This is the the effect of the fall is that it sinks us into sin. It's not Not just a fall, you know, some sort of from point A pretty high up to point B pretty pretty high up, not quite so high. No. The fall is a deep Drop. It is a fall into a miry bog of sin and misery. It will unpack the misery next week. But but look at question answer eighteen if you have your hymnals open. Here the the focus first is on the sinfulness of our estate, wherein consists the sinfulness of that estate wherein two man fell, and the answer is the sinfulness of that estate wherein To man fell consists in the guilt of Adam's first sin, the want or lack of original righteousness, and the corruption of his whole nature Which is commonly called original sin, together with all actual transgressions which proceed from it. So basically, the catechism tells us that there are sinfulness is of two kinds: there is original sin and there are actual sins, actual transgressions that proceed. From it. I don't know if you noticed, it spends a little more time on original sin. It gives three aspects, three realities that unfold in original sin. And as we go through it, I want us to see those in a moment. But first we should answer what original sin is. And it's worth noting here that this is not Adam and Eating the forbidden fruit. That is the first sin. That's not what we call original sin. I mean, is that the original sin in some sense? Yes. But when we're talking about original sin, we're talking about the effect. of that first sin. Adam and Eve have ushered us in, but because Adam is our federal head, ushered us in To this state of sinfulness into which we're born. From our earliest state, Psalm 51:5 says, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity. In sin did my mother conceive. Me. Ecclesiastes 7. 20, surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins. And the catechism then breaks down original sin into three parts. The three L's of original sin. Yeah. Are they perfect L's? I don't know. We'll see. But it's a load, a lack, and a limitlessness. A load, a lack. And a limitlessness. First of all, a load. The catechism says the sinfulness of that estate whereinto man fell consists in the guilt of Adam's first sin. That's the first part. The guilt. And this is a judicial category. That idea of being in a courtroom and having heard the verdict. Guilty. As charged, and walking forth to bear whatever penalty that crime deserves. The guilt Of Adam's first sin. And the reason we bear that guilt is because Adam is our federal head, has passed it on to us. We saw that last week. That all mankind, descending from him by ordinary generation, fell in him. Bears that guilt of Adam's first sin because he broke. The covenant of works that we talked about a few weeks ago. And we see this guilt that weighs heavy in verses one to three of Isaiah 59 that we read a moment. moment ago. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, or his ear dull that it cannot hear. It it seems like Isaiah here is answering the question, why does it seem like God Why is it that things seem so bad? And he says this: But your iniquities, your guilt have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity, your lips have spoken lies, and your tongue mutters wickedness. And you can imagine the early hearers of this song or this poem saying, Well, I haven't shed blood. How can my hands be defiled with blood? Because you bear the guilt. Of Adam's first sin. Commentators on the catechism talk about how Adam is guilty, guilty of murder because his sin ushered in death by which all human beings since him, except for a couple occasional exceptions, have suffered death Death. His sin brought in death. And so that guilt that we bear in Adam is guilt, the guilt of murder, the guilt of lying, the guilt of wickedness. Like the burden in Don Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, wonderful image of this reality of the low. of original sin. Little pilgrim is called or pilgrim Christian is called to uh out of uh uh the place he is to the uh celestial city and the first thing he realizes is I can't probably get there with this heaven Load on my back, a load that only can be removed by the cross of Jesus Christ. So original sin is a load that we bear simply by our existence as human beings. Born in Adam. There's a second component to original sin, and that's our a lack, a want of original righteousness, as our catechism says. And this is more a category of character. If the guilt of Adam's sin is sort of something that's been added, a load that's been added, the want of original righteousness is something we've lost. Adam was born righteous, inclined, predisposed to holiness. The holiness we just spoke of. Adam was inclined to love. Perfectly, to be joyful always, to be a pursuer of peace, to be patient, to be kind, to be good, to be faithful, to be gentle, to be self-controlled. He had original righteousness. We've lost that. There's a lack that original righteousness original sin brings to us Catechism earlier had said that God created man, male and female, after his own image and knowledge, righteousness, and holiness. And so, and that's getting at this idea of the image of God in us. And so, in a real sense, the lack, the want of original righteousness means that the image of God that we've been, that has been set upon us is marred. Marred beyond true recognition. Original sin is a load, it's a lack, and it is limitless. This is that last line. The corruption of his This is a category that's not judicial like guilt. It's not a character category quite as much. It's more of a being category and nature category that every little part of us is in some way stained by This is the theological doctrine that is called total depravity. Not that we are as depraved as we could be in our sin. Thank God we are. Or not, right? By his grace, his common grace, he restrains evil in us. That is good. We are not totally as totally depraved as we could be. Total depravity means that there is not one little part of us that is unstained by sin. Sin is like a yeast that spreads through the whole dough, as Paul says in Galatians 5, 9. There's no Clean, righteous, sinless soul. Body impure. No, that it's not that distinction. Are souls infected with sin? Our bodies are infected with sin. There's no little divine spark within us that if we just blew on, it could create a flame and we we could muster up some goodness within us. No. The larger catechism unpacks this idea of the corruption of his whole nature. By going even further, it says the corruption of his whole nature in the larger catechism expands, whereby he is utterly indisposed, disabled, and made opposite unto all that is spiritually good, and wholly inclined to all evil and and that continually. Depravity. Kids. That's why it's that's one of the reasons it's so hard sometimes to obey. Do the right thing. When all eyes are away, mom and dad have laid down rules, and yet you really want to break them. So hard. Why? Because of original sin. The load, the lack, the limitless effect of it. So that's original sin, but there are also actual sins that can catechized goes on, it says, end all actual transgressions which proceed from it. You want proof of original sin? Look around. Look around at all the actual sins that the Bible and our catechism says are proceeding from it. These are the acts of sinfulness we committed. Lust, idolatry. And this is unpacked. The actual sins are unpacked in Isaiah 59 in verses 4 to 8 and verses 12 to 14. Look at four to eight. No one enters suit justly. No one goes to law honestly. These are acts of transgressions, right? They rely on empty pleas. They speak lies. They conceive mischief and give birth. Original sin giving birth to iniquity. And then this image here at verse 5, they they hatch Adder's eggs, and Adder is a kind of poisonous serpent. An egg is supposed to be this beginning of life, start of something new, something nourishing. You can cook it and eat it. Here, they weave spiders' webs, a spider's web. He who eats their egg eggs dies, and from the one that is crushed, the egg that is crushed, a viper is hatched. Rather than giving birth to life, they give birth to life Their webs that they're weaving, they don't serve a good purpose. They don't serve as clothing. Men will not cover themselves with what they make. Their works are works of iniquity and deeds of violence are in their hands. hands, their feet run to evil, they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity, desolation, and destruction are in their highways, the way of peace And then down in verse 12, for our transgressions are multiplied before you and This is a prayer of confession. And our sins testify against us, for our transgressions are with us, and we know our iniquities, transgressing and denying the Lord and turning back from following our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving. and uttering from the heart-lying words, justice is turned back, righteousness stands far away, for truth has stumbled in the public squares and uprightness cannot Enter. And note the direction. Original sin is the root, actual sins are the fruit. All actual transgressions which proceed. From it. And this is what Jesus says in Matthew 15, 19. It's out of the heart that come evil thoughts, murder, adultery. Sexual immorality. Theft. False witness slander. John Calvin, the great reformer, puts it this way: Our nature is not only destitute and empty of good. But so fertile and fruitful of every evil that it cannot be idle. Thomas Watson says Original sin sets the head plotting evil and the hands working it. It is the kindling wood of sin. It is the womb in which all actual sins are conceived, hence come murders, adulteries, thefts. Though actual sins may be more scandalous, yet original sin is more heinous, the cause is more than the effect. So we've seen the false effect, a switch of state from holiness and happiness to sin and misery. We've seen the false effect of sinking us into sin. Finally, the fall's effect leaves us desperate and supplicating for salvation. When we're truly honest with our plight, our sinfulness, and the havoc it wreaks on the world, and history of humanity, aren't we moved to cry out? How long, O Lord? That's that cry throughout the Psalms. How long? Oh Lord, are we moved to cry out like Paul does in the passage we just read a moment ago? As he's reflecting on his own sinfulness, he cries out in Romans 7:24: Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this? body of death. Or here in Isaiah 59 verses 9 to 11. Therefore justice is far from us and righteousness does not overtake us. We hope for light. Supplication Praying, longing, crying. We hope for light and behold darkness. For brightness, but we walk We grope for the wall like the blind. We grope like those who have no eyes. We stumble at noon, as in the twilight among those in full vigor, we are like dead men. We all growl like bears, we moan and moan like doves, we hope for justice, but there is none. For salvation, but it is far from us. This idea of crying out, supplicating, longing for salvation. As we think on the fall and how far we've fallen, don't we don't we long for a taste of the thing? that holiness and happiness that we were created for. And yet we can't dig our way out of sin and misery because it affects all of who we are. All we can do is supplicate, cry out, pray for a Savior who's not sinful himself so that he might be able to save. And that's exactly what God provides for us in Himself, in sending God the Son to take on human flesh as the God man, the second Adam, born to a woman, and yet Not born by ordinary generation, born to a woman born under the law, and yet as the Bible says so clearly, without sin. And he came to do battle with sin as our divine warrior to bring about God's justice. And we read about that in verses 15 to 19. Truth is lacking. He who departs from evil makes himself prey. Even those who try to do good, right, end up bringing misery upon themselves in this world as it is broken. And of the fall. The Lord saw it, and it displeased him that there was no justice. He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no one to intercede. Then his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him. He put on righteousness as a breastplate and the helmet of salvation on his head, he put on garments of vengeance for clothing, and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. Now I would argue all of this is foreshadowing Jesus who came in the flesh. Righteousness is his breastplate, a helmet of salvation on his head, putting on garments of vengeance for clothing, wrapping himself with zeal at with in zeal as a cloak. Zeal for yourself, for your house has consumed me, Jesus. Jesus says, according to their deeds, so will he repay wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies, to the coastlands he will render repayment. So they shall fear the name of the Lord from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun, for he will come like a rushing star. stream which the wind of the Lord drives. And yet there's a dilemma here. Jesus is described, or the coming one, the Lord coming in salvation, is described as one who utterly defeats sin and brings perfect justice and repays all for their wicked deeds. But what does that mean for us? We have wicked deeds. If he demands repayment from us, that means our utter destruction before him as well. And so, what sweet words of salvation for God's people in verse 20. And, or but a redeemer will come to Zion, to those in Jacob who turn from From transgression. You could translate that who repent from transgression, declares the Lord. And as for me, this is my covenant with them, says the Lord. My spirit that is upon you. And my words that I have put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children. Children's offspring, says the Lord, from this time forth and forever. His words in our mouth, no longer our mouths being a place where the heart overflows in wickedness and sin, but instead a place where God's word is shown to be indelible. Applied to our hearts first so that we can speak right things. What sweet words of comfort for God's people, right? Those in Jacob, that is, the people of God who repent. From transgression. But is this just of God to judge all sinners except some? To have this little portion of his people who can simply repent and And be saved? Well, it wouldn't be just if he simply didn't judge our sin. But he does He has in Jesus Christ when the mighty divine warrior came to earth not with a sword to destroy and kill. But humbly. Walking into a place of danger and threat and eventually being arrested. And if he had stayed dead, we would have to wonder, was his payment sufficient? Was it enough? But he didn't stay dead. On the third day he rose to prove his words on the cross. It is finished. You're sin, it is finished. I have done it. And that's what we read about in Romans chapter 6 This wonderful declaration of the gospel that though we are slaves of sin by nature, we have been redeemed. Been purchased out of that by the blood and body of Jesus Christ on the cross and his resurrection from the dead. So verse 4 of Romans 6 says, We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing so that we would no longer be insane. Slave to sin, and then down to verse 22. But now you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God. The fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end eternal life, for the wages of sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord, received by faith alone. If you are not a follower of Christ, that's The good news that I hold out to you today. Repent. Be one of those in Jacob who repents. Turn from your transgression and receive the gift of salvation through faith in Jesus. Christ. That's the promise we have in the good news of the gospel. That as we repent and turn from transgression, as it says in verse 20 of Isaiah 5. 59. He is our Redeemer. Come to Zion, the people of God, that by his life, his death, his resurrection, he has purchased our lives to free us from sin, to call us, to follow him by faith. And then he sanctifies us through this life by his Holy Spirit that he sends to begin the process. Of lifting us out of our sin and misery into the happiness and holiness that He's calling us to. That's a little picture we get in verse 21. What is it? The covenant that the Lord makes? My spirit. that I give to you. This salvation is another switch of state from sin and misery to the glory of not just holiness and happiness, but everlasting. A holiness and happiness that is perfectly in His presence, Christ's presence, as our glorious God and King. And friends, that's not just a future reality. And I'll close with this application point. That's not just a future reality. It is one. It's a glorious future reality. But that future impinges on the present. See, if we are Zion, the people of God, that's what we're called as the Church of Jesus Christ, if we are Zion whose sins have been covered and who have his Holy Spirit at work in us. We ought to be a place that is already a foretaste of the holiness and happiness to which we've been called We ought to be a place where as we gather week after week we share and we share in the Spirit, we ought to be those who are bearing the fruit of the Spirit. Living together according to his fruit in love, in joy, in peace, in patience, in kindness, in goodness In faithfulness, in gentleness, and self-control. This is what we're to be as we gather week after week. And this holy happiness is to then infuse the rest of our lives. As we go out to be salt and light in a world falling into sin and misery, we ought to go out and be shining lights of the hope, the joy, the peace that we can have in Jesus Christ through faith in him. And be salt and light to a dark world. Under sin and misery. Amen. Amen. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word and how it does hold up a mirror to the sinfulness of this. State in which we find ourselves now. We thank you that this is not ultimately what you've intended for us. Thank you for how you've shown that in calling us to faith in Christ. Christ and calling us out of sin and misery and granting your Holy Spirit to begin that work of making us fit and equipped for that place in which we will be. holy and happy for all the days of our lives, that eternal life that you granted us, and the hope we have in Jesus Christ. And it's in his name we pray.