Well, for our Old Testament reading and text from which our sermon will be based this morning, let's turn in our Bibles to Genesis chapter 2. That's nice and easy because it's right at the front of your Bible. If you don't have a Bible, it's on page two of the Bibles underneath the seats in front of you. This is the account, really the second account of creation. We have one account in Genesis chapter 1, a certain perspective on creation, where God creates all things of nothing. And then in Genesis chapter 2, we get a little bit more. Focus or a different perspective as we see God creating specifically man, human beings made in his image, and how he provides all that we need for life. on earth in this passage. And so let's turn to Genesis chapter two. We're going to read verses five to seventeen Specifically, as God's God establishes there in the final two verses, verses 16 and 17, what we call the covenant of life or the covenant of works, which is going to be what we're going to reflect on this morning. Genesis chapter 2, starting in verse 5. When no bush of the field was yet in the land, and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the land, and there was no man to work the ground. And a mist was going up from the land and was watering the whole face of the ground. Then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground. And breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And the man became a living creature. And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed, and out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. A river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and there it divided and became four rivers. The name of the first is the Pishon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Havila, where there is gold. And the gold of that land is good, bedallium and onyx stone are there. The name of the second river is Gishon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Cush. And the name of the third river is the Tigris, which flows east of Assyria, and the fourth river is the Euphrates. The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask Him to bless our time as we think about it further. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you have spoken to us in your Word, that you've revealed your will for us. That you use your word to help us to understand this world that is around us and the many puzzling questions that it poses to us. Thank you for the clarity that we find in your word and how it helps us to understand what you're doing in the world. And Lord, how it helps us to understand what we can't know except for your word, and that is the great salvation that you have wrought for us in Jesus Christ. We ask you to open that to our hearts and our minds this morning as we reflect on your word in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as most of you know, we have a habit here at Reformed Presbyterian Church of Bowie of doing what we call lectio continua. Preaching, right? Good Latin term, you Rockbridge kids might enjoy that. Maybe you can translate it on your own. It just means preaching through whole books of the Bible Starting from the beginning and going to the end. Often this means that we preach even texts like long lists of names, texts which usually I open, I say, I wish I didn't preach like deal continue this week because I don't really want to address this one. But uh what we often find is that that helps us to press in and understand why these things are here that God has put. Uh but we also occasionally step back and and do what we call a topical sermon or really in the history of Our tradition, the Reformed tradition, we call these catechetical sermons, where we take a topic of theology, of doctrine, and we look at what all of Scripture says about it, or what specific parts of Scripture say about that. And this has a rich history, rich history in our tradition of catechetical preaching, that one of the ways in which people in our heritage, in our convictions have taught is taken a section of our catechism or our confession and said, we're going to take this topic, this doctrine of scripture, this theology, and we're going to think about this. And we don't do it instead of Scripture because we believe that our doctrines are from Scripture, and so we often we always take a passage of Scripture that reflects this and we look at that. And try to unpack it further. This morning, we're continuing a series that we actually began about a year ago when we started looking at the Westminster Shorter Catechism, which is a great shorter cate Not short. It's a shortur summary of our faith. It's meant for young kids to memorize so that they can have a nice summary of really the systematic theology, the the system of theology and doctrine that the Bible presents to us. And when we looked at the questions, we looked at questions 1 to 11 last spring. And there we saw, right, it starts off, what is the chief end of man? to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. Who is God? We talked about who God is. God, one God in three persons. And then what has God done? And these are the decrees of God that God actually establishes and controls all that comes to pass. And then we talked about how God executes his decrees. He does it in creation. We talked a little bit about what creation is. And we talked about providence, that God has uh most holy, wise, and powerful, preserves and governs all his creatures and all their actions. And that brings us to this question, question and answer 12 of the catechism. If you don't know this by heart, Shame on you. No, no. No, no, no. The only reason I uh still know it is because I've tried to teach it to my kids. Because I learned it and then forgot it, and so teaching it to my kids and teaching something helps you remember it. But if you don't know it, it's on page 870 of your Trinity hymnal, so you can actually pull that out and look at it. And it says this: it says, What special act of providence Did God exercise towards man in the estate wherein he was created? And the answer is this. When God had created man, he entered into a covenant of life with him upon condition of perfect obedience, forbidding him to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, just like we see here in verse 17. Upon pain of death. And this is what theologians call a description of the covenant of, it says covenant of life in our shorter catechism. In our confession, it calls it a covenant of works. Why the two names? Well, covenant of life, because that's what's offered to Adam, life. Covenant of works, because that's the basis, the ground, the condition by which Adam could earn or merit that life. Now, you know, you hear a doctor, maybe you're a visitor, covenant of works, covenant of life. Why do I need to know this? And the answer is, you know, it's it it may seem like a foreign idea, but the reality is it's it's shot throughout the way we live. And we engage in covenants all the time. Business contracts. Marriage is a covenant, any sort of formal promise that brings together two people and brings them together in a way that they have legal skin in the game. So that to break that covenant really brings curses. But to keep that covenant brings blessings. Being faithful in marriage and Having the blessings of marriage brings blessings and when you tear that apart it it hurts. It comes with consequences. Same with contracts. You can be sued. You can go to jail if you if you break them. And the reality is that this covenant of works actually is the framework in which creation works. And that's why we think if you work hard, you should earn a good living from it. Because that's the way the world is supposed to work. The problem is that ever since Genesis 3 doesn't quite work that way. And that's what we want to press into this morning. And the real problem is if we approach God On the basis of this sort of covenant of works relationship, in that sort of a covenantal context, it wreaks havoc. We can't do so. It will not work. And so, uh, this doctrine of the covenant of works is very important for us to understand the world in which you live. It's important for us to understand the rest. of the theology of the Bible, it's foundational to theology, and it's rich in theological significance. And that's why I think it's worth us reflecting on this morning. And as we reflect on it based on this passage, what we see is that the covenant of works Specifically shows us three important truths, three truths that we want to consider. First, it shows us the goodness of God. The covenant of works shows us the goodness of God. Second of all, it shows us the gravity of sin. And third, it shows us the greatness of salvation. The goodness of God, the gravity of sin, and the greatness of salvation are the three points I want us to unpack further this morning. First. The goodness of God. And as it should be, this is the longest and the most significant point. Because this book, God's Word, is a revelation of who God is. And specifically, these early chapters show us the deep, profound goodness of God. And I would argue that the covenant of works is actually a place where we often don't see the goodness of God very well. But if we press into it, I think we might begin to see it better. And there are three sub-points under this first point of the the way the covenant works shows the goodness of God. And there are these. First of all, We see the goodness of God in the covenant of works when we see the context in which the covenant is made, the context in which the covenant is made. And the context is simply put, well, it's right there in our catechism answer. When God had created man. So the context is the creation and not just the creation, but the incredible goodness of creation God having created all things and having declared just a few verses prior to the verses we read that this was all very good And then him showing how he specifically takes man and gives him, breathes into him the gift of life. Verses 5 to 7. When no bush of the field was yet in the land, and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain in the land, and there was no man to work the ground, and a mist was going up from the land and was watering the whole face of the ground. Then The Lord God formed the man from the dust, or I'm sorry, of dust from the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature. Now, as twenty-first century modern people We read that, and immediately I'll bet you have questions. You have doubts. Even if you're fully on board with Christian faith This idea is constantly under question. And so we should pause and say Is this something we can actually believe? Is this reasonable? Could this have happened? in some way. And one first of all, I think we should say that if we ask uh if we bring to it a certain kind of questioning, a certain kind of scientific perspective and saying You know, well, what did this actually look at? And we try to conceive of it. I think often we can go awry. We're probably not quite getting it, we don't exactly know what this looked like. But I think that just pretty much taking it at face value is not maybe as preposterous. As most people in our world today would say that it is. And that's because the alternative is at least just as preposterous. The alternative is what? It's evolutionary theory, right? It's this idea that human beings in our fearfully and wonderfully maideness Just are part of this the whole creation that all arose out of some nothingness that eventually over time, and you throw a ton of time at it. And all of a sudden things start happening and things start changing and eventually we end up here. That's evolutionary theory. Now there we need to distinguish between microevolution and macroevolution. Microevolution is this idea of little genetic changes that occur that are often caused by the environment. And so species will change, colors change, certain features change a bit. And that's pretty observable, right? of see that happen in real everyday life. But then there's macroevolution, and that basically says that all this microevolution can be applied on the macro scale and basically just as species change some, we can say that everything came out of nothing and by just these genetic mutations that by chance arose in this way. My problem is that I'm skeptical of any claims that seem big That seem to claim that they're worth believing in. And so I've uh asked questions over and over again, where's the proof? And there are reasonings that are offered, there are evidences that are brought to bear, and They're plausible if there's no God. Right? I mean, they're probably the best we can do if there's no God. But that's a fundamental assumption. That they always make. And when you go and you look at the arguments, I'm sorry, but they are actually not scientific, though they're based on science, they're historical arguments Now we do this in studying the ancient texts, the ancient Near East. Often we're studying it and we want to know history. And there are two lines of evidence that we look at to understand the history of the ancient world. And one is we can dig up old stuff. And that's what archaeology does. And we can figure some things out, we can discern some things. But I would argue a much better Access to history is through things that people wrote back then. Texts. And we have those as well. In fact, one of them we have is It's right here. And so if there, if if what we're talking about as far as origins of everything, is a historical question. The best way to answer historical questions is through eyewitness testimony. And by definition, evolution Evolutionary theory doesn't look at that. We look at the leftover remnants or what is here now. And we reconstruct and we build back and we try to project back. But if we wanted to know what happened there, we would need to hear from someone who is there. And guess what? There's only one being there, and that's God. And he goes and says to Moses: here's what happened. And Moses writes it down and passes it on to us. It's testimony. You don't have to believe it. But it's there, and I would argue this is a better way to access the history of it than merely through trying to reconstruct based on the remnants that we can access today. Make that of it what you will. Uh that can be a longer discussion for another day. And if you have found Proof of macroevolution that you believe is incontrovertible, I'd love to know it because I've looked and I so far haven't found it, but I haven't studied that extensively. I'm not a scientist. So uh The point is, the Bible's claim is that God created man this way, that he is the direct cause of human life, breathing somehow life in through his nostrils. in some way. And again, this may be some metaphoric description of exactly how God did it that we would describe differently if we'd we'd been there, but uh And then God doesn't just send Adam out into the wilderness and say, go fend for yourself. All right, I made you, I gave you life, now you go figure it out. What does God do? Verse 8. And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden in the east, and there he put man, whom he had formed. And out of the ground the Lord God made to spring every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. God doesn't just say, head out into the wilderness, see what you can do. He says, here is paradise Here are trees that are good to look at and great to taste. Here's everything you need for life and health and flourishing And notice that it calls out two specific ones. So you've got this context of a garden full of trees, and two are called out for unique description. One is a tree of life, and we're not told exactly where it is. I think It's in the midst of the garden somewhere, in the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And then we go on and we read this wonderful description of how luxurious a living Adam had, as it describes a garden that is so well watered that it itself actually is the source. of the rest of water, of the four corners of the earth, if you will. That's kind of the picture drawn here. A river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and there it divided and became four Four rivers. The name of the first is the Pishon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Havilah where there is gold, and we don't exactly know where this is. And the gold of that land is good. Bedeliumic stone are there. The name of the second river is the Gishon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Cush. Cush is. mod presumably modern day Sudan, so maybe one that travels around there. And the name of the third river is the Tigris, which flows out of east of Assyria, and the fourth river is the Euphrates. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and All of this, I think, shows the incredible goodness of God. That he doesn't enter into this covenant with Adam in a place of hardship or difficulty. He puts him in a place of luxurious provision for all of his needs, declaring to him day after day, God is good. He has made a good creation. He has set you in the very most goodness. of his creation in a paradise full of good food and bounty. And your task, Adam, is simply to enjoy it. That's the context In which God enters into a covenant of life with Adam. But I think we also see God's goodness in the very content of the covenant itself, the second subpoint, if you're taking notes, the content of the covenant itself. And we see the covenant of works instituted there, right there in verses 16 and 17. The Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of the tree of the garden. No, you may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely eat Now, there's no word covenant here. God doesn't say, this is the covenant that I'm making with you, Adam. If you turn over to Hosea 6:7. Some think that Hosea 6. 7 does refer to this as a as a covenant with Adam. Chris will be preaching on that hopefully soon, unless the baby comes sooner. And I'll let him decide or help us decide whether or not that's the best way to treat that. There's debate about whether or not you do. But even if you don't say that Hosea 6. 7 refers to this as a covenant, As the best theologians say, if it walks like a covenant and quacks like a covenant, probably is a covenant. And sure enough, this has all the elements that we expect of ancient Near Eastern covenants. It's got two parties: a greater king, suzerain, and a lesser king, a vassal, God and Adam. It's got stipulations or rules, and then it's got blessings. For obedience and curses for disobedience. And you say, I saw the curse for disobedience, I'm not sure I saw the blessing. So let's stop and let's let's think about these stipulations a little further and unpack them so that we can begin to see how Even the content of the covenant itself shows the goodness of God. See, I think our default is to look at this and sort of we get to this point. We say, you know, we're going along. Wow, God's so good to Adam, it's so kind, He's provided so much. Wait a minute. And you put this tree of the knowledge of good and evil, it I don't know, maybe it seems capricious of God, it seems like God's laying a trap, it seems a little unfair. I mean, come on, God, couldn't you have put it out in the wilderness instead of in the middle of the garden? So that he couldn't get access to it that easily. But again, I would argue that actually deeply reflecting on the content of the covenant, how God has set this up, Shows the goodness of God, rightly understood. First of all, remember at this point, Adam owes everything to God. God has provided him with all that he needs for life. And so Adam must obey God perfectly just based on who he is. He's the creature. God's the creator. And if Adam did this, throughout his life, he would be a covenant keeper. Well, there would be, if there were no covenant, he would be obedient, he would be doing what he should. But there would be no blessing offered for doing it. God owes him nothing for doing so. And so it just would be God receiving his due, Adam giving what he owes. And that's where I think we see God's goodness in coming and saying, yes, you must obey. But I'm going to offer you actually a special blessing if you actually obey like you should. So your obedience is not just required based on who I am and who you are. But I'm going to engage with you on a covenant where you can actually engage with me in a legal way. So that you have promises of mind that you, in a sense, have a legal right to if you do what you were supposed to do anyway. So out of his obedience that is required and demanded of him anyway becomes uh the opportunity it the opportunity that's given to him is for it to become the basis of a further blessing. And what is that further blessing? Well it's captured in in the name the covenant of life. The covenant of life. See, the first stipulation here, the first law, is actually not in verse 17, where God says, you shall not eat. It's actually in verse 16. I don't think our translations help us see it. It says the Lord God commanded the man, so here's a command. We're told that it's a command, but then it says, you may surely eat. That sounds less like a command and more like an allowance. You can eat of all the trees if you want. It's not what it says. It actually says, you shall eat, or you must eat, of every tree of the garden. Every tree of the garden. And that's where we begin to see the blessing of life that was offered. It's not just that God says, if you eat of every tree, you'll continue to survive on earth. But if he had actually obeyed that command, what would he have done? He would have eaten of this tree, and then this tree, and then that tree, and then that tree, and he would have gone around and eaten of every single tree. Except, as God says in verse 17, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, but eventually that means he would have eaten of that other special tree, the tree of life. And as we find out later in Genesis chapter 3, that tree was a sacramental confirmation in eternal life. And Adam would have earned the blessing of being able not to sin. And you say, how is it a blessing not to be able to do something? Alright, kids, I've been watching basketball. My kids, three of my kids were in basketball this spring. So I got basketball in my brain. Let me help you understand how it's such a blessing to not be able to do something. Would you rather, when you go up to the free throw line, would you rather to be able to make it? Or would you be rather be able not to miss it? My kids are able to make it, but they're able also not to make it. And that means they don't always make it. And that's actually the state that Adam's in. He's able not to sin. He's also able to sin. And the blessing of eternal eternal life that was held out. If he were to obey that first command, eat of every tree, eat including the tree of life, was that he would earn this glory the glory of the eternal state of no longer being able. And this is where we see God's condescension and his goodness in the content of the covenant itself. So Thomas Watson Puritan theologian says God was pleased to stoop so low as to make a covenant with us, for the God of glory to make a covenant with dust and ashes, for God to bind himself to us, to give us life in the case of obedience. for him to enter into a covenant with us was a sign of friendship and a royal act of favor. God's goodness in the content of this covenant. Basically, what God is saying to Adam is he's saying, All right, you must obey me But I'm going to give you the chance. Try out obeying me for a while. And if you continue in it and you're satisfied with it, you'll be confirmed in it forever. But we also see God's goodness in the content of the the the covenant where he makes the prohib prohibition. It's interesting, God doesn't say, all right Here are three trees that you can eat of, and then here are these ninety-seven. Don't eat of those. If you eat on the day you eat of any of those, you will surely die. No, what do we say? All the trees for you. There's this one tree in the middle of the garden. I'm going to point it out to you. It's that one. On the day you eat of that one, you will surely die. He also gives him the consequence that will come. In a sense, God is sort of giving a visible manifestation of God's ultimate kingship there. He says, you know what? You're like a king on earth. You reflect me in your glory. But you need to remember that I am the true Creator King. And so, really, you're in my garden? And that tree is mine. Don't eat of it. Don't even touch it. No, no, that's what Eve says. It's wrong. He didn't even say don't touch it. You can touch it. And it's interesting, the fruit of the tree itself is not poisonous. Fine. It looked good, tasted good. That's why Eve was persuaded to eat it. But God says, I'm going to attach a sacramental, spiritual reality to that. That's where I'm going to see you faithfully submit to me as your king. Forbidding him to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Upon pain of death. So that's how we see the goodness of God in the context in which this covenant comes, in the covenant's content, and finally in the corporate character of the covenant. See, Adam here is presented as a federal head, a representative of all the rest of humankind to follow. However, Adam goes in his obedience or disobedience is the way all mankind goes. And as we know, we know how that went, right? Adam failed. Adam sinned, and that's led all humankind into sin. And often, maybe this isn't you, but often people will say that just sounds unfair. Why can't we all get our own chance to not eat of that tree in the middle of the garden? Because you know, it doesn't sound that hard. I think I could do it if you let me try. But would it be better for us all to live in that conditional Situation Adam was in. Another example from sports, if you have ever played soccer. If you get a penalty kick, who do you want going in for the penalty kick? Don't you want your best player? And your best player goes and he gets up there and he kicks it. It's a great kick, but that goalie is just a little better. Stops that ball. Do you say, you know, I got the worst aim on the team. I haven't made a goal all year, but I wish I could have been the one to try, because he missed. No, you say, man, if he couldn't make it, there's no way I could have. He couldn't make it. There's no way. That's why we send the best of our best to the Olympics, right? The Olympics are coming up this summer. We we we don't say like, oh they m they didn't get gold. I wish I could have been there to show that. No, trust me, you don't You don't want me there. And that's how it is with Adam. Adam had the best shot at this. He had the best. He was without sin. Living in paradise. In fact, it's interesting, no other sins of Adam are recorded for us in Scripture. That doesn't mean he was without sin. After he fell into sin, surely he sinned more in the rest of his life, but he is presented that way. Maybe just as a reminder, do you think you could have done better than Adam? Think again. And it's interesting, just in case. There are still doubts. God says, all right, you guys to his people, he says, all right, you want to try, you want to try out that whole thing where everyone's kind of responsible to live Under this conditional arrangement, and only if all of you do it, then all of humankind will be blessed. He says, let's try it. And he does so in the Mosaic Covenant with his people. He says, here's my law. You all have it. Here's the sacrifices you make when you sin. Here are the rules that I'm giving you. And you all need to obey. And they all said in Joshua 24, yes, we'll do that. And they enter into the land, and then what happens next? The period of the judges. And that's how it goes. Then what happens next? Scott says, all right, you want to try that federal headship thing again? They're like, yes, give us a king. How does that go? The goodness of God is actually in Adam's federal headship that he gave us a good champion to try. And yet, the covenant of works we know was broken. And that leads to our second point. See, and this is much shorter. We've seen the the goodness of God in the covenant's context, its content, its corporate character. Second of all, uh the covenant of life or the covenant of works shows us the gravity of sin. And this is much shorter than the first point. It becomes clear as we look around our world today that the world is not like it is described here in Genesis chapter 2 Why not? Well, it's because this covenant of works that is presented to us here is broken in the next chapter of Genesis, in Genesis chapter 3. And we're going to talk more about that next week as we talk about Adam's fall into sin. But maybe for our purposes today, you know, God says here in verse 17, in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. And we read on to Genesis 3, and what happens? Adam and Eve eat of the tree, and then God comes into the garden, and they go hide themselves. They don't seem to die. Adam lives for another 900 years or so. He lives to be 930 years old. And and the answer to that is is to see uh like uh how is it that death is promised here? How is it that if Adam broke the covenant, this death was not fulfilled? And I would argue it is fulfilled if we understand that there are actually three different kinds of death. And theologians talk about this. So one theologian who has written a commentary on the catechism says that there are three kinds of death. There's temporal death, there's spiritual death, and there's eternal death. And all three are described in the Bible. Temporal death is the one we usually think of as death, but it's interesting, it's actually not fully death. He says: temporal death is the separation of soul and body. So we recognize that our bodies die. The Bible says the soul continues, that it doesn't die. Then there's spiritual death, and this is the separation of the soul from God, the alienation that we have from God. And then he says there's eternal death, which is, I'll quote him, John Thompson says, separation of both body and soul. From God in hellfire forever, when all God's enemies shall become both as wicked and as miserable as their reasonable natures are capable of What a horrifying vision of eternal death. All God's enemies can be will become as wicked and miserable as their reasonable natures are capable of. Which death came true when Adam broke the covenant works? Well, the second kind, right? Spiritual death. He died spiritually. We see that if we go move ahead to Ephesians chapter 2, that speaks about us in Adam being spiritually deaf, or Romans 5 that we just read a moment ago. But there's also a sense in which temporal death began then, because we know that now, in this age, under the curse of sin, pretty much as soon as we reach maturity, adulthood, we begin to die. The aging process starts, and we feel it. That began on the day Adam and Eve ate of the tree. Furthermore, they were on that day doomed to eternal death as judgment from God. And friends, that shows the gravity of sin. Sin is covenant-breaking Sin is disobedience to God and his laws, not obeying the command to eat of all the trees. Disobeying the command not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And we see the gravity of sin when we see it in its covenantal context as covenant-breaking, as basically saying to God who says, in its goodness. Kindness to us. I'm going to engage in a relationship with you. I'm going to condescend to your level, not in a condescending way, but in a loving way. Like when you kneel down and get on the eye level with kids. I'm going to engage in this relationship where you can hold me to account for my promises. And then we say no. We say no to our God our good, our wise, our loving Creator. We demand what He reserves from Himself. You you say that one tree is the the little way in which you're going to show that you still are King? I'm going to eat a That. Don't we do that all the time? Has God really said? It's called eating the forbidden fruit. A great way to describe sin. Forbidden fruit. We ignore God, often adopting overtly godless perspectives. Explaining how this all could happen without God. Sometimes just living, even though we claim to believe in God, living like we don't. Ignoring his law, even when it pricks our conscience, saying, No, no, I'm going to do what I want to do. You said don't eat of the forbidden fruit. Let me try. Let's see if death will really come. And often sin manifests itself in a desire to know, to know good. Or to no evil. Yeah, it's remarkable. I think the most horrific crimes against humanity have happened When the question has been asked, what if we did this? I recently went to the Holocaust Museum. Maybe you've been there And you walk into this one room and there are all these warning signs. You know, this may not be appropriate for kids. You know, like, oh my goodness. And you walk in and I won't give any descriptions. Actually I I can't remember them. I've They're so horrific I've blocked them out. But but I remember the point of the room. You walk in there and it basically was a room recounting all the horrific experiments that doctors Did on Holocaust victims. What if we do this to a human being? Simple desire for knowledge? To know good, to know what would come of evil Lord Byron is quoted as saying, sorrow is knowledge. They who know the most must mourn the deepest or the fatal truth. The tree of knowledge is not that of life. Knowing won't save you. So sin's gravity is that it has brought the whole world and humanity under this pall of death. It's a spiritual death first, then a temporal, and eventually an eternal, and there's nothing that we can do about it. And the reason we can't is because once you've broken a covenant of works, it's over. You are for the rest of time a covenant breaker. Because as our confession says, our larger catechism says, the covenant of works requires personal, perfect, perpetual obedience. Our catechism question says it's upon the condition of perfect obedience. Galatians 3. 10 says, for all who rely on the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written, cursed be everyone who does not abide by all the things. written in the book of the law and do them. The law is not of faith. Galatians 3. 12 says, the one who does them shall live by them. And so Sprohl says, uh R. C. Sprohl, the great uh late uh reform theologian, says, as people who live by referendums and compromise, Who are accustomed to being graded on a curve, we must understand that God judges his people by the standard of his own perfection. Adam failed, so the blessings of the covenant of life are forfeited. For good, based on our works. And every temporal death we encounter, and friends, there have been a lot temporal deaths around us recently. Every one of them is a grim reminder of the gravity of sin, because Romans 6. 23 says the wages of sin is death. Romans 5, 12, that we read just a moment ago, talks about the same reality, saying, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, so death spread to all men. Why? Because all sinned. And yet here's an important point for us as we're thinking about the covenant works and how we're living in it as uh as it being broken, as under its curse. Sort of an application point here as we conclude this second point. The very fact that we have all this evidence That God's judgment here in verse 17, the judgment for the covenant of works is coming true, the very fact of that ought also to be an encouragement. Because it shows that God is faithful to his covenant promises. He said, On the day you eat of it, you shall surely die. And that happened. Adam died spiritually. 900 years or some change more later, he died temporally. And he was doomed in himself to die eternally. And that's the case for every one of us who are human beings in Adam. But because God keeps his side of the covenant, And we see that in his fulfillment of judgment, we can also be confident that he will fulfill his promises of salvation and grace. And that's the point. Every prophet's writings are formatted in that way. Oracles of judgment, often predicting the fall of Israel and the exile. And then a turn. Once that happens, the promises of redemption to follow. And I think this is important for us because when we look around, we see sin, we see death, we see all these consequences. Of the broken covenant. It is hard to believe sometimes that God could bring good into this context or out of it. And yet that is exactly what God does when He makes another covenant. What we call a covenant of grace. And that leads us to our third and final point, even more briefly. So we've seen, right? We've seen The uh goodness of God, the gravity of sin, and now the greatness of salvation. We see this in the covenant of grace. And it's promised a few short verses after Adam breaks the covenant of works, he eats of the tree, and then actually it's in In the judgment, in the curse, that the promise of salvation is offered. The promise of a covenant mediator. Who would one day come and would do what Adam failed to do? Adam is faced with the serpent in the garden and he chats with them. Don't chat with Satan. Instead, a mediator would come who would crush the head of the serpent, like Adam didn't. And that serpent is the one who always lives to breathe lies and doubts about the goodness of God as our Creator King. That's what happened. The crushing of the serpent's head happened when Jesus Christ, God the Son, came into this world. He entered into the sin-cursed, death-infested world, and he came as the new Adam, the second Adam that we read about in Romans chapter 5. And here's another uh here's another reason not to balk at Adam's federal headship. It's because, yes, in Adam we all suffer because he failed. But it's also in that very federal headship reality. That we can have a new representative, a new federal head who can do the exact opposite of what Adam did, and that is who can save us to the uttermost. That's Jesus Christ The righteous one. That's the one we that's what we read about in Romans chapter 5, verses 14 to 19 we read just a moment ago. Death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam. Adam's one transgression was a covenantal unfaithfulness. Ours is a corruption of the whole nature. Bent by our hearts to sin in every way, totally depraved, not being as bad as we could be, but in every part of us being affected and afflicted by sin. He was a type of the one who was to come, but the free gift is not like the trespass, for if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that One man Jesus Christ abounded for many. The free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For judgment for the judgment following the one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. See that Adam's one transgression brought many deaths. Jesus one after many sins, Jesus one act of righteousness. Righteousness saves many. And Jesus saves by not just taking on Himself the judgment for our sin, but also earning for us the righteousness we need to inherit eternal life. It's interesting, Jesus is our second Adam, who fulfills God's law perfectly, doesn't just come into a paradise and avoid one tree. He comes into a wilderness. Endures the temptations of Satan, not just one, three, and counting. He endures the misery of this world in sin, and yet he never fails. He never fails by saying no to his father. He never ignores him, his conscience, his law. He fulfills every one of the laws of Moses, not just literally according to the letter, but But according to the spirit of the law as well, as we see him describing in the Sermon on the Mount. And he did all that obedience just to end his life rejected, hung, alone on a cross to die. Literally bearing the death, bearing death as the curse for sin. Galatians 3:13 says, Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree. His death, though, was not for him, but for you, but for me. So that we can be clothed with the righteousness that he earned before God as we come to him in faith. And it's amazing. Jesus came to the tree of death, the cross. And in many ways it reflects the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Where can we see Good and evil, most perfectly and fully. It's on the cross of Jesus Christ, where the one righteous man dies at the hands of his creatures. That's evil. But he's good. And yet when he dies, he transforms that tree of the knowledge of good and evil into the tree of life. Because it's at the foot of the cross to come to God through faith in Jesus Christ as our great Savior, dying and then rising on the third day for us, that we find life. We love to talk about salvation by grace alone through faith, and that's true for us. Salvation for us can only come through faith, but there's a real sense in which salvation actually comes by works. Not my works, not your works. But by Jesus' works, who perfectly fulfilled the covenant of works with God. And so as we come to Jesus, as we confess our sin, as we put our faith in him, as we follow him, he's earned the right. For us to enter into the life offered to Adam that is reflected in Revelation 21 to 22. What is the picture? The end of the age. It's a beautiful city garden. But guess what? There's one tree, and it's the tree of life. And we, through faith in Jesus Christ, are promised access to it, to feast on its good fruit. For all eternity in the smiling presence of Almighty God. That's our hope. And that is all based on this idea of the covenant of works As it basically gets fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Let's close in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these truths. We thank you for your word that paints powerful pictures that explain to us the reality around us, that expose the darkness of our own hearts in sin, and yet Point us so gloriously to the beauty and wonder and glory of our Savior Jesus Christ and His work on our behalf. Lord, we ask you to enable us To grow in our faith in Him, our love for Him as He has first loved us. Help us to respond in glory, living out the new life that you've already begun in us by your Spirit. in anticipation of the eternal life that you've promised to us in Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen.