Your Bibles, please, and go with me to Luke chapter number twenty-four. Luke chapter number twenty-four. And I want to read a lengthy portion here this evening. This is a part of the Word of God that I love to visit, especially. On this resurrection Sunday evening. Luke chapter 24 and verse number 13, the Bible reads, And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus. Which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communication are these that ye have one to another as ye walk and are sad? And one of them was nam one of them, whose name was Cleopas answering, said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty indeed in word before God and all the people. And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre. And when they found not his body, they came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even so as the women had said, but him they saw not. Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe, all that the prophets have spoken, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And they drew nigh unto the village whither they went. And he made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening and the day far spent And he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass as he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it and break and gave to them. And their eyes were open, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? And they rose up the same hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. Now look at this. And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst. of them and said unto them, Peace be unto you. Well, in the middle of it all there's Jesus. They didn't know he was there. They didn't recognize it or realize it until a bit later, but he was there all along. I want you to notice something tonight, and may the Lord use this to help us. But these disciples, these two disciples, as they made their way to Emmaus, God did something for them that they needed done. You see, Jesus diagnosed it and said in verse number 17 , What are these this manner? What manner of communications are these that you have one to another, and as you walk and are sad? I don't know if they had their heads hung down or their lips run out or their tears streaming down their face or what it was that made Jesus know they were sad other than he's just Jesus and he knows everything. But they obviously had a countenance that said, We're sad. And then just a little bit later we find that the Bible says, as they talked to each other, they said, Our hearts are burning in us. I want to bring a message tonight on getting your heart to burn again. Getting your heart to burn again. I don't know of anything we probably need any more than this. This is a reality that only the Lord can bring to your heart. I want to emphasize tonight that the burning of the heart is not the workings of man, but it's the doings of God. When your heart burns, it means God has lit the fire. And may He do that. Let's pray. Father, we bow in Jesus' name and acknowledge the deep need of our hearts as we bow before you. Lord, would you please draw near and do for us what we cannot do for ourselves? And we'll thank you and praise you. Lord in mercy, hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly divide the word of truth and lift up the dear Son of God. Lord, help us to preach Jesus in all his fullness. And Lord, I pray you'll have your will and way in our hearts. Oh, how you know the need beyond what any other man knows, and we trust you to meet that need. And we look to you now and pray, help, Lord. In Jesus' strong name. And God's people said, Amen. By way of introduction tonight, I want you to see what made these two disciples sad. I believe there's some things that are very personal, things that are maybe even profitable for us to understand what made these people sad. You'll notice in verse number 14, their circumstances had them sad. Verse 14 says, they talked together of all these things which had happened. They're having a conversation as they walk along and they're saying, you know, this happened. Jesus died on the cross. He put he was put in a tomb. We don't know where he is. And they're discussing the circumstances of that day. And by the way, dear friend, listen, circumstances have a way of putting the fire out in a believer's heart. The tendency of the fire is to go out anyway. The nature of the fire is to burn out, and so the the circumstances are not always helpful in the matter of having. And when I mean a burning heart, I'm talking about A devotion and love for the Lord Jesus, one like we had when we first got saved. That church in Ephesus, the Lord said, I've got somewhat against thee. Thou hast left thy first love. I believe I could say it like this and not hurt the Bible at all. Thou hast left the first fire. Your heart's not burning like it once did. It doesn't ha have that fervence and it doesn't have that uh that urgency that it once did. That fire of devotion is gone. And by the way, the circumstances of life can do that to us if we're not careful. Number two, their conversation did that. Notice it says they talked together. They talked together. You know, the Bible says in the multitude of words there wanteth not sin. A lot of time it's our talking that puts the fire out. We've got to be careful with our conversations, don't we? We've got to be careful of the things we discuss. Many times we'll talk, and some of God's people get together and they'll talk, and before you know it, they've talked each other into a state of needing revival. We talk ourselves into a state of needing God to come and make our hearts burn again. So their conversation seemed to lend of this heart needing to burn once more. And then the conclusions they came to. By the way, it was a wrong conclusion. In verse 21 the Bible says, But we trusted past tense. That it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. You go on and read that and you realize they said, We thought he was the Messiah, but I guess we were wrong. That's the conclusion they come to. And by the way, every once in a while we come to the wrong conclusions, don't we? We come to the wrong conclusions about what the Lord's doing. We come to the wrong conclusions about where the Lord is. We come to the wrong conclusions about what He's capable of accomplishing. And these disciples have come to the wrong conclusion. Isn't it funny? that they're saying we thought he was Messiah. And yet right here the Messiah's with them. We thought he was the one that would uh would would uh uh you know bring uh a redemption to Israel And and I don't know, maybe there's a little smile on the Lord's face, and you know, he's about to illuminate them and about to show them who he really is. Sometimes we say, oh, the Lord's not near me, when he could be closer than he's ever been. Sometimes we say the Lord has forgotten me when, my dear friend, you're engraved on the palms of his hands. He can't forget you. Sometimes we say all these things are against me, and we forget that all things work together for good to them that are called listen God is working and moving. And listen, we just need to believe the Bible, but sometimes we come to the wrong conclusion and we put our own fire out. I want you to notice some things that brought the fire back to their heart. They're not things that you and I can do. I've been convicted recently and and and uh uh again over a matter uh that this Bible is not a self-help book. This Bible is not a self-help book. You can go to the library or go to to a bookstore or get online and you can find all the how -to 's you want. How to? I was building something and I wanted to do something different. I wanted to I couldn't figure it out. I I was trying to do the math in my head and I don't have a head for math And so I couldn't figure that out and I said, I got an idea. I'm going to look up on YouTube how to do it. And I tell you They do everything on YouTube. Have you figured that out? If you don't know how to, you can find how to on YouTube. And I looked it up and they made it so simple and I thought, now that's how you do it And I followed that how-to. Beloved, please hear me tonight. This book is not a how-to book. This Bible is not a book of man-made philosophy to make your life better. It's a supernatural book that reveals a supernatural savior. Who does what I cannot do? He comes to me in ways I need him to come, and he makes himself known. This is a savior help book, not a self-help book. Well, notice with me, if you will, number one, some things. It made the fire burn again. I want you to see that first the Savior drew near. That means he took the initiative. Look in verse number 15. It came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. They're walking along and talking and they're reasoning about what's happening. They're trying to come to this conclusion that they're going to get to and say, well, it wasn't the Messiah. And they're talking along, and all of a sudden Jesus draws near They didn't ask him to come near. They didn't recognize that he was near, but Jesus himself drew near. Can I say to you tonight, there is nothing that will make your heart burn any greater than the Lord Jesus coming near When Jesus comes near his people, the old preachers used to say revival is nothing more than heaven coming near the earth. And I want to say tonight that if your heart is cold and your heart needs to burn again, you just need the Lord Jesus to draw near. I don't believe it's out of order to say, Lord, come near me. You say, but preacher, the Bible says, and here's our problem, sometimes we've got a mechanical faith and not a moving faith. Our mechanical faith says the Bible says he'll never lead me nor forsake me, and that is true. But what I need is that manifestation of the reality that He is near me. When the disciples were with Jesus, they were with Jesus, the Son of God. When they went up on the Mount of Transfiguration, they were with Him. They just didn't know who they were with. But after he was transfigured in front of their eyes, and they saw his dignity and they saw his glory, they recognized who was with them. Sometimes I need the Lord to show Himself to me so that I know who's with me. Sometimes I need the Lord to come so near me that I know, Lord, it's you. I know that you're near me. Jesus drew near these disciples. And listen, by the way, when Jesus comes near, he comes on purpose and he comes with purpose. This wasn't the intermixing of strangers just haphazardly meeting up on the road to Emmaus. This is God 's sovereign wisdom saying there's two little disciples that need a heartburn. They need their hearts help tonight. There's two disciples who stand in great need, and I'm going to go near them. I'm glad the character of my good shepherd is such that he knows when I need him to come near. He knows that there are times that I need him to be closer than he's ever been, and those are just the times you'll find Jesus drawing near. You'll get the heartburn, my friend. Your heart will get help when Jesus draws near. Secondly, I want you to notice not only did Jesus draw near , But we see that he gave them a sound rebuke. Now, I'll be honest with you, I'm all for Jesus drawing near, but I'm not always keenly interested in a sound rebuke. But although as much as I need Jesus to draw near, sometimes I need Jesus to give me a sound rebuke. Look at verse 25. The Bible says, Then he said unto them, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? By the way, he's not name-calling here. You've got to understand your Bible. And by the way, one of the things that helps you understand your Bible is understand who's speaking in the Bible. The character of the one speaking will often govern the content that's spoken. And our Lord is not a rude or crude individual. He doesn't call names. He doesn't belittle his children. If you believe that, you don't know him. Like you need to know him. He's not a belittler. He's not one that would would call us just simply fools. What does that word mean? That word means unwise or those that don't understand. He's not calling them a fool like in the sense of the fool hath said in his heart, there is no God. He's not calling them a fool as in those who have not the mental ability or capabilities of grasping. He 's saying you're unwise, you're not understanding. It's like he's getting them by the shoulders and saying, listen to me, this is serious. There's something you need to get a hold of that will change your life. Then he says something else. He said, Oh, slow of heart. That word simply means inclined to unbelief. They were inclined to not believe. You see, they had heard the testimony of the women, they as much told Jesus. They said they came back and said he's not there. They came back and said the angels said he's alive. But we just thought he was the Messiah. So what they're saying is, although we've heard the facts, we've heard the truth, we don't believe it. We don't believe it. By the way, can I say to you tonight that probably at the root of all our problems is an evil, wicked heart of unbelief. I mean, at the root of all our spiritual failures is the fact that we just do not believe. Friend, we've got a Bible full of truth that'll help us believe. We've got the Holy Ghost in us who's urging us to believe. We've got every reason, if you will let me say it like that. to believe that yet what do we do? We find ourselves in that same state of being slow to believe, being inclined to unbelief, and saying, Now, Lord, I know the Bible says this, but By the way, when you start butting, that's the time you start battling. Lord, I believe, but How many times do we have to bow our head? I said we. How many times do we have to bow our head and say, Lord, I believe, but help mine unbelief? Lord, you're going to have to help me. The circumstances of life are are such and the a and the situations going on make me, Lord, make it hard to believe, make it difficult. I can't see through the fog in the storm that's right in front of me. So, Lord, will you help me believe? And I believe that's a prayer he delights in answering. We see here that he gave them a very sound rebuke. You see, he dealt with their problem. Their problem was a heart problem. The problem was not a head problem. They didn't need another manifestation. They did not need another miracle. They did not need another eyewitness. They just needed God to do something in their heart. And can I say to you tonight that what I need and what you need is the Lord to do something in our heart? I believe old Gypsy Smith, the British evangelist really understood the heart of the matter when he said, if you want revival, draw a circle and get in the middle of it and pray for God to revive everything in that circle. We often say revival would come if, and we point and look and search and say, it's that one, this one, the other. And yet if we would just sit and look with the open word of God and say, now Lord, the problem's not out there, the problem's in here. The reason my heart don't burn like it should is because I've got a heart that is evil and wicked and full of unbelief, and what I need is a surgeon to come and do something in my heart. I need the great physician to take the scapel of grace and the ointment of truth and go to cutting and working on the inside of me and help me believe like God wants me to believe I'm talking about getting your heart burning again. You need a Savior who will draw near, and you need a sound rebuke from the Word of God. By the way, his rebukes are always soaked in mercy. When he administers the medicine, he does it in a merciful manner. How many of you are old enough to remember that miracle drug called macurochrome? You know what I'm talking about? That or is it orange? It was And uh my brother was about the only one I'd let put that stuff on me. And you know why he I'd let him put it? Because he'd draw pictures with it on my body. And I thought it was the coolest thing in the world to get a picture drawn on me. I mean it burnt. You remember how that stuff felt when they put it in your cuts? I wrecked a bicycle one time. When I went off of it, I went like that down a paved road and it peeled all the hide from my waist all the way to my wrist. And my brother cleaned me up and he said, I'm going to put this on there. He said, I'm going to paint you a cool picture, he said. And so he started on my arm and he put a great big mountain in a sunset Every once in a while he'd stop me say, now check that out. He said, Isn't that something? And you know, I'm crying, trying to be tough, and it's burning. But he he was putting a little mercy in the medicine. Well, I'm glad I got a Savior who puts a little mercy in my medicine. When the scriptures soundly rebuke me, when the Savior says, Son, you're wrong, it comes with great loads of mercy. That draws me unto himself. Oh, what a savior is Jesus, my Lord. Oh, dear friend, the Savior drew near and he brought a sound rebuke. But then I love this. He expounded the scriptures. Verse 27 says, and beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So that tells me, starting with Genesis, that's Moses, the first five books of the Old Testament, beginning with Genesis and going right through to Malachi, our Lord made himself known through the scriptures. Oh, you say, I wish you'd do that to me. Maybe you're sitting here saying, Boy, I need the Lord to just take the Bible and open my eyes and help me see some things that I cannot see right now. I need the Lord to come sit down with me. I need the Lord to come sit beside me and say, now, son, right here in Genesis, this is me. And over here in Exodus, that's me too. Down yonder in Leviticus, that's me. Looking at tabernacle, you'll see me everywhere. Over there in Numbers, that's me too. Deuteronomy, that's me. Joshua judges and so on. That's me, that's me, that's me. Can I submit to you tonight, you've got someone who will do that? You have someone who will do that for you just like Jesus did for these disciples? Listen to John 16 Verse 13 says, How be it, when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth. For he shall not speak of himself. But whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. The next verse says, He shall glorify me, for he shall receive of mine, and shall show it unto you. Do you know what that is? That's the Holy Ghost of God coming along. When you open that Bible up in the morning and sit in your favorite chair and start reading the Word of God, the Holy Ghost says, there's Jesus. Let me say this right here. This crowd that's always talking, Holy Ghost, Holy Ghost, Holy Ghost. They don't know the real Holy Ghost. I'm not saying I'm not throwing rocks, I'm just trying to warn us of a reality. The Holy Ghost doesn't talk about the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost talks about Jesus. He's always bragging on Jesus. He's always glorifying Jesus. He's always got a good word for Jesus. He's always saying, right, here he is. And when you sit down in the morning and open your Bible and you begin to read and you see something and you say, oh, that looks like Jesus. That's the Holy Spirit's ministry. He's taking the things of God and showing them to you. Listen, dear friend, we need the scriptures expounded to us by the Spirit of God. I believe we're about conferenced and meeting and gathering and running to death Hear me now. I'm not against that. But listen to me. We run all across the country trying to get what only God can give us. You hear me? I mean we say if I can just hear that preacher, he'll do something for me. I'll tell you what, you need the big preacher, and I say that reverently. You need the God of heaven to speak to you. You might get your intellectual mind tickled. You might get your little emotional signals wired up and stirred up. But what you need is God the Holy Ghost to say, now that's Jesus, and that's Jesus, and that's Jesus, and that's Jesus. You know why? Because you gotta have Jesus. You live on Jesus Listen, your life thrives on Jesus. If you're saved, you've got to have the Lord Jesus. Like the old hymn writer said, more about Jesus Would I know? Oh, how I need to know more about who he is and see him in a very real way. Our hearts begin to burn when Jesus is made known to us. There is a certain intellectual faith that is elaborate, somewhat even exhaustive, but it's dead. Because it never gets to Jesus. Ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Ever accumulate and by the way, you want to be a self-righteous Pharisee? Get your head full of facts and miss the whole point of the facts. When the servant went to get Rebecca Bring her back to Isaac. Eliezer. And Eliezer went to get old Rebekah and bring her back to Isaac. How foolish it would have been for Rebecca to say, well, I know everything about Isaac now. There's no need in meeting him. I mean, I I know how tall he is, I know what he looks like, I know what he likes, I know his personality, I mean I'm sure Eliezer gave a good dose of who Isaac was. I mean he told her everything you could know. And how silly would have it been for her to say, I'll just go to my tent. I'm not worried about meeting the real one. I just I've got my head full of facts. Folks, listen. Please hear me lovingly. We we sit in our churches and we got our heads full of facts and our hearts are cold and dead. There's no fire of love burning in a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus. We know chapters and verses. We can win arguments. We know how to put those people cut them down with the truth, so to speak, and lob the bombshells in the in the liberal camp and and obliterate them. But we don't know the Lord of glory We don't love him like he wants us to love him. We don't walk with him and talk with him and have the sweet fellowship Jesus didn't die for you to win debates. He didn't die for you to be some spiritual proud peacock uh floating around saying I know everything. He died so that you could be a friend and he could be a friend and you could draw near and know something of sweet fellowship with Jesus He is a friend that sticks closer than a brother. Oh, I'm here to tell you tonight we need the scriptures expounded in such a way that we see Jesus on every page. Not just a figment of our imagination, but a real living Savior. Someone who's nearer than the breath we breathe. Someone who's greater. Oh, friend, may God deliver Marinatha Baptist Church from mere head religion. And may God deliver us from having a head full of knowledge and facts. A heart that is full of just coldness and deadness and no love or no life for the Lord of glory. I'll tell you something when real persecution comes. People do not embrace their intellectual superiority as Christians. They grab the master. Say, Lord, I need you. I can't make it without you. You've got to walk me through here. And by the way, when it comes your time to cross, You'll not cross waving the flag of an independent Baptist and saying, I'm proud to be one. You'll say, Savior, walk with me through the valley of the shadow of death. I hope you understand what I'm trying to say tonight. I'm trying to help us from the Word of God that Jesus is not just someone we win arguments with. Jesus is not just someone that we stand and fight for. Jesus is someone you know and love and live for and serve. Why? Because he's the dearest friend you've got on earth. The scriptures were expounded quickly. Let me say number four. If your heart's going to burn, it'll take the Savior drawing near, it'll take a sound rebuke, it'll take the scriptures being expounded. But I want you to see the Savior's prayer. The Savior's prayer. You notice back there in Luke 24 Verse number 30 and 31. And it came to pass as he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it. That means he prayed over it. And break and gave to them. And their eyes were open, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. There was something in this prayer. That opened their eyes. Maybe it was when he said, Father Maybe they said, we've heard that before. We've heard that. We've heard him say it just like that. Could that be? Is it him? And the scripture says their eyes were opened. They recognized, they understood, that's the Lord. The Savior's prayer. Can I remind you tonight that He is making intercession for us right now? The Bible says very clearly that he ever liveth to make intercession. He is praying right now for you and me. And I believe one of the objects on his heart, if your heart is cold and your heart is lifeless, it's that your heart might burn again. If you've gotten away and let just sort of the circumstances or your conversations or your conclusions take you to a place Where the heart don't burn with fire any longer. It may be that he's praying right now, Lord, make them burn again. Father, would you draw Father would you do for them? Listen, old friend, uh i it one as a missionary said years ago, if I could hear him praying for me in the next room He said, I'm sure that it would put courage in my heart. Then he stopped and he says, yet he is praying for me. The scripture says he is. And so I, with the same confidence, can say, he's praying for me. There's something awful powerful about the prayers of the Lord Jesus. Can I say it like this? They all get answered. That's why, friend, that's why tonight you can sit here knowing that heaven's your home because he's making intercession for you. That's why you can say my sins are gone because he's making intercession for you. That's why you can say, I 'm never going to have to walk alone, because he's making intercession for you. That's why you can say no matter what the devil tries to do and all the powers of hell try to do to undo you and and to destroy you. You can say the Lord's with me. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He's praying for you. He's interceding on your behalf. He's going to the Father for you. He's crying out. And listen, dear friend, God in his infinite goodness and mercy is working because of the prayers of his Son. These disciples' hearts began to burn when the Savior prayed, and when the Savior prayed, their eyes were opened, and they knew him. In an instant they said, That's him. That's the one. And then they started to say, you know what? Something's been happening. We just now noticed it. I'll tell you what, I don't know about you, but I'm to that point in life, I can my that first bite of pizza I eat, I get heartburn. First bite. You say, what do you do? I eat it anyhow. I know I shouldn't, but sometimes I just eat it And I'll tell you, you know what? Sometimes the taste of it, for me, I'm just testifying a minute here, the taste of it is so good I don't even think about the heartburn. Not until I'm trying to go to sleep and I'm thinking, oh Lord, what in the world did I just do? I'm gonna lay here and suffer for all night long for a silly pizza. Listen to me, dear friend. There are times God's working you don't even know he's at it. There are things God's doing in your heart, and it's not until you get down the road of ways you look back and say, My heart was burning. The Lord was working. I believe much of what God does in reviving is hidden from our eyes so that we don't get proud of it God often will be doing something in your heart and you're not aware of it until you're safe enough away from the event so that you'll kill still give God glory and not try to rob him of it. And you'll say, oh, God was doing something. Didn't my heart burn? They said our heart was burning when he started talking. The minute his word started coming out of his mouth, our heart started reacting. The moment he drew near, there was something going on on the inside. I'm saying tonight, church, we need this kind of burning heart in this late hour in which we live. The church is lifeless for the most part, Laodicean in nature and dead. And what we need is, oh God, draw near. Come and bring that burning that only you can bring. Now let me give you a word of caution and I'm through. Isaiah 50 says, beware of lighting your own fire. Let me read it. Isaiah chapter 50 and verse 11 says, Behold all ye that kindle a fire, that compass yourselves about with sparks, walk in the light of your fire. By the way, sparks don't make a fire. Understand something. They're trying to make a fire, not getting it going. You ever done that? Tried to make a fire, not get it going. Me and Josiah thought we'd be Daniel Boone's and go out in the wilderness. And we got a bunch of partridge or or uh uh what do we call them something, grouse. And uh we were gonna cook 'em and be mountain men, you know, and Start a fire, we didn't take a match, we didn't take nothing. It's probably about minus ten, fifteen somewhere in there. And it had rained, and then that rain had turned to ice and it had frozen everything And I said, well, you know, birch bark doesn't doesn't matter if it gets wet, that's what I thought. Doesn't matter if it's got ice on it, you can pull it off the tree and you can make a fire. So I'd gotten this little flint, and I had practiced at starting a fire at home with warm hands and perfect conditions, and I was pretty good at it in the basement. But we get out there on the marsh and we're uh he is he's still hunting. We've we was one shy of our limit and I'm trying to start a fire and he's looking for another partridge to shoot and I I get all this stuff together and I start noticing, man, my hands are so cold they're shaking and I can't get that spark to go And when I finally was able to get the spark where it would spark, my my tender and stuff was so wet and covered with ice it would not light. It's starting to get a little darker and it's getting colder. And I'm starting to get worried, and of course he's up here, he's he's chasing a partridge, he's seen one, and he he's not worried about what's happening. He he doesn't know how serious this situation is yet And I'm trying to get that fire going, I'm realizing, you know what, I'm not gonna be able to do this. I started kicking myself. I said, why didn't you bring a lighter? Why didn't you bring a match? I mean there's no way that you're going to get this wet wood to burn with just a wee spark off of this striker. Oh boy, I'll tell you, it started to dawn on me, we gotta get out of here. Hadn't had anything to eat and it's cold. You say, What'd you do? Thank God for cell phones. I called Elizabeth and I said, you know Eddie Rhodes? She said, Yeah. I said, I'm going to be walking out about halfway. You better come get us, come fast and bring McDonald's, because we are Hungry and we are cold and uh it this didn't go like we thought it was gonna go. So praise the Lord. She came to my rescue again and saved us and kept us There was no way I could start a fire. Just no way. Our wood was wet, our spark was weak. He says, walk in the fire. You've got these sparks. Walk in the fire. Walk in the light of your fire and the sparks that you've kindled. This shall you have in mine hand. You shall lie down in sorrow. You know, I think a lot of times we're just trying to cheerlead ourselves into heaven? We're trying to have a good enough spiritual peppery so we can take another step. We're trying to do something emotionally or entertainment-wise, and we're trying to just trying to get a fire going, and we're making sparks, but it's not taking nowhere. It might temporarily bring some enthusiasm. It might temporarily make you think there's hope. But it doesn't take much of the wind of the world to blow the little spark out and make it go away. And here's what I'm trying to say tonight. What we need is not a spark you can create, not a spark that I can create. We need the God of heaven to make our hearts burn again. We need the Lord, as we've said already, to draw near. We need the sound rebuke from the scriptures, the scriptures to be expounded, and we need to know the Savior's praying Oh dear friend, this is not necessarily something that makes us uh think that, you know, uh, look, I can do it, or or or or we're responsible or capable. Oh no. This this is intended to make us say, Lord, we need you. Lord, we're coming and we're acknowledging if our heart ever burns again, you'll make it burn. If there's any hope put in my heart, you'll have to put it there. If there's any spark that will take root and fire and make my heart burn with devotion, God, you've got to do it. And I believe that when we get that place When we get to that place that we stop trying to start a fire and let God make us burn again, that then the fire can begin to burn. , God can do something for us Church don't think for a minute God's dead or out of business. He's as mighty and able and capable today as he ever was He's just looking for some good tender who'll say, Lord, here am I, set my heart afire. Set my heart afire and make it burn again, oh God. Oh dear friend, hear me. And you know what? When your heart starts to burn, you'll immediately be a blessing to others. Did you see I read that extra part on purpose? When they realized it was the Lord, what'd they do? They got up and went right back to Jerusalem. Man, they were high stepping. And when they got back to Jerusalem, they they found the men in the upper room and they said, Listen, we've seen him. And while they're talking, guess who shows up? There he is. He's there to make everybody else's heart burn. I'll tell you something. You don't have to go around trying to make somebody else's fire burn God will make you if yours is a burning, it'll help somebody else's burn. Oh, dear friend, we need God to get our hearts to burning again. May He deliver us. From spiritual coldness. Fitting, it's fitting really. That on that evening of the first resurrection day The Lord came near , made a couple of disciples' hearts burn with love and devotion again. I pray this evening that the Lord in his mercy might draw near some of us and say, I'm going to make your heart burn again. So long as I'm content with my heart not burning, I don't think it will ever burn. Leonard Ravenhill said the reason we don't have revival is because we're content to live without it. The reason our hearts don't burn is because we've accepted it as norm. That's not what I read in my Bible. God wants to help you. He wants to help me. He wants our hearts to burn again. Maybe tonight it'd be a good night to just stay just to stop and pray. Lord. You know my heart and you know where it's at. Make it burn again. Draw near Come and make Jesus plain and clear on the pages of the Word of God. Maybe this week we ought to pray as we go to our time with God every day, oh Lord, draw near me and make my heart burn again. Lord come do for me what I I can't do for me. The church can't do for me. I feel sorry. These people, man, they run from church to church and just well they get and say, now this did I'll get help here. And really The only help they need has got come from God. Gotta have Him help you. Oh beloved, does your heart need to burn again? Here they are walking in sad. Man, I read that again, I thought, that's where we are. We're like them two disciples on the road to Emmaus. But I want to get to where they got to. Did not our hearts burn? Oh God, make them burn again. Make them burn. Stand with me, please.