Me to be near to him. And um You know, we have a problem. We can't be near to the Lord in the condition that we are in naturally. Because of sin, and that's why the Lord Jesus Christ took upon him our sin, and not just our sins, but the sins of the whole world. And he bore them upon that cross. The Bible says that he became sin for us. And that's important that we understand that. He wasn't just clothed with sin. Just as we're not just clothed with righteousness. He became sin Though he knew no sin, he did no sin. He became that sin so that we could become the righteousness of God in him. And that's why, listen, if you trust in Christ as Savior, that's why we say things like we're hell-proof. Amen? There's nothing for God to judge when he looks upon us. And it's not because of us. It's because of the one who loved us and gave himself for us. The Lord Jesus Christ. What a savior. What a savior. I'd like you to turn your Bibles this evening to the book of Leviticus. Leviticus chapter one. I thank God for every word in this book. And some books of the Bible are a little easier to read. But no book of the Bible is less important than any other. And um every part of this Bible is perfect and preserved. In this King James Bible, and I'm thankful for the book of Leviticus And I want to look at it a little bit tonight, and maybe some of the other nights we'll see how the Lord leads. But uh really, really praying today and studying today and just Trying to get the mind of God and what to bring tonight, what to preach tonight. And this thought kept coming back to my mind as I prayed And so I pray to be a blessing and a help to us tonight. Leviticus chapter 1, we'll read the first nine verses of the chapter, and I invite you to stand with me if you're able. So we read the text. Tonight. Leviticus chapter one and verse number one. The Bible says, And the Lord called unto Moses and spake unto him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them: If any man of you bring an offering unto the Lord, ye shall bring your offering of the cattle, even of the herd, and of the flock. If his offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a mail without blemish. He shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord. And he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering, and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. And he shall kill the bullock before the Lord, and the priests, Aaron's sons, shall bring the blood and sprinkle the blood round about upon the altar that is by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And he shall flay the burnt offering and cut it into his pieces. And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire upon the altar and lay the wood in order upon the fire. And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall lay the parts, the head and the fat, in order upon the wood that is on the fire, which is upon the altar. But his inwards and his legs shall he wash in water, and the priest shall burn all on the altar To be a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the Lord. My attention this evening is on verse number one of chapter one, where we see the Lord calling unto Moses. I believe this sets a precedent for the book of Leviticus This book is the Lord calling to his people. And in particular, I want us to think of this aspect, Leviticus, as a call to fellowship. A call to fellowship. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your blessings on us today. Thank you, God, for just waking us up this morning, giving us life and breath. And uh the chance, the opportunity to be in this place tonight, to hear your word again. Father, you went with us all through the day and gave us the strength that we needed. And Lord, we want to take the time to thank you for it. Thank you for your precious word. We're thankful that it liveth and abideth forever. That the words of this book are eternal. And Lord, uh yesterday's news is yesterday's news, but your word is ever present and always right on time and always exactly what we need. And so God thank you for that. It's a comfort to our heart to know I bet you've not left us here without a guide. You've not left us here without a roadmap through this journey of life. God, I pray you'd help us tonight as we look at this passage of Scripture, consider this call to fellowship that you gave to Moses, but not just to Moses. Lord, you gave it to that entire nation, but not just to that nation. Lord, you call each and every one of us to a closeness and a fellowship to you And Lord, we desire that tonight. God, give us understanding of your word tonight that we might be drawn closer to you. And Lord, we'll thank you and praise you for it. There's someone here unsaved, Lord, I pray that the call would go out to them as well. That though their sins be as scarlet, they can be as white as snow. They'll come to Christ and trust the blood that was shed for them. They can have eternal life and forgiveness of sins. And God will be careful to give you the glory for it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you for saying you may be seated. In this uh book that's before us, it's a book that I think often gets overlooked. uh by the New Testament church, and uh we would say maybe for good reason, we think we are not Old Testament saints, and that is true. We're not uh under the law, and that is true, uh, but it is still the Word of God. And all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is, not was, is, profitable. And so we're going to profit from the book of Leviticus with the help of the Lord tonight. Uh what the Lord had written aforetime was written for our learning and uh to s to instruct us. And uh I believe that uh it's often been said that the New Testament sheds light upon the Old Testament, but I believe that works in the reverse order as well. The Old Testament shines a lot of light on the New Testament as well. The Bible is, after all, one book And it's God's book. And so we look in this uh this passage here tonight, and um uh the the very first uh right out of the gate, the Lord says here, the Lord called unto Moses. To call is to summon. It is to request to meet. It is to come to a specified place And so we see the Lord calling to Moses. Now, you may not think this is unusual in the life of Moses or in the books of Moses here. Uh but as I was beginning to look through uh just uh the calls to of the Lord to Moses, they're not as many as what you might think. Now this phrase the Lord spake unto Moses is found over and over and over again. I've counted 72 times. In the law, the first five books of the Bible, where the where the scripture says that the Lord spake unto Moses. But only four times do we find this phrase the Lord called unto Moses. And let's look at them briefly. Keep your place there in Leviticus 1. Go back to Exodus chapter 3. Exodus chapter 3, and we'll go through these quickly by way of introduction. I want us to see the difference between speaking to someone and calling them. There is a difference. In Exodus chapter 3 And in verse number one, we see that Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. And he led the flock to the backside of the desert and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of the bush. And he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush. And said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not thy hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet. For the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. And he's going to speak to Moses. He's going to tell them that, or he's going to tell him that he has heard the cry of the people. He knows their sorrows, he's seen their affliction, and now he's going to call Moses to go and deliver the children of Israel from Egyptian bondage. And so this first call that we see, God calling to Moses, is a call to service. He's got a job for him to do, and uh and he calls him here in this passage. Now, turn with me to Exodus chapter 19. Exodus chapter 19. We'll look at this second call in Exodus chapter 19, verse number 3, if you will. Look there. The scripture says, And Moses went up unto God, and the Lord called unto him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel. Look down at verse number 20. And the Lord came down upon Mount Sinai. on the top of the mount, and the Lord called Moses up to the top of the mount, and Moses went up. And we understand that in chapter, beginning in chapter 20, the Lord is going to begin to give to him the commandments. Ten commandments followed by many, many others. Some would say six hundred and three others, after those original ten And so this time, when the Lord calls Moses, he's calling him to instruct him, to give him his words regarding the law to govern his people. And then the third call we find in Exodus chapter 24. Look there with me if you will. He calls to Moses, first of all, from the burning bush. The second time he calls from Mount Sinai. And the third time he calls from Mount Sinai again. In Exodus chapter 24, look with me in verse number 16. Well, look at verse 15. Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the mount. And the glory of the Lord abode upon Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days, and the seventh day he called unto Moses out of the midst of the cloud. And now this time he's calling Moses up because the children of Israel are needing to repent. And so it's a call to repentance. And we see the Lord calling Moses. That is, the Lord is in a certain place, and he's calling to Moses to come to that place. The fourth and final time is right here in Leviticus chapter 1. And this call is the Lord is calling Moses to come to him and notice the location that the Lord is calling him from. And calling him two. Back in Leviticus chapter 1, verse number 1, the Lord called unto Moses and spake unto him out of the tabernacle of the congregation. And so if you get a picture in your mind, you have the Lord inside the tabernacle, and you have Moses outside of the tabernacle And the Lord is calling to Moses to come to him so he can speak to him and give him instructions, not only for himself, but for the nation. And you say, what instructions are to follow? Well, we read the first nine verses of Leviticus chapter 1, and he starts off giving them the instructions concerning the burnt offerings. And there's five offerings that he covers. He'll cover the offerings, and then later he'll cover the priesthood, and he'll cover uh various laws regarding uh the uh the day of atonement and the s and the uh special feast days that they were to observe and regarding uh day-to-day life in in uh uh the uh in the life of the Israelites. And so Leviticus is it is another uh really a set of laws that God wants to give to them, but it's for a specific purpose That purpose is really, it's not so that God can be uh uh just in control of their everyday life. That's really not the purpose. although that is the means to the purpose. The purpose behind all of these laws, as a matter of fact, the purpose behind this book that we hold in our hands, the Bible, The purpose behind all of it is so that God can get us to a place where He can fellowship with us. It is God's great desire, and God's great design to have fellowship with mankind. If you want to go all the way back to the beginning, and you listen, people all the time they're asking, why are we even here? What is the meaning of life? What's the purpose of life? It can be summed up in this one statement: God wants to have fellowship with us. That's why we're created in his image. Ah, they say birds of a feather flock together. Right? Those of the same kind are drawn to one another. And the Lord created us in his image. For the express purpose of having fellowship with us. That's an amazing thing to comprehend. But it is his great desire. And from the beginning, when he made uh Adam and Eve in that garden Everything that he did, that that beautiful garden he put them in, and all the things that he put there, they were all to nurture that fellowship with God He would come down with them and walk with them in the cool of the evening. His great desire is to know you, and his desire is for you to know him. And here the people of Israel, they've been redeemed. They've been brought out of Egypt And they've crossed over, and they've they've they've uh they've entered into that covenant. They've been redeemed, listen, by the blood of the Lamb. A picture of salvation. Amen. And but but the Lord He says, Look, I didn't just I just I didn't just deliver you just to get you out of Egypt. He said, I delivered you, I brought you out that I might bring you in to a land of promise. Now listen, it it wasn't it wasn't even about the land. The land was a means for God to fellowship with his people. The blessings were a means for God to fellowship with his people and him to fellowship with him with him. It was always God's great design to have fellowship with with his people. Our lives and the blessings that we have in our life, we should not look at them. They are not the end Are for us that they are a means to an end. This book that we have, the Bible, it is a means to an end And that great end is to be in fellowship with God. So the Lord is calling Moses And he says, I want my people to be right. I want them to be pure. I want them to be holy so that we can have fellowship. And here are the laws that will help to guide them and keep them pure and holy and right. These are the sacrifices that I've provided for the times when they uh are not holy When they do unholy things, they have the sacrifice here that I provided a means, a way for them to get that right so that we can get back in fellowship. Here's the priesthood that I've anointed and I've called and I've sanctified. And the priesthood are there. Listen, they're there so that they can be the go between Between God and man and bring them together so that we can have fellowship. So this is God's word to his people on how they can have fellowship with him. It's interesting to me. In this first verse, that we see the Lord in the tabernacle, but Moses not in the tabernacle. Now Moses was the one that the Lord sent the design and the blueprints, if you will Of the tabernacle too. He said unto him, Moses, with the help of Bezalel and Aholiam Craftsmen that God had gifted to make the vessels and the things of the tabernacle, they had built the tabernacle And all the pieces and all the furniture in the tabernacle. They had built all those things in God's direction. By the way, that direction was it was given after the pattern of the one that's in heaven Isn't that amazing? There's a tabernacle up there. And it was built after that pattern. And so they they had been all around this thing. They had been working on this thing. I don't know exactly how long it took them to make this thing, but they got it all together, they built it, but now all of a sudden they're on the outside. You say, why is that? Well go back to Exodus chapter 40. We're going somewhere tonight. Here just just be patient Exodus chapter 40, look what it says here. Look in uh look in uh well you know what before we go there, let's go back to to Exodus 29. Okay? Can we go back there? Let's get a little bit more background here. We're talking about the tabernacle. And uh you say, why is the tabernacle so important? Why was it so important in the life of the believers? Well, uh in the life of Israel. Well, it's because that was the place that God had designed for for them to have fellowship with him in. Look at Exodus chapter 29. Look at verse number 42. Exodus 29. If I could get a glass of water, that would be a blessing. Exodus 29. Look at verse number 42. The Scripture says this shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. before the Lord. You'll find that phrase often in Scripture, in the in the law, when he's talking about the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the congregation. So it wasn't Moses ' tabernacle. It wasn't just Aaron's tabernacle. It was the tabernacle for all the people. And he had a specific purpose for it. He says the tabernacle before the Lord, or the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord, look at this. Where I will what meet you to speak there unto thee. A specific place that God said, I'll meet you there, and I'll speak to you there. Look at verse 43. And there I will meet with the children of Israel. And the tabernacle, look at this, shall be sanctified by my glory. Thank you. And I will sanctify the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar. I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons to minister to me in the priest's office. Look at verse number forty-five. And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God. And they shall know that I am the Lord their God that brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I may dwell among them. I am the Lord their God. You know what you see in these verses? God said, listen, I want to have fellowship with you, but there's there's there's got to be a place that is designed and designated for the express purpose of meeting with his children He said, and this place he's gonna he's gonna he's gonna meet with them, I'm gonna speak to you there, I'm gonna sanctify you there. I'm going to sanctify that place. I'm going to sanctify the altar. I'm going to sanctify Aaron and his sons so that they can minister to me. Hey, listen, ministers, we're ministering to God. First and foremost, your first ministry is God. He said, I I 'm I and in this place, everybody's going to be gathered here. I'm and and then Verse forty five is really where he gets to where what he's wanting uh to to uh to get to them. Verse forty five, and I will dwell among the children of Israel. What's the purpose of the tabernacle? It's not just so we can have a nice place with nice furniture. And there are some impressive things in that tabernacle. You go down through the the you know the the labor and the and the altar and the and the altar of incense and and the table of showbread and the golden candlestick and the mercy seat And the Ark of the Covenant, all those things in there, my they're so impressive. But without God, they're nothing. God sanctified all those things. They were special because of God's presence. They were special because of God's power. The the tabernacle you know what tabernacle means? Ten He said, What do you mean for sure? I mean, if there was nothing special about it except God. God made it special. And all of those things and those things that God had given them, th they were just means to get the people to God and to get God to the people. Fellowship. That's what he's looking for. He uses words like meet, speak, sanctify, dwell, and know. Know No, I'm afraid these days in which we live, very few people know God. We know about God. So you you are you saying there's not people saved? I do believe there's more people lost than what we think. But I believe I believe there's some people that know Christ as Savior, but they don't really know God. See what do you mean, preacher? I mean they don't they don't hear his voice They're not daily in communion with him. He 's not the loudest voice in their ear when it comes to circumstances and decisions in their life. He's a tachon. He's an add-on. He's a genie in a bottle when I get in trouble. Listen, the God of the Bible is so much more than that. He's a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. He's a counselor. He's the Prince of Peace. He's the mighty God. He's the everlasting Father. You know, I I thank God for my dad. The preacher was asking me today about my dad. I love my dad. My dad's seventy-eight years old. And I'm getting to the point where every time I get to spend with him, I cherish that. Because I don't know how many more times I'm going to get to spend with him. He's a good father. I thank God for a godly father. He reads his Bible. He reads his Bible through every two months. 78 years old. Reads his Bible through every two months. He reads the New Testament every month. Psalms every month. Proverbs every month. He's working on something right now. He bought Bibles for all of his sons, grandsons, and great-grandsons, and he's going through each one of them, reading them, marking them, to leave for them. My dad has nothing. He lives in a he lives in low income housing. He was a preacher all his life, and he had no retirement. So he won't leave me any money. He might leave me some bills. He won't leave me any money. But I'd rather have a godly heritage of a man as a father who loved God, walked with God, and he's going to leave me a Bible that he read through and he prayed over. Thank God for that. I thank God for my Father. But you know what? One of these days, unless the Lord comes back beforehand, he's going to take his last breath. He's going to pass on into heaven. You know what? And many of you have been through this. Your dad is gone, but you still have a present father. An everlasting father. That's our God. He's not just The unknown God up there up in heaven somewhere and you can't really see him and you can't really know him. No, he's an everlasting Father. He's an ever-present help in time of trouble. You ought to get to know him. So he said, This is this this tabernacle here that I've that I've designed for you I hope you enjoy it, but I hope you also know that it's just a means. That it's just a way that I can be among you. You say, why can't he just be in the camp? Well, there's sin in the camp. There has to be a holy place where the Lord can come and dwell. Go to chapter 40 now in Exodus chapter 40. Look at it with me if you will. Look at verse number 16. Exodus chapter 40, look at verse 16. Look what the scripture says here. Thus did Moses. Then you see the dot dot there. That means it's going to tell us what he did. According to all that the Lord commanded him, so did he. That's good. Amen. And it's talking about, it's in the context of the tabernacle. Look at verse number 33. And he reared up the court, round about the tabernacle and the altar, set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished the work. Now look at verse 34. Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. But when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward in all their journeys. So we see what happens here as they finished the work that God had given them to do with the tabernacle. And he had promised them, if you'll build this house, I'll dwell in it. So when they finished the work and that last bit of work was completed, God's glory filled that place. And as a result of God filling that place, Moses and all flesh had to go out. You say, wait a minute, preacher, I thought the idea was that there would be a place where God could dwell with them and have fellowship with them. That is the idea. The problem is God's a holy God and man's unholy. And so when God's glory filled that place, even the great Moses, the meekest man on the earth, even the great Moses had to leave. Even the priests who were consecrated for the work of the tabernacle, even they had to leave And so that brings us to Leviticus chapter 1. Here's the Lord in the tabernacle and the people without. But I'm glad, aren't you glad that even though the people were without and God was within, that's not the end of the story. Because in that condition the Lord calls unto Moses and he says, Come unto me, I've got some instructions for you. There is a way to be in fellowship with God. There is a way to be close to him. But in this wicked world which we live, it's at times it seems almost impossible. To live for God and to live right and to be close to the Lord. There's everything trying to tear us away from fellowship with God. Listen, friends, through Christ, there is a way to be close to God. There is sufficient blood and grace to wash away our sins, to restore our fellowship with Him. I'm so thankful that the Lord made a way. He lays out here in this book As we've mentioned, the sacrifices and the priesthood and the Day of Atonement and the law and the righteous things and the holy things. And from man's standpoint, we look at these things as I'm sure the Israelites did. They look at and think, well, I can never keep all those laws. And I never be holy enough to get in God's presence? Why even try? But listen , Where God guides, God provides. And you know what we're going to see is as you go through the book of Leviticus, you know what you see? The offering is there. The offering is Christ. The priest is there. The priest is Christ. The atonement's there, the atonement 's Christ. The rest is there. The rest is Christ. The way is there. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto God but by me. Under the Father, but by me. He is the way. He is the truth. He is the light. Listen, friend, not just for the salvation of the soul, but for the cleansing and for the filling and for the righteousness. He is our ways of fellowship with God. How do I draw nigh to the Father? You draw nigh to the Son. First John tells us that we have fellowship with the Son. Look at it with me, if you will. First John chapter one. First John chapter one, verse number one Says this that which was from the beginning Which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon and our hands have handled. Now listen, you know I used to read this verse and think, well, you know, it must have been nice for John. Right? John got to see Jesus. John got to lean his head upon the Savior's breast. He got to hear the heartbeat of the Lord Jesus. His hands got to handle him. All of these things. And I thought, well, that must have been nice for him. Till I realized the end of this verse, he says Which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. Hey, it's not just John that gets to handle the word and gets to see the word. Look what it says. Listen, this is God's word, it's eternal. When he says we, he means we Amen. Now I'm reading this in twenty twenty-four. If that's even the real calendar date, who even knows? But it doesn't matter. God knows. It doesn't matter what age you're reading this We have seen, we've heard, we've seen, we've handled the word of life. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. Verse 2, for the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us, and truly. Our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ, and these things write we unto you that your joy may be full. Well you know listen, I think about in those those days of Leviticus when they would that that that that sin would take place in the heart or in the hands or in the life, and you know that guilt would come upon the heart and upon the life, and they would uh they would feel that separation from God and they would have that sacrifice And they put their faith that that sacrifice would restore that fellowship with God. And that joy could come back. Listen, friend, if they could have if they could have that faith in just a lamb or a goat or a bullet, surely we can have faith in our sufficient Savior, the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, who taketh away the sin of the world, that he can restore fellowship tonight. No Look with me at one other text, Numbers chapter 1. We saw at the end of Leviticus, or the end of Exodus rather. That God was on the inside of the tabernacle, and Moses had to leave. And we see in Leviticus that God's still on the inside. Moses is on the outside. But now we get down to the end of the book of Leviticus after God has made clear the way in The way into fellowship with God. And look at Numbers chapter 1 and verse number 1. Look what the scripture says. And the Lord spake unto Moses. He didn't call him this time. He spake unto him. You know why? So you'll see. He spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai. In the tabernacle of the congregation. It started out, the Lord was on the inside, Moses had to be on the outside, the people were on the outside. But God shows them the way in, the way into fellowship, the way into peace. And now we see at the beginning of the next book, they're no longer on the outside, they're on the inside. He is our way in. Not just to eternal life, but also to abundant life You want to have fellowship with God tonight? Jesus Christ has bridged the gap between you and God. And he is the way in. Maybe there is sin in your heart And you've despaired of getting right with God because you feel like you are not capable of taking care of that thing. Let me just agree with you there. You are incapable of taking care of that thing. But if you will bring that thing to the Lord The Lord Jesus, our great high priest, can intercede on your behalf and restore that fellowship to God. Listen, these people that he's speaking to in Leviticus, these are people that have already been delivered from Egypt. They don't need redemption. They've already been redeemed. I'll tell you what they do need. They need fellowship. They th they need an unhindered communion with God. And Jesus Christ is the one who can provide that. And he's the only one who can provide that. Draw nigh unto God. He'll draw nigh unto you. Maybe you feel far from the Lord tonight. Listen. His great desire is that you would be near to him. I can't tell you how thrilled I was. I think I mentioned Saturday. I mentioned yesterday about Saturday. And how I w Rachel and I we got to spend the whole day with Brookie I was glad. I was glad. I I told the no I don't know if I told you this part, but if I did just act like I had I hadn't. Okay So we're taking care of her and I can tell she's getting sleepy. And Nanny says, I want to tidy up here around the around the camper here. Granddad, why don't you take Brookie and see if you can put her to sleep? I said, well, I don't know, I don't think I'm gonna be very good at this. You know, grandad's I mean I'm I'm I'm the toy, right? We play. Little sleep, we play And so I start walking outside. I take her outside and we're walking and she's reaching out and touching the leaves and she pulls a little leaf there and she's holding it just like that. I'm watching her hold that and I'm telling her, God made that rookie God made that leaf. God made these trees. God made you. God loves you. She's looking at it. I don't know if she understands anything I'm saying, but I'm gonna say it anyway. And she's starting to get sleepy and her head just all of a sudden kind of leans into my head. I'm holding her up here like this, kinda leans in, and she's looking at that leaf. Pretty soon I see the hand go still and the head get heavier and the leaf drops down. She's out. And I thought of that moment, you know, we drove forty minutes or something from here over to there, and I thought I'd have driven all night long for that moment. And I'll tell you why. Because I love her. I love her. These children I love my children. And because I love them, you know what I want? I want to be close to them. I want them close to me. And not just physically I want emotionally, spiritually, I want to be close to them because I love them. Listen, your Heavenly Father loves you even more than you love your children or grandchildren. Even more than you love the the closest one to you on this earth. The Lord loves you more than that. And his great desire is for you to be close. He wants you close. He wants you to be able to hear his heartbeat. He wants you to be able to talk to him at any time, in any circumstance. He wants to be able to talk to you at any time, any circumstance. He wants to draw you close. He's calling. Maybe you're on the outside of that tabernacle because you've allowed things to get between you and God. And there's the fellowship's broken and you're thinking there's no way I'm ever going to make it in there. Look at all these laws, look at all the uh I could never do that. Listen, he wanted it bad enough To be close to you that he sent his son to die for your sins. And listen, he ever liveth to make intercession for us. The Lord Jesus is the way in. He's the way to fellowship. He's not going to turn you away He's not going to push you away. He's not going to say, hey, you came to me about this last month. Hey, you said you weren't going to do this again. No, you know what he's gonna say? Come on, let's take care of this. Let's take care of it. I've got just the thing to take that stain out. Why don't you come? Why don't you draw nigh? Just get close. It may seem impossible to you, but with God, all things are possible. Let's stand together. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for calling us