As he sees his son. Lord Jesus Christ. I want you to open your Bibles to the little book of Jude And I want to read the entire book. And I'm going to invite you to stand with me, if you would, please, the little book of Jude. I appreciate you being in the evening meeting. Good to see each one of you here. uh for the service this evening and I wonder how many of you how many of you got your naps in. How many of you didn't get a nap? All right. You folks that got a nap, watch that outfit that didn't. And if they go to sleep, bump them or something, okay? Just don't throw any hymn books, please. Alright, the little book of Jude, look what the Bible says. Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ. and brother of James to them that are sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ and called. Mercy unto you, and peace and love be multiplied. Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation , It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old, ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men Turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness and denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. I will therefore put you in remembrance, though you once knew this, how that the Lord having saved the people out of the land of Egypt afterward destroyed them that believed not. And the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness, under the judgment of that of the great day. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication and going after strange flesh, are set forth for an example. suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities. Yet Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses , durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. But these speak evil of those things which they know not. But what they know naturally as brute beasts, in those things they corrupt themselves. Woe unto them! For they've gone in the way of Cain and ran greedily after the heir of Balaam for reward and perished in the game-saying of Korah. These are spots in your feasts of charity. When they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear, clouds they are without water, carried about of winds. trees whose fruit withereth without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots, raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame, wandering stars to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints to execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed, and all all of their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. These are murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lust, and their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons in admiration because of advantage Now notice verse 17, there's a shift here. But, beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. How that they told you there should be mockers in the last time who should walk after their own ungodly lusts. These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the Spirit But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost, keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. And of some have compassion, making a difference, and others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment spotted by the flesh Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. To the only wise God our Savior be glory and majesty, dominion and power both now and ever. And God's people said Amen. Heavenly Father, as we open your word, in mercy, Lord, would you open our hearts? Would you speak to us in the fashion that only you can? Lord, we humble ourselves before you acknowledging our great need. We thank you, Lord, for these that have gathered, for the privilege to gather so freely, to be able to open our Bibles and read aloud the precious Word of God. Thank you, Lord, for the very voice of he from heaven in this book, and we bless your name for the Bible. And I pray tonight, O Lord, that you would just give us what we need, and we'll give you all the glory, for our eyes are on thee. And we wait before thee. We say like Samuel of old, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. And Father, for what you do, we'll give you the glory, for we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. Thank you. Here is a powerful little book Someone has said that the book of Acts could be called, it is called the Acts of the Apostles. But the little book of Jude could be called the Acts of the Apostates. It is the acts of those that have turned their back on God. And the primary focus of this little book is written about those that deny the faith, that turn away from the Lord, that reject the truth. I'll give you just a brief outline here. In the first verses we find the characteristics of the false teachers. That's really what verses 1 to 10 cover. After the greeting, of course. The characteristics of the false teachers, and it tells us who they are. It tells us what they are, their character. And then we see in verses 11 to 13 the content. of their message. What is the message of the false teacher? And he uses several Old Testament illustrations to describe just who and what they are and what they believe. You say, well, preacher, I don't need to know what false teachers believe. Well, we do, because you and I cannot spot the false unless we know what it is that they teach. And we're told very clearly here in this little book just exactly they uh again it says they go in the way of Cain. Remember, the primary thing about Cain was that he was, he believed in a bloodless religion. He offered the fruit of the ground, the works of his hands. He said, I'm going to give you God what I can do. How many of you know what you can do is not enough? The only thing that'll save you is what Jesus did. Not what you do, but what Jesus did. And when Jesus died on the cross and shed his blood, he opened a way for you and I to be saved. But Cain said, no, I'll do it my way. I'll go my way. I'll offer my works. And my friend, our works are never good enough. So we see here that they went in the way of Cain, and they ran greedily after the error of Balaam. They ran after the error of Balaam. Notice what it says. He tells us what his error was for reward. That's what he was after. He was after reward. And so he ran after the uh error of Balaam. And then they perished in the game saying of Korah. And you'll remember that Korah was one of those that his band rose up and they rejected the God-established authority. And so again, I want you to see tonight the content of their message. Josiah, I'm going to ask you, I see a lot of fans moving. So I'm going to ask you to get the the uh remote and turn all of these off in here, please. Thank you. And then I want you to notice not only the content of their message and the characteristics of their teachers But boy, verses 14 and 16 to verse 16 have some strong language because in this portion we see the condemnation that will come. There's some condemnation to come. The Bible makes it clear that the Lord is going to come in judgment. Do you see that in verse 15? He's going to execute judgment upon all. Look what it says. To convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds, which they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches, which ungodly sinners have spoken against him You know what he said? God's going to deal with the ungodly. And I'm going to tell you something. I would not want to be ungodly in that day. Because God said He's going to deal with that sort of thing. And so then I want you to see not only the characteristics of the false teachers and the content of their message and the condemnation that will come But I kind of want to park right here tonight and look at the charge to the believer. The charge to the believer. I want to speak to us who are saved by the grace of God and who are what I believe can be labeled as last days Christians. You know, uh growing up I've heard about the coming of the Lord. I've heard it preached and I've heard it taught and I've heard things said like uh, you know, there's going to come a falling away, there's going to Come this great turning from truth. And I'm going to tell you something. It's not coming. It's already here. I'm not, we're not sitting here looking for it. We're sitting here living in it. We're living right in the middle of this thing. And my friend, listen, you and I need to know something. God has spoken to us about what to do in days like this. He's given us great instructions on some things that are important that I need to remember living in these last days how I need the Lord's help. Let me give you a few things here This evening as we begin. Let me say number one. Just mark these. This this covers verses 17 , really to the end of the chapter. But here's the charge from God's precious word. Number one, remember the words. Just remember the words The Bible says it here very clearly, beginning in verse number 17, but beloved. Now, listen, he's not talking to the apostates anymore. He's not talking about those that have denied the faith. When he uses that little term of endearment, he says, beloved. You know who he's talking to? He's talking to the saved. He's talking to you and I who are born again. By the way, can I just throw this in here? You and I need to learn to know the difference between the voice of God and the voice of the enemy. I'm going to tell you, God talks to you differently than the devil does. The Spirit of God speaks to you in terms, listen now, in terms of endearment. Can I say it like this? God's not going to call you a knucklehead, even though you might act like one. God's gonna call he's gonna you're his son. You're his child. You're part of his family And he, you know something? When God talks to his children, he speaks with terms of endearment. Here Jude say, beloved. Beloved. He's talking to the believer now. Now watch this, but but beloved, look, remember ye the words. Remember ye the words I want you to notice here that as a last days believer, one of the things I need to do is I need to remember the words I need to remember, can I say this very clearly here? I need to remember the words, look what he says, which were spoken before. Of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. We need to remember, you know what he's referring to? He's referring basically to the New Testament. He's saying, remember the words of the New Testament. Remember the words that were spoken by these apostles. Remember what they said to you. How many of you know the words are important? The words, every word. My Bible tells me that every word of God is inspired. And so the words are critical. What the Lord said, and listen, every word we need to understand that when the Lord communicated something, he used words to communicate and know this. Those words that were spoken are critical that we remember them. You say, preacher, why is it so important that I remember the words? Here's why. Because Remember what Jesus even said about his words, the words I speak unto you, they are life. Do you know where the life is? It's in the Word. There's life in here, folks. And if you're going to have life in you, you've got to get the life of the Word in you. You've got to hear His words. Remember His words. You know what that tells me? There's going to be a lot of trouble concerning the Word of God in the last days. See, the devil's no fool. He knows what you need. You know that? He knows what you need And and and because he knows what you need, he's going to fight you on getting what you need. And my friend, when it comes to the word, there's going to be a battle. How many of you have ever noticed that, you know, for instance, coming to the house of God When you get ready to come to church, have you ever noticed what a struggle it may be? You can go anywhere under the sun, but when it comes time to go to church, it's a whole different story. I mean everything in the world is going to come against you, and you're going to have every reason not to come. You know why? Because there's some words that'll help you. And the devil don't want you to get those words. You ever sat down to read your Bible? Now you could probably read anything else, you could probably do anything else for any extended period of time, and you start reading the Bible and your old flesh starts going. You know what that is? That's the battle over this, because you know why there's life in this. There's life in this, and the devil don't want you to get this. Jesus talked about it when you the sower, the parable of the sower, and when that sower went out to sow seed, there was a great battle for that seed. That was the battle. The battle was for the seed. Now the soil was different, but there was a battle for the seed. And the first thing that happened is the seed that was sown, the birds came and picked up picked up the seed. I believe that's the picture of the devil and all the distractions that he uses to steal the seed out of your heart. See , the devil doesn't want you to get the words. Here's what I'm saying, dear believer, in these last days, remember the words. Remember the words that were spoken. And then he gets very specific here, and he says in verse number 18, look at it, how that they told you. What'd they tell you? There'd be mowkers in the last time, who should walk after their own ungodly lust. Do you realize that what you're seeing today is nothing but a fulfillment of what you've already been told? I know we look at it and we say, well, man, I can't believe it. I've stopped saying that because it really is an indictment on me. I should believe it because God's already told me about it. And he's told us some things. There's some specific things. He's told us, listen to what he's told us. Evil men will wax worse and worse. The Bible tells me that the deceivers will be go forward and they'll continue to deceive and they'll be being deceived. The Bible tells me that seducers will prosper, if you will, and go forward. And again, he's telling us all these things. These are things that you need to know that are coming. Please don't be surprised when the Lord's word is fulfilled. Please don't be shocked when what he's told you starts to happen. I believe with all my heart that what you hold in your hands in the Word of God is more current than tomorrow's newspaper. The the updates that you'll get on the, you know, breaking news and all of that, those things that you'll hear about. Man, they're behind. They're behind because you know what? Right here's the answer. Right here's what it'll tell you what's coming. The Bible tells us, remember that. Remember the words. Hear this end-time believer. Remember the words. Remember what the Lord said. I want you to know something very unusual here in verse 19. This thing of being separate. Look what it says. Verse 19 These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the Spirit Now there's a doctrine called biblical separation, a Bible doctrine that tells you and I as Christians we need to stay away from evil. That we need to live a separated life. By the way, it's not just about from, it's what we're separated to. We come apart that we might go in. We separate from that we might be united to. We leave the world and all of its things behind so that we might have fellowship with God and enter into a closeness with the Lord. But that's not what this is talking about. It's talking about, listen now, the isms and the schisms that are fleshly motivated. They separate themselves, be insensual, having not the spirit. In other words, they form their little group and they form their little band and they say, now this is this is this is who we are and this is what we believe and this is what direction we're going. And it's carnality. It's not led by the Spirit of God. Now I'll tell you what, this Bible draws a line and it draws it real clear. The Bible's not a vague book. But listen, he's not talking about drawing lines where God draws lines. He's talking about drawing lines where where flesh draws lines, where where sensuality draws lines, where those personalities draw lines. I was talking to some missionaries. I said, tell some of your weird stories. What happened? We were sitting around the table. And I said, You men tell us. Tell us what it's like to be a missionary. He said, I showed up at a church and they didn't like the cut of my tie and they made me change. I said, your necktie? He said, yes, sir. He he had a different sort of tie, you know. Uh I don't know what it was. He never elaborated, but he said it didn't fit, and so they had a whole rack of ties and and they went in there and got one that matched my suit and put it on and then let me present my work. You know what that is? That's isms and schisms. That's separating ourselves out of sensuality. Now there are things I don't like. I must be honest with you. There are things I don't like But I don't have any right to bring what I like and what I don't like into the body of the Lord Jesus Christ because I've given a manual to draw the lines, and God doesn't need my little pencil coloring in his places. The schisms and isms, man, they can get big. They can be a big deal. Some of you old enough to remember back when wire rim glasses were taboo In independent churches, man. People that that is just something they'd jump on. Something they'd jump on. And and and those are just minor ones. I think there are some that are even a little bit major that that we oftentimes get hung up in and by the way uh they don't they don't have anything to do with the word of God. They have everything to do with the personalities involved. And we say, listen, if you don't get my little ism or schism And I'll tell you what, that stuff's flesh. Our God's bigger than all that stuff. The Bible is more clear than all of that. And you can't put your ism and schism in the pages of this book. And if you can't put it in the pages of this book, don't put it in your heart and life. So remember the words. Church, remember the words. In these last days, remember the words. Go back to the words. Read the word. Meditate on the word. Memorize the word. Familiarize yourself with the word. Study the word. Saturate yourself with the word. Because in these last days, you're going to need to remember the words. Number two, let me say this. Not only do you need to remember the words, but build up yourselves. Look what he says in verse 20. But ye, beloved , building up yourselves on your most holy faith Praying in the Holy Ghost. Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. Building up yourself. Do you see that? This is a personal responsibility God's given you, Christian. You're to build up yourself. You're to spiritually form muscles. You're to spiritually grow strong. You have a responsibility to take care of yourself spiritually and build up yourself. As the Bible says here in several ways, number one, you're to build up your faith. Notice he calls it holy faith, most holy faith. Build up your faith. Build up your faith. You know why? Because the devil's gonna tear it down. The devil's trying to tear it down. Everything that we're hearing in our culture is a questioning of the Word of God. That's what it is. It's a question. It's saying now, is God really going to do all those things he said? Is God really going to keep his promises? And the erosive questioning of creation with this thing called evolution. I I love it that the deeper this thing goes and the more they study, they're they're starting to find out. I I was reading a um A Biblical Archaeology Review. Short they call it bar, okay? But the Biblical Archaeology Review, and they had found a skull in it It was shaped different than what they thought it should be, and they dated it much older, and they said, hmm, maybe man was more developed than we thought at an earlier time. I said, yeah. So developed that when God made him in the garden, perfect man , made him just like you and I. And uh created man. I I I don't believe that man went through cavemen stages and all of that foolishness. I believe that's just a a a to a tool of the devil, a ploy of the devil And by the way, you can find a bone and write any narrative you want to around it, depending on what viewpoint you look at. Huh? My son was little, he'd find something in the woods and he'd come up with the most elaborate tale you ever heard. Dad, I found a bone and I'm sure it belonged to Bigfoot. And and it had to be Bigfoot, I'm telling you, Dad, it must have been. It just wasn't like anything else, and on and on. That narrative, you can make anything say what you want it to say When you don't have the whole picture. But aren't you glad you got the whole picture? I don't need a pile of bones and I don't need a dig in in the dirt. I've got the word of God. And my Bible says, in the beginning God created Evolution is one of those narratives. The role of men and women, the the the very fact of gender And the present-day confused narrative is nothing short of abuse to a generation of plunging them into confusion. God made you how He made you. He made you what He made you. And He did it on purpose. He did it on purpose. You may not know the purpose, but He did it on purpose. I was reading some material recently that's being used in the first, second, and third grades across the country. I don't believe it's here in Maryland. But it is in several other states and and it it it is nothing man if I'd have read that I'd have been as confused as a two-headed woodpecker in a rock quarry. I wouldn't have known which end was up Because it makes you ask questions. Do you ever feel like? And then it goes on to you know all the feelings you might have. Well, if you have certain feelings, if if you have uh if you have feelings in this way, well maybe you're not what you think you are. You know what all that is? That's confusion. And all that confusion does is create little children that just aren't sure, well maybe Maybe perhaps, I don't know. What am I? Who am I? And I'm glad to tell you, my friend, that you've got a Bible that tells you all of that, and you need to build up yourselves on your most holy faith. You better get back in your Bible and get sure about some things because the devil's going to be constantly saying, Are you sure? And when you can turn to chapter and verse and say, yeah, right here, I'm real sure. Because my Bible tells me so. You call that narrow if you want to, but I want to be about as narrow as this old Bible I carry in my hands. But let me say quickly, number two, we need to build up ourselves not only in our faith. But we need to build up our prayer lives. Notice what he says, praying in the Holy Ghost. If I could put this in a way that we understand, it's pray until you pray. It's praying until you pray. That's what James 5. 16 talks about. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Pray until you pray. Praying until there's a prayer, a prayer that's formulated and presented and put before God, enabled by the Spirit of God. That kind of praying needs to be resurrected in this day. And last days believer, you need to build yourself up in that kind of praying. And it's not going to happen in two-minute prayer sessions. It's going to require time. It's going to cause you and I to stop just a minute and say, now Lord, I need some help here. You ever find yourself just in a hurry gear? Anybody else, I mean I'm confessing now. A hurry gear. I was praying the other day and I was in hurry gear. And when I got done, my heart just said, you didn't pray. And the Spirit of God didn't help none when he said, son, you didn't pray. Oh, I know I prayed, but I was in hurry gear. The Lord said, let's do that again in a slower way. Slow down. Listen. Build up yourselves in prayer, praying in the Holy Ghost. We need to pray, church. My heart's been stirred over these days that we be a people of prayer and a church of prayer, and there's some things God's stirred my heart about that I want to share with you in the days ahead about prayer and some things that we need to be doing about prayer. Folks, listen, we're not going to make it if we're not a praying church. I can't get my head around this. While we're leaving the prayer meetings, while we're abandoning that, we're not praying more, we're praying less. And while we're discounting that thing. I told you this morning about the brother whose church, 12 people, that's all that meet for prayer out of a 200 people congregation. Something's wrong. Something's wrong. A little church in a in a in a in a county with probably 180 at least independent Baptist churches, and it's the only church that has Sunday night and Wednesday night. Pastor say pray at home. Pray with your family. Well listen, pray at home, pray with your family. I hope you're praying at home and I hope you're praying with your family But there is nothing like meeting with the people of God and praying one for another. You know when I saw Sister Donna in here this this morning, you know what she is? She's answered a prayer. A lot of you people prayed for that lady, and August the sixth, I believe it was On a Sunday morning is when that happened and we were here in this place and got the call about her uh falling and and they didn't know what was going on, then they And come to find out a brain tumor and all of that. And she's gone through all those surgeries, or through the surgery and gone through all of that. And now here she is. I was talking to her and she said, quite frankly, I'm fine. And you know what that is? That's an answer to prayer. And some of you sitting here are nothing but answers to prayers of the people of God who interceded on your behalf. And it may be spiritually you were going astray. It may have been physically you were in some danger. I don't know what it is, but somebody prayed for you. And those prayers made a difference, not only in heaven, but down here on earth. And God changed your life through prayer. Build that up. Don't let the devil tear it down. A man that's too busy to praise just plain too busy. Building yourselves up. Praying in the Holy Ghost. Build yourselves up. Look at this. In the love of God. Look what he says. Keep yourselves in the love of God. Now that doesn't mean I got to keep the Lord loving me. No, no. My Bible says I'm loved with an everlasting love. He loved me and gave himself for me. God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners. How can you make somebody love you more who loved you as a low-down rotten sinner who was in rebellion against God? You can't make him love you more. You can't make him love you less. But I'll tell you what you can do. You can keep yourselves in the love of God. You can keep yourselves in that place where your heart is tender towards the love of God. And listen, where you're captivated by it. I don't know about you, but um How many of you, can I ask this question, and I'm gonna ask it in a vague way so you nobody's offended, but how many of you are fifty and older? You fifty and older Can I ask you a question? Something happened to you when you got in your fifties. Do things just aggravate you didn't aggravate you before? Do you get irritated? I mean, help me now. I'm new to this. I find these things different about me that just Andy just aren't like they used to be. I could put I could put up with a lot of stuff at one time, but I I just can't do that quite like I used to. And you know what I find as the world gets darker and men get more wicked, that there's an irritation and an aggravation in my spirit. That's very near the surface. And if I'm not careful, I'll get out of the love of God. And instead of being captivated by the love of God, I'll be agitated by the wickedness of men. Keep yourselves. Build yourselves up in the love of God. Most men are going to be wicked till the end of time. And darkness is going to abound, and evil men are going to get worse. But my God and his love is unchanging. And if anything captivates my spirit, it needs to be the love of God. I could live my whole life agitated and irritated and never help anybody. But when I get captivated by the love of Christ, what'd Paul say? The love of Christ constraineth me. Listen, if anybody could have been agitated and irritated by the world they lived in, it was the Apostle Paul. When he moved in those pagan cities, you hadn't seen nothing like what Paul faced. The perversion and filth that was in the street. I mean, it was just commonplace in the culture. And yet here's a friend who had a message on his heart, had the gospel in his lips and a tear in his eye, and said, these people need Christ. And if I'm not careful, I'll look at this world and I'll say, Oh Lord, how evil men are, how wicked, I'll grow agitated and irritated, instead of being captivated by God's love and being broken and saying, Oh God, they need you. They need you. I'm gonna tell you something. I was like that once as you were too. And I'm thankful that someone loved me enough to give me the gospel. And the gospel made all of the difference. Captivated by the love of God. And then notice this, number four, we need to build up our anticipation. Look what he says, looking for. The mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. Build that up What are you expecting? Be careful about this thing. There's some people so wrapped up in trying to figure out who the Antichrist is, they've forgotten it's Christ who's coming. Who cares who the Antichrist is in a real sense? I'm not looking for him. I don't have anything to do with him. He's not, he's not, he doesn't have anything to do with me I'm the Lord's. I'm looking for the Lord. I'm anticipating. And you know what? I need to keep that spirit of expectation alive Looking for, looking for the mercy. By the way, Paul, excuse me, Jude is just saying it's another way of talking about the Lord's coming. The mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ under eternal life. So build that up. Build that up. Believe what the Bible says. Keep your eyes on the teaching of the Word of God and be looking for the person of Jesus Christ. Build yourself up that way. Number three. Not only do we need to remember the words. We need to build up ourselves. By the way, nobody else can build up for you I wish they could. I'm going to tell you something. If I could hire somebody to do my exercising, I'd do it. You know who I'd hire? Jessica, I'd hire Jason He'd do a good job. I'd say, listen, I'd pa I'd pay him to do my exercise. And if it benefited me, man, if we had to plug in a port or however we could do it, and he'd do my exercise, wouldn't that be good? Wouldn't that be good? You remember play we were playing talking about playing b ball and we were playing baseball there after church and I noticed some of these old guys and they were going around they they were given loonies and tunies, that's that would be one and two dollar bills worth. They were giving loonies and tunies to the young boys who had run for them. They wanted to swing the bat, but they were too old to run. And so they would swing the bat. I saw they give, hey, I'll give you a tunie if you'll run for me. And if you were a fast kid, you'd make some good money at a church ball game. Because they'd hire you to run the bases. So they'd slip them a loony or toonie. And here they go. Down the base. But listen, you can't hire somebody to build up your faith. Your spirituality is your spirituality. Hey, husband and wife. You are one in the eyes of God, but in this matter, your husband can't build you up, wife. Wife You can't build up your husband. This is a singular thing. This thing you've got to do. Oh, you can help each other along your journey, but I'm saying that we have a personal responsibility to be building up ourselves in our most holy faith. Now let me finish here and say this. Number three, not only remember the words, building up yourselves, but make a difference. Don't forget to make a difference. Don't be a fatalist. Don't be someone that digs a hole and hides in it and says, Jesus comes soon. Don't be an individual who disengages so from society that we're no longer touching lost people's lives. Look what he says. And of some, verse 22, have compassion, making a difference. And others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. Make a difference, church. Jesus said, You are the light of the world. You are the salt of the earth. That's who you are. And what good does light do if it doesn't shine? What good does salt do if it has lost its saltiness? What good is it? What good are those things that are meant to preserve and to point the way if they're not being utilized? I'm just saying, oh, I know it's the last days, but here's what I also know. I know that in these last days, God's still saving sinners. God is still able to work in men's hearts. God can reach those that you think are unreachable. God can do the work in people's hearts that it seems impossible. And it thrilled me, it thrilled me to be in my nephew's church and see so many young people. Most of the people are twenty-five and under now. Been reached recently. They're brand new. They're babies in Jesus. They don't know anything. They believe what the Bible says. And and and what I like uh enjoyed about it is you could show them in the Bible and they they took the Word of God for what it was, the Word of God. And there was a hunger and a thirsting. And I thought, you know something? We walk around saying there's just no hope for this generation. Here's a little church out in the country that's proven otherwise. Brother Bell said there was a lady praying for their ministry and she called. She's a she is physically infirm and all she does is pray. She'll pray eight and ten hours a day. And she called him and said, What do you want me to pray for? And he said, I want you to pray for souls. He said, We haven't reached young people. We want to reach some young people. We want to see some young people get saved. You had a young man there in the church and he got a burden for his football team. And Brother Bell said, they started to pray, and this lady was praying. And he said three weeks after she called him in that evening service, the entire football team that where that boy went to school, Sanford High, that entire football team was sitting in Calvary Baptist Church. And one by one they started getting saved. Do you realize nearly all of them now, there's there's maybe four or five that aren't saved yet, but many of them have been saved, and they're bold as tigers. He said they have a meeting, they were sitting around the table, and he's going around and he said, Now, he because he can't keep it straight. He said, Are you saved? And uh boy said, Yeah, I'm saved. He said, You saved? Yeah. Are you saved? And this boy kind of hesitated and he started to say yes. And one of his buddies said, Now don't lie to the preacher. You're not saved. Just admit it And he dropped his head and said, Yeah, I'm not saved. Next one, you say, Yeah, I'm saved. Next one. He didn't dare. He said, No, I'm not. They went around. But they're studying the Bible? Now if you believe the devil, you know what you believe? If you if you're listening, if you're listening to the lies of the enemy, nobody's interested. Nobody wants to hear it. I got news for you. That's not true. You can still make a difference. You can still make a difference. Notice the Bible says some use compassion. Some use compassion. There are some people you're not going to reach. unless you're compassionate with them. You just gotta have to show them compassion. Man, they're in a mess. Their lives are in a mess. Their world's in a mess. And they need somebody to love them enough to say, hey, the Lord will make a difference. But then he said, others saved with fear pulled him out of the fire. There are some that are so hardened sinners. And by the way, you better learn to listen to the Holy Ghost, because if you deal with everybody the same old way, you're not going to make much of a difference. Because some you use compassion, some you save you save with fear. Some you do like I said that old preacher did about that man that come up there always, you know, coming, getting right, getting right, getting right. Preacher put him on the spot and said, hey, make up your mind, buddy. Just either get right or get in. Get in or get out. As a preacher I know, he traveled around. He was uh asked to come visit a uh a family And this man was just mean. He was just a hateful old thing and he was hard. And uh and he said, you know, preacher witnessed to him, tried to give him the gospel. And that man wouldn't listen. He got down on his knees. The preacher did, and he said, I'm going to pray for you. He laughed. He said, All right, pray for me. He said, I just took a hold of that man's ankle as I was down there praying And I said, God, this man thinks this is a joke. I'm asking you right now, Lord, would you just let this man know it this isn't a joke? And dear Lord, if he's not going to get saved, just take him on to hell right now. And that man said, Ho, ho, hold on a minute. He said, don't pray like that. He said, why not? You think this is a joke? Well he said, let's talk about it. Let's talk about it. Now look, you do that and not the Holy Ghost not tell you to do that, somebody might thump you on the head. Or you might you might drive somebody away. But the Holy Ghost might tell you. You're going to have to save with fear. Pull them out of the fire. And notice this third thing here. Make a difference by hating the flesh. Notice he says, hating even the garment. Spotted by the flesh. Hating even the garment. I thought, why is that in there We're talking about having compassion and saving with fear. Why are we talking about the flesh? You know why we're talking about the flesh? Because we've all got it And everybody here needs to learn to hate it. Because if you don't hate it, it'll take you out. If you're not careful. I liken the flesh to a serpent that lays by the wayside, and it's ready to strike at a moment's notice. You better have an eye for it. On that hike I was telling you about, Miss Elizabeth spotted two snakes. I wasn't looking for them. I was too mesmerized by the size of those trees. And we're walking along, she says, heck, snake. I said, where? Right there. I said, right there, where? She said, right there. I'm like, whoa, there's a snake. So there's a couple hiking behind us. They came up. I said, look at that snake. And the lady said, Man, you got a sharp eye. You say, What'd you do, preacher? I said, I sure do. We walk on. I mean no good red blooded man's gonna say, Well my wife showed it to me. Come on, who's that silly? Now my wife saggabated me ever since then. She said, Oh, you got a sharp eye. Sharp eye and a dull head sometimes, right? We weren't walking, we were probably a couple more miles. And and I walked right by the thing. He was laying on a bank and I walked this close to him. And he's laying there looking at me. And Liz said, You see that snake? And I said, where? She said, he's looking at you. And that turkey was like that far. I mean, he and I could have had a very serious conversation. That close Now thankfully he wasn't poisonous, but listen, had he been, you know how much danger I would have been in? Do you understand that your flesh is closer than that? You live in it. And you and I need to hate it if we're going to make a difference. Not cater to it, not yield to it. We've got to learn to hate it. Hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. If I'm going to make a difference, I've got to understand that my flesh is flesh and will be flesh until flesh is no more. And so that makes me depend hard upon the Lord. Unless you realize what you're made of, you can't help anybody. Because you've got to remember something. We're all the same. Do you know that? We are all the same. Don't ever think for a moment, just because you've been saved X number of years, your flesh is no longer a threat. And you no longer have the capabilities. Of dishonoring God in your body. Learn to hate the flesh so you can make a difference. Christian, please, don't forget you're here to make a difference You 're here to make a difference. God left you here for a reason. You'd be in heaven if he didn't have something for you to do. You'd be in heaven if there was not someone you could make a difference in right now. Here's the charge. Remember his words. Build up yourselves. Make a difference. Oh, the last days are going to be just what the last days are. But let me remind you this evening that there is a way to live. Paul went to Athens. Is it Acts 17 that he was in Athens? I believe it was Acts 17, he was in Athens. And when he went to Athens, he saw a people wholly given to idolatry. But where did he come from? He came from Antioch. Antioch is a place where the Christians were praying and ministering and serving and loving God and walking with God. And you know what I see in that? I see a beautiful picture. Here is an Antioch believer living in an Athens kind of world That world's given over to idolatry, but here is a man who's loyal to the Lord Jesus. And just because the world's gone crazy don't mean you have to Live for God. Make a difference. Remember the words. Be a people be a people that are building up theirselves. Remember these things and do those things. Yes, we're living in Athens, but thank God we have our roots back in Antioch. In the Lord Jesus Christ. May the Lord help us. May the Lord help us. Would you stand please? Our Father, you know the need in our hearts tonight, so please help us. Please help us to let you have your way in Jesus' name. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. We're going to have our invitation here in just a moment. But how many believers would just be honest and say, preacher, one of them three