The music today, haven't you? What a blessing it's been to uh sing the hymns. I I don't know why churches don't want to sing the hymns anymore. It just puzzles me. But I'm thankful that we have the privilege uh around here to still sing those old hymns. And may the Lord help us to keep doing that. There's uh meat in those. There's meat in that. You can have all that other stuff. I need something more than cotton candy when I come to church. And I'm thankful for these hymns that feed us just what we need And uh appreciate the song. I tell you all really all day the uh music has been encouraging, hasn't it? W it's been it's been such that we could just pronounce the benediction and go home Now we're not going to do that. But it's been good, and we thank the Lord for it. I want you to turn in your Bible to Revelation 10. And you're going to see as we come to Revelation 10 a whole different scenario or scene, if you will. We've come to another one of those divine pauses. Someone wrote, It's a delightful pause amid depressing prophecy. A delightful pause amid depressing prophecy. I have to admit to you, as we have studied this and looked at these trumpets We've covered six of the trumpets already. There's seven in total. We've looked at two of the woe trumpets. There's one more woe to come. It has painted a rather bleak picture of things to come. In fact, there's just no way to put a positive spin on what we've been studying because the reality is it's not. We studied that last woe on the last Lord's Day, and we looked at how a third of the population of the whole earth will be destroyed. That's a tragic thing. Up to this point, we've seen death and devastation and destruction on levels that we have never seen before. And then we get to chapter 10. And it's like the Lord says, time out. I want you to remember who I am. what I'm doing, and what's behind all of this. So rev with that in mind, Revelation 10 says this. And I saw another mighty angel, you might want to note that mighty angel, come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud. And a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire. I'm going to stop reading there and just simply say this: this is not an ordinary angel. It's somebody different. And he had in his hand a little book open. And he set his right foot upon the sea and his left foot on the earth. And cried with a loud voice as when a lion roareth. Now, all of these analogies are trying to tell you something. Keep in mind that there is someone who's called the Lion of the tribe of Judah. He said as a lion that roareth. And when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their voices. And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up those things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not. And the angel which I all stand upon the sea, and upon the earth, lifted up his hand to heaven And swear by him that liveth forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that therein are, and the earth and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be time no longer. But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, now that's the angel to come, in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God should be finished. as he hath declared to his servants the prophets. And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and said, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel, which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth And I went unto the angel and said unto him, Give me the little book. And he said unto me, Take it and eat it up, and it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey. And I took the little book out of the angel's hand and ate it up. And it was in my mouth, sweet as honey, and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter. And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many peoples and nations and tongues and kings. Now This pause goes all the way to chapter 13. But we're only going to cover this one chapter tonight here in Revelation chapter 10. I want you to look at who's revealed in this pause. Let's ask the Lord to speak to us. Father, do help us now. We need thee. Lord, we come, Lord, acknowledging unless you teach us, these things will remain dark, they'll remain hidden. But Lord, for these few moments that we have together, lift the veil. Speak to our hearts. Lift our eyes that we might see Jesus. Lord, we'll be careful to give you the glory. Help me now, I pray. I stand where no man can stand alone. And I pray, Lord, you'll hide me behind the cross and empty of me, fill me with thee. May the Lord Jesus and Him only be lifted up. For it's in His mighty name we pray, and God's people said. Amen. As I said, we've been looking at these trumpet judgments. There are seven in total. So far we've come up to the sixth trumpet. We've watched the judgment of God come like wave after wave after wave. And then John sees something. It's as if the Lord says, John, I I need you to understand something. I want you to write this down I want the people to remember something. And so the trumpet judgments are put on hold, if you let me say it like that, not in timing, but as far as the truth is concerned. And so the Lord takes John and lets him see two things. Number one, he lets him see Jesus. And number two, he lets him see himself and his responsibilities. And so as we're studying through the revelation, I want to remind you again. that uh the the purpose of the revelation is not to teach me who the man of sin is it's not to tickle my uh Bible curiosities It's not meant to simply swell my head with information. It's to remind me about a coming revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ. And every once in a while the Lord puts this thing on pause and says, here's who he is. I want to remind you of who he is. And so we see this in verses 1 to 3. I want you to see Jesus in those verses. As we've read already, we see this mighty angel come down from heaven. Now, I believe that what we have here is a revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe this mighty angel is not Gabriel, it's not some other named angel, but it's none other than the Lord Jesus Himself. And for a few minutes, John gets his eyes off the turmoil, off the devastation, off the death Off all that's happening on this earth, and he gets to see Jesus in all his glory. And can I say to you that every once in a while you need to get your eyes off this earth? You need to get your eyes off of all of the devastation, all the wickedness of men. The Bible says that evil men are waxed worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. We need to get our eyes off of each other and stop nitpicking and looking at everybody's faults and failures, and we just need to see Jesus in all his beauty. We need to see the mighty angel come down from heaven. And look at this. He's clothed with a cloud. My mind immediately goes back to the Old Testament when the children of Israel were followed through the wilderness by a cloud by day and a fire by night. Who was that that wandered with them? Who was that that led them along the way? Why, it was none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. He walked the wilderness way with his people each and every day. And so we see he was clothed with the cloud. Then notice this, he had a rainbow on his brow. It's no accident that the devil has tried to pervert God's image. This symbol represents the very promise of God. God set the rainbow in the heaven. God put the rainbow and said, I want you to know something. This is going to be a token of the covenant between me and you that the earth will never be destroyed by water again. It represents the character of God, the promises of God, the trustability or the reliability of the Lord. And on the brow of this, this can't be just some ordinary angel This angel's clothed in cloud, he's he he's crowned with the rainbow. And then notice this, not only does he have that rainbow of promise, but notice it says that his he he his son his face was as it were the sun. That means he is shining mighty bright. His face was as it were the sun I'll tell you, when John looked on him, his eyes had to squint together because of the glory of the brightness of this one upon whom he looked. Listen, there's no angel in heaven shines like the sun. Except Jesus. The Bible says there's going to be no need for the sun one day, because Jesus is going to be the light of heaven itself. So we see the manifestation of the Lord Jesus here, his face shining like the sun. And then notice what it says about his feet. His feet as pillars of fire. Fire in the Bible speaks of searching, purifying, judging. And there's only one that has that right. To judge. There's only one that has that ability to search and purify, and that is the Lord Jesus. So when John was called to look at the angel, he saw, it says, in this first part, I saw, I saw another mighty angel. He saw the Lord Jesus. Not only do we see his person here, but notice what was in his possession. Look in verse 2. He had in his hand a little book open. And he set his right foot upon the sea and his left foot on the earth. What is he doing here? If I can say it in this way, he's asserting his dominion. He's laying claim. When Joshua went into the promised land He was told that everywhere the sole of his feet tread, that'd be his. So as they journeyed through the promised land, you know what they were doing? They were claiming their land. He was walking his territory. He was laying hold of what belonged to him. Now, it wasn't in their full possession because it had giants and enemies and there were battles ahead. But the very fact that their feet set foot on the very property was an assertion that we're claiming the promise of God, this is ours. I got a dear friend down in North Carolina and they needed a building. And they began to pray, Lord, we need something. We need room for in fact we've helped them with their uh outreach their their ministry there in bravard, the Anchor Baptist Church and Anchor Baptist Relief. And Brother Barton said that there was a school they closed down, the Rosman Elementary School. And he said, I believe that would be a wonderful place to have our ministry. And so he went over and looked at it. He talked to the school board, said we're not interested in selling. The state's going to do something with it. And he said, well, we'll just see about that. He said they had a big fence up, said no trespassing. He said, I saw that and I said, now Lord forgive me what I'm about to do. And he said I got it, he said I climbed that fence and I got on the other side and I walked the whole property. And he said I walked it. Do you know he did that for uh almost eight years in total? And he said, I'd walk it and I'd say, now Lord, this would sure be a nice place. We'd appreciate it if you'd give it to us. And he walked it and walked it and walked. Guess where they meet today? There you know where, you know where. They're meeting in that very property. You know what the Bible is telling us here? That when the Lord Jesus came down from heaven, he put a foot on the sea, put a foot on the earth, and he asserted his dominion. From shore to shine shore and said, I'm king and lord over this whole thing. The assertion of dominion. He holds the title deed. He comes to rule and reign. Then notice his pronouncement in verse number three. He cried, look at this now. With a loud voice, as when a lion roareth, and when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their voices. Now, I want you to notice that he's making a pronouncement. What's he doing? He's roaring as a mighty king. He's roaring as the mighty king. What do we call the the lion? He's the king of the jungle. And I've never had the privilege to hear one roar except on uh nature program, but it sounds pretty impressive. Uh even in surround sound high definition. When a lion roars, it it's not like some little house cat squalling. It's something powerful. When that lion roars, I mean it just reverberates on the inside. You know it's powerful. I've been in the woods and and heard a bear uh roar. I've heard his death roar, I've heard the other uh noises that they make, and the and and certainly the bigger they are, the louder they are. And it's an awful terrifying thing to hear those things as they roar. I've seen two of them get in a fight and and they roar when they stand up at each other's face. And man, you just think the power. They're nothing but muscle from head to tail. But you think about the lion and his power as he roars and makes a pronouncement. And you know the Bible says these seven thunders, and by the way, seven is a number of completion in the Word of God. And we don't know what these thunders were, but we at least do know that it was either a response or a reverberation of the roaring of this mighty line. And so this pronouncement is simply the declaration of the mighty King, letting heaven And earth, and hell, and everyone know there is a king. There is a king, and his name is Jesus. Central to the Bible is the revelation of Jesus Christ You know, there was a time in uh history when they believed, when the philosophers and what have you believed That the earth was the center of the universe and everything revolved around the earth. And then as they began to understand more things and find out more things, they realized that the sun was the actual center. And you know, it's easy in life to forget who's at the heart of everything. It's awful easy in life to get caught up and think that I'm just here to live. No, I'm not here just to live. I'm not here just to make a living. You know there's a lot of people their life consists of getting up, going to work, so they can make money to have a place to sleep so they can come home and rest and get ready to get up and go to work and Go make money so they can pay for a place to sleep, so they can get up next morning, go to work and you get what I'm saying? That's all life is That's all life is to them. Their whole life is central to their very existence, to their survival, if you will. That's all they know about life. But aren't you grateful for the grace of God and salvation? That lets you understand that life's not about just making a living, it's about meeting the Lord. It's about knowing He in whom all things revolve, around whom all things revolve, and knowing that Jesus Christ is at the center of it all. I believe what we have here is a revelation of the centrality of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the key figure. And he's letting us know that everything's moving. Now see this. Everything's moving to a final revelation. Everything's moving to this last unveiling. Everything is quickly going, and I believe this ties into what I read this morning in Philippians. Everything is moving to that day when every knee will bow and every tongue will confess. Everything's moving to that great moment. When Jesus, what is it, Titus says, uh the glorious appearing, the blessed hope, the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. It's all going that way, Brother Lee. It's all heading that direction. We're all listening everything happening in earth right now, on earth right now Everything happening politically, everything happening socially, morally, financially, everything happening internationally, you know what it's doing? We're heading that way. We're running down that funnel. We're running down that funnel. It's getting narrower and narrower. We're getting closer and closer to what? The final revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Something in you, if you're saved, let me say this, if you're saved and right with God, something in you says, even so come. Something in you says, Lord, I can't wait. Something in you is looking forward to the day when we see our blessed Savior. You remember when you got married? Knock a cobweb or two out of the way and Go back yonder. How many of you remember that? You remember how you look forward to that day? Did you look forward to it? Don't answer it loud. Just don't get in trouble. We'll all try to be friends and go home that way. But you remember that We set our date in February. I remember having to ask my father-in-law, which I did gladly and respectfully. And I asked multiple times and was given all kinds of different restrictions, and then finally I realized I'm a little slow sometimes, and I realized he's never going to let me marry her. I'm just gonna have to do this thing. And so the last time I told him, I said, I sure want your blessing, but I want you to know that June 2nd, we're gonna get married. That was February I have never lived a longer period of time than what comes after February, March. April, May, thank God it was June 2nd. If it'd been later, I'd have died. But a little a little over three months Look forward to it. Look forward to it. As the biggest day in my life. Looking forward to it It was the biggest day in both of our lives. We were going to be married. What a day. And man, we look forward to it. And I remember when that day came, it was almost surreal. It was like it wasn't even believable I remember standing, I I could tell you the very spot in the old church building where I stood, and I was standing by my pastor, Brother Ralph Sexton Jr. at the time, and Brother Ralph poked me in the ribs and he said she's getting ready to come out He said, You got one more chance. One more chance. You know what he did? He put a ladder against the window of his office. And when we went in there to pray, he went over there and pulled the blind up and said, Now if you want to run, I made a way. You got one more chance. I thought, now what kind of encouragement is that? You know But I remember when he poked me in the ribs and he said, There she is, boy. There she is. Man, I'll tell you, I I d one, I thought my heart would bust from beating so fast. Then I thought I was going to cry and just make a mess and and I I my emotions went everywhere. It was a day like no other. Now I'm here to tell you, you're his bride. That's what the Bible. I'm talking about you who are saved. You who are saved are the bride of Jesus Christ. And we're hastening to a day. We're hastening to a moment. We're hastening to the revelation. And in this marriage, the bride is not the center of attention. The bridegroom is. Because in this marriage, it's not when the bride is revealed that all eyes are turned upon them. It's when the groom, when the Lord Jesus is revealed, that all eyes will be upon him. And we're hastening to that day. John 's got a vision here. He got the opportunity to see the Lord Jesus. Please, as we study this book, don't lose sight. of who really matters. The Antichrists don't matter. Don't worry your head, don't trouble your heart, don't perplex your mind, because I got news for you. You're not going to be here. And it don't matter who he is. But the reality is, friend, it listen, it it doesn't matter if you know the the the sayings of the seven thunders Or if you know the exact timing of the seven trumpets, or you know the timing of the seven vials or the seven plagues None of that is as critical as knowing the Lord Jesus Christ and keeping your eyes on him. He's central to the book. But then something strange, at first I thought rather strange, it's as if John asserts himself into the scene. But that's not really the case. John doesn't assert himself. Jesus calls John to the forefront. And the rest of the chapter, from verses 4 to 11, deals with John, God's messenger. And I believe God did that in a very purposeful way. God always does things on purpose. And I believe He's teaching us what our responsibility is as we anticipate the Lord's coming. I want you to notice number one, his paying attention. Do you see it in verse 4? When the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write. You know what he is doing? He's taking notes. I don't know this. I'm gonna write this down. How many of you at that stage in life, if you don't write it down, you lose it? Right. Oh mercy. Some of us are so advanced we write it down, forget where we wrote left it after we wrote it down. Have to make notes to go find I wrote this there and go see what it said there, right? But he said, I was going to write it down. You know why he's paying attention? Church, you know what you need to be doing? Paying attention. You need to be paying attention to what the Lord's saying. John was keen, if I can say it like this, he was tuned in to the Lord. He was tuned into the Lord. He wanted to hear what the Lord had to say. I don't know that there's ever been a more distracted age than this one here. I don't know that there's ever been a people who've had their attention pulled in so many directions as we have our attention pulled. And you've got to work at paying attention to the Lord. You've got to work at keeping your mind where it needs to be. I'll tell you why. Because there's someone and something after your attention. There's something wanting your attention. I if you if you and I could just stop every once in a while and ask ourselves, does this really matter? I watch people get on Facebook and they start arguing and going on, and I I I just feel like saying, you know what, who cares? That's your opinion, that's his opinion. It really don't matter. And why waste your time and get your attention all bundled up in something that really don't make a hill of beans or a row of pens? I'm telling you, we need to be paying attention to the right thing. John was about to write what Jesus said. He was about to write what them seven voices, those seven thunders said He was about to write down just exactly what he had heard because he knew what was going on was important. Do you know why we don't pay attention? Because we don't think it's important. We just don't believe it's important. We believe that when we pick up our phone and log into Facebook, that what so-and-so said is important. I got news for you. There's nobody saying anything more important than what Jesus has already said. There's some things being said in the scripture and there's some things going on in our lives. Listen, the Lord says, please pay attention. Pay attention. How many of you like me in school got in trouble for not paying attention? I don't know why, but sitting in a schoolroom made me think about fishing. And it made me think about everything but school. And I don't know how many times I've been spanked, I've been sent to the president's office, I got detention and a host of other things because I was not paying attention. Somebody sent Miss Elizabeth a little funny thing. It said, be careful and pay attention in church. This lady, I guess, went to sleep during church and And she suddenly woke up and all she heard was stand up, and so she stood up thinking it was the closing prayer. And the pastor said, Thank you, sister, for volunteering to pay five thousand dollars to the building fund. Will anybody else stand with her? You better pay attention. Amen. But listen, there's a lot of things that we just don't pay the proper attention to. But I'm telling you, God's got something to say to you, church. If you're one of his little children, he's got something he wants to tell you. He's got something that he wants to say, and what he's saying you need to hear. You've got to clue in and tune in and pay attention. John was paying attention. God spoke and he started to write it down. But I'll say as a side note, I don't want to get too sidetracked here. He told him to seal it up and not write it. There's some things I will not know down here. And God's ordained it that way. It's God's will. Whatever these seven thunders uttered, whatever these voices were, whatever this message was, he said, Seal it up, don't write it down. Please listen to me, church. God says, look, there's things I don't want you to know. And we're foolish to tread and push into things God said, I'm not going to tell you. Not going to tell you. Not only was he paying attention, but if you'll go to verses 5 to 7, you'll see that he was reminded of a promise. The angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven and swear by him that liveth forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that therein are, and the earth and the things that therein are and the sea and the things which are therein that there should be time no longer. But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God should be finished As he hath declared to his servants the prophets. Now he's reminded of a promise. He calls it the mystery of God. What is that? What is the mystery of God that he told the prophets, I'll finish? Here's what I believe it is. I believe it's the mystery that through history Satan and man have seemed to have his way. And especially in the tribulation period, the devil seems to rise to ascendancy. What's that book? Oh my Robinson Crusoe. Remember the man Friday. He said, if God is so strong and powerful, why doesn't He kill the devil? Have you ever looked at the earth and said, now God's you're stronger than that? You're more powerful than that. Why does evil seem to have sway? Why does the devil seem to be allowed ascendancy? What's the answer? This is the mystery of God. And you know what he does? He takes him back to the Bible. And he takes his perplexities and he reminds him of the promises. You see, all of my perplexities have an answer in the promises of God. It does not solve the question. It does not answer the question. I had a lady say to me one time, Preacher, why did he not just pull up that tree of knowledge of good and evil? Why did he plant it in the garden anyway? Why was all wh why again, why is the devil given the reign or the freedom that he is given? Let me just say this. If I take the promises of God and look at the perplexities of life, sometimes I've got to just simply rest that what God said is true, what I see is just a perception. It's the promises that I'm counting on. You know what he said? I want you to know right here. Look at all of this going on. A third of the population is killed. John 's saying, Lord, I'm perplexed about all of this. Is anybody going to be led? God says, remember the promise, son. Remember that I'm going to finish this. There's going to come a day when the devil will be no more, when Satan will be destroyed, when all of the powers of hell will be brought down, and he'll rule and reign forever. Thank God we need to remember the promises. We need to see that that that God is bringing all things to an end. And then notice his prompt obedience. In verse 8, he heard the voice, go take the book. Verse 9, he took the book, eat it up, made his belly bitter and sweetened his mouth. By the way The truth of God tells us the truth, the bitter and the good There is, yes, there's bad things to come before we get to the end. There's suffering and sorrow and sadness, and Satan's going to be loosed. But thank God. The sweetness of it all is this. My God's still on the throne. And his prompt obedience. Uh boy, I wish I had time again. I really believe somebody messed with that clock while I was gone. Than it used to. Isn't it strange? Isn't it strange when John first saw Jesus in John chapter one or Revelation one? What did he do? Fell dead. He fell dead. And the Lord touched him. Remember that? Lifted him up and said, Fear not. Put strength in him. He saw him again. He didn't die this time or fall down dead this time. In fact, it seems that that he walks without hesitation to the angel who's Jesus and takes the book. Not in irreverence, not in an undue familiarity, but he promptly obeys and goes and takes the book and eats it. What's that telling me? It's telling me that his familiarity with these heavenly things has taken away the awkwardness that earth brings. You see, Earth, we live in a world that's so strange to the Lord. Honestly, if the Lord were to show up here in mighty revival, it would seem strange to most. Course we're unaccustomed to who and what he is. John 's been living in a heavenly scene John 's been walking among the scenery of the great God of heaven. And John 's got a a comfortableness or a familiarity that's not undue or irreverent. But he a reality that he's accustomed to what's going on there. And so he goes and he promptly obeys and he takes the book and he eats it. There's no awkwardness of earth holding John back. You know one of the things that probably makes it strange for us when we read about what's going to happen. Is that we're trying to understand it in the context of how we currently live. When we hear them praising God day and night without end. That's not in the context that we currently live. When we hear them lifting their voices loudly singing praises to the Lamb of God. That's not common to the current way that we live. But there's coming a day when all the awkwardness of earth is going to burn up in the glory of heaven. And we're going to be able to be in a comfortable way in that place that he's going to prepare for us. Oh, thank God for what the Lord did. But notice he promptly obeyed. I want to urge you to remember that the will of God ought to be done no matter what. Take the book and eat it. Yes, it'll be sweet, but it'll be bitter in thy belly. Take the book and eat it. Do the will of God. And then let me close with this. We see John's preaching. Verse 11, he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many peoples, nations, tongues, and kings. Having taken the book in in verse 10, he now goes and tells it. He goes and preaches. He proclaims, still proclaiming, in written form, still preaching, still preaching, still telling of the glories of Jesus Friend, the greatest thing you can do as we await his return is tell about him. Tell about him on the job. Tell about him in your community. Tell about him in your home. Tell about him. Just tell about him. Don't get so caught up talking about you. Don't get so caught up talking about how bad it is down here. Don't get so caught up talking about your religion. And don't get so wound up talking about your church. Talk about him. Tell him about Jesus. Tell him what he did. And that's what John did. He went out and he continued to preach. He might have thought it was over. In fact, I think he did. Usually exile meant death. They didn't take you out there to give you a week off. It wasn't spa time. It's time to go out there and starve to death and hope you die. But we know historically John didn't die out there. God had purpose and plan in a future. And you know every once in a while you think, man, I'm just finished. You ever get to a point in your Christian life it seems you've come to a dead end? And you say, preacher, I just don't know. There's nothing else. There's nothing before me. Can I just tell you, just get somewhere and start telling people about Jesus? Just start telling others about the greatness. I if I mention this evangelist, everybody here who's been saved a while would know him But he he got out of the will of God and he got discouraged and he just quit on God and he got to a place where where he wanted to do something for the Lord, but it just seemed like no door would open. He tried to help a ministry distribute hymn books, and he said they told me I was not needed. He said, I just got to the place I felt like there was just no more place for me. And he said, it seems as the Lord said, now, why don't you just go find somebody and tell them about Jesus? He said, I tried to find the next homeless man I could find, and I just sat down with him and said, sir, can I tell you about Jesus? He said, from that day till this, God has opened the door after door and given me the opportunity to tell multitudes of people about Jesus Christ. He said, I believe God wanted me to get back to where I was supposed to be, and where are we supposed to be? We're just supposed to be telling people about Jesus. I like what how one fellow put it. He said we're just beggars telling other beggars where they can find some bread. That's all we are And John got busy in light of the Lord's coming. Don't lose sight of this, church, please. Don't lose sight of it. Don't let this be an intellectual discourse. or a time for just information. Let your heart burn and stir with the reality that somebody out there needs to hear about Jesus. Somebody out there needs to know the message of the saving grace of God. And you're saved for purpose. You're saved for a reason. There's people you'll meet, Charlie, you meet people every day I'll never see in my life. But you can tell them about Jesus. There's people you cross paths with every single day, Chris. You cross paths with people that I'll never meet and they'll never sit on the pews of this church. But you can tell them about Jesus. Every one of us have a sphere of influence that the others do not have. And you know what we ought to do with it? Tell people about Jesus. If we really believe he's the answer, we need to be telling them he's the answer. If we really believe he's what men need, and I'm telling you, church, he's what men need. If you die without Christ, you're lost forever and will spend eternity in hell. And I don't say that with delight. I say that with a broken heart. The truth is you need to be born again. And Jesus Christ paid the send debt for you in full. And he went to Calvary for you, suffered in your place. Thank God he paid the price. And then he rose from the dead, my friend. Thank God we have a living Savior. And He's what you need. He's who you need. He's all you need. You need to be saved, and my friend, you who are saved need to be telling others they need to be saved. If we lose sight of the reality that people around us are lost. You ever wonder why people do what they do? Do you ever get aggravated? And you're like, what's wrong with you? What is wrong with you? We were we were up in Canada, it was brother riding with me and somebody cut me off and I was like, what is wrong with you? You've got a 50-acre field here to get around, and you run me out of the road, and I'm having a fit, and he said to me, Brother, you've been in Maryland too long. He said, we don't act like that up here. I said, well he what's wrong with him? He got no sense. What's wrong with that fella? You ever look at a lost world and say, What's wrong? Why do people do this? I mean, why why can life be taken so easily by people? Why are we so morally depraved? Why is is so much darkness? I'll tell you why. People are lost. They don't know God, they're without Christ, they have no hope in this world. They need the Lord Jesus. They don't need a church. They as far as church, just church. They don't need to just get in church. They need to get in cross and then get in church They don't need to be reformed or they don't need to go and go through some program and try to straighten themselves up. They just see Jesus. And man, if they come to the Lord Jesus, he'll make all the difference in the world. And so John leads this heavenly scene and the Bible says, yes, you will prophesy again before many peoples, nations, tongues and kings. And can I tell you, I know what he went out of there preaching? He didn't go out of there preaching the Antichrist. He didn't go out of there preaching the seven uh trumpets. He went out of there preaching Jesus. He went out there preaching Christ. He said, He's the one you need. Look to the Lamb of God. He's the answer. Behold him. Church, it's high time, every one of us who are saved. awakened of the responsibility that's on our shoulders to tell people about Jesus. Can you imagine standing in eternity and facing God and having a coworker say, you never told me? You talked about the ball game, you talked about the weather, you talked about all the problems of life, but you never once told me there was an answer You never once told me there was a Savior. Can you imagine standing before God and your family being carried away into hell and your family crying out? You didn't tell me. You didn't tell me about this man, Jesus. Oh, you assumed I would know. You figured I would hear, but you didn't tell me. I'm telling you, it carries weight when somebody near you says you need to be saved. I'll never forget my dear old daddy taking me and talking to me one day with a seriousness I'd never seen on his face. Now I remember dad saying to me as a teenage boy, son, I've put you in God's hands. I'm through I gave you to the Lord when you were born. I told him if he would keep you, I'd let him, I'd just say, Lord, do whatever you want to with his life. And he said, Son, I'm through dealing with you. Now God will. And he said, you've got to deal with him. Because one day, boy, your life's going to end and you're going to go be with him. And boy, he gave me a stern and serious talking to And as I pondered that, man, I I laid in the floor of that old camper after he left and wept my eyes out and said, Oh God, what have I done? What am I doing with my life? Now look, my neighbor could have gave me that same speech and that same talk, it wouldn't have had near the impact it did from my dad. Because I knew that man loved me. I knew it broke his heart to tell me the things he had to tell me. I knew it crushed his spirit to have to sit me down and have that kind of talk with me. But oh how I thank God he did I thank God he overcome whatever he had to overcome to sit me down and talk to me like that. And there are some of you, dear friend, that you need to find that That loved one, that near relative, that individual you love so much, you need to find them and you need to tell them, hey, Jesus Christ died for you. You need to tell them, look, I love you enough to tell you the truth. This is what the Bible says. I'm not coming with my church. I'm not coming with my opinion. I'm coming with my Bible. And my Bible says you need to be saved. I want you to know you need to be and you can be, because Jesus died for you. What if we went out of here tonight? Every saved person with a flaming desire in their heart to tell somebody, and every one of us went and told somebody this week. What would the Lord do? I don't know what He'd do. But here's what I do know. I've got a solemn responsibility. To tell others of the Lord Jesus, who's mighty to save. And so do you. We've become specialists. You know. You go to the doctor and the doctor says, I don't I don't deal with that, you have to go here. You know you got a hangnail. Well you gotta go see the hangnail doctor. Right? Everybody's a specialist anymore. And I'm afraid we Christians have gotten the same way. Well it's not my job. Preacher will do it. Those Sunday school teachers, they need to be telling. Those deacons, those deacons need to be telling. Those choir members, those choir members need to be telling. No. Christians need to be telling. Every born-again man, woman, boy, girl can tell somebody about Jesus. John left up, he left this scene. Look, God never does something for us, just simply for us. He does something for us that he might do something through us. You know what he's doing? He's doing something in John because he wants to do something through John. He wants John to be a window of Jesus. Hey, I want you to see Jesus through John. It's not that John asserted himself, it's that God brought him forward and said, now John, let me make you a picture window. So the whole world will see me. Brother, sister, you're a window. That's all you are. God 's made you a window. You know why? He wants to do something in you so the world can see Jesus. Sometimes He's got to clean the old window pane. Remember cleaning windows? Clean them off. Isn't it funny how everything looks better once that window's clean? And sometimes he does something in me and he says, now I want to clean you up because I I want to be seen a little clearer. John left there preaching Christ. Remember this through all of the coming days of the end times. We need to get a fresh glimpse of Jesus Christ. That mighty angel come down from heaven, foot in the sea, foot in the earth. Proclaiming with a loud voice, roaring like a mighty lion. Oh, I know the enemy's doing his thing, and evil's getting worse, and It seems that all sorts of wickedness is rising to the surface, yes, but Jesus is still the ruler. And he's still the answer. And he still needs to be on our lips. And he still needs to be proclaimed of the four corners of the earth. And men still need to know that Jesus saves. Jesus saves. May God help us to follow John's good footsteps and tell everybody we can as long as we can all that Jesus can do. Stand with me, please.