I appreciate that this evening. I want you to go in your Bibles, please, back to the Old Testament book of 2 Kings. Second Kings chapter number four. Second Kings chapter number four And I'm going to only read one verse in your hearing. I'm going to invite you to stand with me as I do when you find your place, 2 Kings. Chapter number four, and the verse I'd like to read this evening is found in verse number eight The Bible says, and it fell on a day that Elisha passed to Shunam, where was a great woman. And she constrained him to eat bread. And so it was that as oft as he passed by, he turned in thither to eat bread. As we read the Word of God, we know that words are important. In fact, we know that the words are so important that the Bible tells us God's word is inspired. And that he has put a a guard over every word. He preserves his word. And as we read the Word of God, we realize that God is often descriptive, and when he's descriptive, he's descriptive on purpose. Nothing in the Bible is exaggerated. If God says it, he meant to say it. And he meant specifically to say what he said as it's recorded in the Word of God. And I just want to look again at this statement, this great woman. Great woman. Father, would you help us tonight? I pray the Spirit of God would have his way, and the Word of God would have three course. And I'm grateful, Lord, you know the need of every heart, and I pray you'd meet those. And above everything, I pray the Lord Jesus would be preeminent. And that you, Lord, would just work deeply and mildly and powerfully among us. Father, we've gathered here this evening so grateful for your goodness to us in the morning hour. But yet acknowledging this is a new hour, new need, and we need help once more. We're such, O Lord, that we need thy help continually. And so we bow and pray, Father, please help. And Lord, I pray that you'd be glorified in this gathering as we open your word, open our hearts, hide me behind the cross, and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. And please speak to us, Lord, like only you can. And we'll thank you for what you do, for we pray and ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. As you study the Bible, you find out there are things that are very unique in God's Word. There are things that you'll only find one time in the Bible. You'll find them only on one occasion. And when God does something like that, I think we do well to pay attention to those one-time things. This is one of those one-time occurrences. I find it interesting that in all the Word of God there's only one woman. Who is called a great woman. Only one. Mary, that chosen vessel to bear the body of the infant Lord Jesus and bring him into the world. She was never called a great woman. Now, God did some wonderful things and used her in a very special way, but she was never called a great woman. There's others in the Word of God. I I think of that dear Mary who uh washed the Lord's feet with her hair. I I mean When you read about her love and devotion to the Lord Jesus, if I was handing out descriptions, I'd say, she's a great woman. But you know, nowhere in the Bible does the Bible call her a great woman. I think about Jochebed, Moses ' mother. I'll tell you, she was a unique individual in that she lived in very trying times, but she had a courageous faith. And she hid that young man and she kept him safe until uh such a time as she had to commit him to the little ark and the bull rushes. And uh she still had the opportunity to raise him. And even under Pharaoh 's harsh supervision, she instilled faith or the foundation for faith. In Moses ' heart. She had to defy a lot of orders. She had to do a lot of things to go against the teaching of Pharaoh in Egypt. But listen, nowhere in the Bible does it say Jacobed was a great woman. Abraham's wife Sarah is another one that I think if I was handing out descriptions, I think I would say now there is a great woman. There is someone whom the Lord put uh you know chose to to bear that son and and to bring that promised son into the world and how God would work through her but Nowhere in the Word of God does Sarah ever receive the description as a great woman. But back here in the Old Testament , Is a Shunammite woman. Just simply means she was from Shunam. And the Bible says almost, now don't misunderstand what I'm going to say here, but almost nonchalantly. There was a great woman. It happened on a day, it fell on a day that Elisha passed to Shunam, there was a great woman. And she's the only woman in the Word of God bearing that description. Now it's it's telling, and I think it bears attention and study to find out just why exactly is she qualified to be a great woman I'll just simply say this before I share what's on my heart. The reality is she bears the right to be called a great woman because God said she was. And I don't have all the answers to that, and I don't know all the details to that, but here's what I do know. God has the right to do what he pleases, with whom he pleases, in whatever way he pleases, because he's the Lord. So here's this woman in Shunam. She's a great woman. There's several things that I just want to point out tonight about her about her and and and you know we live in a day where everything's great. You know. We strive for greatness, and usually that means some sort of outstanding characteristic Or achievement, or some sort of possession, or some sort of position that makes that individual great But as you study the Word of God, you'll find out that God measures greatness with a different tape measure than you do, and I do. God's tape measure goes in a whole different direction. I remember the first tape measure that I saw that was in uh centimeters and meters. I remember it was that's all it was. It didn't have the inches and all that. And so when I when I pulled it out, I'm like, what is that? You know, it was a little difficult to decipher. God's tool of measurement is a whole lot different than ours, but we would do well to borrow his tools of measurement instead of putting our own in place. Here's a great woman. I want to just note several things, and maybe it'll be an encouragement to you. Number one, she was a great woman, and yet she's unknown. We don't know her name. You can study the Bible over, and one thing you'll come to the conclusion of we don't know who she is We don't know anything about her other than she is a Shunammite woman, meaning she was a woman of Shunam. She lived in that region. We're not told if her name was Mary or Jill or Bertha or Martha or whatever. We're not told one thing about her concerning her name. It's almost as if she's Mrs. Anonymous. She's unknown. You say, what's the point? She might have been unknown by name, but she was known by her deeds. You know, the reality is that we often want our name known, and God wants our works known. Don't know what her name was. We don't know even her husband's name. We don't know what she named the boy that God would give her down the road. We don't have any of those details. We don't know if she was young or old, if she was tall or short. None of her physical descriptions are given anywhere in the Bible. The only thing we know is that she was a great woman. It goes to show you and I that there are some things that God's interested in, and oftentimes they're the opposite of what we value. Her name wasn't known, but her deeds were. We may not know her name, but listen, God knew exactly who she was, where she was, and what she was doing. See, I believe the Lord's teaching us through this example here that who I am doesn't matter, but who I'm related to does. And what I do with what he's entrusted me regarding my life, that is very important. You know, it's a good thing they didn't have Facebook in this day. Because if they did, she probably would have taken a selfie with Elisha and posted it somewhere and said, Look, the prophet's at my house. I don't know why we can't seem to do good without publicizing it anymore. That concerns me. I have a dear friend. I stopped following him, I'll just tell you, and he knows I stopped following him. But I stopped following him because he couldn't give a sandwich to a homeless man without taking his picture. And I thought If I was that homeless man, how would I feel? I may not know, but you you never know. I had a friend over, he was over in Africa as a missionary, and he said the weirdest thing in the world was to be way back in the bush and a cell phone ring in church. It was probably satellite phone or whatever, but he said it was just the weirdest thing to have all that technology in the most remote places of the world. You imagine here, this Shunammite woman, there's no mention of her name, there's no seeking after fame as far as she's concerned. She's unnamed, but thank God she's not unknown. God knew who she was. And and you know what really matters? You say, preacher, nobody knows my name, nobody knows I even exist. Well, that may or may not be true, but the reality is God does God knows where you're at, dear brother, dear sister. God knows your name. He knows your deeds. He's marking it all down. He's recording it. In the book. We got it here in the book concerning her, but he's recording it in a book. He knows all there is to know about you. Thank God for a God such as this. That she was unknown. Here's a great woman who's unknown. I I don't think she'll be unknown forever. Isn't it going to be something one day to get to heaven and meet her? And we'll finally know her name She may have to introduce herself, but you know, we'll say, Now, uh excuse me, I don't think I know you, and she knows you don't know me, but I'm the great woman of of Second Kings chapter number four. I don't know that it'll go that way But I'm just trying to figure. But here's the reality. The Lord did know who she was. Unknown. Unnamed, but not unknown. Here's another thing about this dear lady. She was generous. Did you notice this in verse number 8 what the Bible says? That she constrained him, that is Elisha, to eat bread. That means she had to compel him or urge him to come to her table. And then it says, so it was that as oft as he passed by, he turned in thither to eat bread. Notice, it doesn't stop there, her generosity goes on. And she said unto her husband, Behold, now I perceive that this is a holy man of God which passeth by us continually. Let us make a little chamber, I pray thee, on the wall. Now, how many of you are married here tonight? How many of you know sometimes when your wife says let us, that means you? All right. Smile, it'll help your appearance, brothers, sisters. Let us set for him there a bread a bed, a table, a stool, a candlestick, and it shall be when he cometh to us that he shall turn in thither. You know what she said? Let's add on to our house Let's add on to our house and build a little place for him to stay, and so when he's coming through here, not only can he come sit at our table, but he can stay in our home and we can entertain and care for him. She was generous. The opening of her home brought the blessing of a son down the road. You see, her care for Elisha brought unexpected blessings her way. She was generous. Now we don't give to get, but when we give, we get. There's a return. The Bible makes it very clear in Luke chapter 6 that when we give, it shall be given unto us. There is a repercussion, if I can use that word, for generosity. You know, I heard someone say one time: never resist an impulse to be generous. Never resist an impulse to be generous. Now, whatever made this woman great, here's something recorded in the Word of God that she she had a generous spirit. There was She had a generous heart. Generosity was was one of the trademarks of this great woman She wanted the prophet of God. And by the way, this is during a time of great apostasy in the land. This was a time where it wasn't popular to entertain Elisha. Remember, he was a pretty much a hated man. He was someone that that that that most people didn't want around because of what he stood for and the words that he preached and proclaimed throughout the land. But here's here's a a great woman who said, you know something I'm going to encourage this. I'm going to encourage him. I'm going to be generous because I want to see this sort of thing go on. She was generous. I don't know that all her greatness just simply is wrapped up in her generosity, but it sure had a part in it. Because God recorded in His Word what she did for Elisha. She was a great woman, she was unnamed, she was generous. But you notice something here, and it this is quite challenging to us at times, but she had trials. You know, we often think that being great means having no trouble. But if I know my Bible and understand it properly, it seems the more God uses someone, the greater trouble they seem to have. The Apostle Paul was such a man, and when you read the catalogue of what he went through as he served the Lord as a missionary, you walk away and say only God could get a man through something like that. She had a great trial. In fact, she had several trials. Down in verse number 18, the child, remember, that was given, it says, when he was grown, it fell on a day that he went out to his father to the reapers. And he said unto his father, My head, my head, and he said to a lad, Carry him to his mother. And when she had taken him and brought him to his mother, he sat on her knees till noon and then died That's a pretty dark trial. And she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God and shut the door upon him and went out. It's something that she didn't ask for. It's something that no doubt she had desired, it seems. It seemed to be a desire of her heart. And then here the little fella dies Or when he's grown, it says, which he still would have been in our understanding probably a young man. But he dies. Well that's a trial You know, there's no way of getting around trials in this world. No one's immune. Losses and crosses are a part of following Christ. You had a trial, a great trial. But aren't you glad that losses and crosses come with comfort and grace? The losses and crosses that we we go through, and and you say, How do you know that? Well, I know that because When her husband says to her, Where are you going? Why are you going to the man of God? She said, All's well. All's well. No, not all's well. You Yeah, I mean she she didn't tell her husband all that was going on, but when you think about it, her heart's broke, her son's dead, the realities of life. We often think these people step out of clouds and step on earth and Live their life and then stepped back up into the clouds, but they were people just like you and I. And here is a woman whose heart's broken over the death of her child. But she somehow knows that if she can get to Elisha, that there's going to be answers. There's going to be some help. It could be that God would do something miraculous on her behalf. And so in faith she pressed on. You know how she did that? Because God gave her comfort and God gave her grace The Apostle Paul said that he learned in in that situation with his health problem that my grace is sufficient for thee. That God's grace is, can I say this, God's grace is equal to every trial you walk through. God's grace is sufficient. You say, I don't know how I could get through that. Have you ever said that and then had to get through it? I don't know how I could get through that, and then you have to face it. And you look back after you get through it and you say, you know how I got through that? The good grace of God. See, God gives grace when it's needed. I I'm kind of of the sort that I'd like to store it up ahead of time. I I'll just go on record and say I won't die in grace, as far as I know, I'm not dying. I mean we want it now. You want the grace before you hit the trial? I mean we want to know we want the help before we need the help. Brother Ralph was flying with a man one time and He was one of these cowboy pilots, you know, and he got up in the air and they ran out of fuel and he's brother Charlie said, Now Ralph, you better put your seatbelt on And Ralph said he got in the back there and he started to put his seatbelt on. When he did, he pulled it up out of the seat. He said, Charlie, this one's broken. He said, No, Ralph, it's not broken. I forgot to put them all in proper. He said, there's no uh seatbelts in this plane. He said, What? There's no seatbelts in this plane. He said, There's not a one. He said, you better get to praying, is all I know. And Ralph said he got in the bottom of that that uh plane and he lay he said I laid there and I prayed, oh God, please give us grace and help us. And you know, he said when they finally landed, it didn't bother Charlie at all. That's just the way he was. I I he I saw him drive a tractor and trailer he on the uh trucking company and he came up the mountain and I noticed he I was following him, he was pulling a trailer for us, and I noticed the door was open about that far And I'd go around him and I thought, is he gonna jump or what's he doing? That door would come open and he'd pull it back and we pulled into the church parking lot and I pulled around and I said, Brother Charlie Uh what was wrong? Why'd you keep that door open? Was you afraid you need to get out quick or something? He said, Oh no. He said the door latch don't work on this old truck. He said you just hang on and hope you don't turn a curve too fast and fall out Well, he flew like he drove. Brother Ralph said when he got to his room that night he was really bothered over the fact that he didn't seem to have dying grace up there in the air And he said he got so worried about it, he's praying, he said, Now Lord, I I don't understand. You said there'd be grace for every trial and He said, Lord, I thought we were dying up there, and you didn't give me dying grace. And he said, just like that, the Lord seemed to say, Well, Ralph, you weren't dying. You wanted something you didn't need. Huh? How many of us are like that? We want something we don't need. God's not going to give you grace that that you don't need, but I'll tell you what, when you do need it, He will give it. This dear woman proved very faithfully that God's grace was sufficient to get her through. And come what may, the grace of God is very real. It ushered the Apostle Paul through all the journeys of life, the trials and the tribulations. And I'm sure every child of God who steps through heaven's door would be able to turn around and say, Grace has brought me safe thus far and grace has led me home. God's grace is sufficient. Oh yes, she had her trials. But you know what you can write over her trials? You can write her own words over every one of her trials. In verse 26, here's what she said. It is well. It is well. And dear Christian. You can write over all your trials. It is well. You say, preacher, you're not in them. No, I'm not in them. But here's what I do know in all things. God's grace is sufficient. And and it is well. It is well. Listen, if you're saved, you can say, it is well. Thank God for the trials that he brought her through. Let me show you a couple of more things. Number four, she had victories. See, her life was not a life of just one trial after the other. I don't want you to think for a moment that being a Christian is all about struggling because it's not. It's not one trial after another. It may seem like that in seasons You ever been in a winter that would not end? Sure. Mercy. I mean when you just things are starting to warm up and the grass is green starting to green up and you think, boy, we made it. I remember getting up one morning in late May and on a Sunday morning of all mornings and opened the door, and you know what we had? Three feet of snow. And the ground had been bare and it was green and we were getting outside and alive again. And then all of a sudden, and you talk about taking the air out of you, you think it shouldn't do that this time of year Is it going to snow all year long? You know? Yeah, there's trials and it will seem like they won't end, but know this there are victories ahead. Victories ahead, like the old song says. You'll notice in verse 36, I love this. He called Gehazi and said, Call this Shunammite. Still don't call her by name. So he called her, and when she was coming in uh unto him, he said, Take up thy son. Remember, this is a son that was dead Then she went in and fell at his feet and bowed herself to the ground and took up her son and went out. You say, what happened? God made him live again. That was a victory, wasn't it? God made him live again. Now there's going to be some trials come along, but aren't you glad there's some victories that go with them? There are some victories that God will give you. And thank God, listen, He don't always give the victory like we think He will, but here's what our Bible says 2 Corinthians 2, verse 14. Now thanks be unto God, who always causes us to triumph in Christ. He always calls us to triumph in Christ. There is victory, dear Christian brother, sister. It may not be the victory we would want. It may not be the victory as we might see it, but know this: God gives the victory. There's victory ahead. Let the trials come, let the troubles, that'll be a part of it, but thank God there are victories to enjoy as a child of God. Answered prayer is a victory. Peace in your heart's a victory. Conquering a temptation is victory. God doing things that only God can do is a victory. When God meets a need, that's a victory. When he saves a loved one, that's a victory When he speaks to a heart and he begins to change a situation, that's a victory. Church, we could spend the rest of the evening talking about the victories. Thank God. And and by the way, I believe we ought to talk more about the victories than we do the trials. We'd be better off if we talk more about the things God has done than the things we believe God has not done. Oh, the victories God's given. Or the goodness of the Lord. I think it would help some of our young people to hear us talk more about the victories. You listen to some Christians, and all you hear is the bad. You hear about the hardships and you hear about the trials and you hear about the suffering, and yes, that's a part of it. I've already noted that. But aren't you glad there's victories too? Aren't you glad that sometimes God's come through and worked and you look back or look up and have to say, Lord, that was you. That had to be you. There's nobody else but you that could have done that. Lord, you are good to me. Thank you for the victory Thank God for these victories. She had some victories. Let me point out one more. You read on, and we don't see her again until we get to chapter number eight. And we come to chapter number eight and we read that then spake Elisha unto the woman Whose son he had restored to life. Now, she's not even called the Shunammite now. She's just the woman whose son he restored to life. Saying, Arise and go thou and thine household, and sojourn wheresoever thou canst sojourn. For the Lord hath called for a famine, and it shall also come upon the land seven years. She arose and did after the saying of the man of God, and she went with her household and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years. And it came to pass at the seven years' end that the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines, and she went forth to cry unto the king for her house and for her land. And the king talked with Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, saying, Tell me, I pray thee, all the great things that Elisha hath done. Now look all that how this is coming together. And it came to pass as she was telling the king how he had restored a dead body to life, that behold, the woman whose son he had restored to life cried to the king for her house and for her land. And Gehazi said, My lord, O King, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life. Let me stop right there and say, Coincidence? Absolutely not. Here was the leading of God. God led her. That's what I want you to see. This great woman was led by the Lord. And when the king asked the woman, she told him, so the king appointed unto her certain officers, saying Restore all that was hers and all the fruits of the field since the day she left the land, even until now. Isn't that something? God was leading her. See, before the famine ever hit, God said to Elisha, go tell her to go somewhere where she can live. God was leading her. Seven years are coming. Seven years of famine are coming. You go find somewhere where you can live. You say, does God lead people like that? You better believe it. God directs his little children along. God leads us along. There is a God in heaven who you can trust to lead you through this whole world. You say, preacher, I just don't know what to do. Follow him. I don't know the next step to take. Just take the one he tells you. God will lead you. And the beauty of this thing is you get to the end of the road and you look back and you say, What a wonder. God led me all the way. Here God's leading her. He says now go and find you a place. She goes and finds her a place and now she's gone. Nobody's to live in her house Uh uh uh she she's not living in her house, rather her land is not being guarded, and somebody comes in, they take it from her, and she comes back and she says, Now I've got to go to the king and see if I can get my land back And it just so happens that the day she goes to talk to the king, the king says, Tell me some things Elisha did that were wonderful. Tell me, fill me in on some stuff that you saw that I need to know about that Elisha did. Well, let me tell you about how he raised a dead boy to l to life. And as Gehazi is telling that story, don't you, I bet his old jaw hit the ground. And he looked up and he's and he's, that's her. That's I'm just telling you, and I right there she is. And she says, Oh King, and and as we read, she begs for the land, and not only does he give her the land, but he appoints an officer And says, make sure everything they grew on that property for the seven years she gets in return. That's the way God is. He always goes above and beyond. He always does us better than we deserve. And here he is, and you know what that is? That's God leading her along. Now, church, God will lead you if you'll follow him. God will lead you every step of the way. And oftentimes God's leading and you don't know he's even leading. There are times God's looking after you, you don't even know you're being looked after, but God is taking care of his own. Oh, listen, we are the sheep. He's the shepherd. And the good shepherd goes before the sheep and he leads us home. Fanny Crosby wrote a song, All the Way My Savior Leads Me. What a beautiful hymn that is. All the Way the Savior Leads Me. I hope I marked it here. I I want you to listen to these words. She wrote these a and and I'll say something about how she wrote them or why. But it says, All the way my Savior leads me, what have I to ask beside? Can I doubt his tender mercy, who through life has been my God? Heavenly peace and divinest comfort, hereby faith in him to dwell. For I know whatever befall me, Jesus doeth all things well. All the way my Savior leads me, cheers each winding path I tread, gives me grace for every trial, feeds me with the living bread. Though my weary steps may falter, and my soul a thirst may be, gushing from the rock before me, lo a spring of joy, I see All the way my Savior leads me over the fullness of his love, perfect rest to me his promise, in my Father's house above When my spirit, clothed immortal, wings its flight to realms of day, this my song through endless ages, Jesus led me all the way. Church, you're not out here on an adventure of your own. You're not being uh on an expedition trying to find your way. If you're saved by God's grace, he's leading you. He's leading you through the wilderness. He's leading you home. He's leading you by his good hand. You know you'd think something, and I thought, man, there must be some big story behind this song. And I read it and I was disappointed. You say, why were you disappointed? She needed five dollars. Five dollars. And she said it came in her heart, she was sort of fretting over what I'm gonna do. I d I need this five dollars. And of course, five dollars in her day was a little bigger than five dollars in our day, but it still was a modest sum. It still was Not a big as big a deal as needing something much larger, but she needed five dollars and she said it came in her heart, pray And she prayed and she said, now Lord, you know this need, and I just ask you, Lord, to take care of it. She said she had been visited by, I believe it was a dear sister in Christ. And as she went to leave, she shook her hand and she said, She felt in her hand, remember she's a blind lady, she felt in her hand a transfer of something. She felt something, she just grasped it, said, Thank you. And the lady who was caring for her after she left, she said, Do you know what that is? She said, No. She said, tell me, what is it? She said, it's five dollars. She said, I immediately began to think, Oh, how the Savior leads me. And I wrote those words, she said, in short order, all the way my Savior leads me. Church, aren't you glad he'll lead you all the way? And the beauty of that hymn is she she starts from earth to glory, talks about how he'll lead her all the way, and then when it comes time to leave this old world, don't think he's going to abandon you then. Don't think for a minute you're going to have to leave in uncharted waters or territory that's never been crossed. I'm glad to report to you, the captain of your salvation will usher you safely home. He's already walked through the dark waters of death and knows the way. He's conquered it, and thank God you will too, because he's going to take you safely home. Oh, praise the Lord. He leads us. He leads us. All the way. Here's a great woman. God led her All the way. It's no accident that she built the little home or the little addition on her home for him and cared for him in the fashion in which she did. It's no accident that that that the ch the son as he grew older took sick and died as No accident that God raised him up from the dead. It's no accident that that that at that moment that that she needed the king's help the most that Gehazi was there and telling her story. You see, can I just say to you tonight there's no accidents in our lives, there's just simply the leading of a God who's on the throne, and a shepherd who loves his little sheep Now you may not know why he's leading like he is, but you can rest assured he knows best. My Lord knows the way through the wilderness. It does seem kind of simple. All I have to do is follow, but sometimes that's the challenge of living. Just follow. He doesn't tell me much about the path ahead, but he always comforts me. I've been studying this statement. I am with thee. Do you know how many times he said that? You're gonna know sometime. But I'm not gonna let the cat out of the bag tonight. I'll just tell you this: a whole bunch. I am with thee. Joshua, I'm with thee. Moses, I'm with thee. Abraham, I'm with thee. John, I'm with thee. You see, the path he leads us along is made more pleasant. By the company that we're traveling with. You ever gone on a maybe a long drive or something, went by yourself, and boy, it seemed like it'd never end. Boy, you just felt like, man, this is the longest trip. And it may not have been that long, but but you were by yourself and didn't Then you take that same trip and you take somebody with you and you're talking and enjoying fellowship and next thing you know you're there and you're like, boy, that happened quick. It wasn't that the path was any different or short. It's just the fact that you had some pleasant company as you made the journey. Church, if you're saved by the grace of God, you got some pleasant company along the path. The Lord's with you. He said, I am with thee. Here's a great woman. Who was led by the Lord. I don't know all that contributes to her greatness, but I do know this. We see the goodness of God written over every page of her life. And I believe everybody who's saved can honestly say the goodness of God can be written over every page of my life. Friend, walk with him. Don't let the world trap you with its definition of greatness. Let's follow the Lord. What really stands out about her is she did what God put her here to do. And at the end of the day, all that really matters. Did you do what God put you here to do? That's greatness. That's greatness. The will of God is the best. You say, preacher, but my life seems so simple. You don't know what God's going to do with it. Follow him. But it's not spectacular or exciting or amazing, etc. etc. Listen, dear friend, if it's the will of God, it's all of those things and more because you're doing what God puts you here. to do. Thank God for this great woman. May God multiply her tribe And raise up many more who can say, I did what God put me here to do. Would you stand with me? Brother Dow, I want you to come with that hymn