News and won't be is that churches were and are on the front line in response. Had it not been for the churches providing food, water, clothing, etc. there would have been a lot more loss of life uh because of that. And I mean the church is really, and Brother Pa uh Pastor Randy Barton of the Anchor Baptist Church mobilized a great deal of this. Uh that church is, like I said, very small church, but they're working people. And uh if you go to Anchor Baptist Church uh you you better be a worker because that's what they do. And they labor, labor, labor. And uh The Lord just put it in his heart to reach out all these pastors, and if you know anything about North Carolina, there is a church on every corner And that's literal. There literally is. And he reached out and said, look, let's be a distribution center. If you'll open your doors, we'll get food, water, clothes, we'll get it to you, you get it to your community. And that is exactly what happened, and they just kept going further and further out into that area. Something I wanted to tell you when we took up the love offering, Um Brother Jones, the director of the Baltimore Rescue Mission, was following what the church was doing. And uh he donated to two van loads of uh different things for the uh uh for the trip. But when he got here uh with the first load he said, uh I've got something for you and I want to tell you a little bit about it. He said that normally I wouldn't say anything about the offering, but he said, I've got an envelope here with $200 in it He said in the mission uh when men are given a job and if someone comes in they show character and initiative, uh they'll give them work to do, and they get a very small uh not I wouldn't call it a salary. They get just some spending money because they get room and board and they can stay there all day. They don't have to go back out on the street. He said when they heard what we were doing to help the people in West North Carolina, he said that group of men took up a love offering between themselves. It was two hundred dollars. And I'll be honest with you, that was the widow's might in my opinion. To God be the glory for how he moves on people's hearts. That's God's people doing what God's people ought to do. And I'm telling you, as our brother said, it is going to be a long haul uh for a lot of these dear folks. Um the the well drilling story there is is amazing because That's our home church, Trinity Baptist Church. Winston Parish is Ralph Sexton Jr. 's grandson, who's now the pastor. And he uh was burdened over the fact they're telling them they may not have water in Asheville till January. The entire water system was polluted, it blew those big distribution lines, there was so much pressure behind that water that it unearthed those things and blew those pipes up many, many miles of it. And so they're having to rebuild the whole infrastructure. And so they're telling folks, we just we're not we don't have water, you don't expect get water, figure out what you're gonna do with water. And uh so uh they drilled those wells and now they have this water just and You know, I think about years ago when Dr. James Stewart started that church, he prayed, he came over here from Scotland and he prayed and he said, God, lead me to the place where you want me to start a church. And as he prayed for God to give him that piece of land that God gave him an old sanatorium for tuberculosis patients, and they were the government was trying to get rid of it, so they were able to get that land. and be able to um to build a church, start the church, Trinity Baptist Church, God knew then there was water there for today. And I I'm grateful that God knows what he's doing with his people. We just need to listen. So thank you for these testimonies. I I want you to take your Bible and go with me to the book of Acts. Chapter 9. And just for a few moments, I want you to think with me about a question found in verse number 6. I want to preach a message to the Lord helping me this evening on a life-changing question. A life-changing question. Acts chapter 9, verse number 6. When you find your place, let's stand together. I'm going to read the question. You see it there, Lord. What wilt thou have me to do? Folks, that's a life-changing question if you'll ask it honestly. Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Father, help us, please, we pray. In Jesus' strong name. Amen. You can be seated. Oh, there's a lot of truth and heart-searching things that you and I could get from this question. I believe this is an honest question that every Christian should ask. Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Our brother mentioned the disaster relief ministry that we were able to assist and really it was born out of out of the pastor and his church saying, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? What can we do? I believe there was a flood up in Kentucky, and they had some kin folks up there, and the preacher said, let's just pray, Lord, what can we do? And God began to open doors and give them connections and bring people into their path. And they started to take supplies and begin to transport those things and meet that need. It was interesting to hear, and maybe someday we'll have Brother Barton visit with us and bear testimony, but it was interesting to hear during this the way that God would always provide what they needed when they needed it. Pastor Barton said he was on the phone and a family was calling, said we're located out in this community. There are dozens of families here, no food, no water. We need help, but the roads are just impassable. We need somebody to help us. And he said, about that time uh someone came up in the lot and said, look , I've got uh I believe it was 85 men. They had come from South Florida. driven all night and got up there and they said, We've got chainsaws, we have uh ATVs, we have all this stuff, and so what can we do? Where can we go? And he's on the phone with somebody and he said, okay, let me get you directions. Go up there and cut your way in and get those people some food and water. And all through this, and you say, why'd you say that? I said that because it's a result of someone saying, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? I just want to make some statements on this question because it's an important question for all of us to ask the Lord. Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? I want you to notice number one. There is something for you to do. There is something for you to do. You're not saved to sit, you're saved to serve. God 's got a purpose. Well, if we had time tonight, we'd take First Corinthians twelve and read that lengthy passage beginning in verse number twelve. where he talks about the body being one, but though it's one body, it's many members, and each member has a place, some are eyes, as he uses the body as a illustration. Some are noses, some are hands, some are feet, but every part of the body has purpose. There's something for you to do. And may I say that whatever that something is, it's not insignificant. In that passage of Scripture, he talks about those parts of the body that are not attractive, they're not beautiful, but they're necessary. Maybe you've had some problems with your health and and uh maybe you've had your appendix taken out or you've had your gallbladder taken out or You've had a kidney taken out or something like that. And you don't know the value of those things until they stop working. I mean you don't get up in the mirror and look and say, Man, what a nice looking gallbladder I have. And and I mean you can't even see the thing, but when it don't work, you know it. Because it's a significant part of your body. And just so it is in the body of the Lord Jesus Christ. Every part of the body is significant as far as the function of the whole, and there's a purpose and a place for each one of us. So there is a work to do. Don't believe the lie of the devil that, well, there's just nothing for me to do. Ask the question, Lord, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? There is something for you to do. Let me say quickly, number two, always do the next thing. Always do the next thing. Now Paul asked this question, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And notice how the Lord answered it. The Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do. He didn't tell him I'm going to make you an apostle. He didn't tell him you're going to be a messenger to the Gentiles. He didn't tell him he would stand before kings and preach the good news. He didn't tell him he would be the sole responsible individual to carry the gospel westward. He didn't tell him any of that. He said, get up, go to the city. Now Lord, I want more detail than that. Lord says, get up and go to the city. And what did he do? He got up and went to the city. I'm just saying, always do the next thing. God will lead us that way. Aren't you grateful that God is wiser than you and I? And and he knows he knows what you can handle. He knows what you can handle. I was thinking this morning in 1989 when I surrendered to preach the gospel. If the Lord had laid everything out to this point, my heart would have stopped. I would have said, there's no way. I mean, it was challenging enough to just say, now, Lord, I'll preach if that's what you want me to do But then the Lord began to, I remember I went and told Pastor, I said, Pastor, I think God has called me to preach. He said, good, you're preaching tonight. I didn't know how to study. I didn't know how to prepare a message or anything like that. And and they still had enough of that mountain thinking that said, if God calls you, then he'll help you. And so you just get up, open your mouth, and the Lord will feel it. Well, it is true that God will help you, but but it does help to be helped. I'll say that much. It does help to be helped. But but you know God God began. That that was uh first time I ever preached and actually ever stood before the church And I preached that night, and then after that, God just began to open the door. I told the preacher, I I just got a b a burden in my heart to to preach and and to tell people about the Lord. He said, Go to the bus stop down there at Pritchard Park and stand and preach. And so we would go down there and have service. Two years we preached in the outdoors and preaching campgrounds and different places like that. It it was two more years before I ever preached inside a building and I'll be honest, I didn't like being inside. I felt confined and trapped. I I didn't want to be inside of a building. And it was just step by step. I'm just saying that. It may not be preaching that God's called you to do. If you're a lady, God, I know that's not what God's called you to do. But and God doesn't call all men to preach. God doesn't call every man to preach. But God does give us all something to do And the way to know what God wants you to do is always do the next thing. Always do what God sets in front of you to do. Listen, a need seen is an assignment given. When when God begins to work in your heart and and open the door, really this whole thing, uh uh God put that uh burden, brother Brother Chuck sent me a message and said, Preacher, uh could we take something down there And I said, that would be great if you want to do that. He said, okay, let's get some things together. And it just took off from there. But see, listen, God has something for you to do. Paul didn't get the whole story right off the bat. He said, God said, now get up, go to the city. And what did he do? He obeyed the Lord. Always take the next step. And you'll see God direct in your life. Number three, I want you to think about this, Lord. What wilt thou have me to do? You're going to have to trust God. You see here in verse number eight, when Saul arose from the earth, and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man, but they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. You know it's not in your nature to put the care of yourself in another's hands If you don't believe that's so, close your eyes and get your neighbor next door to lead you somewhere. I I I don't know about you, but but that's a that's sort of a scary thing because you're thinking, you know, I hope they lead me in the right way. I don't know what Paul was thinking as he was being led away, but but he's not the most loved man on the planet And these men are going to lead him. And he's, you know what he's got to do? God said, I want you to go to the city, and then I'll tell you what to do there. He just had to trust God. Now here's what I do know. I know this. If you can do whatever it is God wants you to do without him, it's not of him. If you don't have to trust God, it's not of God. It may be of you, but it's not of Him. If you're not in a place like Peter walking on water saying, Now Lord, if you tell me to do it, I'll do it. You're not doing what the Lord wants you to do. You must trust the Lord. So, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Don't be surprised when he tells you something impossible. And you'll have to lean that much harder upon him. Quickly, number four, we've got to learn to accept the help of others. You notice in verse 17, he talks about this man named Ananias. And Ananias went his way and entered into the house and put his hands on him and said, Brother Saul, The Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest, has sent me that thou mightest receive thy sight and be filled with the Holy Ghost. And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales, and he received sight forthwith and arose and was baptized. And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then with Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus. Do you know what God began to do in Paul's life? God began to put people in his path that would help him fulfill his purpose. Started with Ananias. And then a long line of individuals. You get to Romans 16 and you read it sometime, maybe when you go home tonight. Read Romans chapter 16. He names, I don't know, 20 or more people. He names a group of individuals, and he talks about how they helped him. in the Lord. They helped him with the gospel. They helped him. They secured him. They supported him. They fed him. They helped him work. They were helpers in the ministry. You say, what are you saying? I'm saying that if you're going to uh God's going to answer this question in your life, you're going to have to let other people help you fulfill what God's called you to do. I'll say this if you can do it without others, it's not of God. We live in a day of the individualist. I've got my ministry. God bless you. But it ain't of God. Because God's ministry is always connected to God's people. And you can't do what God wants you to do separate from God's children. There's got to be the intertwining of the people of God. Oh my friend, listen, we we've got too many Lone Rangers, but you know, that even Lone Ranger had Tonto So you understand what I'm saying? There's a need among the people of God to understand that we need to accept the help of others. Thank God for Christians who come alongside and do what God tells them to do that will help you do what God wants you to do. I still remember some older Christians when I first started preaching who would come up and and and you know really in those early days They didn't know they were doing this, but they were helping me understand the Bible. They were teaching me how how to study and prepare messages And I and I didn't know it. They would say uh different things and and and and they were older cre they weren't preachers. They i in fact they were just servants in the local church. But but they they were mature in the faith. They were grounded and rooted in the Lord Jesus and they become a great help. And I'm just saying that needs to happen If you and I are going to do what God calls us to do, we've got to accept the help of others. You can't do it alone. God didn't intend for you to do it alone. Whatever it is God puts in your heart to do, it will require the help of others. Let me quickly say number five. Don't ever forget who it's for. Don't ever forget who it's for. In verse number six, he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? What wilt thou? I remember at my ordination. Brother Jameson, G. W. Jameson, he pastored Delwood Baptist Church in Jonathan Valley, North Carolina. I didn't know this, but many, many years ago, GW at that time was probably, I guess his handy 90 years old. Still pastoring? He said, you're a grooms. I know some grooms. He said most of them aren't no account. I said they're probably kin to me then He said, well, I know this this grooms, chief, was his name. Old Chief Grooms. I said, that's my granddaddy. He said, well, he said, now when were you born? I told him, he said, oh, well, he died when you were just a little boy. I said he did. He said, do you know that I led him to the Lord? I said, no, sir, we did not. He said, your granddad would always chase preachers off when they come to the community. He said we'd go up there and I asked my dad about this and dad said yeah when uh when he was a little boy his dad would tell him Baptist preachers eat little kids so don't go around them And he said they had run to the mountains when the preachers would come. I'm serious, that's what he told him. Dad said he was scared to death of them. GW was up there and one thing that touched his heart, touched my granddaddy's heart, was that he would get down on his knees Uh my grandfather would be plowing with his mule up there and and GW would get on his knees beside him and say, I'm going to pray for you. I know you don't want it. I know you don't want to hear this, but I'm going to get on my knees and pray for you because you, sir, are going to hell. And he'd pray for him He said, one Sunday night, he said, I look way back in the back, Polk Creek Baptist Church was a big long church, something like this, but a little longer. And he said, there sat your granddaddy on a Sunday night. And he said it wasn't long he was in the altar asking the Lord to save him. He said, I just wanted you to know that. He said, isn't that something? I didn't know you from anybody. And here I am on your ordination council, and I have the privilege to lead your grandfather to the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what the problem is sometimes? We forget who we're doing this for. We forget and and you know, we say, well, they don't appreciate what I do. It's not about them. I don't ever get recognized for what I do. It's not about being recognized. Paul looked up into heaven. He said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And you know, you go down, what is it, verse number 20, straightway he preached Christ. Immediately he began to preach the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't get so caught up in doing what you do that you forget who you're doing it for. It's awful easy to do. It's awful easy. You know, sometimes we think, well, if I don't do my job, it won't get done. I've got news for you. God raise up somebody. God will raise up somebody. God's able to do that sort of thing. If I don't, i i i it it'll all fall apart. No. God will do what he does. God will raise up somebody. Listen, my friend You and I get the privilege to take part in what the Lord's doing. And we need to remember it's all about doing this for Him. Don't forget it. Don't forget it. You'll get discouraged if you forget that. You'll want to quit if you don't if you forget this. But listen, if you'll remember, hey, it's for the Lord. And he remembered, listen, he remembered, he said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Lord, what is it that you want me to do? Now let me ask you a very serious question. I'm through. Have you ever sincerely and prayerfully said, Lord, What wilt thou have me to do? You know, there may be some things in your life you need to do That are not in regards to ministry, but they're the will of God. There's something you need to do. If you've never been baptized, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Be baptized. If you're not a part of a local New Testament church, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Become a part of a local New Testament church If you are not being obedient and witnessing to souls, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? You need to get busy telling people about Jesus. If you're not reading your Bible and praying, you say, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? I guarantee He's going to tell you, read your Bible and pray. If you're not being faithful in those small things, we call them small, but they're fundamental things. They're so so intricately a part of who we are. The reality is if we're not being obedient in those things, there's no way God's going to give you any further instruction. Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Listen, I promise you, he will answer you clearly and directly. If you sincerely and prayerfully say, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? By the way, you know why you're here? You're here because he's got something for you to do. God doesn't call everybody the mission field. God doesn't put every man behind a pulpit. You think about the myriad of people, the number of people Who are the reason so many of these local churches exist. And those dear people get up and go to work every day They live for God. They're a witness in their community. They support their local church financially and personally and prayerfully. And that church could not exist if they were not doing what God called them to do. Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Do just exactly what you're doing. Just keep doing what it is that you're doing. Our brother mentioned the Anchor Baptist Church. We went out there one time for a meeting, and I I'd always heard about them, had a radio station in our community. had all kinds of ministries going on, and I thought it was going to be this great big old church and we got there and there were maybe 25 pews and you had to sit shoulder to shoulder. And there was just a handful of people in that little building, and I thought, this is the great Anchor Baptist Church? How in the world are they doing all of this? Well, I'll tell you how. Somebody was saying, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? What is it, Lord, that you want me to do? See, it's not about numbers. It's about doing God's will. Brother Gilbert Anger was a missionary in Australia. He was uh an Australian himself. He started works in uh Sydney and Melbourne, and I remember he was one of the first missionaries our first church took on. And Brother Anger as as he came to our church he he he was a teacher by nature and at that time he was traveling in third world countries and he was helping uh national pastors and trying to encourage and instruct them And he said this. He said, Brother Grooms, don't ever forget, God's not in numbers, but in jobs to be done. He said, the church is an army, not a museum. I'll never forget that. And he would talk about how you know that that work that that last work there in Sydney, I believe it was, he he was talking about how You know, i ev everyone ha had a responsibility and and had something that they were accountable for and they were an active part And listen, my friend, the reality is, is that's exactly what God saved you for. He saved you to serve him and to live for him and to honor him in some way. So have you ever, I close with this, have you ever prayerfully said, Lord? What wilt thou have me to do? Now please don't tell me this. Now, preacher, I'm too old to be praying like that. I'm too old to pray like that. Don't tell me that. Moses didn't really get started till he was eighty. But you say, what are those 79 previous years for? Preparation. I'm serious. You may have lived at this point, for this moment. God 's brought you to that place. I mean you're right where you are because God's got something for you to do. All that behind you was preparation. All of that was just getting you ready to do what it is God has designed you to do. Have you prayed that? See , I can't tell you what God wants you to do. I can't tell you. You know why? Because I have to ask the Lord, what do you want me to do? I uh th this local church can't tell you what it is the Lord wants you to do. There's not a man or woman sitting here that can tell you. Now there's a lot of people there's a lot of people think they know what the Lord I I've always been amazed at people who are so clear about God's will for my life and and me and the Lord are on speaking terms. And it 's not near as clear to me as it is to them. You know what I'm trying to say? But the reality is that if you'll get serious about this thing and say, Lord, what do you want me to do? the Lord will make that clear to you. It's not something he's trying to hide. It's not something shrouded in mystery that you've got to mystically break through and somehow discover. It's not this nebulous thing that you'll never like a carrot on a stick that you'll never catch. No, no. If you mean business, God will show you what He wants you to do. It may just be the next step. It will always just be one step at a time But you take a step at a time at a time and a time at a time, and before you know it, you'll begin to understand what it is God's called you to do. What wilt thou have me to do? Maybe some of you need to pray that for the first time here tonight. Maybe some of you need to pray that once again. You've prayed it in the past and got away from. Maybe you need to say now, Lord, what do you want me to do? Lord, what is it that you've called me to do? Lord, what's my purpose? What's the place that I can serve the body? Oh dear friend, let's be serious and say, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Let's stand, please. I'm gonna ask our pianists to come and just play softly our hymn of invitation