Would you take your Bible this morning, please, and go with me to Psalm 128? Psalm 128. There's six verses in this Psalm, and when you find it, I'm going to invite you to stand with me, please. We'll read it. Together I'll read it aloud and you follow along silently, please. Psalm one twenty-eight Verse number one says, Blessed is every one that feareth the Lord, that walketh in his ways. But thou shalt eat the labor of thine hands. Happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house. Thy children like olive plants round about thy table. Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. The Lord shall bless thee out of Zion, and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life. Yea, thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon Israel. Verse number four is the verse that really got my attention, and I want to magnify the truth of it, because it says, Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on a man who fears God. A man who fears God. Let's pray together again. Father, thank you for the opportunity that we have again together. We ask, O Lord, that you would do a work in our hearts for your glory and our good. We bow, acknowledging, O Lord, that we truly, truly need thee. And oftentimes, Lord, we need them more than we even understand. But Lord, would you help us just now? Would you speak from your word to our hearts and do it all for your glory? We pray, Father, that you would help us to understand what's being said in this text, and may the Spirit of God take and work individually and even collectively in our midst. And we'll thank you for all that you do, for we pray in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. This psalm has been called a family hymn. It's also been called the man 's psalm. There's a couple of psalms that are directly addressed to men. And I believe this is one of them. And the mag the truth that I want to magnify this morning is in this fearing the Lord. Fearing the Lord. Um, you know, men want to be known for different things. That's just par for the course. Men want to be known for being hardworking or honest or good or trustworthy. But I do believe that this psalm gives us the thing that all men should strive for, and that is to be a man who fears the Lord. I remember growing up as a little boy, I'd hear my dad say things like, you don't have to worry about that man. He's a God-fearing man. That was language that was common perhaps decades ago in our culture. We don't hear that much anymore because, quite frankly, there are not many people, let alone men, who fear the Lord. The Bible has a lot to say about the fear of the Lord. I started writing down a bunch of verses, and I thought, if I read all the verses about the fear of the Lord, that's all we'll do. But the Bible says the subject of the fear of the Lord is a big subject in God's Word. The Bible says in Proverbs 1:7 that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. If you want to be smart, if you let me say it like that, if you want real knowledge, fear God. Fear God. Proverbs 9:10 says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. That's where wisdom starts. You say, What how do I become wise? Well, here's where you start: fear the Lord. The fear of the Lord. Psalm 3318 says the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him. Who does the Lord watch Who's the Lord pay attention to? Well, the Bible tells me it's somebody who fears him, who fears him. There's a lot of thoughts. You say, Well, preacher, what do you mean by the fear of the Lord? What does it mean to fear God? Oftentimes we put our own definitions to things, but yet we ought to say, what does the Bible say about fear in the Lord? What does it mean to fear God? Let me give you it's summed up in about four or five statements. Number one, it's a reverence for his majesty A reverence for his majesty. And when you see God for who God is, how can you not but reverence him I don't like the term reverend. I think it ought to be struck from our vocabulary because there's one who's reverend, and that's the Lord. And we what do we do? We reverence his majesty. Our God is a majestic God. By the way, if you want to see how majestic he is, look at every man who met him in the scriptures and watch how they responded. Almost every man who realized he was in the presence of the Lord fell at his feet as dead. That's how majestic the Lord is. So to fear the Lord is to reverence his majesty. Number two, I believe to fear the Lord is to show gratitude for his mercy. It's a humbling, if you will, of heart because of the mercy that 's been demonstrated. This morning, you and I are living on the pure mercies of God. Every one of us here today, we're simply living on God's mercy. I'm drawing air into my little lungs because of the mercy of God. My heart's beating in my chest simply because of the mercy of God. I have the privilege to stand in this place before you dear people simply all because of the mercies of God. And fearing the Lord is exhibiting a gratitude because God is merciful. I believe number three, it's to dread to displease the Lord. A dread of displeasing the Lord. Someone said it's like a child who feels for an honorable parent. That dread of, I want to please, I want to please my parents. We've raised a culture so immersed in rebellion that pleasing sounds weird The pleased. We, you know, well well I am on, you know, I'll tell you something. The way of a transgressor is hard. And that path of saying, well, I'm going to do my own thing and go my own way, my ma, what sorrow lies ahead for that sort of stuff. But if you've got a dread in your heart, you don't want to displease the Lord. That's part of fearing God. When you fear God, there's almost something in you that cringes when you think about displeasing God. Those that have raised children know that, you know, uh all of our children are different. God makes them different. There's no two kids alike in any one family. Some children are hard and some children are tender. Some children, it takes great measure to get their attention, and other children it takes just a mere look. There are children that it that just a look of displeasure breaks their heart. Well, that's what the fear of the Lord is. When I fear the Lord, I dread to displease. I do not want to do anything that would displease the Lord. That's part of what it means to fear the Lord. Number four. the desire of the approval of God. We're talking about what does it mean to fear God. We can't just say one word and say, well it means to reverence or it means to obey. It's a whole it's a big word. It's a big meaning in this thing of fearing God. But again, I'm trying to lay the groundwork for what I want to say to the men here this morning. But part of fearing God means I desire his approval. Lord, I want you to be pleased. Someone said, I can suffer the frowns of man if I have the smile of God. And that's what it means to fear the Lord. I want his approval. And I believe the fifth thing that it means to fear the Lord, it means to long for fellowship with God. To long for fellowship with God. The fear of the Lord means, God, I I want to be right with you. I want to be able to talk with you. I want to be able to walk with you. The fear of the Lord. There's a recognition of the great power of God when we fear the Lord. We understand that He's God and we're not. That He's Almighty, and we're nothing. We're the dust of the earth, the fear of the Lord And by the way, the fear of the Lord is the, one old writer wrote it like this. He said, the fear of the Lord is the cornerstone of blessedness and the foundation of life. Do you know why our culture is in the mess it's in? Because we don't fear God anymore. God is not feared. The fear of the Lord is not a prevalent attribute of the people of our day. Well, there was a day when lost people feared God. Not in a saving way, but at least they feared him enough that they reverenced the Lord. I'm reading this little book that was sent to me, and it's the wisdom of the old men. And uh it it's it's written by a man who was raised in the mountains, and the wisdom that he gained from a lot of the older men that he grew up around. And what I've enjoyed about it is is almost every chapter, really every chapter, I've heard some old man in my life say the same words. But he talked about in one of the chapters I read last night how the old men feared God, even the lost old men, that they had a fear of God. He said he grew up around some old men who were moonshiners, and he said they would not make moonshine on the Lord's day. Because they feared the Lord. Now we laugh at that and we say, what hypocrites. I look at that and say, at least they had enough sense to know. That there's a day different. They got more sense in law, say people do anymore. That there's a day different than any other day, and they reverence God on that day. When Elizabeth and I started a bus ministry in our church, we were working in these projects. And in that place, as bad as that environment was, there was still a measure of the fear of God in some of those people. And I 'll never forget two men fighting on Sunday morning right there on the sidewalk, just beating the stuffing out of each other. And when the church bus went by, they both stopped. At one man still had his hat on his head and he took it off and he put it over his heart, now they're beating each other up And he put his hand over his his hat over his heart and let the church bus pass, and the minute I looked in the rear view mirror, as soon as it went by, that old boy, he was slow. He had his hand over his heart and he had his uh hat in his hand like that and that fella saw that the bus was gone by and he licked him one good. He wasn't even thinking. But you know what they were doing? They were showing a reverence. There was somebody in their lives who taught those men that there are things about God that you respect I'm just saying this morning that the fear of the Lord is a is a cure for much that ails us in this day. Well, here in this psalm, I think we get the attributes of a man who fears God. And men, I I want to just lay before you a challenge, young or old. I I don't care if you're a ten-year-old man. Or or or you're a hundred-year-old man. I don't think we have any of those, but if you're close to that anyway, I want to cover all of you. No matter your age. Understand this. The greatest thing that can be said about you is that you were a man who feared God. You were a man who feared the Lord. What does a man who fear the Lord fears the Lord look like? Number one, I want you to notice he's a man who has a walk with God, a relationship with God. Look what he says here in verse number one: Blessed is everyone that feareth the Lord. And in verse number four, Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. You know, Jesus said this to the Pharisees and the scribes and others as they gathered round him in Matthew 3. He says, Who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Who warns you? What is it that alarmed you, that made you run in this direction? A man who fears God does what Hebrews 6:18 says. Who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us, which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast. You know what a man who fears God does? A man who fears God will flee to the Lord Jesus to save him because of the certain wrath that waits before him. He'll flee. Now if you fear God, you know what? There were a lot of things I did not do because I feared my father. I wanted to do them. I had a desire to do them. And I think if I had three-quarters of the chance, I probably would have done them. But I feared my father. And the fear of my father kept me from doing some foolish things in my life. Now, my friend, the most foolish thing you can do is lose your soul. The most precious thing you have right now is your soul, that eternal part of you that's going to live forever in eternity, that part of you that God made, God breathed into man and made man a living soul. That's the most precious thing you have. And to play fast and loose with your soul is a very foolish thing. But hear the word of God, hear what the Bible says. The Bible says, what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world? And lose his own soul. What good will it do you to own everything and everything that everything sets on and lives in and dwells in? If you own it all and lose your soul, what have you got? You've got nothing. You've got nothing. And so the fear of the Lord persuades me and pushes me in the way to the Lord Jesus And it brings me to him. You see, I I I think sometimes we miss the mark, especially in dealing with men, because the reality is every one of us are going to face eternity And if we face eternity without the saving grace of God, we'll spend forever in hell. And that ought to be a terrifying thought. I heard Billy Kelly on the radio the other day here at the church and he was talking about as a little boy, he didn't want to go to hell. He said, My whole he said, I have never wanted to go to hell. He said, I have been fearful of hell. And he said, when I heard the gospel that saves, that keeps a man out of hell, he said, I ran to the Lord Jesus and he saved me. Men , if you fear God, it will move you his way. Understand this. Every one of us, if you're not saved, you're one breath from eternity. If you're not saved here this morning, you're listening at some point this week, know this: that you're one breath from facing God whom you've offended by your sin. My Bible still says that He's angry with the wicked every day. That because of my sin, my sin has separated me from God. Listen, my friend, if you're without Christ, you're in trouble. How many of you had a little sister? A little brother? Them little turkeys, didn't they love getting you in trouble? I don't know what it is about younger siblings, but they love it. And I can remember my sister finding out things. She she really should have worked for the FBI. She can find out stuff. And and how she found out. We're three grades apart, three grades and and oftentimes worlds apart in our school, and yet she she would find out something that happened that I was involved in, and she couldn't wait to tell. We rode the bus together and I remember riding home from school. She said, I'm telling as soon as I get home. And and and she just g she would be so full of glee. And and I'll tell you what I was, I was full of misery. Because I knew, listen, I wasn't one of those kids that ran home and said, the teacher was ugly to me today. Hello. I got in trouble at school today. You know today when kids get in trouble, they call the teacher and the teacher has to deal with it. Some of us, when we were kids, and we got in trouble, we had to deal with it And you didn't dare run home and say, oh, let me t let me tell you how what kind of trouble I got into. No, sir, because my dad said you get a spankin' there, you get a spanking here. But I didn't deserve it. He said, I don't care. You got it, you're going to get it again So you didn't say that sort of thing. And man, I remember just being afraid. I was like, oh, I hate to go home. Report card day. Now report card day, some days were good days. Most days they weren't. And it wasn't ignorance on my part. I mean beyond what you know already. But it was it was lack of application. But but I can remember going home with that report card and I knew what happened per grade. You know what I mean? There were consequences per each letter. And the deeper it went in the alphabet, the worse it got, okay? And so I remember going home thinking, man, I got to get, and you know what it was? It was judgment day. It was time to pay up. It was the reality of what I got to face. And what I'm just trying to impress on your heart this morning, beloved, is this, that there is coming a day where we're going to have to pay up. There's coming a day when we're going to have to face up. There's coming a day when every one of us, no matter who we are, what we believe, will face God Almighty, and we'll face him either as saved or we'll face him as lost. And the fear of God ought to move you his direction. Jesus paid a price to save you. He died on Calvary's Dark Hill. He shed his blood to redeem you. He loves you with an everlasting love. He'll put your sin eternally away, but you must run to him and flee to him from the wrath to come. A man that fears God will run to Jesus for salvation. I've heard men over my lifetime say foolish things like, I'm not afraid of anybody. I heard a man say one time, I'm not afraid of anybody, even of God. And I said, sir, it's because you don't know him. Because if you knew him, you'd be afraid. If you knew him, there'd be fear in your heart. Look, there's not a church in this country that determines where you go for eternity. You know that? There's not a preacher, there's not a religion, there's not a person's opinion, there's nobody can send you to hell, I don't care how many times they tell you to go there But there's a God in heaven who can. There's a judge over all the earth. There's one who sits on a throne that's eternal. And listen, it's not even up to debate. There's no voting on it. Listen, the throne of God is eternally occupied by the God of that throne, and one day every man's going to face him. And he makes the decree. Ought to fear him. We ought to fear him. Men, can I just say to you, if you have the privilege to raise children, you ought to teach your children to fear God. You ought to train them and teach them in such a way that they'll have a fear of God. Most people today don't don't even know enough about God to be afraid of him or to fear him in the proper way. Um we let country music be our theology. And the God of the country music scene is a God who's okay with everything from committing adultery to drinking booze and running around doing whatever you want to do. And we accept, we say, well, he's just a gentle old man up in heaven. My friend. You and I don't have the vocabulary to describe the wanderer who God really is. One glimpse of him. You know why you're going to need a new body? Because this won't be able to take it in his presence. That's just the truth. God had to put his hand on John on on the Isle of Atmos and raise him up. I mean he was a dead man in his presence. God had to get him back up and put him on his feet because he he saw who the Lord was. That's the God of the Bible. He's not the God of a country song. That may make some old guilty consciences feel good for a little while, but I'm talking about a God who's real and eternal and mighty And my friend, he can do something like create the sun. Hey, this week we're going to see a little glimpse of just how hot the sun is You stand outside a little bit in that hot sun, some of you work in that hot sun, and you know the power of the sun and and and how many millions of miles away are we from it? And and uh and we can't even fathom the great power of that. And all God did say is let there be light. Now that's power. That's a mighty God. That's a mighty God. A man who fears the Lord. A man who fears the Lord has a right relationship. By the way, A man who has a right relationship with God don't fear God as judge in the sense that he'll condemn me because he's converted me. See, there's coming a day when, yes, I will face the Lord, but I'm going to face him with an advocate. His son who stands in my stead. All I gotta do, my friend, is plead him. He's my mercy seat. He's my Savior. He's the one upon whom I lean. And I've got to look to him, my friend. And that's that's the fear of the Lord. The right relationship with God. A man who fears God. A man who fears God gets his heart right with God. Quickly, notice number two: a man who fears God walks in the right path. Blessed is everyone that feareth the Lord, that walketh in his ways. That walketh in his ways. Whose ways? The Lord's ways. We're talking about the way of the Lord. A way that is right. How many of you know the Bible says this in Proverbs 14:12? There is a way that seemeth right unto a man. There's a way that seems right. Well, I'm going my way because it's the right way. I've got news for you. It may not be the right way. If it seem, aren't you glad there's nothing seeming about the Bible, it's all clear. The right way don't seem right, the right way is right. There is a way that seemeth right unto a man. But what does the scripture say? The end thereof are the ways of death. You know, you can be absolutely convinced you're right and be wrong. You sure can. You can be 100% convinced that you're right and you'll still be wrong. I'm going to tell you something. If your rightness doesn't fall within the pages of the Word of God, I'd be careful. Because there's a way that seems right. Josiah was a little boy. We he and I were fishing and gotten a good hole and I said, Go get your mom and sister. They were further down the stream. And I said, you bring him back up here. He's just little, but I thought I could trust him to bring him back up here. You bring him right back where we are. I'm not going to move. I'm going to stay right here. He trudged off, man like Davy Crockett. He thought he was going to conquer the wild blue yonder. And he went way down the brook and he started back up. And I got a little nervous because time was passing, and I'd heard something down the creek a little ways, and I walked that way, and when I did, I spoke to Mama Bear and her cubs. And they went the way they were supposed to be coming. And I thought, oh my. And I'm watching as as as I'm looking, just trying to figure out where they are, and I'm I I'm thinking they should be here by now. And the next thing I know, something catches my eye, and it's two things. There's a bear going this way, and there's my son leading my wife and daughter that way. And I thought, they're going to have a collision, and it ain't going to be good He was absolutely convinced he was going the right way. His mother said, Honey, I think the brook runs this way. You need to go. Uh-uh, Dad said we're right. I know, I've been through her. We fish here all the time. Up there where he and he's leading her on, leading her on, going the wrong way. And there wasn't a good encounter. Man, I I'll tell you something. I wasn't fat then nor old, and I could run, and I ran. I ran real fast. Trying to scare that bear, so she'd go one way and they'd go another. And I'm yelling at them, I want them to come. Hey, come the right way. Because you're going away that's going to hurt you. I say something to you, if you're not going God's way, you're going away that's going to hurt you You might be going the way you think 's right. You may be going the way you perceives right. And look, there may be a lot of voices around you agreeing with you saying, hey You're all right, you're going the right way, but know this, if it's not God's way, it's not the right way, and you're heading for destruction. , You're going on a w a a road that is going to bring uh penalty and bring punishment and bring pain. Psalm tells us, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the uh seed of the scorn, or seteth in the seat of the scornful. Listen, what is his delight? His delight is in the law of the Lord. In his law doth he meditate day and night. You know what a God-fearing man does? He opens his Bible and says, Which way, Lord? A man that fears God opens his Bible and says, Lord, how do you want me to live? He opens his Bible and says, Lord, how is it you want me to act? What do you want me to do? How do you want me to lead my family? How do you want me to uh work on my job? Lord, show me the way. Show me your way A God-fearing man says, God's your way is the right way. I know I've got my own ideas and my own notions and my own opinions, but none of those mean nothing in comparison to what you've lovingly pinned down in your eternal work Lord, show me your way. What's the way? Aren't you glad Jesus said, I'm the way? He said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Hey, if you'll get to know him, you'll get to know God's way. So a man who fears the Lord, he walks in the right path of life. He goes God's way. Don't you notice something else that's mentioned here in verses 2 and 3? He says, Thou shalt eat the labor of thine hands. Happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee. Thy wife shall be as the fruitful vine by the sides of thine house, thy children like olive plants round about thy table. Do you know a man who fears the Lord is responsible? He's responsible. It's three things he mentions here in those two verses: his work, his wife. And for sake of alliteration, his we ones. His work, his wife, his we ones, his children, his little ones. And a man who fears God is responsible in all those areas. Notice he talks about the labor of thine hands. Men, we're committed with the responsibility to work. By the way, work was not a part of the curse. That happened before. God gave us responsibility before we fail. Before man got in trouble And and you know something work is not a bad word. We live in a culture where it is, but to the Lord Jesus it's not. The Bible says the man that won't work shouldn't eat. That'd take care of the problem in this country. We'd resurrect it. Man get hungry enough, he'll do something. I'm not talking about people that are disabled and physically incapable uncapable. I'm thankful there's there's nets for folks like that. There's people that'll help folks like that and their situation. I get that. There's But things happen and people are unable. I'm not talking about the the people that are unable. I'm talking about the crowd that's unwilling. It's unwilling. We used to go to the stockyard every Thursday morning and take a load of cows. We'd go into the town or city and have to cross the city and on the as we got off the interstate there, there was always people sitting there, we'll work for food. The old man I work for is generous. He's demanding. He was a hard-working man. But he said, I'll give every one of them food to eat and a place to sleep. They'll come work. And I said, well, Mr. Phillips, why don't you stop? One day I said to him, he said, you want me to stop? I said, yes, sir. He said, well, let me show you something. He said, you're about to see reality. He pulled that old cattle truck over and he opened the door and he said, hey fellas, I've got food and a place to sleep for everybody that's willing to work Now I'm not going to tell you what some of them said. There wasn't one person willing to take him up. Now we're not talking about broken down people. We're talking about Men that look healthy enough to be able to at least uh use a shovel and clean a stall, do something. And he said, look, he and I remember us pulling off. He said, Now you see He said that sign is telling a lie. They won't work for food. Here's what I'm trying to say, church. Men, we need a revival of hard work. And men that can teach young men how to work hard. Brother and I were talking last week about this. When in our generation, when we grew up, if an old man said, that boy's a hard worker, You'd kill yourself trying to impress him. You know why? Because that was important to you. And and you wanted, especially if that old man was a hard working old man And he said you were a hard worker. Man, that just swelled your little heart with pride and you wanted to impress him. Why? Because hard work was valued in that day. I'm saying again, we need to resurrect that. We're responsible. You'll eat the labor of your hands. It is clear all through the Word of God: God honors hard work. God blesses hard work. And so we need to be responsible in our work. We need to be responsible with our life. God has made you men to lead your home. And that is without your wife's permission. Some of you are taking a nap on me, I can tell. God 's called you to lead men. God's entrusted you with a solemn responsibility, one that you shouldn't take lightly or take something just uh ill-advised. It is a great responsibility to be in charge or be responsible for your home, to lead it in the way it ought to go. By the way, she's not going to answer for it. She's not going to answer for it. We're responsible for our wives, and then we're responsible for our children. He notes here that these children are like olive plants round about thy table. The most prized plant in that part of the world at that time was the olive plant. It brought life to the people. It brought joy. When when you speak of joy, olive the olive plant is often referred to, it it it symbolizes a whole lot of things, but but he's saying that there's going to be joy and there's going to be uh uh this blessing that that that will bring favor and and and help and happiness and and and and all this to the home simply because that father's leading right You know, we have a crises in our country. They tell me that somewhere near 80% of the people who are locked up for life did not have an active father in their life. Did not have dad to correct them, a dad to instruct them, a dad to set an example to them. And I'm saying, Dad, I I don't care what our culture says, the Bible says you're needed in that house. You're needed in that family. You're important in this culture. You're important in our society. When you take away the framework that God established, don't be surprised when the whole building just collapses at your feet. Yet we're seeing that all around us, men, you're important. Lead that home. Lead those children. Teach them about hard work. I can remember some of the old men talking about, you didn't dare put your hands in your pocket if somebody was working. Because they'd get after you. I I can remember uh my my dad saying, What's the matter, you boy? Don't a shovel fit your hand? You know, you you didn't stand and watch anybody do anything. I mean you you got involved. If you didn't get involved, you got in trouble. And even if you got in trouble getting involved, at least you got involved. Alright? Sometimes I'd pick up things and he'd say, put that down, you can't use that. You know. Especially a chainsaw when I was small. I wanted to run that thing. I'd grab it, he'd say, put it down, you can't run that. Leave that alone. But then he'd praise me at least for wanting to. And boy, what was I nine years old when I got my first home light chainsaw. Boy, I tell you, I felt like king of the world. If it's a good thing we didn't have cherry trees, George Washington cut them down the axe, I'd have mowed them over that home light. That was a that was a gi I mean that made me feel wonderful. Hey dad you know where I learned that? Learned that from dad. I learned that from my dad. I learned that watching him and listening to him. I'm saying, men, you're needed. You don't know how bad you're needed. You're needed in your home. And you say, well, I don't have a home. I'm not married. I'm a young man. Well know this, one day if God in goodness gives you a wife and gives you children, you be that man in those children's lives. You begin to instill that in their hearts You raise them right. You be responsible for them. You be responsible for your wife. You be responsible for work. Be the provider, work, and labor. That's what a man does who fears the Lord. But I want you to see something, and God always mercifully does this. He gives us three more verses in this psalm, and they're all about reward. Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. He says, look real close at it, make it big in your mind. God will bless the man that fears the Lord. The blessing of the Lord will be on that man. Verse 5, the Lord shall bless thee out of Zion. Thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life. And again, he's speaking, I think, here in a cultural context as well as in others, but the cultural context is that all the good that come from God came out of Zion. And all the good that they witnessed in Jerusalem was the was the expression that God's smiling, God's pleased. And God's favoring. Verse number six, yea, thou shalt see thy children's children and peace upon Israel. You'll see the blessing of God. Now, men, you can work a lifetime for the approval of a company. And what good is it? You can work a lifetime for the praise of men and men applaud you and say, good job, pat you on the back, whatever. And and what does that do? But men, to have God say, Well, I'm pleased. To have the God of heaven look down and say, Boy, you please me, child. You please me, and you know what? I'm going to bless you. And listen, how many of you know that the blessing of the Lord, the proverbs say, maketh rich and addeth no sorrow to it? There's no sorry. Listen, God's blessing don't come with barbs in the hook. They don't come with thorns on the rosebush. The blessings of God, my friend, are what we ought to labor for. God rewards the man who fears him. If you don't believe me, study your Bible. Hundreds and hundreds of examples of people who feared God. And they didn't have an easy path and everything can go their way, but they had the smile of God on them. I was reading several times through the book of Ruth and and uh just to see the smile of God on that on that family. And then to read in the book of Esther. Here's old Mordecai, and he's despised by Haman and hated by the multitudes because a decree goes out to kill all the Jews. But Haman feared God. Haman was a man who feared the Lord. And Haman in the course of just being responsible, hears two men talking about killing the king, and he sends word and says, hey, there's a conspiracy afoot. And the king's life is saved, and he goes on about his business, and not one thing is done. King don't thank him, doesn't get a royal decree applauding him But it's written down. It's written down. Mordecai notifies the authorities about these two men who were going to kill the king. And at a critical juncture, the king can't sleep. Haman's about to unleash death on a whole nation of people. And the king says, bring the chronicles, it'll help me sleep. Come read to me the business meeting notes of the past. They'll help me sleep. They'll help you sleep all right. And so they start reading him the notes and he says, Hey stop. What did they do for that man? What was done for that man? Oh, King, nothing was done for him. He saved my life. You mean not one thing was done for him? No, not one thing was done for him. Haman makes his approach, and isn't the timing of God wonderful And know this, God's rewards come in God's time. And and so Haman's approaching and boy he's full of himself. He thinks the king's getting ready to Give him second in command, and as he makes his way to the throne, the old king says, Haman, what would you do for a man that the king delights in? And King thinks he's talking, or Haman thinks he's talking about him. Haman says, well, I'd put him on the royal steed and I'd lead him through town and I'd cry, everybody bow. He said, that's a good idea. Go get Mordecai, put him on my horse and lead him through town. Can you see that old rascal? His face is probably long as a mule. He was so sad. I mean the very man he wanted to destroy, now he's got to honor. I've got news for you. There's a God in heaven who can turn the tables in your favor. There's a God in heaven who can smile upon you when all hell rises against you. There's a God in heaven who can bless and reward you in ways that are only known to Him and that'll bring glory and honor and praise to His wonderful name. It pays the fear of God. Pays the fear of God. Nehemiah comes the end of his life, he's done what he could do Jerusalem's not all it should be. He has to deal with their marriages and the mixed multitudes. He has to deal with their idolatry. But it seems in those last chapters, it's five or six times, he says, Lord, remember me for good. Just remember me for good, Lord. Everything's not what I want it to be. Everything's not where it ought to be. But Lord, just remember me for good. I'll tell you, a man who fears God can pillow his head on the deathbed and say, Lord, remember me for good. Remember me for good. I've tried to fear you and love you and walk with you. Go in the paths. Be responsible. Lord, remember me for good. And I've got news for you. You'll hear him say, child, I'll remember you. There's a reward for fearing the Lord. Men fear God. If I could summarize it this way, I'd just simply say: fear God and keep his commandments. Fear him and follow him. Fear him and be faithful to him. Fear him and love him fervently. Fear the Lord. Now, if you're sitting here or listening and you're not saved, this whole thing starts. When you bow that knee to the Lord Jesus Christ. Trust him for eternal life. He'll save you. There's no amount of deeds you can do to get in. We're saved by grace through faith. You need to be saved today if you're not, if you are saved, and that goes for all of us. Man, woman, boy, girl, doesn't matter But, dear friend, if you're saved, man, my burden for you this morning is that we'd fear God. There's some things that need to be resurrected in our culture, and this is first. Men that fear God. Don't you want it said about you? He's a God-fearing man. That's a God-fearing man. Whatever else they say about you don't matter. They say he's a God-fearing man. That's something to be said. Do you fear the Lord? Let's stand together, please. Father, I pray that you'd have your way in this invitation. I pray the Spirit of God might work mightily. Would you speak quite plainly to each of our hearts? I pray, especially for our men, I thank you for them. Lord, I thank you for the many, many men that I know who fear thee. Dear Lord, strengthen them in that. Help us, Lord, to be men who fear thee and walk with thee Dear Lord, work in our hearts we beg this morning. Lord, I pray if there's one here lost that you would trouble their heart over their great need. Help them to see that eternity is real, hell is real, but so is Jesus and salvation. And help them, Lord, to be saved. Would you please do a work in all of our hearts? I think of the young men. Lord, I pray for them. Many of them, uh, Lord, are are not they don't have families, they're not at that point. Perhaps maybe even soon we'll be, thou knowest. But I pray for them. Oh God, help them to be God-fearing young men. Oh Lord, I pray that you'd make that out of them and do a work in them. And God, we pray that for your glory. Help us around this local church to prize this thing of fear in the Lord, to see the great value in it, the teaching of the Word of God about it, and the great necessity of it in our lives. Please help us now as we wait before Thee. In Jesus' name, heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.