Mr. Spurgeon said that heaven's going to be full of surprises. He said one surprise is who's not there. He said the other surprise is who's going to be there? But he said likely the most stunning surprise is that I'm going to be there. And boy, isn't that the grace and mercy of God. And I thank the Lord for that. Would you take your Bibles, please, and go to 1 Chronicles, chapter number 4. First Chronicles chapter number four. I want to read two verses in your hearing this evening. And a familiar passage, perhaps, been made popular by a book that was uh released oh quite some time ago now. And if you read the book, I'm going to ask you this evening for sake of the message to forget everything the book said I read it and looked over it and discovered that I believe it came from the the premise of prosperity gospel. Talking about the prayer of Jabez. And uh the the book was pretty much on on just how to get get get give me whatever you can give me, Lord. It's not what this is all about. And I want us to look at it and ask the Lord to help us. And if you're in your place now, 1 Chronicles chapter 4, verse 9, would you stand with me, please? We'll read the two verses. And pray and then see what the Lord has for us. The Bible says in verse 9, and Jabez was more honorable than his brethren And his mother called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bear him with sorrow. And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh, that thou wouldst bless me indeed! and enlarge my coast, and that thine hand might be with me, and that thou wouldst keep me from evil, that it might it may not grieve me. And God granted him that which he requested. Father, help us this evening. Dear Lord, we've tried to read in your word distinctly. Help us to give the meaning and the sense of it And God, I pray that you'll give understanding, and may the Spirit of God give exhortation. Do what's needed in all of our hearts, for we would see thee in a fresh new way. Would you stir us, O Lord, through the example of this man? I thank you for the record of his life. I thank you for the prayer that he prayed, and I bless your holy name that you in faithfulness and mercy answered. So stir our hearts to be praying people, and we'll thank you for what you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. In 1 Chronicles chapter 4, we have a genealogy of Judah And as the genealogies are given in the Word of God, they're not only given for information, but they're also given for exhortation. Often in the genealogies we learn that God uses people, but everybody else discounts. When you read through the genealogy of the Lord Jesus, you find four women who stand out in bold letters as being people that you would not think would be in the lineage of the Lord Jesus But there they are. I would simply say to that that grace does amazing things in the lives of people who are saved. But as we read these genealogies, we're reading here, according to verse number one, the genealogy of Judah, the sons of Judah. And the Spirit of God would give details about a man named Jabez. And he's only mentioned here in this particular passage. He's recognized here by the prayer that he prayed. And he's identified for something very peculiar about him. Now the word Jabez or the name Jabez means man who causes pain, or a man of sorrow. Now I want you to think about this. Jabez was not a man born with a silver spoon in his mouth. When Jabez came into the world, Jabez uh came into a world of struggle. He came into a world of sorrow. He came into a world of pain. Jabez represents Every man who's been touched by sin and what sin brings into our lives, he did not have the best beginning In fact, people might have said, well, Jabez is never going to amount to much because look at all the trouble he's born into. Look at all the sorrow and the pain that came along with his birth. Now we don't know anything about his his birth as far as who who who or what or the details about it. The Bible is mysteriously silent about the background of Jabez. other than his name. And by the way, remember this, when people were given names in the Bible, it represented something either that was happening or that would happen, and it spoke to something that was pertinent to who they were. And so whatever this was, whatever happened in his life, Jabez had a hard go of it. But you'll notice what the Bible says here, that Jabez was more honorable. Than his brethren. Now that little word honorable there simply means he was loaded down with honor. The Lord literally filled him with honor. He was a man born in pain, born with sorrow, and yet he got to the place where God loaded him down with honor. I want you to think about that, please. Here was a man who had a humble, who was humbled by life, but he was lifted by the Lord. Here was a man that started off struggling but ended up soaring. Here is an individual who was born in pain, but God in his mercy began to smile on him. And you say, Preacher, what made the difference? Next verse. Jabez called on the God of Israel. I believe the thing that made all the difference in the life of Jabez is that he was a praying man. I believe this with all my heart. There's not anything you can't get through if you pray through. I believe that. I believe that God's help comes to the praying man. And Jabez, notice this, he called on the God of Israel. Now listen, I believe that there is no situation you can't pray your way out of. Jabez wasn't born in ideal circumstances. You know what we've got in our mind? We've got in our mind sometimes that everything's just got to be so. I've got news for you. I serve a God who's able to take everything that ain't so and make it as it is, as if it was so, and fix it, my friends, so that it'll be a whole lot better than if it ever was so, simply because God does the work I don't know what struggle this man came through. It may have been he was raised by a single mother, it may have been that he was born into poverty, it may have been that they suffered for h horrible physical problems. I mean, you go down the list. There could have been all sorts of situations Jabez encountered, but I do know this. When he prayed, God answered. And God did something in his life because he was a praying man. And God thought enough of his prayer. This is what interests me. God thought enough of his prayer that he wrote it down. And the Spirit of God said, I want this written down. I want all the generations to know. I want that crowd going back to rebuild Jerusalem. I want that group going with Ezra, that group going with Nehemiah. I want them to go down through the genealogy and stop and see a man who prayed and saw God answer and saw the Lord do something in his life. So I want I'm going to write his prayer down. I'm going to record his prayer. I want you to see what he prayed. Here's what he prayed. Oh, that thou wouldst bless me indeed. And enlarge my coast, and that thine hand might be with me, and thou wast keep me from evil, that it may not grieve me. Four things. You know he didn't pray a big long prayer. He didn't pray a wordy prayer. I I hadn't counted the words, you do it, not now, but sometime. And it's not a very long prayer. I mean it didn't take mere seconds to read that prayer. But it was what the man prayed, and God answered. Now, men, I I I want to challenge you again this evening, but this really isn't just for the men, this is really for all of us here. this evening, but I want us to think about this this man that God honored simply because he prayed. Now look, we all can't do certain things. There are things that that that are that are not entrusted to us or that we're enabled to do. But everybody can pray who knows the Lord as their Savior. Every Christian can call on the name of the Lord. Someone said we all can't be mighty preachers, but we can be mighty pleaders. We all can pray. We all can seek the face of the Lord. We all can do like Jabez and turn to the Lord and say, Lord, I need you. And listen, this prayer is more than just bless me financially. Bless me and prosper me. Bless me. This wasn't a selfish prayer at all, as I hope you soon will see. He was praying, God, do something in my life that only you can do Now we need some men praying like that. We need some men that are praying, God, please help me like Jabez. Help me, Lord, and do something in my life that only you can do. Listen, Jabez, he he started off bad. He he didn't have a good beginning, but he sure had a good ending. And I want to say to you, you may not have had a good beginning. You can't do anything about that. But thank God you can do something about the ending. And I believe it starts with calling on the God of Israel. Notice how he prayed. Notice what he prayed. Number one, I want you to notice that he sought the blessing of God. He sought the blessing of God. He said, Oh, that thou wouldst bless me indeed. Now, I want you to know something here. He wasn't speaking prosperity, if you know anything about uh vernacular among new Christians these days. He wasn't speaking prosperity. He was pleading with the God of heaven who held all blessings in his hands and he was saying, Oh God, would you not bless me indeed? Proverbs ten twenty-two says, The blessing of the Lord it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it. God's blessing is, oh my friend, it's immeasurable. Flip back here to Deuteronomy with me real quick, would you? And I know this is written in Deuteronomy 28 to the nation of Israel. I know that. But I also know that it makes the difference and it shows the difference when God's blessing is on something. How many of you know there's a difference when God blesses and when he doesn't? When God's blessing your life, when the blessing of God, whatever it is, and by the way, it's not always measured in dollars and cents. Sometimes those blessings you can't even put a price tag on. They're so precious and so valuable. Listen, I can 't J I got a text this afternoon. I gotta share it with you. My son-in-law sent me a text, and that's weird. Sounds weird to me to say, but anyway. My son-in-law sent me a text He said, preacher, I'm so excited. He said I had two new teen boys in my Sunday school class this morning, and both of them got saved. He said we went out to eat with some people. We're discipling, a 50-year-old man. And that 50-year-old man said, you know, Joe, I really don't think I'm saved. And he took his Bible and showed him at the dinner table how to get saved. He said, I'm floating. I'm floating. I mean he was excited. And I said, Praise the Lord. You know what that is? That's the blessing of the Lord. You don't put money on that. There's no value you can ascribe to that financially in this old world. But look what he says here about the blessing of the Lord. Deuteronomy 28, verse 1. And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all his commandments which I command thee this day. That the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth. Now note this. And all these blessings shall come on thee. And overtake thee. If thou shalt hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God, blessed shalt thou be in the city, blessed shalt thou be in the field. Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body and the fruit of thy ground and the fruit of thy cattle, the increase of thy kind, and the flocks of thy sheep Blessed shall be thy basket and thy store. Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out. The Lord shall cause thine enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before thy face. They shall come out against thee one way and flee before thee seven ways. The Lord shall command the blessing upon thee in thy storehouses, and in all that thou settest thine hand unto And he shall bless thee in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. The Lord shall establish thee and holy people unto himself, as he hath sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the Lord thy God and walk in his ways. And all the people of the earth shall see that thou art called by the name of the Lord, and they shall be afraid of thee. And the Lord shall make thee plenteous in goods, and in the fruit of thy body. In the fruit of thy cattle, in the fruit of thy ground, in the land which the Lord swear unto thy fathers to give thee. The Lord shall open unto thee his good treasure. The heaven to give the reign unto thy land in his season, to bless all the work of thy hand. Thou shalt lend unto many nations, and thou shalt not borrow. And the Lord shall make thee the head and not the tail. And thou shalt be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath. If that thou hearken unto the commandments of the Lord thy God, which I command thee this day, to observe and to do them And thou shalt not go aside from any of the words which I command thee this day to the right hand or to the left to go after other gods and serve them You may be sitting here and I say, Well, preacher, that's for Israel. Well, that may be for Israel, but listen, that's from God. And because it's from God, it lets me know that the blessing of the Lord makes all the difference. Listen, when you go about your work, the blessing of God will make that work different. If you don't have that blessing, you'll know the difference. The blessing of the Lord on your family, you'll see the difference that it makes when the blessing of the Lord's on your family. It may be a meal. Listen. It may be a meager meal, but if that meal has the blessing of God, it's better than a king's feast if it has the blessing of the Lord upon it. It is the blessing of the Lord that makes the difference. Here's what Jabez understood. God, your blessing is what I need for my life. Oh, that thou wouldst bless me indeed. You know the blessing of the Lord makes a difference in everything we do. It doesn't matter whether you deem it secular or sacred, if it has the blessing of God, it is different. Whether you stand and preach a message or sing in the choir or sing a special or teach a class or turn a wrench or whatever it is you do, if you do it with the blessing of God, it's different. And and the desire of your of God's people ought to be, Lord, bless me indeed. Lord, I want your blessing on my life. Lord, whatever might be come my way, I want your blessing. Lord, I want you. I need it. Oh, that thou wouldst bless me indeed. He sought the blessing of God. But notice he didn't stop there. He wanted God's blessing. He needed God's blessing. You know, we we hear a lot about the American dream, and someone said that's now turned into a nightmare. But what made this country so unique? You stop and think about the prosperity of this nation, it's really unequaled. You think about the mighty power and the influence of this nation in such a short time. We're a young nation compared to so much of the rest of the world. And yet, in these few short days and years that the Lord has given this country, don't you know that there is something quite unique? You say, What is it? Here's what I believe it is. I believe it's the blessing of the Lord. The blessing of the Lord has distinguished this nation, and I'll be quite honest with you, any goodness we're enjoying now, I think, is residual blessings that are coming from a generation that's already in glory. that have paved the way and paid the price and prayed for us and we're just living on the leftover reeling because we as a nation aren't seeking God like they once did. And I've got news for you. The thing that made America America was not our great educational institutions. It wasn't our great vast stores of wealth. It was simply God blessed America and the blessings of God made a difference in this great land. And I'm here to tell you, when God blesses something, it's different. That little nation of Israel was a despised people, small in population, not really anything peculiar or unique about them other than this. God bless them. And the blessing of God set them apart, and the blessing of God made them different. And when they went among their enemies, God's blessing was on them. When they wandered in the wilderness, God's blessing was on them. Wherever they went, God's blessing was on them, and it made all the difference. Abraham really was a nobody, but he had the blessing of God. He was a pagan like everybody else living in the Ura Chaldees until he heard the voice of God. And the voice of God called him out and set him forth. And as God began to work in his life, you say, What was the difference? The blessings of God rested on him. Church family, I want to say to you, if Marinath is ever anything, ever does anything, ever becomes anything for usefulness in God's eyes, it'll be because of the blessing of the Lord. It'll not be because of who we are, what our name is, what our pedigrees are. It'll not be because heritage or history. It'll be because God blessed And when God blesses, my friend, it doesn't matter how much hell fights, it doesn't matter how much darkness opposes, the blessings of God make the difference. Now you ought to want that blessing on your life. You ought to want that blessing in your life individually. You ought to desire the blessings of God upon you and upon your family and upon your local church So Jabez prayed. You say, preacher, where does a man get the blessing of God? He gets him on his knees. Private devotions bring public rewards. Our Lord taught us that when you pray in your closet in secret, God who sees in secret, what does he do? He rewards thee openly. The blessings of God are found as we go to the God of Israel and pray. And that's what Jabez did. He said, Oh, that thou wouldst bless me indeed. Quickly notice number two, he prayed for his borders to be expanded. He said, Oh, that thou wast bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast. Enlarge my coast. Now remember, we're talking about a time when Canaan was being taken. That promised land was being conquered. We're talking about the time period of the land being subdued and the enemies being run out and that land being taken by the people of God. And Jabez, here's what he said, Lord, I want all the boundaries you've got for me. I want all of the land. Enlarge my coast. Lord, I want a field of the full. By the way, the children of Israel As much as they tried outside of a few individuals, never possessed everything God promised to Never. They never enjoyed everything God gave them. Stop short. Stop short. Oh Caleb was promised a mountain. Caleb was promised a land that was filled with giants and a terrain that was difficult to conquer. And that man in his old age said, Give me that mountain. I still want it. He wanted to conquer that mountain. He said, I'm not ready to give up just yet I'm not ready to throw in the towel. I want that mountain. I want, Lord, what you got for me. You say, how does that apply to me? Listen, I don't want to miss what's possible. The Bible tells us Canaan is a picture of victory in the Christian's life. And listen, as a believer, there's a lot of ground. We need to conquer. There's a lot of territory yet to be covered. There's a lot of things yet to be won in your spiritual life, perhaps in your heart. There's ground that needs to be conquered there. There's territory that needs to be taken for the Lord there. But there's usefulness that God yet wants to do in your life. There's things that God wants to accomplish through your life. I'm thankful for the advice of an old man who said to me, Don't be like me. Here's what he said. He said, Don't be like me. He said, I'm an old man full of regrets and can't do a thing about it He said, You're a young man. Live so that you don't have a lot of regrets. Man, that's stuck in my heart. I hear it every once in a while. Don't don't live. Listen, don't leave anything on the field, so to speak, if you let me use that illustration. Don't get to the place where you said I wished I had a bore. Oh that I could again, or oh that I could go back and do over. Oh no, give it all to God while you still can. Jabez says, Lord, enlarge my coast. You wasn't greedy for land. He wasn't looking for material possessions per se. He just wanted to fill the land of the fool that God had already promised him. He wanted to obtain what it is that God had for him. Now listen to me. God has some stuff for you in your spiritual life, and some of you aren't two feet into Canaan's land, spiritually speaking. There's land yet to conquer. There's a walk with God that you know nothing of. There's victory that can be had. There's usefulness in your life that lies before you. If you just surrender to God like Jabez says, Lord, help me enlarge my coast. Help me to fill to the full everything it is. Don't you want your life to count for Jesus Christ? Don't you want to come to the end of this thing and look back and say, I'm glad I lived it for him? Don't you want to live in such a way that you'll say, Lord, I finished. Here's what Jesus said. I finished the work thou gavest me to do. Jesus did what he came to do. Jesus lived like he was supposed to live. He accomplished all that his life was meant to accomplish. Even when he hung on bloody Calvary and bowed his head and gave up the ghost, there he accomplished the work. He finished what the Father gave him to do on the third morning when he got up out of the grave. Man, he delivered the receipt. The payment was made. And that's paid in full. He did what he came to do. Church, you ought to want to do what God puts you here to do. And God saved you to do more than sit in the pew and keep it warm. He saved you to do more than just be a Christian, go to heaven. Well, I'm going to heaven. That's all there is to it. Ho, that's not all there is to it. There's a little bit of heaven to be enjoyed down here. There's something God wants to do in your life. There's victory and there's there's ground to be conquered. There is room yet to roam, so to speak. I love to read about these explorers. I think if I was born in a different day, that's what I'd like to have been. Go to new land, conquer new, see something new, go to a place where nobody'd ever been. And you read about them and that that desire that drove them, just what's around that next corner? What's around that next bin? I was thinking the other day when when the kids were little, they hated to go walking out on the marsh because I didn't know where this place went. I'd always go a little further each time. Because I wanted to see. I I would say, let's go one more curve. And they'd be like, oh, Dad, one more. Can we go home? Because they knew they'd have to walk back as far as we'd walk in. And they would moan and carry on. I said, well I'll carry you if you'll go just a little further But you want to see what there is. Church, listen, if you live to be 150 years old, there'll still be ground yet to conquer in the Lord. There'll be something that you can do and something you can learn and victory that you can have. The Lord will teach you something new every day. There's no finish line till heaven is gained. Know that please. Enlarge my coast. Some have rolled over and played dead too quick. I I fear in our culture we we're going in the wrong direction. People want to get to the place where they can retire. I understand physically you can't do what you always did, but listen to me. You ought to want to be useful until you're no longer useful. I remember an old fellow across the road from us. He retired. He told my dad, he said, I'm not going to do another thing. I'm going to sit on the porch and watch you work. That's what he said to my daddy. My daddy poked my ribs and we were going home. He said, that old man will be dead in a year. Well, I I got to thinking, I was just little, I thought, man, dad's prophetic, because he was dead in a year. You know, he didn't have purpose. He he didn't have anything to do. He just he'd get up, he literally sat there, he'd watch my dad go to work, and he'd wave at him. Dad come home, he's sitting in the same chair, holding the same cup, and he'd wave at Dad as he came home. No longer useful Hey, there are a lot of Christians like that. They checked out a long time ago. Well, I taught a class. Well, God bless you. There might be another one that needs teaching Well I've I used to sing. Well don't be a used to Christian. Well I pray and listen we could go down in the list of all the things we used to do. And my friend, listen, there comes a place where we need to say, Dear Lord, I don't want to be a used to Christian. I want to be a now Christian. I want to be a Christian Who's useful, Lord? I want to gain that territory. Be like old Caleb said, Lord, give me that mountain. It may look impossible, but know this, God can God can. Enlarge my coast, he said. Notice his third request. His third request was, and that thine hand might be with me. Boy. What a prayer. Lord, I want your hand. I I I I I need your hand, Lord. I I know what I'm asking is impossible, except your hand be with me. Well, I wish we had time tonight to look at the hand of God. The hand of God does a whole lot of things. Do you know the hand of God is associated with life? The hand of the Lord? The hand of the Lord is associated with provisions God provides through his hand. The hand of the Lord speaks of the power of God in the scriptures. The hand of the Lord speaks of the protection of God. The hand of the Lord speaks of the prospering and the purposes of God. Oh, the mighty hand of God. And here's what Ezra said. God, I want your hand with me. I want your hand with me. In Ezra, we read in Ezra chapter number eight. We read these words. He Proclaimed a fast, he says, at the river of Havet, that we might afflict ourselves before our God to seek of him a right way for us and for our little ones and for all our substance. For I was ashamed to require the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way. Because we had spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them for good that seek him. You need to note that, please. The hand of our God is upon all them for good that seek Him. But His power and His wrath is against all them that forsake Him. So we fasted and besought our God for this, and he was entreated of us. You know what he was saying? He said, we've been praying and we know God's hands on us. We know God's hand. I don't know that I can explain this, but I do know this. When God's hand's on you, it makes a difference. It's the hand of the Lord. Ezra said, Lord, we need your hand on us. We're traveling through enemy territory. We've got precious cargo. We're vulnerable. We're susceptible. The old devil can knock us out in any way, thousands of ways, and we need your hand. And you know what? They got to the other side safely there, weighed out all the silver and gold, and realized God brought everything that they left with and had protected them and kept them, and he said, There's the hand of God. There's the hand of God. You know, we live in a very dangerous world. I don't know if you realize that. I think we're jaded to what we experience every day. But this world's a very wicked place. Life is means nothing to a lot of people anymore. And people's lives are taken continually. And you know what we need? We need God's hand on us. We need God's hands on us, hand on us to preserve us. We need the hand of the Lord. I'll tell you what, you get on I-95 and go anywhere, you better have the hand of the Lord on you. Bunch of crazies? I never seen the like. But we need the hand of the Lord. You need the hand of the Lord to go to work tomorrow. You need God's hand on you. You don't know what it is you'll face or what the what the Lord might have in store, but you need, and I need, the hand of the Lord. If you're going to serve the Lord in any way, and I hope every Christian is desiring to serve the Lord in some way, you need the hand of the Lord on you. If you get an opportunity to be a witness, you need the hand of the Lord to be a witness, because it makes all the difference when the Lord's hand's on you and you're witnessing. It makes all the difference, my friend, when you speak up for him and you've got the hand of the Lord on you. Listen, I hope you know something about what I'm talking about. The hand of the Lord makes the difference. And so these folks they sought the Lord and they they they said, God's hands on us for good. We've been seeking him, his hand's on us. And old Jabez said, Lord, I want your hand with me. I want your hand with me. You know David really was nothing but a man with the hand of God on him When that little boy stood in that valley and faced that giant, he wasn't exceptional in his ability. He just another kid with a sling. He's not anybody that's outstanding. It wasn't like that he had these supermuscular arms and great physical ability. He's a stripling, the Bible says, of a boy. When I think of a stripling, I think of just a sapling that's not getting enough sunshine. Just a scrawny little thing. That's all he was. But yet when that sling began to turn, and that rock left that sling, it had more than David's hand on it, it had God's hand on it And it was the hand of God that put that stone through that giant's head and brought him down and killed him. And look, you and I may be nothing in the eyes of the world, and we may may be nothing in our own eyes. But know this, if the hand of God's on us, it makes all the difference in the world. Well you used to hear Christians pray, God, I w I need your hand on me. I'm thinking right now of an old preacher I used to have preach uh for me and I've heard him pray a million times. Oh God, put your hand on me. That's how he would pray. And boy, his preaching was different. It wasn't just getting up and reading verses and three points in a poem and go home. There was something different. Why? The hand of the Lord was there. Church Marinath will just just be the ordinary, be the average, just be whatever without the hand of the Lord. But you put the hand of the Lord on it, and it'll be all the difference in the world. The hand of the Lord will accomplish things that you and I could never dream possible. The hand of the Lord will do the work that you and I can't do. Now listen, you can't save a sinner and I can't save a sinner, but the hand of the Lord can His arm is not shortened, my friend. He's able to reach down and save to the uttermost. The hand of the Lord can save anybody. That person you're praying for, you can't save them. You can argue with them, convince them. You might talk them into a little prayer, but you can't redeem their soul, but the hand of God can. The hand of God, listen, you can't go to that far country and bring that loved one out. You may go get them, but they'll just go right back. You may change your location, but you'll not change your heart. But I'm here to tell you the hand of the Lord can. The hand of the Lord can go into the far country, and he can wake that boy up and tell him, hey, you'll be a whole lot better off back home. The hand of the Lord can get him out of the far country. That situation that's impossible, you're looking at it and saying there's no hope for this. There's no resolution. Look, I'll tell you the problem is we're too naturally minded instead of supernaturally minded. We serve a God who's supernatural. We have a tendency, boy, God rebuked me this recently. We have a tendency to look at things and we look at it from a natural perspective. And here's the danger. If you're saved a while, you look at it historically. Well, it's been my experience. Huh? You look back and you say, well, I've seen this and I've seen that, and this it's been my experience. You know what that'll do? It'll rob you of faith. It'll rob you of the reality that I don't care what you've experienced. Look, when God parted the Red Sea, nobody ever experienced that before. When they ate manna that came down from heaven, nobody experienced that before. My friend, when the tomb opened up and Jesus walked out, nobody experienced anything like that before. I'm here to tell you God is able to do the supernatural, and it takes the hand of the Lord to do these things. God can do that We're we're people used to say, well, you don't want to get so heavenly minded that you're no earthly good. That's silly. I'm gonna tell you right now, that's silly. That's talking like a natural man. Because I'm here to tell you you'll never get so heavenly minded you'll be no earthly good. You're going to be no earthly good till you get a lot more heavenly minded You get your mind on the things of the Lord and who he is and what he can do and the things he can accomplish, then you can be of value to this old sin-cursed earth. Know that we need the hand of the Lord. Oh, how the hand of the Lord works And so he prayed, Oh, that thine hand might be with me. He recognized whatever person in the Bible who ever did anything of note He recognized that it was the hand of the Lord that did it. It was the Lord's hand. You know, I I think about when Peter, isn't it something that that just a few days, Peter's out here cussing in the garden. And denying the Lord. And a few days later, he's standing at Pentecost preaching the word. Now what made the difference? Now, I'm not so sure he wasn't Baptist. His language makes me think he could be. But the fact that they let him get up and preach tells me I'm not a hundred percent sure that crowd was Baptist. Because a lot of them, if they were anything like most of us anymore, they would have been sitting there. Well, don't you remember what he did? Don't you remember what he said? Don't you remember who he is? They'd have been looking back there, pointing their waggy old finger, and say, well, you know, just a few days ago, did you hear what he said? Well, you know what made the difference? The hand of the Lord went down there and found that broken man. The hand of the Lord went down there and and took that denier and made him a declarer. The hand of the Lord put his put his mighty hand, the hand of the Lord was upon him, and when he stood to preach, he didn't preach like the man that was cussing in the garden. He preached like the man who had the Holy Ghost and was full of the Spirit of God and had the hand of the Lord on him. Church, I'm just saying we miss something when we don't have the hand of the Lord. I'll tell you our problem is we're content with our education. We're content with our heritage. We're content with all of our capabilities. We're content with our intelligence. And you put all of that together and you don't have enough. If you measured that in gunpowder, you couldn't blow a gnat away. What you need is the hand of God. That's right. I'm not against a lot of those things, but I'm telling you, if they take the place in the hand of God I am, I'm dead set against them. If we trade in, if we trade in, if we trade in and say, hey, I'm just content, Lord, I'm an educated man. I can still see old Joe Olashe. He was uh uh from Saskatchewan, and I didn't know that until much later after I'd even graduated, and when we graduated from our Bible college Joe Olashe was the preacher. He had started Temple Baptist Church in our community back in the late 40s. Started from nothing, build a tremendous testimony for the Lord. And Dr. Joe Olashe wasn't but about yay big, just a wee thing And I remember him standing there and had all of his regalia. He was, I think, three or four doctorates. He was a very well-educated man. And he said, I want you men who are receiving degrees tonight to stand. And boy, you made us all stand. Boy, you felt important. You're standing there. You're getting ready to receive your degree. And he's talking about all the hard work you put into it, all the sacrifice, and all the hours, and blah, blah, blah. He's going on and on, and boy, your chest is swelling, your head is too. None of us knew that very subtle man was about to bust our bubbles. He said, now young men, close your eyes. And he said, I want you to take, he said, in a few moments you're going to receive a piece of paper that many of you have been working hard for. Man, I'm standing there thinking now. I was able, I'll tell you, I was I was sharp. I was able to cram four years into nine to get mine. That takes intelligence. And I'm thinking of all those years, all that sacrifice, all that labor. And and I'm sure those other men standing with me were doing the same. We're thinking about all of that. He's talking about it, talking about all the late nights at school. All the early mornings, all of this, he's going on and on, and and he said now envisioned in a few moments you're holding that that degree And he said, I want you to take that thing. He said, here's what I want you to do. He said, I want you to rip it up in your mind. Go ahead, he said, rip it up. He said, I want you to tear that thing all to pieces. He said, throw that thing in the garbage can and get out of here and do something for God I'm I'm just saying, my friend, we lean too much on things. We lean too much on our abilities financially. We lean too much on what we can do with our money. I'm here to tell you there's things money can't do. There's a place money can't go. There's work that money can't accomplish. Hey, listen, we can give all the money we want to to missions, but if the hand of God ain't on the missionary, it won't get done. The world will not get evangelized, people will not get reached, churches will not get started. We can we can equip and finance and and and put men everywhere. Preaching the word of God, but listen, they'll not make one dent into the darkness if the hand of God's not on them. You can send them out there ill-equipped. We shouldn't, but you can You can send them out, and they may not have a whole lot of things or a whole lot of ability, but if they got the hand of the Lord, they'll do wonders. It'll not be them, it'll be God's hand. Oh, we need the hand of the Lord Listen, you and I need God's hand every day in our lives. He said, God, I need your hand. Then notice his last request. And that thou wilt keep me from evil, that it may not grieve me. He said, Lord, I want you to protect me. I 've asked you, Lord, to bless me, because I need the blessing of God. And Lord, I've asked you to expand my borders. I want to feel this thing to the full. I want to accomplish everything you put me down here to do. And then he said, Lord, I want your hand. I uh uh that your hand be with me. But then he said, Keep me from evil. Keep me from evil. You know We need to realize that he didn't pray, take me away from evil. He said, Keep me from evil. Because if God were to take you away from evil, he'd have to take you out of this world. John 's uh Jesus said this in the Lord's Prayer in John 17. Here's how he prayed. He said, I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. Keep them from the evil. I don't want them to come out of the world. Look, you're no good unless you're in the world in that sense to be an influence. He said, I didn't pray. He's not praying that the Lord would isolate us somewhere. You know, I used to think sometimes, wouldn't it be wonderful? to to just live in a in in a community where they're all Christians and I met enough Christians I said God please don't put me there but but the reality is the reality is look there's evil in this world And God's put you in this world to be salt and light. And if salt doesn't touch putrefication, and if light doesn't touch darkness, there will not be an impact made. But here's what he did say, keep them from evil. Keep them from evil. Jesus prayed that. You know he prayed that for you? He prayed that for me. How many of you know the heart's a world of iniquity? There's evil I need to be kept from inside of me. There's evil that only God can keep me from. You say, well, a Christian shouldn't be capable. I'm here to tell you a Christian is capable of anything a non-Christian is capable of. Because we live in the same old dirt house. So we gotta pray, Lord, keep me from evil. We gotta pray, Lord, keep me from evil. You gotta keep me, oh God. I need you keeping power. And I'll tell you something, the older you get, the more you'll realize that there's a world of iniquity in you that you need to be kept from. Our greatest enemy isn't out there. Our greatest enemy lives in here. And we gotta pray, God, keep me from evil. But there is evil out there. There's evil in this world. There's evil men. Paul described some of them There's evil individuals with intent on doing great destruction. There's evil. And listen, God says, here's what we do. We pray, Lord, keep me from evil. Here was a man making a humble request of a very urgent nature and a serious kind. He's saying, Lord, keep me from evil. Now I'll tell you who I'm fearful for. I'm fearful for the one who thinks there's no evil that they are susceptible to as if they're immune. No one's immune. You remember when COVID first started and and uh there's all sorts of misinformation. I mean, honest , nobody really knew what was going on We looked back and and we had experts who were thought they knew what was happening. Nobody knew what was happening. Quite honestly, nobody knew what was happening. And there were people that that that sort of had this mentality, well, I'm untouchable I I say this with great sadness. I I had some preacher friends and they they got in their pulpits and they talked about and and how they were untouchable and some of them are in heaven now I'm not saying we ought to live in fear. There's a lot I'd like to say about that. Lord, keep me on track. But what I am saying is this: none of us are immune from evil. I'll tell you what, your heart is. Your heart's just like mine. It's deceitful. It's desperately wicked. Desperately wicked. I shudder when I hear these young people say, well just follow your heart. You'll follow your heart right to hell. You'll follow your heart right into trouble. You follow your heart, you'll follow your heart right off Plius Because that's what your heart will do to you. You can't trust your heart. Many are the devices of a man's heart, but it's the counsel of the Lord that shall stand So, keep me from evil. Jabez said, Lord, there's a world of iniquity. It's like a man walking through a minefield. You better know where to step, and you better know where the landmines are, because one false step, you're gone. Keep me from evil. Lord, keep me from evil. We need to pray that the Lord will keep us from evil, not only the evil within, but this evil without. My goodness, we live in such weird times. How we need protection from the Lord. Friend of mine was a missionary broadcasting his services there through COVID in Canada. Had them on YouTube. And I'll never forget, man, he was really blasting the thing, and it it wasn't long. It wasn't long, man. He was he was making all sorts of crazy statements. And somebody gave the copy of the video to uh um to the premier of the province, and he's hauled up on charges. Next thing you know, he's booted out of the country. Ministry cut short. You know why? He felt like he was immune from the evil. I'm just trying to tell you something. I'm telling you, we need to be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. Because this world's evil. And we need God to keep us from it. But I love this. But some of you look done, so I'm going to be done. And it says here, God granted him that which he requested. Isn't that good? God granted him. Isn't that a mercy? God gave him what he asked. And listen, here's the reason that Jabez was more honorable. The reason that Jabez was more honorable was not because of his birth, it was painful. It was not because of his upbringing. It was sorrowful. It was not because he was born with a silver spoon in his mouth. It was because God granted his request. He learned to pray and get from God what he needed, and God loaded him with honor. And I'm here to tell you there's not a man or a woman here that can't be loaded with the honor of God. If you'll just get a hold of God and begin to pray. Yes, pray like Jabez. Yes, ask God to bless. Ask God to uh expand your borders and to put his hand on you and protect you from evil. Because there's a God in heaven who delights in answering prayer. And I believe God would be pleased to answer that sort of thing. There's some of you sitting here thinking, man, my life's ruined, it's over, my past has got me bound, all of that. No this, God can. Your ma your your name may not be Jabez, but your testimony can be Jabez. You can say, Yes, God did that for me. I just asked him. Just made a request. Do you know there's no end to what prayer can do in your life? You may have some children you're praying for. And you don't know what the Lord's going to do in their lives. Their situation doesn't look too promising. But you've got to remember this. You get a hold of God and all that can change. Some of you, if somebody had seen you as a child or know your story and your testimony, they'd say, well, that kid's destined for trouble. Ain't no hope for him. I'll tell you what, somebody somewhere is praying for you. That made all difference. And God loaded your little wagon because somebody got a hold of God on your behalf. There's some children need people praying for 'em. Say preacher, I don't have any. Find one of these Sunday school kids and pray for them. Get some names from these Sunday school teachers, just first names, and start praying for them They may not have a person on the earth, uh, a mother, a father, grandmother, grandfather, anybody who cares about spiritual things, but hey, you do, and you ought to be praying for them. You ought to be praying for them. You know, it may be that God's going to give your children children. You ought to be praying for them now. Before they ever come. Before they're ever born. I I it thrills my heart. We uh even as a teenager, God put it in my heart to pray for my children. I didn't know how many, many listeners talking about this the other day. We wanted like ten. God knew our Constitution, I don't know two is all we can handle. I reckon. He gave us two extra good ones, I guess. Make up for the ten. I'm thankful for them But we prayed and I prayed. I praised the teenager. I wasn't even married, didn't have a girlfriend. And I was saying, God, please save my children when you give them to me. God, do something in their lives. I want you to do something in their lives, Lord. I just don't want to just live. I want to see my life make a difference. I want to see you do something that only you can do. Look, God can do that. Some of you young men, young women, start praying that way. You say, preacher, I don't even have a prospect. That don't matter. Start praying. God might put something on the horizon when you start praying. Oh God, do something and and and let my life count for thee. And look, it may be your lot in life that That God may choose not to let you have children. But there are others that you can pray for and invest in and beg God to do something in their lives. And there's no telling what God may do with them. And you'll be the key. You'll be the key. I'm thinking of that missionary. I can't think of her name, but she had a lady take interest in her. This lady was a single lady. Worked in a factory. She prayed for this particular missionary girl and she funded her and helped her. And that young missionary lady, she made such an impact for God And that woman just worked and was faithful and was in her place. Nobody knows her name. Hardly anybody knows her story. But she made a difference. She didn't go to the mission field, but she went to the throne. And I'm going to tell you, if you had to choose one or the other, I'd go to the throne. Because you'll get more done on the throne than you will at the mission field. You'll get more at the throne than you're not the than you will, my friend, out here serving it somewhere in some faraway place, if that's not where you're supposed to be. What I'm saying is, learn to pray like Jabez, get a hold of the God of Israel, and get answers from God. Men be men of prayer. Ladies be women of prayer. Young people be young people of prayer. Get alone with God and say, How do I learn to pray? You just pray. I don't know how else to tell you. You just pray. Pray when you want when you feel like it and pray when you don't feel like it. Pray until you see the Lord working and doing things in your life. Just pray. Just pray. You'll look back one day and you'll say, Boy, I did that and I wished I hadn't. You'll look back and say, I wasted my time doing that. I wish I hadn't wasted my time doing that. I don't think we'll ever say I wished I hadn't prayed I don't believe we'll ever say, Man, I regret spending that hour in prayer. Oh no. It's too precious a thing. He called on the God of Israel. He's more honorable than his brethren. I'm praying this. God give us some more honorable men, some more honorable women like Jabez. Would you stand with me?