Your Bible please to Isaiah chapter number 41. Isaiah chapter number 41, and I want to begin reading in verse number eight And in Isaiah chapter 41 and verse number 8, let me remind you that Isaiah is bringing a message To the nation of Israel. And as he brings this message to the nation of Israel, he is preaching to a nation that is on the decline. The nation of Israel will soon be facing destruction. The Assyrian army is moving like a prairie fire across the land, and they're consuming every nation in their wake. And Israel is going to be no different. Israel is going to be destroyed not because God is not able to keep them, but because of the sin that has overtaken them as God's people. And Isaiah's warning, and he's he's telling them this is going to come. And he brings a net a message that really is a message to the nation. And when I read this, And thought of the context of chapter number 41, I realized that this very very well could apply to us here this morning. I want to say this before I read my text that I want you to remember that America is not Israel. You've got to understand there's a difference. And I also want to remind you that Christians are not Jews. We are not the covenant people. God has made a distinction between all of those things. But I also want to remind you that biblical principles are universal and apply regardless of Israel, America, or whatever nation or whatever peoples you might be. But the Bible says this, verse 8 of chapter 41, the book of Isaiah, but thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob, whom I've chosen, the seed of Abraham, my friend. Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief men, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant. I have chosen thee and not cast thee away. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee. Yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded. They shall be as nothing, and they that strive with thee shall perish. If you will skip down to verse number 17. Isaiah 41:17 When the poor and needy seek water and there is none, and their tongue faileth for thirst, I the Lord will hear them, I the God of Israel will not forsake them. I will open rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of the valleys. I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water. I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shaita tree, the myrtle, the oil tree, and I will set in the desert the fir tree and the pine and the box tree together. Now look at verse 20. That they may see and know and consider and understand together that the hand of the Lord hath done this. And the Holy One of Israel hath created it. Isaiah is speaking to a nation of people. A nation that will soon be swept away in the fire of God's judgment. A people that God had a purpose for A people that God had made provisions concerning, and a God whose presence was among them And as we think about our own country, I cannot help but think that the next thing on God's agenda for our nation is a coming judgment. When we consider where we live and what we are and what we do, we cannot be blind to the fact that God is not a respecter of persons. And the people that disregard him and his word are certainly a people on the decline. And I think as a nation, as a nation, our better days are behind us. But yet, as a believer, as a born-again Christian, I'm grateful this morning that the brighter days for you and I lie ahead. And yet the reality is between here and there 's there's much to face. And I want you to see what Isaiah is saying here and hope that God will use it to speak to our hearts. Let's pray together, and then we'll look in this passage. Father. We vow in Jesus' name, acknowledging once again, Lord, we need thee. Lord, I stand where no man can stand alone. I pray that you might help me Preach the word. I pray the Spirit of God would use the precious word of God and work in all of your people. Help us this morning. Lord, we don't want to just go to church and then go home and Call it a day. We want help, Lord. We need thee. We want to see thee. We want to know thee better. And Lord, there's some who need to be saved, and others that need their hearts tendered and touched so that they might get right with thee. And there, Lord, there's those that need help to grow in grace and knowledge. Lord, we just pray that you'll help us in whatever way we need best. Lord, all that you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory and the honor. I pray you'd open your word to our hearts and open our hearts to the word. And have your will in this time we pray. Lord, hide me behind the cross. Help me to lift up Jesus. For it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people said. I want you to notice several things in my text this morning. I believe it's very critical that living where we do, we understand what the Bible has to say. Please keep in mind that Isaiah, we're coming to the to the latter end of the book of Isaiah. Isaiah is prophesying somewhere in the 6th century. B. C. And Isaiah's dealing with things that are to come on the nation of Israel. He's telling the people, This land will be no more. He's telling the people that God's going to carry you away into captivity that you're going to experience something you've never experienced before. That as a nation you will will no longer exist. But as he brings that message Isaiah chapter 41 is appause in all of that. And he says, But I want to remind you of some things that you need to take with you. I want to tell you some things that will help you when the storm gets bad and when the waves get rough. Now I want you to know something. I believe in a premillennial pre-tribulation rapture. But I do not believe that excludes me from difficulty in my Christian life. I'm not saying when I preach that message that everything's going to be smooth between here and home. We don't know. In fact, it appears to me as I study the book of Revelation that there's a crying out for God's people saying, Come, even so, come. There's a desire in the heart of God's people for Him to come. And by the way, I think that is because things are going to get difficult before the Lord does come. I don't think I need to stress this morning, we've tried to emphasize through this month, the teaching of God's Word concerning the uh the sins, if you will, of our culture. But we are not going in a good direction as a people. As a nation, we are on the decline morally and spiritually, and in every way whatsoever. Our pocketbooks may grow to some degree, but our morals are shrinking desperately. And as a people, we're in trouble. We are a people in trouble because to whom much is given, much shall be required. You can say, but Pastor, look at all of the good things, and there are good things, and I'm grateful for them. But I will remind you that I think many of the blessings that we're living on today are residual blessings from a past generation God is blessing us because of some people who've gone before us who were true to God and his word. If we were to get what we deserve in this hour, at this moment, we would be desperately in trouble. But Isaiah is saying to the nation of Israel, there will come a people that are going to carry you away. There will come a land that will conquer you. There will come a demise of your nation. But here's what I want you to remember. I want you to remember that God has a purpose. He states that in verse 8 and 9. Look at it. He says, But thou, Israel, art my servant. Jacob, whom I've chosen, the seed of Abraham, my friend. Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth and called thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant, I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away. You know what God's saying? Israel, I've got a purpose for you. I want you to see something here. God's ruling in the in the nation. He calls Israel my servant. And may I remind you this morning that there is a God who rules in the affairs of men. God rules this morning. We know there are powerful people in powerful places that are making decisions that affect us all. But ultimately, God in heaven is on the throne. And He rules. He ruled in the affairs of the Jews. He brought them. He made them his servant. But I want you to notice his right here, because he says in verse number 8, not only art thou art my servant Jacob, notice he says, whom I have chosen. The seed of Abraham, my friend. And I want to remind you of something that God can do whatever He wants with whomsoever He chooses. God has the right to do that. Why? Because He's sovereign. He's God. Someone said the greatest day in their life was when they recognized God was God and they were not. That's a pretty good discovery. When you realize that there is a God in heaven who's in charge of the affairs of men. And I almost laugh at times when I hear these powerful people spout out all of their plans and think, buddy, you better remember something. You're only going to do what God allows you to do. Because God is still God. I think of Herod spouting how great he was, and it wasn't long till the worms were having a banquet. Because God is God. And God has a right. God's right is that He can do what He wills with whom He chooses. And then I want you to notice His reign here. The Bible goes on to say in verse number nine. Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth. God's through Isaiah reminding the nation of Israel about their history and about their heritage. How he went down into the Uracaldes and found a man named Abraham and brought that man out. And through him birthed the peoples. Brought them, if you will, from the ends of the earth. And I am again reminded through this that God is the one who does what He will with the nations of the earth. And folks, please do not forget this. God raised up this nation for a purpose. God raised up this nation. It would do us all well to invest in some old history books because the new ones seem to overlook this fact. It would do you well to go back and study history when it was history and not agenda and find out that God had a purpose in the birthing of this land. You say, Preacher, how do you know that? Well, here's how I know that. Some of the documents and things that have been preserved, if you'll listen to what's being said, tells us that God was doing something in this land. Let me read you two examples. On November the 11th, 1779, the Virginia governor, Thomas Jefferson, signed a proclamation of prayer, which stated Congress have thought proper to recommend to the several states a day of public and solemn thanksgiving To Almighty God for His mercies and a prayer for the continuance of His favor, that He would go forth with our hosts and crown our arms with victory, that he would grant to his church the plentiful effusions of divine grace. And pour out his Holy Spirit on all ministers of the gospel, that he would bless and prosper the means of education and spread the light of the Christian knowledge through the remotest corners of the earth. You imagine a governor talking like that today? You know what would happen? They would brand him a heretic. They would brand him a lunatic. I mean, he would be run down in the courts of public opinion. But I want to remind you that this country was founded for a purpose. God raised it up for a reason. And when God decides to do otherwise with it, he'll do so also with purpose. I don't know about you, but it brings great comfort to my heart to know that God always acts with purpose. God doesn't do things just randomly. God does everything with calculated purpose and plan. On November the eighth, seventeen eighty-three, at the conclusion of the Revolutionary War, the Massachusetts governor John Hancock issued This statement. The citizens of these United States have every reason for praise and gratitude to the God of their salvation. I do appoint the eleventh day of December next to be religiously observed as a day of thanksgiving and prayer. that all the people may then assemble to celebrate that he hath been pleased to continue to to us the light of the blessed gospel That we also offer up fervent supplications to cause pure religion and virtue to flourish and to fill the world with his glory. Folks, God had a purpose in the founding of our nation. And when Isaiah spoke to a nation that would soon decline, a nation that would soon be swept away in judgment. He reminded them that God's raised you up for a purpose. By the way, God wasn't done with them in this chapter of destruction In fact, it was through Israel we would get a Savior. It was through Israel we would get a Bible. It was through these people these purposes would be fulfilled. And God was saying, hey, I'm not done with you. This isn't the end of the book. This is just one of the chapters. And my friend, I want to remind you today that we're living in one of the chapters, not a bright chapter, but thank God it's not the whole story. God has a purpose. When you look around you and see the things happening in our land, our God is not an author of sin. He's not the promoter or the publisher, if you will, of sin. But my friend, he still has purpose. Even the wrath of man, God will make praise him. Because God is a God of purpose. But I want you to see something very important. And this is a very special text of my own heart, but I want you to see it in the context of when Isaiah spoke it. Not only do we see God's purpose, but we see God's presence. And we see God's presence being promised to his people. Now, a people that would not live in their land very long, a people that would be carried off uh to Assyria, be under Babylonian rule, a people that would be captives in another land. But he said, verse 10, Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness I want you to see the promised presence of God here. In verse 13, he says, For I, the Lord thy God, will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not, I will help thee. Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel, I will help thee, saith the Lord, and thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. Would you note with me this morning that God here speaks not only to a nation, but he speaks to a remnant? And I like uh a brother's uh definition of the remnant. The remnant is not what's left But the remnant is what God uses. We often say, well, that's just the remnant. Well, hold on a minute. That's the remnant God's chosen to use. That's the people that God has destined and desires to use. And by the way, if you're one of his people this morning, if you're a Christian, you've been saved by the grace of God. By that I mean you have put your faith and trust in the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross for your sin, and your sin has been put under the blood of Jesus You're saved by grace through faith. You're not trying to work for it. You're trusting in the work Jesus already did for it. And you're saved by his grace. I want to say to you something. You are the remnant. You are one of God's little children. And it doesn't matter what comes to our nation. God's made some promises to you as a person. I want you to see something here. I want you to see that God deals with some individuals. The nation of Israel would be carried away, but in the carrying away would be some of God's people. God's people would be down in Babylon. God's people would be carried off, and we've got men like Daniel And we've got others down there that are going to be used of God in that specific place. Jeremiah's going to say, Hey, when they take you down there, you pray and work for the prosperity of that people because And the people said, Oh no, God's not going to do that. The prophets were lying and say or and were saying everything's wonderful. We're not going to be captives. And Jeremiah said, Hey You're getting ready to go and be taken away, and you'll be down there for 70 years. And that wasn't a popular message. In fact, it landed Jeremiah in jail. Jeremiah's in jail, but you know what? Three times God came to him while he was in prison. And God spoke to him there Now please listen to me, dear brother, sister. I I I hope things turn around. I'm praying for revival in my heart, in our church, our community. I'm praying God will do great things. But only God knows what God's going to do And the reality is, as your pastor, I must prepare you. And listen, there may be a day that simply for being a Christian, it'll be against the law. What are we going to do then? I'm going to tell you what we'll do. We'll have a God who'll go with us in jail like he goes with us to church. We'll have a God who's faithful. A God who said, I will not leave thee nor forsake thee. God's presence. He speaks here to the remnant, but I want you to notice the reality in verse number ten. Five times God says, I Do you see that? I am with thee. I am thy God. I will strengthen thee. I will help thee. I will uphold thee. Oh, friend, what an encouragement it is that I can count on God to be what he's always been. God is faithful. You see, the nations, he's going to talk about that in verse number eleven. He said that all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded. They shall be as nothing, and they that strive with thee shall perish. You know a nation may leave God, but God will not leave his people. We need to learn to make the difference where God makes the difference. And because a nation might leave, and a nation might abandon the Lord. Does it mean the Lord's going to leave his children? He said, I will be with you. Look at those promises. I am with thee. I am thy God. I will strengthen thee. I will help thee. I will uphold thee. Aren't you grateful for that And that's the reality that you and I can claim here this morning. That there is a God who does not change. I'm going to tell you something. If my God was given to change, I would be given to worry. If my God was given to be fickle, I would have problems this morning standing before you. But the reality is, is my God doesn't change. It doesn't matter what comes around or goes around or good or bad or indifferent, whatever it may be, difficult or easy, God's the same. You study history, and I love to study history for that reason. I love to see the faithfulness of God in the lives of his people in the ever-changing events of life. Whether they're fighting a revolutionary war, whether there's a civil war going on in our country, whether there's uprisings and and and rebellions, no matter what it is, I am grateful that God remains the same. And I can count on him. That's the reality here of God's presence, that he is with his people. John Bunyan used to say in Bedford Prison that he's made my prison a palace. Seventeen long years he was imprisoned for being faithful to the Word of God. And for seventeen long years he found out God abides faithful, but he does not change. But then notice the reassurance here in the text, because he repeats himself. And verse 13, he says, I, the Lord thy God, will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not. I will help thee. Fear not, thou worm Jacob, ye men of Israel. I will help thee, saith the Lord and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. God repeats Himself, not because, you know, how many of you are at that stage in life you say, did I tell you this already? You'll get there, the rest of you'll get there. But God doesn't repeat himself because he can't remember what he said. God repeats himself because he wants you to know he means what he said. He's giving us assurance. And I find something here that gives me a reason to rejoice. He says in verse number 14, Fear not thou worm, Jacob. Now, God doesn't call names. God's not degrading Jacob or Israel. But God is reminding him that regardless of his helplessness, and there's nothing more helpless than a worm. A worm has no defense. A worm is so fragile that it takes nothing but the mere pressure of your finger to put that little thing out of existence. That's what God is equating Jacob to. He said, You're a worm. You're as helpless and defenseless as a little worm. But I want to remind you that I'm going to help you. And when God helps worms, even worms can win. When God comes to the aid of worms, isn't it an amazing thing that the instruments God uses are insignificant But the God who uses them is the one who's really significant. What's important is not our ability or skill. I was reading something about the Revolutionary War and some of the battles that took place, and we were very ill equipped as a people. Our arms were just uh hardly better than squirrel rifles. And about all we had, I mean what we had was just what you could throw together. It it was not anything impressive. Certainly nothing like What our our enemy had. Yes, somehow God gave the victory. You know why? Because worms win when God gets on their side. It's not the ability that you and I possess. And can I remind you in your Christian life, it's not what you and I can do anyway, it's what God does through us that's important. We see this reassurance that God's presence would be with His people. And no matter what state the nation would be in, be it in decline or be it in blessing. God said, I'm going to be with you. I'm going to be with my people. You can count on me. You can trust in me. You can rest in me You can realize that I'm going to see you through. You might be a worm, but I'm going to come to your aid. When Fran I think it's in your bulletins this morning, it's supposed to be, but there is an account there of a great uh Naval fleet that was coming against this country. Yes, the French admiral. Brought 70 ships and 13,000 troops, and his goal was destroy to destroy everything from Nova Scotia to Georgia. And he had the ability to do it. But a preacher stood and prayed in a meeting house and said, Lord, send the tempest. And you know, history records that a great hurricane hit that fleet and sunk and destroyed and killed a multitude of them. And I know what people say today, those that do not believe, they say, Oh, what a coincidence. What a coincidence that someone would ask God for a tempest and then a hurricane would come. And I'm going to tell you something. The reason you don't get a blessing is because you don't believe anything. And and listen, the the reality is that there's a God in heaven who hears and answers prayer. And he has his way in the wind and the whirlwind. He directs the storm. Listen, look through your history. He directed fog and he directed storms and he brought to aid uh why? Because when God helps worms, worms win. And I want to stand before you this morning and let you know that I don't care how elite we get in our abilities and capabilities, and I'm thankful for that, we still need God. We still need God in this land and I'm going to tell you, dear brother, sister, something. You need God to help you. I don't care how mature you get in your Christian walk or how advanced you get, you need the Lord. If the Lord don't help you, you won't win I don't care what defenses you put in place, what protection you put around your family, you're no match and I'm no match for the devil. We need God. Our children need him, your family needs him, I need him. Listen, you imagine You imagine going up against a line? Jason, I don't know if that line was to scale, but he had to be close. He was a big rascal. Made of plywood, but when we said him, I mean he was just hard to even fool with, wasn't he, Ben? And a and he's made of plywood. And I stood there thinking about this, what if that thing was real? You know, I I just I like to use my imagination. I'm thinking, what if he was real? What what would you do with something like that? He's muscle from head to tail. Everything about him is strong and powerful. And I'm no match. I mean look, he'll break you and I like a matchstick. The Bible says the devil is as a roaring lion, walking about seeking whom he may devour. That's what he is, that's what he does You're no match for him, I'm no match for him. I don't care on my best day. I don't have it. I don't have the ability to withstand the wicked one. But I'm going to tell you something. When I crawl up in the arms of my Savior and I lean on the mighty arm of the Lord, I've got help that only heaven can bring, and there's victory in Him. Oh listen, even worms can win when God comes to their aid. I was uh I heard two preachers they were talking about ants. They had been studying the the ant. And the Bible says in the book of Proverbs, go to the ant, thou sluggard and consider her ways. And these two preachers were having lunch out in a patio area, and there was a train of ants or a line of ants, and they were carrying food. And there was this one ant that was coming along and he he had a big old piece of something that he had picked up and he was going up the side of this brick wall and he'd get about halfway and he'd fall down. And those two men got so in enthused and enthralled watching those ants that it just consumed their thinking. They're sitting there watching and they're cheering that little ant on. And the that ant he's getting he'll get about halfway and he falls down. The load's too big. I think an ant can carry something ten times his body size Ten times the weight of it and so on. And yet this little ant just had more than he could handle. And he's care and he and he almost gets the talk And that preacher got so excited he got down there and he flipped that ant to get him over and said, I just had to help him out. Well he probably killed him in the process. But he he and his enthusiasm destroyed him I don't know about you. Sometimes I feel like that ant. But I'm glad there's a God that comes to my aid. And he says, Fear thou not. I'm with thee. I will help thee. I will strengthen thee. And if you've been saved any amount of time, you look back, and there are some things that you have to confess, God brought me through. I didn't get through that my own. There's no way when you got that call, when you faced that event, when you had to handle that situation. You said, there's no way I'll get through this. This is going to be the end of me. I can't do it, Lord. It's just impossible. And yet somehow the sovereign hand of God reached down into your worm estate and picked you up and brought you through and you're to give him the glory because he does that sort of thing. Oh beloved listen there's a God who goes with us. And whether America rises or falls, God will be God, and his presence will be real. I am grateful in this hour that we can gather as a people and be reminded that God is with us. John Wesley lay dying, and he quoted Psalm 46, his favorite Psalm, and he said these words. These were his last words. Best of all, God is with us. They stood mourning over the death of their leader, a great leader, a man who God used mightily on two continents, and who God just enabled in a very unique and special way for such a time as that. And as they thought about the coming end of things, the end of their leader, the end of his life and his influence, he reminded them: though God buries the workman, the work goes on. God doesn't put put all of his uh if you will all of his work in the entrusting of one man's hand God can raise up. I believe this all my heart. The devil would love nothing more than to shut down every Christian and annihilate us and be that put the end to every believer. I mean just wipe you out But if he did that, if God permitted him to do that, I believe before the morning sun rose, God could raise up another army. You know why? Because God can do that. God went down, it listen, God told Ezekiel, he said, I want you sh I want to show you something. I want you to go down here in a valley and I want you to look at something. And Ezekiel went to the valley, and when he looked down in that valley, what did he see? Dry bones. Scattered about. I mean they were not only dead, they were dismembered and discattered everywhere. And he said, Ezekiel, can these bones live? And Ezekiel was very wise when he said this, Thou knowest. God only you know can they live? Only God you know you know if they can live or not. But but listen, he said Ezekiel prophesied of those bones. Don't you know that was a strange command? Preach the bones. I imagine every preacher's felt that way a time or two. He's preached to some bones. Dry ones at that. But he preached to those bones and something started to happen. They started moving And they came together. You know the story, how they brought together bone began to join to bone, forming bodies or skeletons, if you will. And then he said, Preach again, and he began to preach, and the muscle and sinew and flesh came upon them, and it was all together except one thing. They needed life. Had a mighty army of individuals standing there, but they were not alive. And he said, preach again. He did. God gave breath. And when God gave breath, God brought life. And God did the impossible in the midst of that valley, and he brought life out of death. And I want to remind you it was because God was there And God was working, and God said, I'm going to do the same thing to Israel. Israel's being destroyed, Israel will be annihilated, they'll be removed, but I'm going to give them life again. And friend, what a picture that is of what God does in the work of grace in a man's heart. You and I are nothing but dry bones apart from the working of God, dismembered and disfigured. But oh when God begins to move and work, he can bring bone to bone and he can put muscle and flesh. And then best of all, he gives life. And when he gives life, you stand up as a mighty child of God because he's made you live. He talked about walking by that little that that that babe that had been born and left to die in his own blood, and he said, live. And when he said live, that little babe lived. Listen, no matter that he had been abandoned or forsaken, no matter that he had been left alone and defenseless, when God makes a decree, church, he gets the job done. Because it's not dependent on what you do or I do, it's what he does. Thank God for his presence. They would go into captivity, but God would bring them out. In his appointed time, in his way, in his fashion, in his perfect will, God would bring them out. And God would begin to do something through them once more. You think about Ezra and Nehemiah. I I I don't know that they began to understand, hey, God's well as they began to say the word of God, they found out through Jeremiah that, hey, the time's come. Our time down here is about up. We better get ready. God's taking us back. Didn't look possible. But God would raise up a man who would say, I want you to go back up there in Israel. I want you to build in Jerusalem. I want you to build a house I want you to build a house for God. A pagan man sending a godly people back to do something that God had decreed centuries before would be done Now, folks, those are not just mere coincidences. That's the work of God. And I said all that to say this: God is not at a loss of plan and purpose this morning. The world wants you to be hopeless. We live in a world, I mean, you listen, I I hardly can't listen just to headlines anymore. You listen to the headline and and and they want you to be afraid, they want you to be hopeless, they want you to be discouraged. It's all bad, bad, bad, bad, bad. Well, it may be But God is still God. And He's still on the throne. I can still hear Pastor Sexton, my pastor who's in heaven. Dr. Ralph Sexton Sr. , he would say, listen, he'd say, children, the day's going to come. He said, you'll pay five dollars for a loaf of bread. And I don't know what do we pay for a loaf of bread now? I don't go to the store. But but uh he said i he said I don't care if it's fifty doll a loaf. God will provide for his people. God will meet your needs. We may not listen, we may not go to heaven in the lap of luxury, but we will go in the hand of the Lord. The reality is that God made a promise to these people. He said, Yes, the nation is in decline, but I want you to remember I've got purpose. And I want you to remember that my presence will go with you. David said, he said, if I take wings and fly to the uttermost part of the earth. They aren't there. Some of you have found God to be faithful when you've been laid up in a hospital room. Some of you have found him to be faithful when you've gone and stood by a graveside. And some of you have found God to be faithful when you've gone to the other side of the country, the other side of the world. And you you've gone there, some of you representing your country, and you found out, hey, God's there like he is here. Because God's faithful. God is faithful. And church, I want to remind you that regardless of what comes to our nation as a whole, and regardless of what the future holds, Oh, it may upset our lifestyle. It may change the way we go about living. It may totally alter everything you and I call normal. But God Almighty will still sit on his throne. He'll still be in charge of the nations of the earth. He'll raise up kings and set down kings and He 'll still be on the throne, and when his little children bow their head and pray, he'll still bend a listening ear and outstretch a mighty arm. Why? Because he's the Lord and he changes not. I'm not going to preach this last point. I'll just simply point it out to you that God's provisions are described in verses 15 to 20. You'd be wise to read them. He gives provision for battle because the battle was coming. He gives provisions for bounty because needs were going to be very real. And then he gives provision for blessings. He plants trees. May deal with this sometime. He plants trees in the wilderness. He's making a way for his people before they ever get there. But you see, a nation in decline needs to know that God is still God. And I would say to you, dear Christian brother, sister , God has a purpose in everything he's doing. And I don't have to know it all or understand it all. I just simply have to rest that it's all in his hand. He's got a purpose. You know he's got a purpose for the man who's in our White House right now? You need to remember that. And he'll have a purpose for whoever comes in his footsteps to follow. God has a purpose. And the most important thing for you and I to remember this morning, if you're not saved, I would urge you to be saved. Because you have a soul that's going to live forever somewhere. Beyond time and beyond you know, we're a relatively young nation compared to the other nations of the world. But what is all of that in light of eternity? Every one of you listening to me right now, you're going to live forever. You're going to live forever either in heaven or hell. All depending upon what you do with the person of Jesus Christ. Friend, the truth is, Jesus died for your sin. He loved you so much, he went to an old bloody cross, laid down his life, poured out his precious blood. And they took him off of that cross and they laid him in a tomb, and on the third day he got up and he lives. He's alive. And he saves and he'll save you. He'll save you. Thank God there's a salvation offered that's both full and free. Oh, the most important thing you'll ever do. The most important thing. The most important transaction that will ever take place in your life. It's when God in his mighty, wonderful, immeasurable grace saves a lost sinner, makes him a child of God. You say, preacher, what what contribution can I make? Not a one. You've made the only contribution you can make, and that's your sin. Now you need a Savior. You're like a drowning individual. You're like a dead corpse. And you need God to come by. Make you live. I was thinking in the early hours this morning as an eight-year-old boy. Why God saved me, I have no clue. But He saved me by His grace. I can remember conviction of sin. And a clear view of my Savior, the reality that only he could save me. I remember how it dawned so clear in my soul, but I can't do anything. My mother can't save me. My dad can't save me. My preacher can't save me. And it moved me to call out, oh, God save me. And he in his mercy did. Just like he'll save you. And my friend, if you're saved, it's no time to play fast and loose with God in this world. The old mountain preachers used to say it when I was a boy: you can't hold hands with the Lord and dance with the devil at the same time. You better make your mind up. There may be some listening to me that you need to make your mind up. How long halts you between two opinions If the world's the way, go that way. But if the Lord Jesus is the way, follow him. And we've got good authority that says Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. It's time to make our minds up. We need some decided Christians in this late hour. You need to know whose side you're on. You need to hear the words Joshua heard. Joshua, that mighty warrior of God, went out with a drawn sword because he thought he saw an enemy soldier, only to discover it was the Lord Jesus. And when he asked the question, whose side are you on? Why was he interested? Because he wanted to know, listen, Joshua wasn't an in-and-out sort of fella. He had decided his side. He said, whose side you on? And the Lord said, I don't know side. I'm here to take over. I'm not here to join sides. I'm the Lord of hosts. And Joshua bowed his knee and said, Captain lead on. Some of you need to bow the knee and say, Captain lead on. You need to let him be the Lord and let him lead your life. Make up your mind who you're going to live for. And dear brother, sister, maybe you're a little discouraged and heavy-hearted. Some of you are old enough to remember better days. Someone said to me the other day, I don't even recognize the country I live in anymore. That's true for many Having lived out of this country for nearly 20 years, it was a shock to me. It was different. It was so different. Different place. But regardless of the changes in culture, you and I have a Christ who does not change. And instead of letting the changing of the times trouble our spirit, we need to get our eyes back on Him. And let the reality comfort our hearts that our God changes not, and our commission as his people has not changed either. We got a job to do. That's the point men and women of Jesus Christ. While we still have time. And all around you are people that need to hear the good news that Jesus saves. All around you are people that need to know there is hope. There is hope. And it's not going to be found in an organization. It's not going to be found in a people. It's going to be found in the person of Christ. The Bible says the Lord, who is our hope, when he shall appear. That's our hope. Our hope is in the Lord. Oh, may God encourage you, dear Christian brother, sister. Friend, if you're here among us unsaved, I urge your day to be saved. If you're not right with God, get right with God Dear Christian, let God encourage and help you. Whatever it is you need, let the Lord work as only He can. Would you stand with me, Brother Thou? Bring her hymn of invitation.