And can you imagine what a day when we get home to heaven and none of us are are infirmed with voices that will not tune in and carry a tune or and we've got glorified bodies that never get tired or weary. And we'll be able to sing the praises that the Lord is worthy of. I had to record just a little bit of that for my heart and mind's sake, and what a blessing it was Just to hear you singing, It Is Well. And singing like it is well. And uh I praise the Lord for that. Certainly enjoyed This time as we've worshiped the Lord together, I'm thankful for the hymns of the faith. I'm thankful for those that God gave a song in some of their darkest hours So that we could have a song in some of our joyful times and praise the Lord through it all. And He is worthy. He is worthy. I want you to look. When I read this text, you're going to say, Preacher, that's a strange Mother's Day text. It's going to be, and so you bear with me, please, but there's a burden in my heart In 2 Samuel chapter 20, and I want to read, well, let me break in about verse 15. 2 Samuel Chapter 20, and we'll break in in verse number 15. Now I'm going to take my text from a title here, but uh let's read this portion beginning in verse 15. It says, and they came and besieged him in Abel. Now they are Joab, Joab's mighty men uh two other groups of individuals that or or peoples that joined in with Joab. And before I read further, let me remind you that what's happening here is that after Absalom's fall, after Absalom was killed, the kingdom is sort of in a state of turmoil. There is a man, the Bible says, whose name was Bikri. He was the son of Bikri. His name was Sheba. He was a Benjamin. And after things started to seemingly settle down, he blew a trumpet and said, Who's with me? And all of Israel went with him, the Bible says, and he led a division in the kingdom. Now it was a short-lived division, but he led this division. And Joab gathered the mighty men and said, We're not going to let this lay. We're going to take care of this. We're going to go after him. And so Joab and his mighty men began to pursue this man and to pursue those that were with him. And they catch him in this place, this city. That's called Abel. And I want you to notice that in verse 15, it says, They came and besieged him in Abel of Beth Makah. And they cast up a bank against the city, and it stood in the trench, and all the people that were with Joab battered the wall to throw it down. Then cried a wise woman out of the city, Hear, hear, say, I pray you unto Joab, Come near hither that I may speak with thee. And when he was come near unto her, the woman said, Art thou Joab? And he answered, I am he. Then she said unto him, Hear the words of thine handmaid. And he answered, I do hear Then she spake, saying, They were wont to speak in old times, saying, They shall surely ask counsel at Abel, and so they ended the matter. I am one of them that are peaceful and faithful in Israel. Thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel. Why wilt thou swallow up the inheritance of the Lord? And Joab answered and said, Far be it, far be it from me that I should swallow up or destroy. The matter is not so But a man of Mount Ephraim, Sheba, the son of Bikri by name, hath lifted up his hand against the king, even against David. Deliver him only, and I will depart from the city. And the woman said unto Joab , Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall. Then the woman went unto all the people in her wisdom, and they cut off the head of Sheba, the son of Bikri, and cast it out to Joab, and he blew a trumpet, and they retired from the city, every man to his tent And Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king. I want you to look at verse number 19. And this woman calls herself a mother in Israel. A mother in Israel. I want to preach on being a mother in Israel. You know, I hadn't heard that term in years. In fact, I was thinking of this, Brother Don, today, Brother Don Brooks, when we were at the homegoing service of his mother, they many people in the in the service called her a mother in Israel. And I remember as a little boy, my preacher calling certain women mothers in Israel. I didn't have a clue what that meant. I began to study the term and I realized that it was a term made popular by John Wesley. John Wesley would have a position in the churches that he started. And one of those positions would be a mother in Israel. And as I began to study the Bible, I realize that there are two women in our Bible who are identified as mothers in Israel. This nameless woman here, we don't know uh anything other than she's a wise woman from the city of Abel, and Deborah, the judge. In Judges chapter 5, verse 7, she calls herself, I, the mother of Israel. And I want to remind you that this has nothing to do as far as a woman who has children. We do not know uh if if if this woman we know nothing about her other than what we read in this passage But the term mother in Israel as it's used here in 2 Samuel speaks of someone who brings spiritual help to a nation like a nurse or a god would, as a mother would do for her children, so these women do for their nation. They very well could be women who do not have children, and yet they're still mothers in Israel. A mother in Israel is someone who stepped up to the plate and acted courageously. By the way, you'll notice in both occasions the glaring absence of men. In Deborah's life, she had a there was a leader in Israel who should have led the charge, but he said, I won't go unless you go with me. And then this dear mother here, this dear lady here, she simply is the one who comes to the forefront, and I personally believe that everybody in that city was scared to death because Joab was a bad dude. David himself said, Joab's one of them sons that are too much for me. Many times David's tender heart shook when he had to deal with Joab. Joab being the captain of the host, he was a fighting man, he was a ruthless man. We read in this same chapter when he uh uh uh dealt with uh uh Abishai and and when he went up to him and or or Amazah, and as he dealt with some of these men, he would He he would ask them , you know, how are you, brother? Verse 9, Joab said to Amazon, Art thou in health, my brother? And Joab took Amazah by the beard with the right hand to kiss him But Abazal took no heed of the sword that was in Joab's hand, so he smote him therewith in the fifth rib. That's the kind of man Joab was. Joab was a man who wasn't playing games. He was a man, he was a mighty man, he was a battling man, he was a fighting man, and these men of that city knew, man, just don't bother with Joab He's determined to take this city. And here this wise woman, this mother in Israel, steps up and says, Hey Joab, will you listen to me a minute? I want you to think about this mother in Israel. This mother in Israel brought untold blessings to many. I'm not advocating tonight that we start a position and cast ballots and vote for mothers in Israel. But I am praying that the God of heaven would raise some up in this congregation. I am praying that there would be some young women that would get a burden, and some older women and others that would get a burden and say, Lord, if I'm going to be anything, I want to be a mother in Israel for my local church. I want you to notice what a mother in Israel does. Would you notice with me that she brought life? This this mother in Israel, she brought life to this city. Do you realize that death was determined for the whole city? It did not matter that they were just looking for one man. What mattered is that man found refuge in that city. And if I understand this correctly from the exchange between uh this mother in Israel and Joab, that he deceived them to get inside the city. He deceived them and said, you know, I'm coming in peace and coming for the welfare of this city when really he was coming to save his own skin. And it was inside that city that he began to bring a certain judgment or a judgment of death upon the city. Joab and his mighty men would do what Joab did. You study what Joab did. When he took a city, he left no survivors. Joab, when he took a place, he just simply eliminated all of the opposition. And Joab wasn't going to hold a council and say now Are you for David or against David? He figured that this man is Sheba 's inside the city, so you might as well just take the whole city, burn the whole thing down, and be done with it. And so this mother in Israel, by her intervention, brought life into that city. Can I say to you, dear ladies, tonight, that you, through your prayers You, through your intercession, you, through your seeking of God, you can bring life into an assembly How many precious mothers, how many precious women, how many dear ladies have prayed and brought the blessings of God down upon the people of God? You can bring life into the assembly. I do believe many a sermon has had its spearhead sharpened by the prayers of some mother in Israel. I believe many an effort has been enhanced and been made useful by the prayers of those who were mothers in Israel, who labored in that way. Dr. Stewart was preaching in uh the former Soviet Union, and he said, from the beginning there was a mysterious moving of God. He said, normally you get have to go through a lot of things and people get right and there has to be a breakthrough. But he said from the first service on, scores of people were coming and being converted. And he sought for the answer and he s he asked around and could not find anyone that was really especially burdened in praying. It wasn't until he met two dear ladies who had Made an agreement together to pray until God did something. And they said, We're praying and we're asking the Lord. And Dr. Stewart said, I knew right then we had mothers in Israel. A mother in Israel brings life through her prayers. By the way, a mother in Israel brings life also into an assembly by her participation. This woman got involved. She stepped up to the plate. Her sincere enthusiasm to save the whole city brought life into the place. You know, we need to remember something. That God uses whom He chooses. And oh my, how what a blessing many a mother in Israel has been. By their participation in a local assembly. In my little church growing up, we had a s a mother in Israel, her name was Maul Stewart. As far as I know, she never had children. Never met her husband. He died years before I was born. And Maul Stewart was one of those faithful widows. She just served the Lord. She lived for the Lord. And she had the most unique way of praising the Lord I've ever heard. Now it'd scare you, I'm afraid. But when Miss Stewart got happy In the Lord. Don't look down on that if you don't know what I'm talking about. Just don't lay your tongue on it if you don't understand it. But when Miss Stewart got happy, when when she got Ma Stewart got full of God. It almost sounded, when I was little, I thought, who's got the heecups? You know? She would, whoop, whoop And she would start and the next thing you know, just she's a little bitty thing. I mean you could put her in her pocket and walk off. She was such a little but she had such she walked with the Lord. I I remember being six years old. I could show you the place I was standing in the pew with my arm around my mama's neck watching this go on, and I thought that lady somehow makes God come in this place. And I watched her and and when she got happy, I'm it was about nobody else could be saying a word, but if Ma Stewart began to praise the Lord and she had a little handkerchief that she'd pull out W one of them little classy I don't want to say this disrespectful one of them classy old lady handkerchiefs, you know, silky little thing. And she would start waving it just like this. And I knew the higher it got, the better it was going to get And I didn't understand all of that. It didn't make a lick of sense to a little boy who didn't know the Lord, but here's what I did know. Somebody bigger than all of us had entered that building And was working among the people. And here's what I believe. She was a mother in Israel. That little mother prayed and she pleaded with God to do great things in that church. She would pray for God to send the funds so we could finish our building. We often would sit in the basement of that building and you had to hold an umbrella when you had church Because we didn't have money to put a roof on the thing, so if it was raining, you had an umbrella and a bucket and you sat there and hoped that you got under something and stayed dry, and the preacher didn't preach long, too. But she would pray, Oh God, please send the money. And I've watched Brother Ralph pass an offering plate seven and eight times on a Sunday afternoon. And you know what he was doing? We had a load of lumber out there on a truck, and they had to pay for it Monday morning and didn't have the money. But somehow God always provided. You know why? Because there was a mother in Israel. Can I say to you, dear ladies, oh what a contribution. What a holy contribution you can bring to the assembly of the Lord. What a marked difference can be made by some ladies who will say, I'll be a mother in Israel. I'll bring life through the help of the Lord into this assembly by the grace of God. Someone said a woman's touch tends to bring life, and isn't that true? It seems like that women had that ability To bring life into every situation, but they said this, especially if that's under the hand of the Lord A woman's touch has enhanced by the hand of God on her. And when the hand of God's on her, she can be a mother in Israel and bring life into the assembly. Quickly, number two, she set a godly example. A mother in Israel sets a godly example. This woman, boy, she's so unique, and you'll notice in verse 17 that she called herself thine handmaid. Now remember who we're talking about here. We're talking about Joab. Joab, if you'll trace him, Joab didn't sat down and hold negotiations. Every time he tried, he's he just decided, well let's just fight, you know. And he said, We'll finish it that way Joab wasn't a negotiator. But this dear woman came to him and she said, Will you hear the words of thine handmaid? Does that handmaid sound familiar? Isn't that what Mary said to the Lord? Be it as thou wilt, I 'm your handmaid, Lord. It is a submissive spirit. Didn't Peter teach us that it that meek and quiet spirit is the adornment of a godly lady? Here is a submissive, what an example she is of a submissive spirit. She could have stood on that wall and said, Joab, let me tell you what to do. And you know what Joab would have done? He'd say, I'll get to you shortly. But this the submitted spirit that she had, so what does the proverb say that a soft answer turns away wrath? She had a submissive spirit. You know, I see something else in her example. She also led a spiritual lifestyle. Look what she said about herself. In verse number 19, she says, I am one of them that are peaceable and faithful in Israel. I am one of them. You know what she was saying? She was saying, I'm I'm trying to live for the Lord I'm not a son of Belial. I'm not one of these individuals who's a rebel against God and a rebel against God's leadership. She said, no, I'm a peaceable and a faithful person. This was not just words that had no backing. You see, her influence tells me that her walk matched her talk. And that she was able to influence her city by the life that she had lived, and they were willing to listen to her because of the lifestyle she led. Can I say to you that a a a Mother in Israel sets a godly example. Man, how how this generation needs some women Who will be a godly example? This generation is crying out for uh ladies who who they can look to, these younger ladies can look to and say, now that's the way you ought to live. That's the path you ought to go. That's what's pleasing unto the Lord. And oh, how the church needs these mothers in Israel who will set a godly example. Then, thirdly, I want you to notice her exercise of wisdom. This near woman had great wisdom. It says there in verse number 21 that she, the woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall. Then the woman went unto all the people in her wisdom. She went with wisdom. By the way, Solomon said something about wisdom. He said it's stronger than an army. In Ecclesiastes 9. He talked about the wise man who saved the city with his wisdom, and everybody forgot his name and nobody recognized him, but he said he saved the city nonetheless. And that the power of wisdom is greater than the power of armies that may march against a city. And can I say to you that the wisdom she exercised here was great? It was the strength. She went to the people. In her wisdom. She had great strength. You know, this whole city was spared simply because she acted wisely Dear brothers, can I urge you with something this evening? God didn't put all the wisdom in the world in a man's head. He put a great deal of it in ladies. He put a great deal of wisdom. I wonder if a lot of Solomon's wisdom, I know it came from the Lord. But you listened and you read a lot of the wisdom of the Proverbs, and uh I do believe some of that wisdom came from his mother. I know there's fellows that say, well, I'm the head of the house and I'm leading this thing, and I'm not gonna listen to anybody. Well, go on and be a knucklehead if you want to. Because the pro the guar I'm going to guarantee you something, you're going to mess up real bad. Because God puts wisdom in some of these mothers in Israel. And the wisdom that he puts in their hearts are for our good. I'm thankful for the wisdom of a mother in Israel named Modena Miller. She's in heaven now. But the wisdom that God put in Modena Miller helped me as a young pastor. A struggling church, a church that the pastor had just fail morally and had a horrible testimony and And she brought real wisdom at times. There were unspiritual people that thought, well, if we just have enough uh ice cream sundae sundays and we have enough hot dog socials that we'll get the people in. And I'll never forget her saying on many an occasion, publicly and privately She would say, we need a work of God preacher. She said, trust me, I've lived long enough. She said, when the ice cream Sundays stop flowing, the people will stop coming. And when the hot dogs are put away, they'll quit coming. But if they get if God gets a hold of them and does the work of grace in their heart, it'll make all the difference. You know what she was? She was a mother in Israel. Oh, what wisdom! I want you to notice not only the strength of her wisdom, but the sparing of her wisdom. The whole city was rescued. They take Sheba and remove his head and throw it over the wall, and Joab says, blow the trumpet, we're going home. We got what we came for. Isn't it interesting? You say, preacher, he wasn't alone, and Sheba was not alone. He had a whole group of men with him. You said, Where where did they go? I'm sure they high tailed it out of there as soon as they got a chance. When they seen what they did to Sheba, I'm pretty sure they didn't think this is a friendly place to hang out. I'm saying that her actions, her wisdom, saved the whole city. Dear Mother, dear lady, I pray, mother in Israel, you your wisdom that God may put something in your heart and God may lead you in some way and do some work through you, and that may be the sparing, not of a city, but it may be the sparing of a church. There may be some divisive gossip that dies in your ears that protects the church from a division that need not be. There may be some some real uh spiritual warfare that's good that goes on, and and and the prayers of that wise intercession make a difference, and there's a sparing of the people of God. These mothers in Israel exercise wisdom. She did, Deborah did, and all of those that can lay hold of that name have a wisdom that comes from God. It was, notice her wisdom that convinced the people to do as Joab asked. And it was her wisdom that spared them a great deal of sorrow. My daddy often said, and he said this sort of strangely, but he said, just because you're born a dummy don't mean you need to stay one. And uh, you know, oh by the way, somebody left a dum-dum in my box today. I don't know what they're trying to say. Sucker, dumb dumb sucker. If you're communicating something, I get it, all right? But the the reality is there's wisdom you and I can gain. You young people , your mother loves God and she's trying to live for the Lord, you listen to her. She's got some wisdom. You may not like what she has to say. It may not make you comfortable what she has to say, but you need to hear what she has to say. There's some godly women that the Lord puts in your life. Pay attention to that wisdom. It's there on purpose. And God wants to help you, and He might spare you a whole lot of heartache if we'll but listen. I bring you this tonight to just simply say, oh God, give us more mothers in Israel. May God raise up some women. Has nothing to do with the bearing of children. Has everything to do of being what God wants you to be. And may there be some mothers in Israel. May those mothers in Israel continue on and be faithful to God till the very end. and be a blessing to the local church and the Christians around them. And may God raise up some young women who will step in those steps and say, I want to be a mother in Israel. Let the world seek fame. Let them go after fortune. But I want to do something that'll make a mark. on eternity for the glory of God. May God give us some more mothers in Israel. Would you stand with me, please? Father, please, do thy work in our hearts this evening. How