Well you're ready. The Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. That's how we get ready. This most important question you'll ever answer on this side of eternity. I want you to take the word of God and go with me to Psalm 145. Psalm 145 and verse number 16. And I'm going to invite you to stand with me as I read the verse again. Psalm 145 and verse 16. The title of this psalm is God's Unsearchable Greatness, and it certainly If you read the whole psalm, and I would encourage you to do that, you will see a declaration of the greatness of God. But it's verse 16 I want to call your attention to for just a moment this morning. Again, the Bible reads, Thou openest thine hand. And satisfies the desire of every living thing. I want us to take this truth and just look at each word. And ask the Lord to speak to our hearts as we prepare to enter a new year. Let's pray together. Father, again we bow in your presence. We're grateful for that privilege that you've given. And Lord, we're asking now that you would do the work that's needed in our hearts. Lord, if there isn't one who's not ready, I pray today it'd be the glad day. That Lord, they humble themselves before you, see their great need, cry out for mercy, and get saved by the grace of God. I pray this morning, O Father, for your people that you would stir our hearts and speak to us and strengthen us. You know the spiritual need of everyone, and so I pray. That as we open the word in our hearts, Lord, you'll walk among us. And as we were encouraged in Sunday school this morning, help us to be swift to hear. We love you, Lord. We thank you for your love for us. And we just ask your will be done now. And we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. I again want to emphasize that this is a New Year's truth. Earlier on, as I was praying over this passage and preparing to preach, I was going to call it a New Year's text. But I'm afraid sometimes that we're full of text and we forget that it's truth. This is the truth of God's word. This is the truth no matter your circumstance. This is the truth no matter the situation. This is the truth, whether men agree or disagree, whether they like it or don't like it, it's still the truth. And I'm glad that the truth of God is not altered by the opposition of man. God's word stands Whether men believe it or reject it or hate it or want to destroy it. I remember reading years ago that a very well-known atheist Began this this campaign of declaring God is dead. God is dead. What a fool. I believe his name was Nietzsche. And he had written somewhere that God is dead. And then someone very wisely wrote, Nietzsche is dead. Sign God. And truly he was dead in his trespasses and sin. Man's hatred or rejection of truth does not change the truth. And so the truth, as we've read it here this morning, is that thou, speaking of our God, thou openest thine hand. And satisfies the desire of every living thing. If you're making notes this morning, a very simple outline, but I want to call your attention to the first word, the word thou. That's the beginning. Here's the beginning. What's the beginning? God. Have you noticed that everything starts with God? Everything starts with Him Even your Bible reads, in the beginning, God. He's the beginning. In fact, he he says later on in the Revelation that He is Alpha and Omega. The first and the last. He's the beginning. He's the end. But everything starts with this beginning, thou. Creation started with thou because God created. You read on and and you have a Bible to read that, you have a Bible that tells you that And by the way, this Bible began with God. In uh listen, holy men of old spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. God is the one who inspired this book. God is the one who gave us the Bible. Thou. Our salvation. Our salvation is a work of God. It's thou, it's God who saves. It was in the mind and heart of God to prepare a Savior. Somebody said, salvation was the emergency plan. I'll say to you, salvation was the plan. God doesn't have any emergency plans. How many of you know when you make plans you better make several? Right? I don't think I've ever seen plan A work. It's always been B through Z. Rarely does plan A ever go off. But the truth is God has no plan B through Z. He has his plan. And salvation was the plan of God from the beginning, before the foundation of the world, the Lamb of God was slain, the Bible says. Jesus Christ was crucified, and in the mind and heart of God, a Savior was already provided before sin ever entered into the world. Because everything begins with God. Everything starts with Him. The coming revelation. I I've been pondering and meditating through this as we're preparing to study the book of Revelation. uh in our Sunday evening services. And and the revelation, the coming in times, the wrapping up, the culmination, the conclusion of all things. It all started with God It's all under his control. Don't think for a minute things are unraveling. They're not unraveling, they're unfolding. They're unfolding just like God intended. Things are not just coming apart at the seams. They're falling right into place like God has decreed. I know what the Bible teaches concerning the last days and the chaos and the corruption and the conflict that will flood the land, but know this, it'll all be according to his plan. God will still be God. And when the Antichrist comes on the scene, guess what? God will still be God. And when when the tribulation unfolds, God will still be God. Throughout it all, God is God. Why? Because everything begins with God. Now we're starting the year. Don't you think it'd be wise to start the year with God? I believe it'd be wise that we start. Listen, if you're not saved, today would be a good day to get saved and start with God. If you're not right with God, get right with God. Get back in fellowship with God. Get your heart clean before God and begin to live for the Lord. Why? Because everything begins with God. You can't bypass that. You can't go around that. A lot of people are trying to live on God's earth. Breathe God's air, live under under God's sunshine without acknowledging He's the Lord. And no wonder the the the world is in such chaos and people's lives are such misery, because you can't leave out the one who everything begins with. Your your life is nothing apart from God. Your heart's beating, your lungs are working. Life is in you, not because you took your vitamins this morning, though I highly recommend them for the next little while. And it's not because you've got a good doctor who's given you good medical care, though thank the Lord for them. You and I live and move and have our being in him. He he's the beginning. He's the and and listen, as as we start this New Year's, we start as a as a local church and and turn the calendar so to speak, let's remember that it all starts with God. If there's anything in my life that is worthy of God's glory, if there's anything in my life that's worth living for, it'll start with him. It'll start with him. That's why we start our day with the Lord. That's why we ought to start our lives just living for the Lord. I mean it all begins with God. So notice here how this verse, this truth starts where everything starts. It starts with the beginning. It says thou. Thou. Then notice the next word Thou openest. Not only do we see the beginning, but here we see the benevolence. I like that word. Do you know what it means? It means to loose or unstop. To loose or unstop. Thou openest. Think with me if you will on a warm summer day. Wouldn't some warmth be good today? But on a warm summer day, you you th you've seen the clouds build, especially around here, those clouds will start to build. You'll see them come across maybe the bay or or or begin to build around that area. And then as that cloud, those clouds get full and that moisture builds up, and then all of a sudden you've been out, all of a sudden the heavens just open. It's just like you took a bucket and turned it upside down, all that water, thou opennest. Do you know what the psalmist is saying? God, that's the way you open your hand to me It is an act of benevolence. You see, God is the great giver. He's the great giver. I love the song or the doxology, praise God, from whom all blessings flow. You know what that is? That's the opening of God's hand. All things. Listen, he gives us richly all things to enjoy. All things. There's nothing that you do not have that you have not received from him. But because he opens his hand. Thou openest thine hand. The benevolence of God is seen here in this great truth. He's the opener. He's the great giver. And think about with me, if you will, the greatest gift he ever gave was his son. Oh, I'm thankful for the for the gift of the S U N and I'm thankful for rain that makes the crops grow and I'm thankful Uh for for all the things God gives, those are gifts. Every good and perfect gift comes from above. It comes from the Lord. He opens his hand But the greatest thing God ever gave man was his darling son two thousand years ago. And when he gave Jesus to die on the cross and shed his blood and pay your sin debt and mine God gave the greatest thing could ever give. He's the great giver. He opens his hand. Paul said in Romans, why don't you go there with me real quick in the New Testament? Romans chapter 8. The book of Romans and chapter number eight, we're talking about the benevolence of the Lord. The benevolence of the Lord. He's a giver, he's gracious in his giving. In Romans chapter eight and verse number thirty-two, look at this verse He that spared not his own son. Now think about it. He did not spare his son. He didn't hold him back. He didn't keep him back. Now you put yourself in the Father's place. Would you give your son? Would you give that only son, that darling son, that only begotten son? This was, by the way, the gift of the Lord Jesus was no small gift. The gift of the Lord Jesus was the great gift. In fact, Paul said to the Corinthians, it's the unsearchable gift. It is a gift that's uh indescribable. It's such a great thing that we'll spend all of our lives trying to just comprehend the value of that gift. And I think all of eternity will be worshiping God for what little we comprehend of the greatness of the gift of Jesus Christ. And watch what he says, he that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all. Thank God he delivered him up for us all. I'm glad as a as a sinner who needs a Savior that I can say I fit in that great broad word all. He delivered him up for us all. That includes you, my friend. That includes each one of us here. You say, but but oh preacher, maybe not it it don't mean me. Perhaps it's not me I like what Moody said, you know, people uh would try to figure out who's chosen and who's not. And he said, listen, he said the chosen are the whosoever wills. He said the the whosoever wants are the ones that are not chosen. So you and I need not worry our thing our mind with things that are not in our capacity to comprehend But what we do need to understand is that he gave him up for us all. He delivered him up for us all. And look what it says. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Is he gonna hold anything back when he gave his son? I mean, listen, if i if if someone if you were to go to someone now let me pick on my brother Doug just a minute If I were to go to Doug and I'd say, Now, now Doug, listen, buddy, I I need $100 real bad. And Brother Doug being the benevolent man that he is, he would say, Here, preacher, here's a hundred dollars And then I I I start worrying. I you know what? I need fifty more cents. I I don't want to ask him for fifty more cents. Uh you know, I ask him for the hundred dollars. I I the fifty do you you get what I'm trying to say I mean, a man that's willing to give that hundred dollars, fifty cents, is not going to be a big deal. God gave us Jesus. He freely gave him up, delivered him up for us all. How shall he not with him freely give us all things? You know why? Because he opens his hand. He opens his hand, and my friend, listen, he satisfies the desire of every living thing. I'm glad we serve a benevolent God. I can still hear my old granddaddy pray, and he would always start like this, our kind and gracious Heavenly Father. Boy, the way he said that gracious and kind, it it struck a chord in me. It reminded me that's who God really is. And he said it in such a way that he believed it, that God was kind and God was gracious. And by the way, is that not what we learn in the scriptures? That's who he is? He's benevolent, thou that openest thine hand. Note notice this, the benevolence of God. Don't be afraid To go to God and ask for what you may need. Don't don't be so carnal and be thinking only about material things, though He does provide. But think about, you say, preacher, I'm fearful over a situation. Go to him and ask for peace. Do you not think he'll give it? I'm burdened over something. I'm troubled. There's a load that's on me that I I just can't carry. Go to him and ask for strength. Do you not think he'll give it? He gave us Jesus. He gave us the Lord Jesus. In the giving of Jesus, he made a statement: I will not withhold any good thing from you. Go to him, my brothers and sisters, and ask him and look to him and believe him for those things. Oh, he's able, he opens his hand. We don't have a closed-handed God. His hand's open. Thou openest thine hand. Well, I want you to see not only the beginning and the benevolence, but I want you to see the bounty. Notice what it says, thine hand. Singular. Thine hand Thou openest thine hand. What's in the hand of God? Mercy. I wished I had time this morning just to camp right here and talk about what's in the hand of God. Oh, there's a great deal in the hand of God. Hey, brother, sister, if you're saved, you're in the hand of the Lord. You're inscribed, it says, in the very hand of the Lord. We're in his hand. All things are in his hand. But you think about the bounty of his hand, and it's just one hand, thine hand. That thou openest thine hand. Why why the singular hand? Because that's all we need. That's all we need. It's plenty big enough. I read the story of a little boy. How many of you remember the penny candy you could go get in the store? And uh you go you go in the store and and uh you could buy pieces of candy and put your little hand in the jar and get whatever it was you wanted. And I read the story of a little boy who who went with his father, and it was a big deal in those days to go to the store and and his father took him along with him and And the store keeper there saw the little fella and wanted to be kind to him and said, why don't you reach in and get you a handful of candy? And the little boy got all quiet and bashful and shy acting and sort of dropped his head and scuffed his feet and store owner said, No, really, go g get you sa uh a handful of candy. I I want you to have that. I want you to take that And the little boy just sort of turned red and dropped his head. And so the store owner said, Well, I'll get it for you. And he took a little, remember, brown paper bag. We call them a poke where I'm from, but a little brown paper bag And he put his hand in there and he put that candy in that little bag and hand it to the little boy. They got outside and the father said, Son, what's wrong with you? You've never acted like that. You've never been bashful or shy or backwards. He said, Daddy, he had bigger hands. No, that boy's either gonna be a politician or a lawyer. I mean that kid's smart He knew, listen, he understood his little hand couldn't get near what that grown man's hand could get Thou openest thine hand. I'm telling you, you're not living on the meager hand of man. You live and I live on the mighty hand of God. He opens his hand What a Savior. How bountiful is the hand of God. You know what we need? We need in our lives? We need that that comes from the hand of the Lord. Marinatha Baptist Church, we need the hand of the Lord opened up our way. Mothers and dads, husbands and wives. You need the hand of God upon your home. It is his hand that we draw from. You ever thought about what's in his hand? I was reading this morning in Isaiah 40. Isaiah said he did this, thou measurest the water in the hollow of thy hand. Hollow. That means take your little hand and cuff it like that. And as much water as you can fit in there. That's not a lot of water. I i it made me think my my dad told the story of going out in the country one time and back in the day when they didn't have a lot of running water and they had pails and you had a water pail and you had a dipper that you drink out of. And there was an elderly lady they were out there working a farm for, and she had a gourd. She'd grown one of those gourds and had a big long neck on it. And he was watching her and uh like some of those dear old country women did, uh she dipped a little snuff And he was a little apprehensive about drinking out of that same dipper as she did when she had that brown stuff running down each side of her mouth. So that gourd had a hole in the top end of that dipper. And he thought, you know what? I can scoop my water and drink through that hole. And I won't have to touch down there where she does. Dad said they were getting a drink of water and she came by and saw him turn up that handle. And she said, You know, I've never seen anybody drink water quite like I do until I met you. She said, There you are, drinking water Well that that didn't go well for him, did it? But you think about the water you can put in your hand. And my Bible says he measures the water of the earth. Now I understand that to be the cumulative water of the earth, not just portions of it. That means all the water. You put the Pacific Ocean in there, you put the Atlantic Ocean in there. You put all the other great the Arctic Ocean, all the other oceans of the earth. You take all that water and put it in the hollow of his hand. That's a big hand. That's a hand that, my friend, you'll never go to look for and find it empty. The bounty of the hand of God. Oh, know this this morning. I don't know what the new year will bring. I don't know what needs will arise. I don't know what difficulties will come your way or mine. I don't know what challenges lie ahead, but I do know this. In the hand of God is all I need. And he said, Thou openest thine hand. God's hand's open. And out of that hand he's providing for his little children. You think about this with me. It is from the hand of God, every beast of the field is fed. Every bird of the air. From the hand of God. It's the hand of the Lord. And and you know what? I've never seen a bird building a barn to put to put seed in. You you don't see them fretting and worrying, do you? Now birds don't have hands, I reckon, but they have wings, and I've never seen them wringing their wings and worry. Not one I've never seen, and didn't Jesus teach us that if he would feed the birds of the field, those little sparrows that that that my friend are here today and gone tomorrow, he says, are you not much more valued than they? Don't think he's going to take care of the birds and the animals and then step over you and say, I'm sorry, my hand's empty. By the way, the hand of God's never empty. His hand's always full. Thou openest thine hand. Not only do I want you to see the beginning and the benevolence and the bounty. But I want to dwell just a minute on the blessing. And here's the blessing. Look what it says. And satisfies the desire of every living thing. That's what he does. He satisfies the desire of every living thing. I want you to notice that there is a place And a promise, and a person who satisfies to the full. He satisfies That means he fills up until you want no more. He satisfies Have you ever eaten something that didn't satisfy you? Wasn't near enough. And you just weren't satisfied. I know I've told the story, but we stayed with a family who were vegans in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. And in staying with them, they very graciously prepared food and fed us that week, but we ate like them. So we went vegan for a week. That 's the longest week of my little life. I got up hungry, I went to bed hungry. We were bad hungry. That's my son. He really didn't think he was going to live through it And I weren't sure enough to convince him that we were gonna make it. And uh boy I'll tell you every night I mean we had good food, it was good food, but because we weren't accustomed to eating that way, it did not satisfy Uh we had these uh squash soups and and they were tasty, but when you got done I could eat ten more. I mean it was just did not stick to the rib kind of food. You know what I'm talking about Thou satisfied. I'm talking about being satisfied. Being satisfied. We left church one night and Josiah said, Dad Yes, we had I think we had three more nights there. And he said, You don't think we could get some food, do you? I said, Well some they told us to hurry home from church because we're going to eat again together. He said, I know. But he said, you don't think we could just stop and get something? I mean something that'll fill our bellies, you know Well the only thing between their and and their l their home was the McDonald's of all things. I'm not too keen on that, but nevertheless I I tell you what, that quarter pounder stuck to my ribs a whole lot better than that squash suit did. At least I felt satisfied for a little while. It may have wrecked my health, but it sure satisfied my belly. There's a lot of things that you think and I think will satisfy us. We think living out here in the world like we want to live. By the way, people say, I'm going to go do my own thing. You know what you're doing? You're becoming a servant of the devil. And and you you you go your path and you walk your way and you do your own thing and you'll find out you're his slave. You're his fool. And it that'll never satisfy. You can't find a substance that'll satisfy you. I don't it doesn't matter what they come up with next as far as drugs or alcohol or some other concoction. And yet none of that's going to satisfy you. You can go from relationship to relationship, never be satisfied. Never be satisfied. You can taste all that the world offers. And Dr. Hitchens said it this morning. The devil gives gifts, but they're not good ones. Oh, he'll give you some things. He'll let you taste some things, but those things will never satisfy. If you don't believe me, read the book of Ecclesiastes. Read about a man named Solomon who was wealthy and powerful and positioned in such a way that he could try everything and try everything he did. And here was his conclusion. It's all vanity. I'm empty. It's like little soap bubbles floating up and popping. It looks pretty. It takes my attention for a minute, but it's gone He had relationships, he had wealth, he had parties, he had all of the trappings of the world, all the finer things, if you will. In fact, he had fine things that would make our finer things look rather dull and yet not satisfied. He comes down to the last chapter of the book, and here's what he says. Here's the conclusion. Hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God, keep his commandments. You know what he said? I've tried it all, I've tasted it all, I've seen it all, I've experienced it all, and I'm empty until I get to God. There's nothing will satisfy like the Lord. And I want to report to you on this first Sunday of the new year that there is still a God in heaven who satisfies. Jesus said, I'm the bread of life, I'm the water of life. He that cometh to me, listen, shall not thirst You know why? He'll satisfy you. He satisfies to the full. I don't care what you put in that place. You will not be satisfied Until you come to the Lord Jesus, trust Him by faith, get saved by grace, and walk and live with the Lord. By the way, you might be saved, but you're not living surrendered. You can have , who was the old preacher who said, you can have a saved soul and have a wasted life? A saved soul. He said he heard it he heard that said, and he said every step he took, saved soul, wasted life, saved soul, wasted life, saved soul, wasted life. And you can be saved, but have a wasted life, thinking, you know why? Thinking that somehow you'll get satisfied somewhere in something other than the Lord. Oh, listen, friend, not until you bow the knee of surrender. Yield yourself to God. Say, now, Lord, I'm going to live for you. Whatever you want me to do, wherever you want me to go, whatever you want me to be, I'm going to live my life for you. Until you come there, you will never be satisfied. Your life will be a continual round of disappointment and dissatisfaction. You can have the finest house and drive the nicest cars and And make all of the m the the the best of money that can be made and still be unsatisfied. Because none of that will satisfy only the Lord. You think about this statement here, and here's a promise. He says, Thou openest thine hand and satisfies the desire of every living thing. Every living thing. Every living thing must look to him to be satisfied. You say, where do I look? Well, if you'll what I've done in my Bible, I made a mark from thing to thou Because the satisfaction comes from the Thou. The God of this text, the God of this truth, the God of this Bible is the great satisfier of man's heart. It breaks my heart to look out on a world that's just mad for pleasure, mad for profit. Mad for some power, you know. People get power and they think there's something. Vance Habner used to say all it'd take was a gnat to go down their throat backwards and they're gone I mean, you know, people think there's something. A man who thinks he's something when he's nothing, he's deceived himself. Isn't it strange how many of these things people live for today? Today they're people at the grind. Man, they're they're they're they're at the grind. They can't miss a day, they can't miss an hour, they can't miss a moment. They're out there gotta make that dollar, they're chasing that dollar, thinking somewhere there's a place you'll get satisfied Or if I have that experience and we fly to all of these beautiful places and experience all these things, only to realize that none of that fills the void in the heart of man. The only thing that satisfies you, Jesus. To be able to open that Bible and hear him speak to you is worth more than all the money this world holds. To be able to know that your heart's right with God and your sins under the blood and your name's recorded in the book of life and listen you've got something to live for when you get up in the morning. That's that's money can't purchase that. The satisfaction that comes from knowing I am his and he is mine. That's satisfaction. Get a hold of that. That's what living's really all about. But thou, I want you to see it. I want you to see it. Hey, being a Baptist won't satisfy you. Though I feel like old old uh uh the brother there from Virginia. I th I feel like him. He said, you know, they asked him, Dr. Lakin, what would you be if you weren't a Baptist? He said, ashamed of myself Well, I'm a Baptist by conviction, not by convenience, by conviction in my heart, but I know this, being a Baptist didn't satisfy me. That that just being, being, whatever. You can be, whatever you want to be, but satisfaction's not found in that being. Salvation's found in him from whom our being comes. It's in the Lord. There's where we get satisfied. Only Jesus. Only Jesus can satisfy the soul. Now, my friend, as we start a new year, I want you to take this truth to heart. I want you to make it personally yours. I want you to lay it before God as a petition in prayer. We're praying for revival. Thou openest thine hand and satisfies the desire of every living thing. Preacher, where does revival come from? It comes from God. Supernatural. It's a work of the Lord. It's got to come from His hand. It won't come from anywhere else. We're not going to get the right evangelist to bring it. They don't carry it around. God graciously sends it from above. Thou openest thine hand. Your year may be fraught with need You may face need on every turn. There may be some crises arise and suddenly you find your resources exhausted and your needs aplenty. But take the truth. Thou openest thine hand and satisfyest the desire of every living thing. Go to God in prayer and say, Oh Lord, help me. The Bible still says, but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Lord, open your hand. Open your hand. There may be a health problem or a difficulty arise. You need help, and the physicians just exhaust themselves I think of our dear sister Norma and how many times Norma Kitchen, the doctors, said we don't know what's going on. How many times they said it doesn't look good. How many times they said she won't talk or she won't walk or there's no future for her. Yet I got another text this week from Brother Daniel said when they removed the trach. That she immediately spoke talking. You know, and again just proving that Our health and well-being is not in the hands of another man. It's in the hand of God. He opens his hand and satisfies the desire of every living thing. We can go and lay that before him in prayer and plead that promise to God. Oh, I don't know. I don't know. We could go through scenario after scenario. But whatever may come, here's what we know. Thou. Thou openest thine hand and satisfies the desire of every living thing. I can go to him. It may bring spiritual drought If you're saved long enough, you'll go through a dry place, a dry spell, and feel spiritually impoverished inside. You'll go through those times. You'll go through Those places where it seems God's a million miles away. Lay hold of the truth. Go to God with the truth and say, God, you open your hand. Thou openest thine hand and satisfies the desire of every living thing. I've got a thirsty heart, I've got a hungry soul. Lord, will you satisfy it? Aren't you glad to know He can? God can, God will. He will. He's faithful. What a truth. God burn it on our hearts. And my friend, if you're not saved, you're either in this auditorium or you're listening to this broadcast, I want to say to you, Jesus saves. Jesus saves. You perhaps you thought that I'll join a church and that'll take care of it And you've joined the church and still are in the same mess that you were in before. Maybe you're one of those that turned over a new leaf and said, I'm going to quit thus and so, and you turned over a new leaf and found out that Same old leaf. Somebody said the problem with turning over leaves is that you're you're still dealing with the same old tree. Nothing changed. It may be that you're trusting in something you're doing or going to do or have done and you say, I'm trusting that that's good enough. No, friend, here's what God requires. He requires righteousness. And that righteousness can only be obtained when we put our faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ, who died on the cross for our sin. was buried and rose again the third day. And when you trust in him, here's what God says: he will impute or put righteousness on your account. And now you've got what you could not obtain no other way. You know why? So that there's no glory in. There's no room to glory or boast. Nobody sitting here who's saved can say, I'm a I'm better saved than anybody else. Or I got saved in some different way. You know how we all got in? We all got in through grace and mercy. We all got in through the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank God for Calvary. Thank God for the Lord Jesus. And if you're not saved today, the only thing that you need is Jesus and Jesus only. My friend, he'll save you. Oh, how near he is. How near he is. He's Samir. You might be sitting on the side of the road. You might be driving down the road. You might be in a hospital room or in your living room. You might be sitting at your job. All you gotta do is cry out. It don't have to be a theologically deep prayer, it just has to be honest. There's some prayers that were prayed like this. Remember me. Brought salvation. Saved me. Have mercy on me. Oh, listen When a sinner sees his need and understands the Savior saves and cries out, there's that gift of eternal life that's granted in that soul's born anew. Beloved, he'll save you, friend, he'll save you. Call on him. Call on him. It's not the posture of your body. The preacher, do I have to kneel? Do I have to cry? Do I have to fold my hands? It's not the posture of your body or the emotions of your heart. It's the act of faith in the Lord Jesus. It's coming to God through him. It's knowing that he alone can save you. Salvation is not a work of man, it's a work of grace. It's God's doing. And God will save you, friend. Call on him. Call on him. And my dear friend, if you've called on him, live for him. Just get it settled in your heart right now. Lord, if you give me another year, it's going to be yours because I'm going to live for you. I'm going to surrender my life and heart and my all. And Lord, I just what whatever whatever you require, Lord, here am I, like Isaiah of old. Here am I, Lord. Here am I. Have you done that, dear friend? I find we need to do it continually. The Bible says we're to present our bodies a living sacrifice. Someone said the problem with the living sacrifice is when you put it on the altar, it has the tendency to crawl off. And that's true. And I must yield myself continually. Daily, Paul said I die. I believe part of that many was surrendering. He said, I must die daily. Daily I've got to surrender. Daily I've got to say, Lord, I'm yours. Yours, I'm not going to live for me, I'm going to live for you. Dear brother, sister, let's not waste a year. In fact, let's not waste a day Let's not waste a moment. Let's say, God, help me. Lord, here I am. I want to live for you. I'm going to surrender to you. Why? Because thou openest thine hand. And satisfies the desire of every living thing. We're going to stand together, our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. As we prepare for our invitation, if you're here this morning and you're not saved, you're among friends and you're among people who want to see you saved