Truth I ever learned, I learned in the Sunday school, in the form of a little song that I believe is the greatest song perhaps ever written The little song says that Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. My circumstances have often said otherwise. My peculiar situation in life has often made me think, Lord, do you love me? But my Bible has always faithfully said Jesus loves you. Declared to be so when he hung on Calvary's cross and carried my sin and yours and paid the debt in full and Thank God when they put him in the tomb, he didn't stay there. He got up and he lives and he lives forevermore. And we're thankful for the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't ever get over the fact that he loves you. He didn't have to, but he chose to. And his love, the Bible says, we're loved with an everlasting love. There's no end to it. And thank God for that. You know, the word everlasting suggests there's a beginning. There was a point in time, and he loved us, and he he does love us. I'm thankful that he set, the Bible says he set his love upon us. And so how grateful we ought to be that he loves us like he does. Would you open your Bibles quickly now to 2 Chronicles 33? I'm going to the Old Testament this morning. I prayed about another direction, but I do believe this is what the Lord would have for us. In 2 Chronicles chapter number 33, I want to read three verses here, 11, 12, and 13. We're going to go back and go over the chapter. And in this message, the introduction is going to be a whole lot longer than the message. So don't fret if you see the introduction being longer than the message, because it will be But when God wants to communicate something, He draws pictures so that we can understand He does it in the most simplest terms, so that we get it. You know God wants you to get it. The Bible's not a book of mysteries that are meant to be unraveled by the intelligent. The Bible's a book of truth that God wants to reveal to those that will believe it. Um the Bible's not something that you see to believe. You believe so that you can see. It's not until you believe that you see, but once you believe, you see. And so God draws some pictures, and he draws pictures of himself. He wants you to see himself. The Bible tells us that God is a spirit. And they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. There's a reason the Bible says that we're not to make any graven images. Because he's not a God that's revealed in a substance or in a person that is visible outside of the Lord Jesus Christ. And even with the Lord Jesus, we don't know what he looked like. The reality is that God doesn't want you to worship an image. He wants you to worship him. So he reveals himself through the works that he does in people's lives. And one such person is the man I'm going to read about here in just a moment. He's an interesting character, and I'll be honest with you, when I read this account in the first, say, twelve verses or so of this chapter, I thought, what a what a disastrous person God should annihilate him. He should have cut him off long before he ever did. That man was so evil and vile, and you'll see that, but God did something quite opposite In a word, God showed him mercy. God showed him mercy, and I want you to see that, please, with me. 2 Chronicles chapter 33, verse number 11. Could you stand with me, please, as we honor the book? And let's just read 11, 12, and 13. Look at this, what the Bible says, wherefore the Lord brought upon them the captains of the host of the king of Assyria. which took Manasseh among the thorns and bound him with fetters and carried him to Babylon. And when he was in affliction he besought the Lord his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers, and prayed unto him, and he was entreated of him, and heard his supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Look at this. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord he was God. Father, help us now, please. Help me to make this as simple and clear as possible. Dear Lord, would you please settle our minds and hearts from all the distractions? That would keep us from hearing what we need to hear. And may the Spirit of God have great liberty. Lord and mercy, hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus. And Lord, I'll praise you for all that you do, for we pray now in Jesus' name, and God's people said Amen. You can be seated. Thank you. Would you go back to the first of this chapter? And we're introduced to a young man because the Bible says Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign. And he reigned 55 years in Jerusalem. That's a long time. In fact, he's one of the longest reigning kings that God allowed to sit on the throne. And as we look at verse number two, I want you to notice by way of introduction the summary of his life. Look what God said about Manasseh. But did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord like unto the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. There's two things that are said here about his life. Number one, his character was evil. He did that which was evil. You say, preacher, why did he do evil? He did evil because he was evil. We do what we do because of who we are. We do not become what we are because of what we do. We do what we do because of who we are. All have sinned. Why? Because we're sinners. By the way, you don't teach children to sin. They already know how to do it. Isn't it a strange thing you don't have to teach children to lie? They just know how. I mean if you raise kids, you didn't sit 'em down, I hope you didn't. Uh sit 'em down and say, now I want to tell you how to lie. Let me teach you how to lie. You don't know how to do this yet, but I'm going to teach you. No, they're born with it. They're born with an innate ability to sin. You think about that little baby that you change its diaper. Fill its belly, wrap it up in a warm blanket, put it in the bed, and it starts squalling like it's dying. You know what it's doing? It's lying. Now I know there'll be some sweet mama, it's happened over the years many a time, get upset and say, how dare you say my little baby can lie I'll tell you why, because their mom and daddy lie. They got a sin nature. Well, I'll tell you I was thinking about Sarah and her little one and I I was thinking when she was little and she was one of these that that you know your first one you don't know what to do. You think every whimper you grab them And you pick them up and you hold them, and she learned early on. All she had to do was make a noise and somebody'd carry her. It's the mercy of God to think the little thing walks today because we carried her the first three years of her life. And many night I walked up and down that hallway of that little twelve by fifty mobile home carrying her and and she she loved the song Revive Us Again. I don't know why But I could sing Revivis again and rock her back and forth, and that would put her to sleep. But, you know, there were many times She had a fresh diaper, her little belly was full of milk. There was absolutely nothing wrong. And the minute you laid her in the crib Her eyes would pop. She's like one of them baby dolls. You remember them baby dolls we used to have? You'd lay down its eyes and close and you set it up that open. Hers were opposite. When you laid her down, her eyes would open. And then she would squall, I mean it was the most horrifying thing like Like she was dying, you know, and young parents think, Oh no, something must be horribly wrong. You pick 'em up and you carry and you know what we learned after a while that she had trained us, we didn't train her. She had a sin nature. We sin because we're sinners. We have a nature of sin. Manasseh did that which was evil because he had an evil nature. And then I see the content, notice what it says, like unto the abominations of the heathen. This is a sad thing He did what the people before him did that got in trouble with God because of what they did and were thrown out of the land. That's what he did. And if you go back and study the Canaanites and all of the ites that lived in that land, they were a very vile people. God said the land vomited them out. In other words, they were so evil that that the land, even the land itself, was sick of the activity, sick of their sin. And because of that, they were vomited out of the land. And what I'm trying to say is that this is the summary of the man Manasseh. Then God gets into the specifics. Let's look at a few, verse 3. He built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down. He was a rebel. You see, his dad led reform, his dad led revival, his dad led the nation back to God, and you know what he did the minute he had control? He did the opposite of what his father did. He was a rebel. It seems to be in vogue to be a rebel today against all that's good and right. And I've got news for you, it's still wrong. It's sin. And here he is rebelling. His father had pulled down them high places. It was where they worship false gods. And he comes back and he starts putting them all back together. But then it says that he reared up alders for Balaam. And he made groves in worship. Look at this: all the host of heaven and served them. Also he built altars in the house of the Lord, whereof the Lord had said, In Jerusalem shall my name be forever, and he built altars for all the hosts of heaven in the two courts of the house of the Lord. See, he wasn't content worshiping these idols and these false gods outside of the house of God. He brought it in And so now he's built these altars in the house of God. You talk about uh blasphemy, you talk about uh thumbing your nose in the face of God. Here is a man that said, I'm going to worship my false gods and I'm going to do it on the altars and build altars around where we worship the true God. That's his religion. He had religion. He was religious. Verse 6, he caused his children to pass through the fire in the valley of the son of Henam. Also he observed times and used enchantments and used witchcraft and dealt with famili with a familiar spirit and with wizards. He wrought much evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger. I want you to notice his religion was devilish in nature. You'll notice that it identified a familiar spirit, not familiar spirits, but he dealt with a familiar spirit. He had interaction with some demon of some sort. Don't listen, beloved. Don't try to tell me that the powers of darkness aren't real. They're very real. The devil is real and demons are real, and here is a man who was doing business with them and he was worshiping before them. He had given himself over to these dark powers. And then he wholesale rejected the Lord. In verse seven, he set a carved image, uh, the idol which he had made in the house of God of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house and in Jerusalem which I have chosen before all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name forever. Do you know what that idol said? That idol said, God, you're not my God, this is Dr. Etchin talked about some idols this morning, and the truth of the matter is you can make an idol of anything. Anything that takes the place of God can be your idol. So here is a man, kid I I I I hope you get the the s the seriousness of what this man did Manasseh is now leading the nation of Israel. He's set up in Jerusalem. He's become a very wicked man. He's a very wicked man. And he's got this religion of rejection of the true God, and he's worshiping everything he can see, and he's bowing before this one particular idol. Then notice this statement in verse 9 and 10. So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to heir. And to do worse than the heathen whom the Lord had destroyed before the children of Israel. And the Lord spake to Manasseh and to his people, but they would not hearken. Do you see what his leadership did? His leadership caused the whole nation to err. That's what he did. By the way, leaders are accountable. Here's a leader, Manasseh. He's leading the nation of Israel away from God rather than leading them to God. The length that he went to, he did worse. Now, by the way, the Bible never exaggerates. We ought to get that settled in our heart. Ever listen, we all know something about exaggeration, right? Ask the fisherman Or the hunter, you know? Exaggeration. Somebody said ask the evangelist with the two hundred thousand that trusted Jesus Huh? Talking about exaggerations. But when God speaks, God never exaggerates. And he said Manasseh did worse than. I'm going to tell you something. I've studied a little bit about the Canaanites and those people of the land, and it's hard for me to understand how he could do worse than But he did. He did worse than the people before him. Verse number ten, it says, The Lord spoke and he wouldn't listen. And you know, I was reading over in Jeremiah and I realized something in Jeremiah 15, 4. God pronounced a sentence. On his people, because of Manasseh. And Jeremiah called him by name. He said, Because of the sins of Manasseh, I'll destroy these people. God said, I'm going to do something to this whole nation because of one man. You stop and think about the sobriety of that. This man Manasseh, Jeremiah 15, 4, God said, I'm going to destroy them. And by the way, some a hundred years later, God did that very thing. Now listen, God's promises don't happen immediately, but they happen. They may not be uh uh instantaneous, but they're sure. Because if God says he's going to do something, he does it. And he said, I'm going to destroy this people, I'm going to scatter them into the four corners of the earth. And he did that very thing. In 586 B. C. God kept his promise, and listen, it was Manasseh's fault. That's what he said, because of Manasseh and his sin. That's a pretty sad picture. But you know something? We serve a God who can take a tragedy and work a victory. Because I believe starting in verse number twelve, reading down to verse number sixteen, we see the salvation of Manasseh. I believe Manasseh got saved. You say, how do you believe that? Why do you believe that? Well, let's start by looking at in verse eleven, the Bible says, Wherefore the Lord brought upon them the captains of the host of the king of Assyria Which took Manasseh among the thorns and bound him with feathers and carried him to Babylon. God had raised up an enemy against Manasseh and said, now, Manasseh, because you've done this, I'm going to orchestrate the circumstances so that you're now a prisoner of war. And they carried him bound with thorns. By the way, he didn't ride in a Cadillac. He went under much duress. Buddy, they were hard on him. I don't know all that they did to him, but but I'm telling you he was he was uh public enemy number one and bound with thorns, he was probably beaten and he was taken with f fierce uh uh you know uh power and and and probably abused and yet all of these you say what were these circumstances for? God was getting his attention. Verse 12 says, and when he was in affliction, he besought the Lord his God. Let me say to you, do not quickly discount The cry of someone in misery. You know sometimes people say, well, they just got jailhouse religion. You know what that means? That means when they got in trouble, they called on God. I've got news for you. There's a lot of people get in trouble and call on God. God hears them and they get right. It does happen. And it did happen here with Manasseh. He in his affliction, God ordered these circumstances and said, Manasseh, I want your attention. You won't listen to me You have defied me. You've gone against me. But I've ordered some things for you, buddy. And if you'll listen, I've got something to say. And God spoke to him. And he began to seek the Lord. He began to seek the Lord. Those circumstances led to a change. He sought God. Notice He didn't go talk to that familiar spirit. Why? Because the familiar spirit ain't going to help you in time like this. He didn't go and look for that idol. He didn't go say, somebody bring me my idol. Down here to Babylon. He sought the Lord. I love this. He sought the Lord, it says, his God. Verse number 13 it says, He prayed unto him, and he was entreated of him and heard his supplication. Here's a man calling on God. I'm glad to tell you this morning that when you call on God, you might call on an idol, you might call on the stars, you might call on the heavens, but when you call on God, there's a God who hears and answers prayer. And he called on him, and God heard him. And I like this. That statement in verse 13 is what makes me believe he was saved. Verse 13, the last sentence, then Manasseh knew That the Lord He was God. He got it, didn't he? It might have took a lot for him to get it, but he got it. And the point is that he knew this is God. He is the true God. And he bowed the knee of submission. He called upon him for salvation, and he got born again. I believe Manasseh saved. You know, when we get to heaven, there's going to be some surprises. I believe it was Mr. Spurgeon who made the statement. He said, number one, you're going to be surprised who ain't there. You're going to be surprised who is there. And he said, the greatest wonder of all is that I'm going to be there. But the truth of the matter is that here's a man who was saved. Manasseh got saved. He's like Nebuchadnezzar of old. I believe Nebuchadnezzar got saved. Here are men that found out there is a God in heaven. And they had a personal encounter. You say, how do you know he was saved? Well, look in verse 15 and 16. God let him go on and live and do some things that proved he was. Verse 15 says he took away the strange gods. Now God in mercy let him go back to the throne in Jerusalem. Let him go back and lead. And when he got back, he took all the strange gods away. He took the idol out of the house of the Lord, and all the altars he had built in the mount of the house of the Lord, and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city. You talk about a renovation project. All that garbage he had been building up, he said, tear it down. Think about those men who got the orders. Hey fellas, it's time to pull out. You mean, but we just build it. I don't care if you just build it. We're taking it out. We're going to tear it down because it's not right. It's not true. We're going to tear all that out and and we're going to to clean up the house of God. Verse 16, he repaired the altar of the Lord. And look at this: sacrifice thereon peace offerings and thank offerings, and commanded Judah to serve the Lord God of Israel. You know his choices reveal the condition of his heart. Now I want you to know something this morning. Your choices tell more about you. than they say about anything else. What I choose and what you choose, what we uh the choices that we make. People say, Oh, I love the Lord. Well if you don't ever live for the Lord, your choices are saying something different. Oh, oh, the Lord's so important to me. Well, how important is he? Is he important enough to be obedient to him and gather in his house on the Lord's day, read his word and pray? See, we've got such a weird form of Christianity today that there's a disconnect between what we believe and how we behave But my Bible still tells me that if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. And so what I believe is going to alter how I behave, so that my choices are going to show I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. Listen to me, please. There's a whole lot of people prayed prayers, signed cards, jumped in the baptismal pool, and they're no more saved than my shoelace. And I don't even have a shoelace this morning. But the truth of the matter is they've never been born again. And you say, how can you say that? Their choices, their lifestyle, the direction they're going. They're making choices that say, God don't matter to me. Christ doesn't, he's not important to me. The Bible's not important to me The house of God's not important to me. Fellowship with God's not important to me. Worship is not important to me. Then, beloved, you need to be born again. If those things aren't important. See our choices, if Manasseh had cried out and said, God had mercy and then went right back and did everything he had been doing before, we could very soundly say He was just faking. I don't want you to think I'm being judgmental this morning. I'm trying to be faithful to Scripture. And the scripture makes it clear that it is by our fruit you know them. By the fruit of our lives, what we produce in our lives. You know, I was preaching at a little church here two weeks ago, and they had a maple tree that was hanging up over the church house And uh pressing up against the window, cr the great big windows on this side, and every window just was full of maple leaves. And I said to them, I said, wouldn't it be foolish for me to go out there and expect to pick an apple off a maple tree? You're not going to find apples on a maple tree. If you're not familiar with that sort of thing, let me say it again, you're not going to find apples on a maple tree. Now you might tap it and get sap and make maple syrup and get something out of it, but you're not going to get apples off a maple tree. It don't produce it. It can't produce it. The reality is it's a maple tree. And it's going to do what maple trees do. Because that's what its nature is. Now, if it was an apple tree, you could go out there and full well expect to pick an apple, because it will produce after its kind. And if a person is born again, if they're saved by the grace of God, surely you're going to see something in them that would point to Jesus Christ and his work in their heart. There will be some measure of fruit. Now, it may be small, it may be little, it may be sparse. It's not always, look, you don't go out in the middle of December and pick apples. Unless it's a sheep nose, and you can pick them things right up into February, because they'll hang up there, but they don't make in February or January or December. They form their fruit way back in uh the summer, the warm months, and up into the fall. And so you don't, there's not that continual fruit, but here's what I'm trying to say: there will be evidence of new life in Jesus Christ. There will be evidence. Now, folks, we have reduced, and this troubles me greatly, we have reduced Christianity to a mere mental acknowledgement of all the truths that we hold dear. or at least a portion of the truth that we hold dear, and we say things like, and I heard people do it. I heard them do it this week and it just drove me up the wall. I wanted to scream, stop it, stop it, you're damning them to hell Do you you don't want to go to hell, do you? Oh no, no, no. I mean who wants to go to hell? My precious wife said as hot as it is in Cecil County, who in the world want to live in hell? It's bad enough living here Can you imagine? Oh, you don't want to go to hell, no. You know Jesus died. Well, you know, most people have got sense and heard The reality that Jesus died? He died for sin? Yeah, uh and he died for your sin. Okay. Well why don't you take him to be your Savior? Okay, I guess I will And so you say these little words after me, and what happens is we make a magic potion out of something that ought to be a life-changing power. And we pray a little prayer. And we go our merry way, unaware that we're sinners, unaware that we've offended a holy God. Unaware that the convicting work of the Holy Ghost has not been done, unaware that conversion is not made by the pronouncement of lips, but by belief in the heart as a work of Almighty God. Sadly, we go on our way and we say, Well, I I guess I'm a Christian, they tell me. And by the way, if you've got to convince somebody again and again and again and again And you've got, listen, assurance don't come from me. And it won't come from you. It comes from him. The Spirit bears witness with our Spirit. And he takes the word of God and says, now you are my child. Yet we've made Christianity such a thing that we run around trying to assure people. Now see, I'm this is why I know you're saved. This is why my children, my children as they were growing up, uh would battle like you battle And say, I don't know if I'm saved. And God being my helper, I tried very carefully never to give them assurance I'd tell them what the Bible said. I'd open the scriptures and pray with them. I'd weep with them. I'd say, look, this is what the scriptures say, but it is not my job to make them sure. It's the work of the blessed Holy Ghost of God. And listen, we we we try to convince well you know something, you're smiling because you're saved. Rubbish. Smiling? They may be smiling because they're nervous. Anybody grin when they get nervous? They might just be smiling because they don't know what else to do. They don't want to be a fool and stand there and look mad. I mean, come on. To be able to say things like that is the absolute absurdity of all things because we have a Bible that tells us something so much more important. And beloved, I'm telling you, we're not dealing with selling used cars. We're preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ that changes lives. And we're dealing with souls that'll live forever in heaven or hell. And to get it wrong is to get it wrong and to damn a soul for all eternity We better stop playing games with this foolish neo-evangelicalism that just simply says, oh, believe on Jesus and all be well. We better get back to an old-fashioned word of God and say, You must be born again. You repent or you'll perish. Friend, if you don't let God work in your heart and change your life, you'll never see God's good heaven We've got to be truthful with men. And here we see a man named Manasseh, and God got a hold of him and saved him. His choices belie the fact. His choices reveal the reality. He didn't go back and be an idolater. All these people that supposedly profess salvation, I've often thought about this, because I believe our county has been an epicenter of this sort of silliness. And I believe if you went around this county and said, how many of you prayed the sinner's prayer? I believe you'd be hard-pressed to find people that have not. Yet they still live like a devil. We still got a problem with drugs and alcohol and murdering and fighting and all the foolishness that goes with that. You say, what's the problem? I'll tell you what's the problem. You must be born again. You've got to get a new heart if you're going to live a new life. You've got to be washed in the blood of Christ if you're going to be the new creature God can make you. Oh dear friend, hear me this morning. Here is a man that just didn't say God have mercy. Here is a man that when God had mercy on him went back and said, Now Lord, you had mercy on me. And I'm going to acknowledge the reality that you you've saved me and changed me, because I'm going to start taking down the idols. I'm going to start throwing out all this stuff. I remember as a little boy we had a revival meeting, and buddy, I think we had revival. And we had such a revival, people started bringing stuff and putting it on the altar at church. Stuff I'd never seen before I mean, they were bringing in all sorts of filthy things and throwing them on the altar. They were bringing uh rock music and throwing it on the altar. They brought in they brought in cigarettes and threw them on the altar. Chewing tobacco. A man has enough chewing tobacco to stock 15 grocery stores. Filthy magazines. All sorts of stuff. You know what we did? We had a great big bonfire on a Saturday night in the church house Preacher went out back. He said, I want you men to bring some metal barrels. And he said, We're going to light this stuff on fire. We're going to burn her up. And they burned her up. Now some of those dear people, some of those dear people still living for God today, they didn't go back to the stuff that God delivered them from. They got listen, we have made Christianity so weak and a and so uh mambi -pambi that we say you can go to heaven and carry all that garbage that's taken you to hell with you. That we somehow or another made Christianity compatible with the things of this world. My Bible says that the friend of the world is at enmity with God. That there's still a difference when Jesus Christ comes in. Now, beloved, listen, if someone as big as God moves in your house, it will make a difference. I'm sure my mother-in-law's listening this morning. And I'll tell you what, if she came to live with me, it would change things in our house. Now she's welcome. Sh you hear that now. You're welcome. She's as welcome as she can be. But it won't be the same house. I tried to tell Sarah and Joe when that baby's born, it's gonna be different. Life will never ever be the same. It's going to change things. Why? Because somebody news there. You mean to tell me the God of heaven can move in your heart and move in your life and nothing be different? I'm telling you that's a lie of the devil. That's a lie from hell. That's damning souls. When Jesus moves in, he'll change everything. Boy, he'll do some house cleaning. Church, he'll do some house cleaning. Now look, he'll take you just like you are. That's the beauty of this thing. He'll take you, look, you come to him and say, Lord, I I'm just lost as I can be I'm broke and helpless and hopeless, and there's nothing I can do. I'm bound in sin. You know what he does? Good, I'll take you like that. But he won't leave you like that. He won't leave you in slavery to sin. He'll not leave you in that dying condition. He'll come to you with life. He'll come to you with new life. Oh, thank God for his mercy. Here is a man that found mercy. Now, ooh, my introduction is done. I'm going to say three things about mercy. Number one , the mercy of God is immeasurable. Lamentation 3 says, It's of the Lord's mercies we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. How do you wear out something that's new every morning? How do you exhaust something that that just refills every day? Think of that little widow with her barrel of meal and cruise of oil, and every time she went back, there was just enough yet. If she'd have had to do that a thousand years, that little cruise of oil and barrel of meal would have never run out. Why? Because it was coming from an inexhaustible place. Mercy comes from an inexhaustible place. God's mercies are new every morning. His mercies are immeasurable. I'm just saying this morning that the mercies of God are greater than all the waters of the earth. What is the trench? The Mariana Trench in the ocean that's the deepest portion. It's higher than Mount Ephraim's Fizz tall deep And perhaps there's portions of the ocean we yet to know the true depth of what they are, because we have no instrumentality to measure them. They're so deep. But the mercies of God exceed that. It goes beyond that. I'm just saying that God's mercy is immeasurable. Number two, God's mercy is available. It's available, at least for now. There's a window of opportunity to get the mercy of God. Now look, Manasseh could have sat down there in Babylon Burred up, mad at God, you brought me down here. I'll not talk to you. I'm upset with you. And he would have died and went to hell But he said, God, I'm in this mess because I did what I did. I'm a sinner. I'm evil. Have mercy on me. And here comes the Lord. Here comes the Lord. Could mercy come to Babylon? You better believe mercy will come to Babylon. Mercy will go anywhere. There's a sinner looking for it. God's mercy can come your way, but you've got a window of opportunity. You've got a window that's open, and it's not going to stay open very long. It's called life. It is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. Once your eyes close in death, the door of mercy is closed. Once the Lord Jesus comes back to this earth, the door of mercy is shut. There's going to be a time when mercy will be no more, but I'm glad to stand here at twelve something o'clock on Sunday morning, the last Sunday of July, and tell you mercy's available Mercy's available. Dear sinner friend, there's mercy for you. Dear lost one, there's mercy for you. Oh, listen, dear hypocrite, church pretender. Christian fake, there is mercy for you. You just cry out to him, Mercy is available. My favorite person in the Bible is the thief on the cross. And I look at that man every time I look at him. I can't help but it breaks my heart to think here he is, the last gasps of breath. Remember me? That's all he did. Andy, remember me? He didn't pray theologically deep. He didn't pray some some glorious prayer. He just said, Lord, remember me. My life is ebbing, time 's passing, I'm about to leave here. But God, will you remember me? Jesus said, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise. He found out mercies available. Oh, thank God there's still mercy available. And then let me just say this and I'll quit. The mercy of God's incredible. I'll tell you why it's incredible. There's nobody outside of its reach. Nobody. God 's mercy. Can go anywhere. You tell me if the mercy of God can reach a man like Manasseh. You tell me who it can't reach. Did worse than the heathen before him. God judged a whole nation on his account. A man who had a familiar spirit. He communicated with demons. He was a man so vile and evil and wicked the land wanted to vomit him. and the inhabitants out, and yet he cried out and found mercy? You tell me, there's not a sinner I can look at and say, I don't know if there's mercy for you. You know when God works in a man's heart, his first concern is, is there mercy? Is there mercy for me? They tell me in the great revivals of Wales, especially And portions of Scotland, that people would burst into the services and cry, Is there mercy for me? And the preacher's job really just reduced down to the fact they just had to tell people, there's mercy for you. There's mercy for you. You know why they wanted mercy? They understood the awesomeness of their sin, the greatness of the gravity of being a sinner. See, we like to leave that part out because it's uncomfortable. Nobody likes to be told we're a sinner. Nobody likes to face the reality that without Christ we're headed for hell. No one likes to face the reality that if I die outside of Christ, there's no hope for me in eternity. That's an uncomfortable thing, but it's a reality, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We all have broken the law of God. We all stand judged by the law of God. We all stand condemned unless we find mercy. And I'm telling you that on the cross Jesus opened a floodgate of mercy. When he died and shed his blood and paid your sin debt, he opened a great big door and said, Mercy's available, mercy's available, whosoever will may come. There's mercy available for you this morning. Oh dear friend, there's mercy. You say, preacher, but my life is such shambles. I've done so many wicked things. There's mercy for you. Look at old Manasseh, God showed him mercy. And if you'll get honest with God, he'll get honest with you. And he'll show you mercy if you'll cry out. I thought again as we rode through a community up there last week. I thought of a young man who stood and said in our face, Hey, I want everything I got coming to me from God. He said it in defiance. He said it with an arrogance. The sad thing is he didn't even know what he was saying. I don't want what I got coming to me. I don't want God to give me what I deserve. I plead mercy. I look to the cross and cry, Lord, cover me in the blood. Have mercy on me, Lord, and I'm grateful there's a God in heaven who extends mercy to sinners. The mercy of God is incredible. You might be sitting here or listening to the broadcast and say, Preacher, I've tried religion, it didn't work. I've tried to straighten up my can't. I've done all the things I've been told to do. Can I say to you today, try mercy? Look for mercy. Cry out to the Lord Jesus. The Bible still says that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Cry out to him. You know what you'll find? You'll find there's enough mercy for you to get in. There's enough mercy for your sin to be washed away. There's enough mercy. For all the past to be just made past. Oh people may not forget, and and there may be problems on the account of it, but thank God as far as you and the Lord's concern, the record is clear. The old account can be settled. Cry out for mercy Our greatest need is the mercy of God. And it's God's most vast provision. New every morning. Need mercy? Lost friend? You can have it. In Jesus. Dear Christian, you and I need mercy. You ever look at yourself and say, Oh God You look in that mirror? My daddy used to call here before he went to heaven and he'd say, Son, I walked by the mirror and it scared me to death. He said, I didn't know who that old bird was looking at me. And I'd laugh, I'd say, old daddy. He said, I'm telling you. He said, what I look like and what I feel like ain't the same. I get up this morning, I look in this book, and I had to say, Oh God. That ain't what I am, but it's what I want to be. Show me mercy I look in that mirror and I see things that say, oh God, that needs to change. He said, sure it does. You know what I need? I need mercy. You need mercy this morning. I'm here to tell you it's available. It is immeasurable. And hallelujah. It's incredible. The mercy of God. And don't lose heart. Say, preacher, I love somebody a whole lot. Man, they're going the other way real fast. And their life is such a horror story. Well, can I encourage you? There's still a God in heaven who can orchestrate the circumstances of life. That they like Manasseh might say, Lord help me? Lord have mercy on me. I'm saying there's no one too far that God's mercy can't go get them and save them by his grace. Thank God for his mercy. As we stand with our heads bowed and eyes closed, Brother Dow, you come with our hymn, our piano.