I want you to take your Bibles, please, and turn with me to Revelation chapter nine. Revelation chapter nine. And we've covered the first eleven verses already. We're going to start here beginning in verse number 12 and read to the end of the chapter. We will review some things here in just a moment, but Revelation chapter number 9, beginning in verse number 12. Notice the Bible says that one woe is past, and behold, there come two woes more hereafter. And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar, which is before God, saying to the sixth angel, which had the trumpet. Loose the four angels, which are bound in the great river Euphrates. And the four angels were loosed. Which were prepared for an hour and a day and a month and a year for to slay the third part of men. And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred thousand thousand. And I heard the number of them. And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on them, having breastplates of fire and of jasinth and brimstone. And the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions, and out of their mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone. By these three was the third part of men killed by the fire and by the smoke and by the brimstone. which issued out of their mouths. For their power is in their mouth and in their tails. For their tails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with them they do hurt. And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands. That they should not worship devils and idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and of wood, which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk. Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts. We'll stop reading there, and I remind you that we are coming to the latter days of the tribulation. I think that this setting is somewhere in those last times of the seven and a half years, last part. We've been looking at these trumpet judgments and Remember, just like the previous judgments that came, they're divided in a series of four and three. We've already looked at the first four trumpets, and trumpet one to four describe the war that was taking place on earth. But now we're into the woe trumpets. If we could call those first four trumpets war trumpets, these last three are called the wo the the woe trumpets. And remember, when you read the word woe in the Revelation, it always is in association with satanic activity. It's as if the Lord is warning us that when you hear that word woe, be looking for the devil, because he's going to be up to something. And so this woe trumpet, we've come now to the sixth trumpet. It is the second woe trumpet. A lot of numbers there. Lord help us keep it all straight. But if you remember the last woe that we looked at, which was the first woe, the fifth trumpet, the first woe. Was the satanic beasts. Remember those creatures that just are horrifying to even think about But tonight I want to look not at the satanic beasts, but at the satanic battle. Because there is a battle that is to come. I believe this to be literal. Um I've in reading what men have to say, and I think it's uh wise to see what those that have studied God's Word have to say There have been all sorts of interpretations of this these four angels and this vast army. Uh certain writers believe that it was it represented the Ottoman Empire, that it represented the uh uh Turkish powers that overswept the land and that this is an already fulfilled portion. But uh if I understand the revelation, we're reading of things that are to come. Not things that have been. These are things that are before us, not things that are behind us. And so these are things yet to come. And then we also believe that if you can literally interpret something and it makes sense, then there is no need to seek any other sense. And I believe a literal interpretation of this passage is the most appropriate interpretation whereby we see that there is a satanic battle that is going to come. Something like we've never seen before on the earth, something like we've never even imagined could take place, that is somewhere in the future during the tribulation period. near the ending of the tribulation period as this judgment progresses, these trumpet judgments progress. So may the Lord help us to understand this as we study. I want to look at several things here in the text tonight, but let's pray and then we'll begin. Father, we come again in Jesus' name, very conscious of our need. Oh Lord, we have opened a portion of Scripture, as is all Scripture. We need your understanding. But we're especially in a portion of Scripture, Lord, that we need help. Just to fathom what you're communicating to us. Lord, I know you've put this here for my spiritual good. It's not here for my curiosity. It's not here to just sort of make me have fanciful imagination. It's here to help me grow and warn me and guide me. And I pray, Lord, you'd do that tonight as we study. Would you open our hearts to the Word of God? Would you help us to be tender to your kind dealings? And Lord, have your way. Lord, again in mercy. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to lift up Jesus. And may your will be done in this meeting. We'll give you the glory, for we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. As we begin to look over these woes, I remind you of what is said here in verse 12: one woe is past. And behold, there come two woes more hereafter. It's as if the word of God saying, you think those are bad. There's two more coming. And they're going to be incredibly worse. I want you to think with me tonight about this sixth trumpet, this second woe. And I want you to consider what is going to take place. Now, this is something that's going to happen somewhere in the distant future. When we do not know. But yet that day is coming. I want you to notice with me, number one, the altar. Do you see the altar in verse number 13? And the sixth angel sounded. And I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar, which is before God. I want you to see that. This voice comes from the altar. Now, if we had time this evening, we would go back and look at all the references to the altar. This is that golden altar referenced all the way back in Exodus chapter number 8. And in Exodus chapter number 8, that golden altar that's set just outside of the Holy of Holies. Was a place that represented the communicating of God or the intercession of the Lord. And what we have here is not an intercessory, but an indictment. There is a voice that speaks from the altar. And I believe if you study this out as far as the gold and the four horns, That the voice that is speaking here is the voice of the Lord Jesus. It's his voice that says, loose the angels. In this altar, we see a place of authority. Now picture this with me if you would. On earth, there is chaos. On this earth, it looks like man is running wild, the devil's having heyday. It looks like there's no restraint, there's no rebuke, there's no resisting. And it's pretty much true to some degree because the Holy Spirit's not here. There's no one standing in the way holding back evil. Do you realize how bad it's going to get when there's no one to hold back evil? We're currently living in a day that seems pretty bad, but I remind you the Holy Ghost is still here. And the restraining power of God is still at work. And he's still holding at bay the powers of darkness to a degree. But when he's gone, all of that will be removed. What a day that's going to be on this earth. But this altar is a place of authority. While it appears that chaos reigns on earth, I want you to see this. It is Christ who's giving commandments from heaven. He's still in charge. He's still the one who's calling, he says, loose the angels. By the way, they are under the instruction and orders of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we see that altar. Please don't forget that. And I've noticed as we've studied through Revelation that almost every chapter Has a reference to the authority of God over the affairs of men during the times of judgment. That in other words, that God's just He's still in charge. He's still in control. He's the one running things. Oh yes, the devil is being allowed to do some things, but being allowed to do some things and being cut loose are two different things. He's still under the instructions and orders of the Lord Jesus Christ and doing as he's bid to do. So I don't know about you, but that brings a great deal of comfort to my old heart. It reminds me that my father still is on the throne. And he's still in control no matter what the devil's doing in this world, no matter what the powers of darkness are accomplishing. I was telling you on Wednesday night about the um the the challenges the uh churches up north had faced during COVID. Just this week, just this week, uh a young man who was trying to uh have worship services in different places across Canada. Simply because of his political persuasion, which he was not speaking of across the border, but because he had in the past on social media. Was had his visitor visa pulled, was given instructions to leave the country immediately Was surrounded by a group of officers who escorted him and all those with him out of the country, and he was told that you are not welcome to come back again. Sounds a lot like communism to me. If you don't go along with our politics, you're not going to be able to participate in our society. You say, what are you saying? I'm saying it looks like boy the devil's having a heyday. It looks like the devil's just getting to do about anything he wants to do. And God's children are just sort of hunkered down. But again, I want to remind you, look into the Word of God, see that altar, and hear the voice of Jesus Christ say, Loose those four angels. He 's still the Lord of heaven and he's still the Lord of earth. Thank God for that. So I want you to see the altar. Then I want you to see the angels tonight. In verse number 14 it says, saying to the sixth angel, which had the trumpet, loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates. And the four angels were loosed, and which were prepared for an hour, a day, a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men. I want you to see something about these angels. I want you to notice that these angels are currently in this text, and I believe currently in this day, those angels are leashed. The Bible says they they had to be loosed, so to be loose that means they're leashed. In other words, they're bound. They're not able to roam free. They're not allowed to do as they please. They're bound. I'm glad there's a God in heaven who's still binding the powers of darkness as he sees fit. And there are some things that are just not loose yet on the earth. And here they're leashed. But then I want you to notice there comes a time that they're loosed. In other words, they're set free. People need to understand something tonight that much of what we see is a result of what we can't see. We like to blame it on different things. We like to say, well, it's because, you know, the environment or it's because of the culture, it's because of the No, it may just be because of something the devil's up to. There are powers that be, there are powers that are at work in this old dark world. And I believe that a great deal of the darkness morally and spiritually that we see sweeping across the land is because of things we cannot see. It's because of the power of the devil that is at work. The Bible says in 2 Timothy 3 that evil men will wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. So, in other words, there's going to be a continual deepening of deception. And by the way, where does deception come from? It comes from the devil. He's the deceiver. Have you ever just looked at folks and said I mean can you not see that? You feel like just saying, you know, give your head a shake and do you not realize this is this is this is wrong or do you not realize what's going on? Well, you know the truth is they don't. Because the God of this world has blinded their minds. And they can't see. They 're in a state of deception. And so here's what we see, those four angels being loosed, and when they are loosed. I'm glad for this. They're limited. In verse number 15, the Bible says they were prepared. Look at this. For an hour, a day, a month, a year. For to slay the third part of men. In other words, they had limited authority They had limited orders, the time period. They had a timeline, and God said, now this is the time. I'm loosing you now, and this is as long as you're loosed, and when it's over, your work's done. It's a limited time. And I'm glad that, like Job experienced, the Lord put limits. Said you can't go beyond that. Now you can touch his body, but you can't take his life. I do believe if the devil didn't have limits We would live in horror. But he's limited. And so they had that period of time. We see the the limit that is that is drawn here. Now, those angels are Followed by armies. And I want you to see this great army. In verse number 16, the Bible says, and the number of the army of the horsemen were 200,000,000. And I heard the number of them. And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on them, having breastplates of fire and of jacent and brimstone And the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions, and out of their mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone. I want you to notice what's pointed out here. Number one, these armies are vast. They're they're a huge host. And and and I don't believe they're a physical army, and I know some writers uh again have said this was the Ottoman Empire, this was those great horsemen uh, you know, who could shoot as well forward as they could backward and yet the problem with all of that is is that that's back yonder. We're talking about something that's out there, that's somewhere in the future. And I don't believe we're talking about a natural army. We're not talking about a group of men. We're talking about the powers of hell. We're talking about demons. We're talking about those that are prepared to do a destructive work on this earth among men. I think if anything modern culture has done, it has destroyed our realization in a world that we can't see. We've sanitized it, you know. We've cartooned the devil. We've made him look like a joke. We've created an idea that things that we can't see are not real or have some natural explanation. But the Bible is very clear that there is a world unseen. That the things that are visible are temporal, and the things that are invisible are eternal. Many cultures that live closer to this sort of thing than we do are much more keen on that. We have a a friend of ours who um had meals in our homes, our homes several times. And my son tells about an experience with him when he went and prayed with him over his toys. You remember that? He was a Navajo, an Abu man, an Abo preacher. And his people lived very close to the understanding of the spirit realm. And and that he had such a sensitivity to that that sort of thing and an understanding of that sort of thing. And some people I watch them and they would look at him and think, man, he's weird. He acts strange. He's different because he's so keen on that sort of thing. Well, he's keen on that sort of thing because it's very real. I do believe that we look at things in our society and we say that's a sickness when we ought to look at some things and say that's Satan. That's just the devil. Beloved, please hear me this this evening. If a if if a man is so confused As to not being aware what God made him, I remind you that confusion is the work of the devil. Simple. To have unnatural affections, vile, the Bible calls them, vile affections That's not the workings of nature. That's the workings of the devil. To watch the things that we see happen in our culture when people's lives can be snuffed out without one even regret Uh you know, of taking a life. That's the work of the devil. When men can live so contrary to the Word of God and be proud of living contrary to the Word of God We're not dealing in things natural. We're dealing with things that are more than just simply choices. We're dealing with things That are satanic in origin. They're the doings of the devil. They're his destructive handiwork in the lives of men and women, boys and girls, teenagers and young adults. Yeah. Simple put, it's his activity. If it smells like sulfur, it's got his sooty fingerprints on it. And boy, there's a whole lot of stuff got the stink of hell on it, and you can be resting assured tonight it comes straight from him. And so we see these armies, this great army, and not only are they vast, but they're vicious. Notice they have the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent. A buddy of ours was showing us a video. He likes all things weird in the animal world. And he said, You gotta see this snake. And I, you know, I really don't care to see no snake. And he said it's a video, but it's he said you'll not sleep good after you see it. And I'm like Well, why do you want to show me? I mean, what are you up to, knucklehead? But there's this this serpent in the western part. They just found it in the desert, and it has a tail that looks like a spider. And then of course his head looks like a uh like the blunt end of a stick. And so he lays in the sand and he wiggles his tail, and honest to goodness, it looks like a spider running around And when these lizards come to eat a spider, they get eat by the serpent. And he said I mean this you gotta know him to just know him. And he said, this unlocked a whole new level of fear for me. I'm like, well Yeah, appreciate you passing on the weirdness, man But I watched it, and I'll be honest with you, man. I I I actually dreamed about a snake that night. I had a high fever. That might have had something to do with it. But that was the last thing I watched, you know, and and and that I thought, what in the world? How vicious. But you know something? These things that that are going to come on the earth This is very real. This isn't sci-fi. This isn't this isn't even natural. And and these vast armies are vicious and then they're victorious because they kill Listen now, a third part of men. By the way, we're far enough now in the tribulation. There's a whole lot of people already been killed. We're talking about depopulation on a level we know nothing of. I want you to notice their attack in verse 18. The Bible says, by these three And again it tells you what these three was the third part of men killed by fire, by smoke, by brimstone, which issued out of their mouths. And verse 20 says, The rest of the men, or excuse me, verse 19, for their powers in the mouth and in their tails, for their tails were like unto serpents and had heads, and with them they do hurt death. Death comes as a result of this attack. Now think about it. A third part of the men, third part of the population, are killed. A third. Now we're somewhere a little over eight billion people on the planet right now. If a third of the population was killed right now, that'd be about two point seven billion. To put that in perspective, that would include North America, South America , Europe. Africa and Australia and still be a few million short. Let that soak in. That's a lot of people. Or in another illustration, it would be all of the country of China and India being wiped out. That's a lot of people. Every part of the earth is going to be touched by this judgment You remember there are four angels, and when you see the number four in the Revelation, it references north, south, east, and west, the totality of the impact. The four horns of the altar give the command. The four angels are loose from the river Euphrates. The vast armies are marshaled against the four corners of the earth, and north, south, east, and west. They decimate the population to a third. They destroy a third part of men. It's not going to be natural death that takes them. It's not going to be sickness that robs their lives. It's the fire and the smoke and the brimstone It's going to be satanic suffering, a satanic slaying, if you will, that's going to sweep the land. No one's going to be unaware of what's going on. Everybody knows. You know, today because we're so interconnected with um you know the internet. I saw some an interview um of old Bill Gates back in nineteen ninety five and he was talking about what the internet would do Now, you know, 1995 don't seem that long ago. And I forgot, you know, honestly, I forgot that before 1995 we didn't have the internet. I was just like You know, uh is anybody else that way? Like we've always had it. It feels like we've always had it. But before 1995, the emails and he was talking about all these things that we could do and and they were laughing at him. They thought, that's so funny That's so funny. We'll not be able to do all those things, and yet here we are. But we're so interconnected, something can happen in the darkest corner of the earth, and we can know it within minutes. We're aware of what's going on. We're made aware through news reports and what have you, and the information is readily and quickly available. And I'm saying that as we get into this part of the tribulation, there's going to be such a widespread impact of this death that everybody's going to know Something supernatural is going on here. There's something happening. Men are dying. A third part of the population is now gone. Now that brings me to the point of the message and to the last portion of the text, and I want you to see something alarming. It says in verse 20, and the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not. Is that not a tragedy? When they realize that a third part of the population's been killed, when they see the handiwork of the devil, they still did not repent. You know what that's called? Hardening hearts. They're hardening their hearts Can I say to you tonight, you need to be careful with your heart? You need to be cautious with the way that you respond to the dealings of God with you. Because listen to me, when you read what God did with Pharaoh, and I believe a lot of people twist that. You read that whole story, the whole account, and you begin to understand something. Pharaoh hardened his heart. First. And then God said, Alright, Pharaoh, here you go. If you want to hard your heart, you know what that's called? That's progressive judgment. As God began to deal with Pharaoh, Pharaoh hardened his heart and said, You know, regardless of what you do to me, I'm not going to break, I'm not going to bend. I'm not going to budge on this thing. And as he got further down the line, God just finally turned him over to the direction that he was already headed. You be careful about resisting God's dealing with your heart. You be careful about stiffening up your neck and and just getting used to it hey uh some men need to grow calluses on their hands but don't you dare grow them on your heart. You begin to grow those calluses on your heart, you're headed for a swift and sure judgment from the Lord. And here's a group of people can 't now listen to me. If we're sitting here tonight and reports begin to come around come in from around the world. A third part, two point seven billion people, are suddenly dead. Do you know what that ought to do? That ought to drive us to our knees, put tears in our eyes, and make us cry out, Oh God, would you not have mercy on us? They repented not. Notice what not only they did, it says they repented not of the works of their hands that they should not worship devils. Idols of gold, silver, brass, stone, and wood. Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor their thefts. I want you to see not only they hardened their hearts, but they got haughty at God. And they kept doing the thing that God made it clear. This is the reason judgment has come. They kept going down that road and they worshiped their idols and they worshiped their devils and they worship listen they continued to worship the works of their hands Folks, the people of the last days are going to be religious to the hilt. And they'll have enough Jesus in it to make it palatable. Because truth is the only thing that's really palatable, tasteable. That's savory. But there'll be just enough. They say, now I don't know who says this, and I or don't know how they determine this, but apparently rat poison tastes good to rats. Or else they wouldn't eat it. And so they eat it and they and it tastes good and it tastes like something that's beneficial, but ultimately it brings death. And so what we see in the Word of God is that we see the men of the last days, the people of the last days, they're going to worship. They're going to worship idols. They're going to worship devils. They're going to be spiritual, if you let me use that word in nature. They're going to have some sort of connection with the supernatural world. But it won't be God. And it will not be truth. And it will not be Jesus Christ. There's going to be such deception that men are going to bow down and bow at the very thing they created. Jeremiah says how foolish it is. to go out in the woods and cut a log and take that log and make an idol and bow down before it and then take the same wood from the same tree and light a fire and warm your body and cook your food. How silly it is, but yet that will be the depth of deception in the people of the last days. They're going to be haughty, they'll be filled with pride. Our ways the right way But then notice the activity that is mentioned here. There are four things that men are going to do, and I think all four of these are in the headlines. All four of these are in our news informations and all these things are going on today. Murder, sorceries, fornication, and theft. It says they repented not of their murders. Men are going to be so vile that taking life is going to be easy. Church, we're nearly there. I'll be honest with you, we're nearly there. It seems that men can kill men without any sort of hesitation or reservation whatsoever. That's the work of the devil. Their sorceries. Another word that is used in the New Testament is the word witchcraft. They're dealings with the devil. They're dealing with the devil himself. Have you noticed the increase of TV programming that is about the occult and contacting the dead and the spirit world? And and oh well they're just playing, it's just and and and maybe there are some that are playing, maybe some are just doing it for entertainment, but please listen to me. The devil likes to get wherever he can get And that and there is that very real world that people play with and they're fools to do it. They're fools to do it. And then I want you to notice their sexual impurity, the fornication, and I believe as it's used in Revelation as a broad term. And it speaks broadly in this sense that it's any kind of activity in that realm that is outside the confines of God and His Word. And he said they didn't repent of it. They went on doing it. They went on carrying out this activity. And they're, did you notice this? They're thefts. They're stealing? They're taking what don't belong to them? Do you realize that we have people who think it's their right to steal? Ask some of these people who work in retail and have dealings with that. And listen, there's people who walk in a store, fill up a cart, and go right out the door, just like you owe it to them, and get upset if you try to stop them. My dad managed to store the last few years of his life. I'm glad he finally had enough sense to get out of there. He it was in a rough part of our town, and he worked the graveyard shift, the overnight shift. And I think he only did it because he enjoyed tangling with some of these dudes. And they would steal all sorts of things and and he was telling about this one big fella that was had had filled his uh clothing with steaks out of the uh out of the meat aisle and and man he had steaks all over him and and dad stopped him out in the parking lot And that man said, Hey old man, what are you gonna do? And my dad wasn't a big man, but dad said, uh, I don't know what are you gonna do. And he pulled a knife on dad. And my dad just laughed. He said, what a fool. He said, you brought a knife to a gunfight. He said, you better put that thing up before you get hurt. Daddy always carried a little pistol in his pocket. And so that put an end to that thing. But that man was so upset he came back again and again trying to be up dad and trying to tear up his vehicle and do all sorts of things in retaliation because he stopped him from stealing. Thou shalt not steal as steal in the Word of God. Taking something that doesn't belong to you is still right, friend. The Bible tells us it's wrong to steal. It's wrong to take those things that are not yours to take. And so we live in a culture that's immersed in that. And it's going to come that men will not repent of that. What I see in this passage of Scripture is something very alarming that ought to help us and stir us and challenge us to say, Lord, have mercy on me. Man's heart is such a cauldron of evil that only grace can change it. Man cannot reform it, man cannot refine it. But he must be regenerated. Man's only hope is to get a new heart from God. Our only hope is to be born again from above. The only answer, my friend, tonight, as we look at the end times and we look at where we're going and we look at what lies ahead, the only way of escape is the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, dear friend, if you're leaning on church membership, you're going to walk into these days deceived as everybody else If you're leaning on your own professions, your own prayers, your own works, your own morals, your own goodness, my friend, you're not going to make it. The only way to look is to Jesus Christ. Just like Moses walked through the people and said, Look and live, look and live, look and live Listen, dear friend, the gospel this this evening is coming among us and we're saying, look and live. Look to the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the answer. He's the solution. He's what you need Friend, he's what men listen, the one thing that'll keep men out of this predicament is to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be born again from above. You'll not educate men into a right relationship with God. You'll not instruct men into a right relationship with God. A man must meet the Lord. You must meet him. There must be a head-on collision with the God of glory and the God of grace. We used to use in our churches terminology That has been hijacked today and changed. Terminology like what 's your salvation experience? Oh, we say, oh, we don't believe in experience. Well, hold on a minute. If you meet the Lord Jesus, it is an experience. You have a salvation experience. It's not just a mere educational or intellectual or even emotional. It is an experience when you meet the Lord Jesus Christ. And it may be hijacked and it may be changed, but the truth of the matter is, men still need to have an encounter with the Lord Jesus Christ. And that encounter will change everything. We read of the coming attack, this spiritual satanic battle. That's going to occur where a third of men will die. And may the Lord use his word to stir our hearts to say, prepare, for the Lord is coming. May we get a burden for people who are lost because what they need is Jesus. May we get a greater burden for people without God. May we see that the only answer is Him and may we get busy living our lives so that people will see Him and get busy speaking in our lives the gospel message so that people will hear him and may we get busy pointing others to him because that's the only hope for this late hour is the Lord Jesus Christ And friend, let us be cautioned tonight about our hearts and their condition. Don't harden your heart. Don't let the devil deceive you and make you stiff your neck and get stubborn against God for What a man is today, he's going to be even worse come tomorrow. There's coming a time, the Bible says, let him that is filthy be filthy still. You know what that says? That says the direction a man's going, there's going to come a day when it'll be set in stone. And that hard heart today may be like Pharaoh, who's drowned in the Red Sea under the judgment of God, because they hardened their heart, and God said, Okay, if that's the way you want it. There you go. You know the a prayer we ought to pray is God save us from ourself. Save us from ourself. Stand with me please. Father, help us just now. You know the need.