Let me ask all of our mothers to stand. If you're a mother, would you just stand please? Stan, we want to recognize you and honor you and thank God for you. Amen. And our young people, we got something here for you, just a little token of our appreciation. And uh not just for our mothers, but I want all of our ladies to get one of these. So uh you young people get a handful. And just go amongst the people and give them, give our ladies. And once you receive yours, mother, you can be seated. That'll help us. Make sure all of our ladies get one, please. Not just our mothers, but all of our ladies. Amen. Thank you so much. Once you receive yours, you can be seated. Thank you for being in the Lord's house today. Very good, that's efficient. Crew right there. Two and a half minutes, they were finished Very good. Very good. I apologize to the manly hash boys for having to carry those paint baskets, but That was my wife's choosing, those pink baskets. I do it for mothers. Amen. I want you to open your Bible, please, to Proverbs chapter number thirty-one Proverbs chapter number thirty one. Thank you, young people, for that song this morning and encouraging our hearts with that. Proverbs chapter number 31. And I want to read two verses here, verse 30 and verse 31. Proverbs 31, verses 30 and 31. And when you found your place, let's stand and honor the reading of God's Word together, please. The Bible says that favor is deceitful And beauty is vain. But a woman that feareth the Lord she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands. And let her own works praise her in the gates. I'm interested in that phrase, a woman that feareth the Lord. Let's look at that this morning. Let's pray together. Father, in Jesus' name, I pray that you'll take your word and work in our hearts and help us as only you can. I thank you, Lord, for the privilege today to honor each one of these dear mothers. Thank you, Lord, for that gift from heaven. Thank you, Lord, for your goodness to us. And Lord, help us today now as we preach your word to do so in a way that would please you first. And Lord, I pray that you'd help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. For it's in his mighty name I pray we ask these things, and God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I want you to again look at our phrase, and I pray the Lord will help settle this in our mind and heart And it's the phrase that a woman that feareth the Lord, a woman that feareth the Lord Now, this is the conclusion of the description of the virtuous woman. If you make notes in your Bible, you might want to highlight, beginning in verse number 10. All the way down to verse number 31, this is the Bible's description of a virtuous woman. It's actually a poem, if you read it in Hebrew. And when you read it in Hebrew, it's a beautiful poem and it it emphasizes uh the grandeur of the subject that we're talking about. But I'm grateful that even though uh you or I may not be able to read Hebrew, that God has preserved his word and we see it still on the pages of this precious book. We see here the Bible tells us about this woman who fears the Lord. I want to ask you a question: who is this woman? Who is the woman that fears the Lord? What are her attributes? A woman that fears God. You'll notice that she stands in stark contrast to all other women. And throughout the description here, she stands out head and shoulders, so to speak, above all the others. She's uh magnified, if you will. I want to give you four or five attributes of a woman that fears the Lord. You'll notice it's emphasized here that favor is deceitful. That means the applause. Uh the accolades of the world. Favor is deceitful. How many of you know that favor is very hollow and shallow and empty? There's really nothing to it. It's deceitful. Oh, it makes you think. It makes you think for a time that it's worth the effort. But favor is deceitful. And the Bible says beauty is vain. Beauty is vain. I was reading an old commentator, and uh some of those men cared not for um feelings when they wrote. And he made the statement that the most beautiful woman who ever lived, her corpse is no different than anybody else's. Beauty is vain. But and and you know you ought to pay attention when God puts a butt somewhere. Somebody said, when God butts in, it's for good reason. And God butts in, and he says this a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. What are the attributes of a woman that fears God? Can I give you these just quickly here this morning? Number one, a woman that fears God is a saved woman. By virtue of the very meaning of fear, the reverence, a reverential trust, by virtue of what it means to fear the Lord, she must trust the Lord. She's a saved woman. A woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Timothy had a saved mother. Paul the Apostle wrote under the pen of inspiration in 2 Timothy 1, verse 5, When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith, that means the unhypocritical. The real, the genuine faith, the unfame faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois , And thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also. You know what he he said He said, Timothy, you're a blessed young man because you've got a legacy of saved women, women who fear the Lord in your life. A woman that fears the Lord is a saved woman. Now, you'll notice here that it is a godly legacy that Timothy had simply because he had a saved grandmother. And a saved mother. Now, God doesn't have grandchildren. You don't get just brought in under the grandfather clause or grandmother clause. You've got to be personally born again. Everyone sitting here today, you are personally accountable. You can say this, that, and the other about why you're not, but at the end of the day, every one of us are personally. answerable to Almighty God. And regardless of whether your mother saved or your father saved or whoever, your grandmother, your grandfather, you must be born again. You have to take a trip to Calvary. You have to trust in the shed blood of the Lord Jesus. You must turn to Him and be saved, because, my friend, God doesn't birth grandchildren. He only births children. You must be born again. So this woman who fears God is a saved woman. I believe the Proverbs 31 woman is Bathsheba. Solomon's describing his mother. He's describing a woman who fears God. Now somebody's going to immediately say, but hold on a minute. I know something about Bathsheba. I know that Bathsheba did something very wrong. I know that Bathsheba committed adultery with David. I know that Bathsheba's got a stain on her name Now, friend, you may know that about Bathsheba, but at the end of the day, the stain on her name has been washed in the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And when Paul wrote about those Corinthian believers and he described the horrible backgrounds that they came from, he said, such were some of you, but you are washed. You are sanctified and justified and glorified. All of these things because of the Lord Jesus Christ. Friend, I've got news for you. The blood of Christ cleanses us from all sin. His blood has power to put sin away. And regardless, my friend, of what stain may be on your name, there is a blood that has been shed that puts all stains away. and all sin away. We sing that song around here. We sh probably should sing it more. What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Thank God. Listen, none of us are what we once were if we're saved. that yet none of us are what we're going to be one day if we're saved, because it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear we shall see him, and we shall be like him For we shall see him as he is. I'm talking about a woman that fears God. Our nation needs more women who fear God. We need more people. You know, and I I feel for people in our culture that are susceptible to the influence, and we all are to some degree, because it's so powerful. But we all, you know, we're all told what we ought to be. We're all told what mold we ought to fit in. There is a beautiful place in life that you reach where you don't want to and you don't care. Now sometimes that can go to seed on you, but the reality is that you don't you don't you're not worried about that, but yet there's pressure nonetheless. That you gotta be this and you gotta be that and you ought to be. And I don't dare want to heap upon you more of those things that you ought to be. But I'm gonna tell you, my friend, these are things of eternal significance. And the most important thing this morning is, is, dear lady, are you saved by the marvelous grace of God? A woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. A great value we see here in this is again that God is saying this. God has writing these words I want you to notice something else here in the text. Not only is a woman that fears God saved, but let me say it like this: a woman that fears God is significant. Look over in verse 10. The children quoted this verse. Proverbs 31:10 Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. Do you know what the Bible's saying there? She's rare. She's rare. And she's of real worth. Friend, you don't gravel your driveway with rubies. They're rare. To this day, and they're they're of great value. I mean, you wouldn't be so foolish as to do that. And Solomon is saying here that this this woman who fears God is significant. You know we live in a strange world, don't we? Good is evil and evil is good. Things are backwards and turned upside down. And if you listen to the culture, the culture says that a woman that fears God is insignificant. A woman that fears God is not very important. That's what the world says. That's what the world's song is. March to the beat of a different drummer. I want to walk and step with the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords And he says that a woman that fears the Lord is more rare than rubies. She's a virtuous woman, and her price is far above rubies. Her spiritual position has a wider and greater impact than all the rest. Her spiritual position And I know there's some, maybe, dear mother, feeling like you're not very important by the definition of the word in the terms of this hour. And there may be some who saying, well, you know, I I'm just I'm just, I was at a meeting one time, and I told a fellow, I said, I just pastor a little church, and man, he hauled me up short. He said, There are no little churches. I said, Well, you ain't been to mine. And he said, Well, I've got news for you. If it's a work of God, it is a great thing. Don't put the world's terms on God's things. And I want to say the same thing about a woman that fears God. Don't put the world's terms on God's things. A woman that fears God, the Bible says her price is far above rubies. She's significant in all of the ways that matters. Her impact is an impact of great importance. Many of you sitting here are the product of a praying mother. Maybe a praying grandmother. Her prayers may be of what have kept you out of hell. Her prayers went up on your behalf. Many occasions she pled your name before the Lord. And the Lord heard that cry. Many a time she she wet her pillow with her tears, saying, God save my son, God save my daughter. And like that that impert that that woman that just kept knocking in the New Testament, who kept going and kept going and kept going, and the judge said, I don't fear God and I don't fear man, but she's wearing me out And I'm gonna do something, so she'll leave me alone. And if that if an unjust judge will act like that, what will a holy pure God do? And I'm here to tell you there's a God in heaven who's acted on behalf of many a dear woman who feared the Lord, who prayed and said, God, please keep my son, and God please keep my daughter. Some of you think you're living by your own doing, but I'm telling you you're living on the prayers of somebody that loved you. You think you've made it in life because of what you've done. I've got news for you. There's somebody been in their prayer closet And the blessings of God have come down on you because of somebody who loved the Lord and sought him on your behalf Your very soul, my friend, has been pled for and prayed for. And you can say if you're saved, I'm saved by the grace of God and perhaps the good prayers of a godly mother or grandmother She's significant. Don't let the world make you think that godly mothers, mothers that fear the Lord, aren't needed. In fact, I'm telling you, this sad, crazy world we're in right now, you mamas better know how to get a hold of God for your children. You grandmothers, my friend, you need to know how to get a hold of God for your children. There's coming things in our world that that uh knowing all the ways, the street wisdom is not going to get them through. Knowing the ways of this world is not going to be enough. They're going to need the favor of a mighty God. They're going to need help from another world. There are going to be things, and all of us here of any age know that there are things come your way. When you know that a doctor can't help you, and you know when uh your family can't help you, and you know that there's no other help to be found but in the Lord. And you want to know somebody who can get a hold of God on your behalf, the woman that feareth the Lord, she's significant. In fact, I don't know that she's not the most significant. Most important. You think about how Paul described the church and he said it's a body. And he said the body has members that aren't very Attractive. There are things that you don't normally put a lot of stock in, but they're so necessary. You need them. Because you can't make it without them. I doubt this morning you got up this morning and said, I have got the best looking big toe on the cunt in the cut. But you whack that thing on the side of the bed. And then you hobble around like your legs broke. For how many days? Don't tell me it's not important. In fact, Paul said it's those things that we deem less important or less significant that are the most important. And the most significant. And this world looks at a woman that fears God and says, oh, she's behind the time. She needs to catch up. She's missing out. And I'm here to tell you she may be the very thing that's holding the judgment of God off of this whole land. She's in her prayer closet saying, God have mercy. My children aren't in, my grandchildren aren't in, and she's holding back the tight. She's significant, friend. Her price is far above rubies You dear women who love God and live for Him, you know how important. I want you to know how important you are before God. Oh, my friend, you don't understand your significance. God has given you a valued place In the family, in the assembly. It's a place of great significance because God says it, God's declared it. A woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Man, there's such power there in the influence God has entrusted you with. Let me quickly go to number three. I want you to notice that she strives and in a good way. In a good way. Look at verse number 29. Many daughters Have done virtuously. Watch this now, but thou excellest them all. She's not interested in mediocrity. Oh no. She's striving for excellence. And you know, in the matters of spirituality, this godly mother, this woman that feared the Lord, she strove for excellence and achieved it. She strove for to be excellent. She excelled them all. She rose head and shoulders above. And by the way I don't know where this idea of doing just enough to get by God in, but may God get rid of it. It rests in the heart of way too many people. I used to we used to call it when I was growing up, if you were like that at work, you were a clock milker. You're just milking the clock. You're just putting in your time. Drawing your breath and your sorry. Shame on us. Can I say I'm talking to Christians now. Just listen to me a minute. God 's people ought to strive for excellence in every realm of their life. We ought not just do enough to get by. Far too many go to work every day and they do just enough to keep the boss off their back. I've worked in a lot of situations on construction and farms and parts houses and selling things like that. And I've seen it again and again and again. Oh, here comes the boss. Let's look busy. And my friend, that mentality is is is killing us. Because it doesn't stop at work, it creeps into the home. And now you've got mediocre moms, wives, husbands, fathers. Well I'll do just enough to get by. I'll I'll I'll invest in my marriage just enough to keep it somewhat together. The Bible says she excelled them all. She wasn't content with being mediocre. And would to God that we would say again, Lord, not for my glory, but for your glory, I want to excel for the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to give my uh I believe it was D. L. Moody said, I want to give my humble human best filled with the Holy Spirit. That's what we ought to strive for. Our humble human best. Giving God our best. She excelled. She was striving. And in this matter of godliness, in this matter of fearing the Lord, oh mothers, be as spiritual as you possibly can be. Strive for excellence in the realm of spirituality. Many dear ladies, I'm going to tell you something. I preached in churches in many places, and it was the spirituality of the women in that assembly that kept it together. There wasn't a spiritual man in the place. Some places there wasn't a man in the place And that had any leadership or spirituality about them. Thank God for uh a woman who fears the Lord and walks with God and has some spirituality about her. Now we believe in the Bible's teaching, as far as roles are concerned, that God's ordained offices in the church that are to be occupied by spiritually qualified men. But that does not negate spirituality in the lives of the women who are part of this membership. Part of our assembly. God calls you to a place of excellence. And let me just say this this isn't just for women, this is for all of us. If you're saved, you ought to strive to excel them all. You ought to strive to be your very best for the Lord Jesus Christ. We ought to do our best. I'm talking about a local church that ought to just give its best, that ought to do its best. I can still see my old grandfather dressing for church on Sunday morning and his best. was not probably what you would deem best, but it was his best. It was the best he had. It was an old flannel shirt. It was not an old one. It was his new one that he only wore on Sunday. It was his porner brand overalls that he only wore on Sunday, and he wore the same the same long sleeve Flannel shirt, I don't care, August, July, it didn't matter. If it was 150 degrees, he had that long sleeve flannel shirt buttoned up to the neck. He only buttoned the neck of it on Sunday Didn't do it on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday rest of the week, but on Sunday he'd button that up. And I can still hear him say he'd wash his car on Saturday. An old Ford Falcon. And he'd wash that thing and shine it up, and he would always say, We gotta give our best. We gotta give our best. He'd shine his old boots and make them look good, and uh he would make the he he di he thought that and he believed and thank God he practiced that God deserves her best. And it's not just in an outward show But I'm talking about in a spiritual position, you and I need to strive to be our best for God. Why do we want to walk on the edge? Do you know what's over the edge? Why do we want to get so close? You know. I read the story of a wealthy man who had a mansion on a hill and he was looking for a carriage driver. And so he put out the word, and several applied, and one said, I'm going to show him how good a driver I am. And he rode just as close to the edge of that mountain road as he possibly could. He got done and thought he would get the job because of his skill, and the man said, Not interested in you. He said, What do you mean not interested in you? Did you see how close I got and how safely I got us here. He said, I'm not interested in how close to the side you can get. I'm interested in how far away from it you stay. My mother taught me to drive. My dad did not have the patience or the disposition. I would be in a law thicket somewhere dead if I was taught to drive by him. And I can still hear my mother pounding on the passenger side window. Don't get so close to the side. Side of the road, you know. And I thought, Mom, I didn't go over. And yet she just flipped out. Why are you I saw we didn't go off, yeah, but what if we do? You know And I I still hear that, and I I I remembered it when I taught one of my children to drive. I remembered those words, and that side looked so scary to me. In that seat. Didn't bother me over here, but it really bothers me right here. Get over. Get over. Well, you know what I believe God says to some of us? Get over. Get off the side. Don't try to drive so close to the edge, my friend. Strive for excellence. Strive to be your best for the Lord Jesus Christ. A woman that fears you know why she does that? Because she fears the Lord. She wants to please him. Let's look at the last thing here. Not only does the woman who fears the Lord, she's saved, she's significant, she strives. But the Bible says she shines. Notice what it says, she shall be praised. She'll be praised. Verse 28, her family praise her. Her children rise arise up and call her blessed. Her husband also, and he praiseth her. Hey, y if you're a mother of a little one, hold on. J just hold on. I know half the time that you may think that they dislike you greatly. But it's not your job to be their friend. It's your job to be their mother. And they need somebody every once in a while to get up in their face. And Mama, you can do it. I don't believe I'd be preaching today if my mother hadn't gotten my face. I believe that with all my heart. I was running from God and a rebel in my heart, bitter about things. And my mother said, You're going to youth camp this summer. And I said, No, I'm not. I'm 16 years old. You know how stupid you are when you're 16. If you're 16, I love you, but your brains will catch up. But I thought I knew everything. And I said, I'm not going. And I even asked the boss, I said, give me more hours so I don't have to go. And so he gave me more hours. And I'm there working at the farm, milking cows. I'm in the parlor, I'm in the milk parlor. The bus is leaving in about an hour and a half from the church, and they're going on a youth retreat. And I hear a car pull up, which is unusual. I'm in there, two other men in there working with me. And I look up, and much to my dismay, there stood my mother. She's at my work. She's in my business. And she walked in and she said to the man who owned the farm, he was milking there with me, his name was Doug. She said, Doug, I want a word with you outside. And went outside. I knew what was going on. I had intuition I guess. Doug came in, he said, You better get out of here And I said, Doug, I'm not going. I'm staying here to work. He said, No, you're not. You're getting out of here. He said, I don't want her mad at me. You may not be afraid of her, but I am, boy. Get out of here. And he sent me home. You know how embarrassing it is to be sixteen years old and the boss throw you off the farm, and them other guys are standing around, you know, there's his mama, you know, if it wasn't bad enough. Man, I was so mad. I couldn't tell you how angry I was. But you know something about three nights into that trip we had a service. In a parking lot in Kissimmee, Florida. And we'd pastor had rented this big what they called the super bus, them double jointed buses And he had parked it in such a way that it made a little amphitheater, and he preached to us. And you know what? God came in that place and broke my proud, stubborn, rebellious heart. And you know, the first thing I wanted to do, you couldn't call home, but I said, Preacher, can I call mom? I need to thank her. I left maddened. Fussing about having to do this. But God got a hold of me and changed my life. You know why? Because she didn't care how mad I was. I told her how mad I was She didn't care. I still see that smile. She just smiled. Because she knew I was going to have to do what she made me do. Some of you dear mothers, hold on. You'll shine one day. Your children will rise up and they'll thank the God of heaven that you got in their business and made them mad. They'll bless the Lord for it. But I believe there's more to this text. I believe it's more than her family. I believe it's more verse 31 says, The fruit of her hands. Give her of the fruit of her hands and let her own works praise her in the gates. I believe we're looking into the future. We're looking down the long road of time to a place in eternity where all who are saved will stand in the presence of God and they'll hear, they'll hear an accolade, a commendation, a word of praise from Him. The Bible says she shall be praised down the road. She shall be praised in the future day. What greater praise, mother, to hear, than to hear the Lord say, Well done. A woman that fears God. You know I think about that great woman. God called her a great woman. She didn't have a child. We studied her in Sunday school. She was a great woman without a child. You can be a great woman without a child so long as you fear the Lord. She served the Lord in that capacity as she built that chamber and provided, and all of that we talked about. But my point is this that a woman that fears the Lord, she shall be praised. There will come a day that reward will be handed out. There will come a day when recognition will be given, and it won't be the cheap applause. of a mindless world, and it will not be the accolades that pile up and mean nothing. It'll be the well done of the God of heaven with whom you'll spend all of eternity. What better than that? Oh my friend, what better than that could you ask? When it's all over. What he says about you and to you, what he What he says about you and to you is all that matters. A woman that feareth the Lord. Dear ladies, can I ask you this morning, do you fear God? Do you fear Him in a saving way? Have you been saved by God's grace? And that's not just a question for our ladies, that's a question for everybody present. Are you saved? The most important thing that you'll settle on this side of eternity is are you saved by God's grace? And if you can say you're saved, oh, you can say what many cannot say. And you can say it in such a way not to take any credit because you don't save yourself, Jesus does. You have to give them all the glory. Are you saved? Let me say this: you are significant. A woman that fears God, you are significant. You matter, and can I just say this? You're needed. You're needed. There's some young women growing up that they need to see. There's more to being a woman than what this godless world tells them. Need to see some holy women. Godly women. A woman that feareth the Lord. Are you striving? Are you striving to do your very best? Like this woman here who excelled them all. By the way, it's a wonder to me. That's what grace does. Because some would say Bathsheba's done. Her life's over. She messed up. Someone say, You believe in a second work of grace? I'm going to tell you something, I believe in millions works of grace. If grace didn't work but twice, I don't know what I'd do. Grace goes on and on and on and on in my life and works. Thank God for his ongoing grace. But are we striving? Are we striving? This is for all of us, men and women, are we striving for excellence? And one day One day you'll shine. God 's praise will be ringing in your ears. That well done. Every saved person, listen to me a moment, we ought to live for that goal, that purpose. To hear him say, Well done. Now, it may put you at odds at times with others, but what matters is his final assessment. His final assessment is what's important. The Bible says, a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. I want you to stand with me. We'll bow our heads. Brother Dow's going to come and lead in the invitation. And if you're here not saved, let me urge you to be saved. If you're here today, my friend, and you're not where you ought to be with God, get close to him, get right, whatever it is that's God in your life that's kept you from him. The Bible says if we confess our sin, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And dear brother, sister in the Lord, maybe God's pricked your heart about giving your best to Christ. He deserves it. He's worthy of it. He's the King of all kings. And he's the Lord of Lords. Anything associated with him, I want to give my best and do my best for him. May God help us and speak to us here this morning. Let's pray to