I'd like all of our mothers to please stand for just a moment. I want to read something in your honor if you'll just remain standing. So good to see each one of you in the Lord's house today, and we're thankful for you and praise God for you. I saw this this week and I thought it fitting for today. It says, Mother You were the first Jesus we ever saw. Your heart was tender, your words were the law, your hands were ever busy to make our lives the best. You were often the first to give up needed rest. When we were children, you encouraged and corrected. When we were teens, you molded and directed In your presence, life's lessons were taught. In your prayers, our soul's salvation was sought. We owe you our lives and much, much more. We honor you now and we praise the Lord. For a virtuous mother with value so great, nothing on earth can compare or replace. Your love and impact on us and many others, we know that we have the best mother of all mothers. Amen. Hope you feel that way, and so good to see each one of you here. I want to pray for you as you're standing, and then we'll open the Word of God together. Father, thank you this morning for the privilege to honor these dear mothers. How grateful we are for them. I pray today, Lord, that you would work in each heart as the need is required and you would strengthen them. Lord, I pray that you would encourage their hearts in a very special way and just be very real and near. And Father, for what you do, we'll be careful to give you all the glory and the honor. For Father, we need you. But we're so grateful you're an ever-present help. We love you and praise you now and pray in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said. Amen. Let's give our mothers a hand. Could we please? I think that's appropriate this morning. Thank you. You dear ladies can be seated. Appreciate you uh being with us today. I'd invite everyone to turn with me this morning to Proverbs 31. Proverbs 31. And let me read verse number 30 once again. Proverbs 31 and verse number 30. And once you find your place, I'm going to ask you to please join me as we honor the reading of God's Word. In Proverbs thirty-one and verse thirty, the Bible reads that favor is deceitful and beauty is vain. But a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. I want you to notice that statement. A woman who feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Father, please help us now as we open the book and speak to our hearts for your glory and for our good. And we'll thank you for all that you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. Thank you for standing. Don't you love how the Bible speaks with such brevity? Clarity and authority. We do well to hear what it has to say this morning. I believe the highlight of this text or the key to this text is that fearing the Lord, the fearing the Lord. He says again that favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. The Proverbs have a lot to say about fearing the Lord. In Proverbs 1:7, the Bible says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. It's where all knowledge begins, is in the fear of the Lord. In Proverbs 14:27, the fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death. Isn't that interesting? The fear of the Lord is the fountain of life. I've read where there's been expeditions in years gone by looking for the fountain of youth. And uh it's all failed, of course, but all you've got to do is open the Bible and you'll find where the fountain of life is anyway. The fear of the Lord is the fountain of life. In Proverbs 19:23, the Bible says, the fear of the Lord tendeth to life, and he that hath it shall abide satisfied. It tends to life. There's another one here in Proverbs 22. Let me read it in verse number 4. It says, by humility and the fear of the Lord are riches and honor and life. And then one more place in Proverbs 23, 17, the Bible says, Let not thine heart envy sinners, but be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long. So what is the fear of the Lord? I think sometimes we uh we put our own definition to it, but to understand it, we've got to see what the Bible has to say about it. The Bible says that this fear is a holy, humble, reverential all filled with affection and devotion to Him. You know, I think we learn the fear, or we should learn the fear of the Lord from our parents. We learn to fear that proper fear, that proper reverence. as we learn how to have the right relationship with them. We recognize who they are and what they are in our lives and and from that we learn something about the fear of the Lord. I'm very thankful for my godly mother. She's in heaven now and been for some time. But you know, I learned something about the fear of the Lord from her. I learned something about Fearing her. I'm not talking about cowering in a corner, but I did respect her. I was thinking this morning something sort of silly, but I was thinking years ago when I first started learning how to drive and You know, sometimes as a kid you get full of yourself, you know. I got my license now and I can drive, you know, think I'm something And so we were pulling out of the driveway, and uh mom said something, and you know, I'm full of myself, and they come something, and I said something to her, and the next thing I know, whamp And I looked over at her and boy she had gotten my attention. Real quick. She said, you may be able to drive, but you're not allowed to talk like that to your mother. Fear of the Lord. Fear of my mother. A reverence. The Bible tells us that the woman that fears the Lord, she shall be praised. You say, what's the Bible saying? The Bible saying God's putting this high up on the shelf He's saying that this is an important thing. It's something that that ought to be true of of all women, women who fear the Lord. God says, I'll praise them, and there are other things that will praise them, but the Lord's saying that's very important. That a woman know the fear of the Lord. I believe the fear of the Lord is so misunderstood today, especially in our culture, that it's it's really to the point that it's nearly rejected. It is a reverential awe of him. It's a recognition of the greatness of his person. He is the Lord. Uh he's seated in heaven above. He rules over all. I don't have the vocabulary, and we don't uh have the time here this morning to magnify the greatness of the God I'm talking about. He's not our vetty. He's not just some sort of cosmic energy in the sky. He is the Lord of Lords and the King of all kings And a woman that fears the Lord, she shall be praised. But coupled with that, that reverential awe is this affectionate devotion to Him. One of the old catechisms says that a reverence for God is characterized by respect, obedience, and a desire to please Him. That's the fear of the Lord. And again, the Bible says that's very important. Before I get to the message, let me remind you that he says other things in this text. He starts with this by saying favor is deceitful. See, the fear of the Lord helps you understand who matters. The praise and the opinion and the favor and the attention of others is irrelevant In comparison to the fear of the Lord. He matters. Who is it you're trying to please this morning? Who is it that you're living to gain the approval of, if you let me say it in that fashion? Who is it that you you aim to seek the favor of? Well, the woman who fears the Lord understands that favor down here is deceitful. When Mary, you remember her in the New Testament, she had a box of very expensive perfume that she brought and she broke it and poured it out all on the Lord. And oh, she had her critics. There will always be critics. Even the disciples said, What a waste. That should have been sold and given to the poor. And yet Jesus said, Let her alone. She's done what she could. Against the day of my burial has she done that. Do you know who Mary was concerned about pleasing in that room? She was concerned about pleasing the Lord. When you have the fear of the Lord, you don't worry about who's approving of your life or who's approving. I'll tell you, I I think social media is a great tool But it's also great trouble. Because a lot of people live for the approval of people they never even see. They live for the approval of someone that that they don't even know. Isn't it funny that we often try to buy things we don't need to impress people we don't like? And the reality is that we're trying to seek the approval of somebody else. But a woman that fears the Lord, she knows that favor is deceitful. And that there's only one who really matters, and that's the precious Lord. She wants to please him. Secondly, she also recognizes what matters. Notice this: beauty is vain Now listen, you study the Bible. If you've ever done this, do it sometime if you haven't. Look up the word beautiful. Do you know almost in every usage of the word it has to do with a woman? God naturally created women to be beautiful. Hey, if you men are men , you have to be careful today, but if you are men and someone calls you beautiful, you'd get offended, wouldn't you? You better be. But but God's naturally made women to be beautiful, but but she knows a woman that fears the Lord knows that beauty is vain I mean it's it it's empty, that it's not what the beauty that we really strive for. In 1 Peter chapter 3 the Bible talks the beauty uh of the inward man, that inward man, that that adornment of the heart That meek and quiet spirit, that reflection of the Lord Jesus, when a woman has that, that's a beauty that's not vain. Because it's a beauty that will endure. She recognized what really matters is not to have the attention of others, but to be beautiful in the eyes of God. It's more important to have a God-fearing heart than it is to have a beautiful face. That's a blessing to have both. But thank God, listen, what matters is does your heart fear the Lord? The woman that fears the Lord, a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. She not only recognizes who matters and what matters, but she recognizes all that matters. All that matters is that she fears the Lord. You've got to understand that fearing the Lord is a choice one makes. I want to give you four thoughts about the fear of the Lord this morning. And let me begin right here, very simply, by saying that the fear of the Lord speaks of a relationship. You cannot fear one you do not know. You've got to have a relationship. Fear the Lord. You know, growing up I used to think You know my friends used to say, Oh, my mom y your mom, she's so nice, she's so sweet, she's so kind, I said, You don't know her Huh? I'm not going to incriminate anybody here this morning and say, Raise your hand, if you said the same thing, but you knew You know why you had a relationship with her. A full relationship, you know. I started to say my mom never gave any of my friends spankins, but there was a few of them she did. So I grew up when everybody was fair game. Anybody else come through that error? Anyway. The fear of the Lord requires a relationship with God. The Bible says the fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. And there's no fear of God in someone like that because they don't recognize God for who He is. They don't have that relationship with Him. This morning I'm glad that God's more than a doctrine, that the Lord Jesus is more than just a theory, an idea, a concept. He's a living reality. And you can know him as your personal Savior. You can know him as the best friend you've ever had. You can know him as the hope of your soul and the anchor of your soul. You can know him to be that shepherd who guides you through the way, and you can know him to be that strong one who comes to your aid. You can know him in so many ways because he's not just a doctrine to believe, he's a person that you can know. The fear of the Lord begins with a relationship. Psalm 130, I believe it is, verse 4, says that there's forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared. When we recognize God and we understand what our sins have done and what our Savior has accomplished, there's where the fear of the Lord begins to bloom. When I recognize I have broke the law of God and everybody sitting here would have to say the same and especially the one standing, we all have to acknowledge we've sinned against God. But but thank God there's been a remedy, a solution provided for the sin that we've committed. Jesus Christ died for our sin, the Bible says, and he was buried, and he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. I'm not preaching a dead Jesus. I'm preaching a living Savior who will come and save you and change you and live inside of you and make all the difference in the world. He's very, very real. And the fear of God begins with a relationship. If you do not fear God, it may be that you do not have a relationship with the Lord. It may be that you might have religion, and you know I've noticed that religion can be can be awful void of the fear of God. Sure can. I've seen a lot of stuff recently that uh if if if people believed their Bible they wouldn't dare do, but they did it in the name of religion. They did it under the guise of this is religion. This is a religious ritual. But dear friend, listen, there is a reality in knowing the Lord Jesus. And and our sins require our sins require forgiveness. Our sins require uh an answer. In fact, the Bible says That w without the shedding of blood there's no remission of sin. Our sin says there must be a sacrifice. There must be a payment made. And that's what Jesus come to do 2,000 years ago when he died on Calvary. He came out of love to pay for your sin debt. He came out of love to make a uh make the final and full payment for all men's sin, and through him your sin can be utterly blotted out, put away. Forgive and wash, and you can you can have the joy of knowing my sins are gone. My sins are gone That old song says, My sins are underneath the blood of the cross of Calvary, as far removed as darkness is from dawn. I'm glad he's put my sin away. The Bible says what can wash away our sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Thankful for that, aren't you? That there's blood that's been shed to make our sin, to put our sin away. We've been plunged neath the fountain. I'm grateful that relationship begins at the moment, the very moment that you call upon Jesus to be your Savior. Now, dear friend, I want to urge you this morning, if you don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ, cry out to him today. Call upon him. You say, But preacher, do I have to kneel or stand or weep or not weep or be baptized or light candles or do anything? Listen, friend, all you have to do Is with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. With the mouth confession is made unto salvation. You cry out to the God of heaven for mercy, and the God of heaven will send mercy your way. And he'll save you Salvation is a wonderful work of God. And this fear of God requires a relationship. Do you have it? Secondly, this fear of God speaks of a reality. If I fear the Lord, I live in the reality that He is the Lord. I live in the reality that he is. What is it? Hebrews 11 says, He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. There's that that reality that he is. You know, what troubles me is so many Christians live like he isn't. Pardon my bad English, but they live like he ain't. But he is. And the fear of the Lord, you live in the reality that he is, that he is a person. That he is, he has made promises. That he does have power, that he is. Hey, if all your solutions are found down here, you need to start fearing God a little more Because 'cause the answers aren't here. The answers aren't here. Oh, you say, but we'll figure it out, we'll work it out. And you may, but have you ever noticed that most of the things we figure out usually makes them a lot worse. The solutions that we come up with or we create. I I was putting together a motor one time and and uh I couldn't get the timing chain cover on it. And I worked and I worked and I worked and I had to drive this thing the next morning to go to work. And so I said, you know what I'm going to do? I think I'm just not using a big enough hammer. And so I got a bigger hammer and I made it go on, Brother Richard. I got it on. And I bolted that thing up, and right when I cranked the motor, pow! She busted. I didn't have the gears lined up right And those gears busted that time and chain cover. My solution made things a whole lot worse. I had to get a new motor. The reality is we've got a lot of things that we think. A man thinks his way's right, and a man thinks his way is the solution. But, dear friend, if you fear God, you know that he's got the answer. He's got the answer. Listen, we're trying to uh live in a in a generation that tells us that everything this Bible says is wrong, and I've got news for you. That's wrong. And all you got to do is open your eyes and look around, see what's happening, and realize, man, we missed the mark somehow. We're going the wrong direction. I had a social worker set in my office and say, what are we going to do with young people? I said, sir, the only answer I've got is right here. And I believe with all my heart, if we'd get back here, we'd get a lot of the problems taken care of. The answer, listen, he is the answer. To live in the fear of the Lord is to live in the reality that he is the answer. That his power can still change lives today. Brother Squire Parsons, a very well-known songwriter, went to heaven last week. Brother Squire wrote a song, and it was his personal testimony. And I remember the Sunday night that he sang it in our church for the first time. And he got up and he said, Preacher, the Lord give me something. He said, I just want to give a good testimony. In fact, it was on a Mother's Day, Sunday night. It was the song called Hello Mama. And some of you may have heard that song. He he wrote the song about calling his mom. He was way out on the other side of the country and he had been living his own life and doing his own thing and he had gotten saved and right with God and the first person he wanted to call was her Because she had been praying for him. And back there in the hills of West Virginia where he was from, he had a praying mother who prayed him to God She understood that look he could get out from under her influence, he could get away from her uh uh rules and regulations, he could get a he could get away from all all of of her demands But there is one you cannot outrun. There is one who has power to reach as far as you want to go, because my friend, listen, if you Take the wings of the morning and fly to the othermost parts of the earth, he's there. If you make your bed in hell, he's there. She understood that God had great power. And listen, to live in the fear of the Lord is to know there's a power beyond yours. Mothers are very powerful And if you doubt that, you're a fool. Mothers have great power. They say the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world, and I believe it. They may not sit in positions of great power, but they do have power. But every honest mother would say there's needs beyond my power. There's things I can't do. There's things that goes beyond what I can can account. I can't change my children. I can't save them. I can't even make them live right. By the way, if you think being a parent gets easier as you get older, I don't want to disappoint you But it's not true. They just get bigger, go further, and get out from under your reach. You say, preacher , that sort of sounds hopeless. It it would be if you didn't have the fear of the Lord. But the fear of the Lord says there's a God in heaven who hears and answers prayer. There's a God who has power to go where I can't go. When they won't listen to me, I can talk to him and he'll hear And when I can't influence them from my point of view, or I can't influence them from my standpoint, I'm glad that I can get on my knees and say, Oh God, would you do the work that's needed in their heart? I'm thankful for a mother who prayed me through my ignorance, who prayed me through my rebellion, and prayed me through all of my difficulties in life and my dumb decisions and So on. I'm thankful for a mother who just kept saying, God help him, because he needs a lot of it. There's a power. Listen, when you fear the Lord's, it you live in the reality That he is the Lord, that he's alive and well, and that there's a power available. He works when nothing else will. We live in the reality of his promises. To some, this Bible is just something they stick under the arm and bring to the church house with them. I hope that's not you this morning, but it could be. This Bible is nothing more than just something that looks good on you on a particular place in your room. It adds to the decor. But I'm here to tell you this is a book that's got promises by which you can live. Promises by which you can raise your family. Promises by which you can meet needs. Promises by which you can build your faith, promises by which you can fill your heart with hope, promises which you can do battle in the day-to-day life, promises upon which you can stand. I believe that old song has a lot to say about it, standing on the promises. There's some promises we can stand on this morning. There's some promises we can lay hold of. Oh, you're blessed if you've got a mother who knows how to use the promises that lives in the fear of the Lord and will even point you to the promises. Years ago I was preaching down the South Shore in a youth meeting and my mom had a bad uh health episode and At that point it didn't look like she was going to live and I called her and I said, Mom, I'm trying to get everything situated so we can get home. She said, Don't do it. I said, what do you mean? I said, I want to be there. She said, no. Do you believe what you preach? I said, well, of course I do, or I wouldn't preach it. She said, then if I go to heaven, you're going to see me again. What are you worried about? Boy, I was on, you can ask my wife, you know, I I was just at wits end. I'm at that place. We were about 1900 miles from home, and I'm trying to figure out how we're going to get this all worked out And here she is, the one sick, and she ain't worried at all. You know why she had some promises that she's putting her head on. You better have some promises, church. Dear friends, you better get you some promises. Hey, the opinions of other people is not going to do you much good when you get in places like that And the thought and your own sometimes foolish thinkings that are going to bring cold comfort. But boy, I'll tell you what a light of fire in your soul and warm your heart when it's cold. You take a hold of some promises There's some promises that will make a difference in your life. And to live in the fear of the Lord is to live in the reality of the promises of God. Friend, these aren't pie in the sky. This isn't man-made hope. This is the truth of God's eternal word. And everything God says he'll do, everything he's stated, my friend, you can count on. Thank God for the promises But now here's the hard part. The fear of the Lord requires a relationship. The fear of the Lord is a reality in which we live. But the fear of the Lord will always require a realignment. It'll require a realignment. You say, what do you mean? It'll mean I've got to change to get in line with the truth. That's the fear of the Lord. When the Assyrians went up into Judah and they took over a certain region , The Bible says that these lions, these wild lions, were attacking them and kill them. And their leader said, You better send down there and find a priest, somebody that knows the God of this land. And get them up here and teach us how to live because we're not going to live if you don't send somebody. And do you remember when they sent for that priest? They sent one, and here's what he did: he taught them the fear of the Lord. That's what he did. He instructed them in the fear of the Lord. And when he taught them the fear of the Lord, they began to understand who God is. And you know what they had to do? They had to change their life. To line up with God's way. Please hear me. God's way is always the best way. No matter what readjustment I've got to make to get in line with him, his way's always the best way. I'm telling you, friend, our society is eat up with well we think and look what we got. Friend, we we're so confused about the realities of life. We're so so everything so convoluted. I mean, it it was pretty simple when you figured out what you was born. You was born a male Or you was born a female. Really? But now we're we're corrupting children's minds with the idea that they may not be what God made them You know what that is? That's a lie of the devil. And the reality is, is that if I'm going to live in the fear of God, I must readjust myself or realign my life with what God has already said in his word. You know what that says? That says, God, you know better than I do. I told you about my mother, I said one time to her, I said, Mom, I don't like your rules. She said, I don't care. I was hoping for sympathy, Mark. I was hoping to get a little sympathy. And here's what she said. Now you can call it cruel what you want, but I'm telling you something. We got to get back to some reality. She said, as long as you live in my house, you've got to follow my rules. And I was too broke to do otherwise, so I just changed my life to follow her rules. Amen. I'm fifty-two years old this morning and I look back and I thank God. I'm glad she had enough sense to not listen to my teenage stupidity. And say, son, this is the way. Walk in it. I don't believe I'd be preaching today if it wasn't for her. I really believe that with all my heart. I went through a time of rebellion and I I got out of church, didn't go to church, didn't live right, and I know it broke her heart. And our youth were going on a trip. They're going down to Florida. Go take a youth trip. My pastor took us all down there. I said I'm not going. I don't want to be those Christians. They're, you know, weirdos and fools. I don't want to be around them. My mother was bound and determined that I go. She was so bound and determined she called my boss and said, hey, he's gonna be gone for a week. I didn't know all that I went to work. It was a Sunday afternoon. They were leaving about three o'clock and I went down to the barn where I worked, the farm. We were milking cows and I was in there milking and here I hear a car pull up. And then normally nobody came up to the barn And I looked out and I said, It looks like her car. What's she doing down here? Oh, maybe something's wrong with Dad or something's happened, and she come in the door, she said, Come on, we're heading out. I said, where are we going? Oh she said you're going with those kids on the trip. I said, no, I'm not going. I told you I didn't I'm not going. I I haven't signed up. I have nothing packed. And she gave me this real evil grin She said, I've already got it packed. It's in the car. All you gotta do is get in. Boy, I argued and ar there was a boy working there with me, Kevin was his n with his was his name. And uh I remember her saying, she got down real close to me, she said, I don't want to embarrass you, but I will. And I knew her well enough to know she'd keep her promise. So I said, Kevin, I'll see you, buddy, if I survive this. And I got in the car and had to go. It's a best week of my life. I'll tell you why, not because of the fun we had. God got a hold of my heart on Tuesday night, broke my heart, and I got right with God. And in a few short days, God called me to preach His word. And I don't believe any of that happened if I didn't have a mother who said, You're going to do what I'll tell you to do. I had to realign my life. Friends, you're not going to follow God your way. Now you may think you will, but you're not. And there's a whole brand of Christianity that's formed itself around. Just do your thing. God's happy. I'm going to tell you, if it's not in the Word of God, God's not happy. You've got to re if you live in the fear of God, you've got to realign your life to follow His way. By the way, his way's a good way, it's a right way, it's the best way. And if I fear God, I'll be readjusting. Dr. Hitchens talked about it this morning. We look in the mirror. And I and I like what he said. When you look in the mirror, have you ever looked in the mirror and said, Whoo, what's that? Right? Now some of you Lord help you. There's nothing I can say that'll change it. But boy, you gotta you look in that mirror, you realize, hey, you know, gotta calm this mess up here, gotta fix all this in here. Got to do some work, don't we? That's the purpose of the mirror. The mirror is not there to flatter you with what's not real. The mirror is there to show you the truth. And then you go to working on what you see because of what you've looked at according to the truth. This Bible's never going to flatter you in your sin. But it is going to tell you the truth. And it's going to call upon you to do something about what you see when you look in its pages. Oh dear friend, if you fear God, you're realigned your life. You have to do it every day. Every day you've got to open that Bible, and the Bible says, now, this, no. This, yes. There's that constant, continual readjustment. Boy, it's worth it, isn't it? Sure. Then let me say something about the reward. You see, it's not all in vain. Because the Bible says again that a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. What God requires, he richly rewards. What God requires, He richly rewards. He'll reward that fear of the Lord. In fact, the verse goes on in verse 31 says, Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. There'll be that that that that she's done will follow her, will come behind her, and it'll praise her for who she is. It'll praise her for what she's done. But there's going to come a day when all of us stand before the Lord. Every person's going to stand before the Lord, and we're going to give account of our lives. We're going to give account of the lives we've lived. And listen, there's going to be great loss on that day, the Bible says, because a whole lot of it's going to just burn up in smoke. But there's going to be some of it that survives the fire. And God says, I'm going to reward that. I wonder how much of your life is going to be rewarded by the Lord. There's a whole lot of things we do that don't make a bit of difference for time or eternity. It's a waste. You know what would be sad? It would be sad to have a soul that's saved and a life that's wasted. That'd be sad. That'd be sad to be able to stand in the presence of the Lord and know you're saved. Your sins have been forgiven, but your whole life has amounted to nothing. By his standard. You say, preacher, how do I know i if if I'm living for what's important? You got sixty-six books, they'll tell you right clear It will be rewarded. Oh, the fear of the Lord may be mocked down here, and the fear of the Lord may be scoffed and made fun of in this old world, but I'm here to tell you this coming a day, God will reward it. God will honor that. I guess you just got to make up your mind which world you're going to live for. Are you going to live for this one or the one to come? What world are you going to live for? The fear of the Lord. I know the Bible says here that a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. She's the focus, she's the attention, she's the one whom this text is pointed to. But quite frankly, the Bible calls on every one of us to live in the fear of the Lord, man or woman. And I want to ask you this morning: do you fear God? Do you fear him in a biblical way? I'm not saying, are you afraid of what he might do to you? That's ignorant fear. That's fear that doesn't know who he is. But do you fear him in such a way that you got a relationship? You're saved by his grace. You've trusted Jesus Christ. You know your sins are forgiven. You fear him and live in the reality of that fear. You live in the reality that he is, and that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. You live in the fear of the Lord and realign your life. You're constantly adjusting yourself, your course, so as to please the Lord. I know you've heard the old story about the battleship sailing along and notices something on the horizon and begins to give orders and states You know, I'm such and such battleship, adjust your course. And they call back and say, I'm so and so, you adjust your course And the captain of that ship's irate and says, you know, we're a destroyer. We carry so much firepower, you adjust your course. And the reply is, I'm the lighthouse. You adjust your course. Now you can go on sailing against the lighthouse, but you're gonna hit the rock soon. And when you do, the boat's going down. Fear of the Lord says, I'll readjust my course. So to please you. And what a day that's going to be when it's rewarded. You know, I tell you, when we get to heaven, I think one of the things that's going to amaze us is what God has done through people we don't know. God's gonna there's gonna be some people, God's gonna reward, and we're gonna say, who is that? Who is that? You might have never heard their name, probably never read it in the Bullet, and didn't know anything about them. They held no position or place. But here's the reality: they knew God and they lived for Him. And God rewards that. He's going to. He's going to live in the fear of the Lord. Friend, if you're not saved today, I highly recommend him. Call on him before it's too late. If you are saved, align your life to please the Lord. Make whatever adjustment you've got to to be right with God and to do what pleases him. Because I'm going to tell you there's nothing else really important in life. And look forward to the day when the fear of the Lord's going to be rewarded. What a day that's going to be. Would you stand with me, please? Our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed. Father, help us just now as we enter this invitation time. May we be tender to what you're saying to each one of us, Lord, for I believe you've spoken personally. Lord, I pray that you'll save the lost and reclaim the backslidden in heart. Stir your people, Lord. Just help us to live in the fear of God And Lord, help I pray that you know the need of every heart here. And Lord, I pray you'd help us to be sensitive to what you want to do now in Jesus' strong name. With our heads back.