Well, I hope you've been encouraged and helped by the singing this morning. I know I have been. I appreciate the choir. Wasn't that a beautiful song? I thank God for that. They ministered to my heart. And uh just hearing that song is worth coming to church for. The wonderful country. Uh if you're saved, you've got a longing to go home. You've never been, but you got a longing to go. You say, how do you explain that? I can't. It's just salvation. But uh the desire is there that we go home and And I'm thankful for that and appreciate that special, Brother Tim. And we are grateful that the Lord Jesus does hear cries for mercy. That he does cleanse us. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all unrighteousness. And thank God for the power of the blood of the Lord Jesus. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to John 10, the Gospel of John, chapter number 10. And I want to read one verse in your hearing. It's verse number 10. John 10 and verse 10. And I'll be honest with you this morning, I'm not too interested in preaching a good sermon as I am in helping us from the Word. I want the Lord to do something for us this morning. This passage of Scripture has got help in it, and uh I pray that the Lord will work. Would you stand with me and let's honor the reading of God's Word? John chapter 10 and verse number 10, look at what your Bible says. The thief, now who's the thief? It's the devil, right? The thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. Anywhere you see that, you recognize that's his MO, that's his fingerprint. Okay? Boy, doesn't our society have it Marked all over it. The works of the devil. Steal, kill, destroy. But I like this part. I am come. Who's the I? That's Jesus. I am come that they might have life. Now look at this phrase. And that they might have it more abundantly. More abundantly. Heavenly Father, as we bow in Jesus' name, we're thankful for the privilege that we have to call upon you. We stand in great need, Lord. We need thee, Lord. We need thy help, Lord, to communicate what you've put in our heart. But better still, Lord, we need something to come straight from Thee. Lord, would you give your people what they need And Lord, we'll thank you for what you do. I'm glad that you love us like our brothers already reminded us in song. I thank you, Lord, that you've gone to prepare a place for us. Lord, we thank you this morning that you are preparing us now for that place. So Lord, may we be just clay in the Master's hands. May we just let you have your way And Lord, we'll praise you and thank you for all that you do. Help me now, Lord, please. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to be a window through whom, Lord, you might be seen. And may your will be done, and we'll give you the glory. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. I want to preach the Lord helping me this morning on this abundant life. Notice Jesus said, I am come, the Lord Jesus Himself. Said, I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly Now I'm sure we might say, what is abundant life? What what's he talking about? Is he talking about wealth? Is he talking about prosperity? Is he talking about material blessings? Well, if that be the case, Paul never got the abundant life. If that be the case, Jesus didn't live the abundant life. If that be the case. But I'm glad if we'll take Scripture and compare Scripture with Scripture, we'll find out the abundant life is just simply this, the Spirit-filled life. In John chapter 7, remember Jesus stood? Well you're right there in the neighborhood. Let's go over there. John chapter number 7. And here's what Jesus said in verse 38. He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. Now what does that mean? Verse 39 tells you. But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive, for the Holy Ghost was not yet given because that Jesus was not yet glorified. So the river that's to be on the inside is the person of the Holy Spirit of God. It's that abundant life. Look at another place with me quickly, Ephesians chapter number 3. Go over to the book of Ephesians and then chapter 3. I want you to notice what Paul was praying here, and he was praying this for these Ephesian believers. And he prayed down in verse number 19. Here's what he's requesting. Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 19. And to know The love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Filled with all the fullness of God. Now, have you ever thought about this that the heavens can't contain him? But he's chosen to take up residence in us who are saved. He's chosen to come live there. He's chosen to come and dwell there. That's where he lives And again, notice that they might be filled with all the fullness of God. One more verse, Ephesians 5. 18. Look what it says. You know the verse, I trust. Ephesians 5 18, and be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Be filled with the Spirit. Can I ask you, dear brother, dear sister, do you know something of this abundant life? You know something of that fullness? Could I just simply ask it plainly? Are you filled this morning with the Holy Spirit? Now, look, I think we all agree there are no degrees in death. Dead is dead. Is that true? Dead is dead. You're either alive or dead. You're either lost or saved. There's no degrees of that. You're not almost saved. If you're if you say, well, preacher, I'm almost saved, you're lost. If you're saved, you're not lost anymore. It's one way or the other, right? There's no varying degrees in that. But we I think we'd all agree that there are varying degrees of life. Person over here in the hospital trying to just get over some sickness or battling some disease, they're alive. It may take a monitor to prove it. May it it may have to they may have to have the little pulse ox thing on their finger and a and it and it reading their little heartbeat. I it that may be the only signs of life they have, but they're alive. But you go out here to the schoolyard somewhere and look at a bunch of little children playing on the pr playground, they're alive too. And there's a big difference between the two. One's alive, the other's abundantly alive. Jesus said, I've come to give you life. I've come that they might have. Notice that present possession, have. If you're saved, you have life. He explained it in John chapter 3 by saying, He that believeth on the Son hath life. And so if you're saved, you have life. Now the question is, do you have abundant life? See, the abundant life is the life where Christ is living in you. You say, preacher, he's there. Of course he's there. The Bible teaches us that. In Ephesians, or excuse me, Romans chapter number 8 and verse number 9, the Bible says, if you have not the Spirit of Christ, you're none of his. So if you're saved, you have the Holy Spirit. I'm not talking about getting something you don't have, or rather getting someone you do not have. Every Christian here has the Holy Spirit. Every person who's saved has the Holy Ghost living in you. You didn't get him in piecemeal. You didn't get him in parcels or portions He didn't come in four shipments. He came once. When you got born again, he came. He lives in you. You say, on what authority? On the authority of the clear word of God. And what what more do I need than what the Bible says, right? And so he came. He's in. If you're saved, you have the Holy Spirit. But you can have the Holy Spirit and not have abundant life. You can have all the Holy Spirit that you're ever going to have, because you get all the Holy Spirit you're ever going to have when you get saved, but you may not be living the Spirit-filled life. You say, preacher, why? Because you're full of something else. And usually, like doc Dr. Hitchens was teaching this morning Usually you can trace it back to self. Now, brother, sister, I think all of us here are as full as we want to be. Fool as we want to be. Here in a little bit you'll go home and uh or somewhere to eat. And you'll actually likely eat probably all you want and maybe some more. Amen. You'll stop because you're full. Or we try to stop when we're full. We might go a little beyond. Somebody asked me the other day, you got room for dessert? I said, always save my neck for that. Amen. I'm glad it's a little lengthy, so I got plenty of room. But the truth of the matter is, is that we get about as full as we want to be full. God 's people Now look, I don't think there might I don't think there would be a debate. I hope there's not a debate, but the Bible tells us be not drunk with wine wherein is excess. You know what I believe? I believe it's saying don't sin against God by drinking. Leave it alone. We believe that's a sin. But equal to that is the sin of not being full of the Holy Spirit. If it's a sin to drink, it's a sin to drink alcohol, it's a sin not to be full of the Holy Ghost It's a sin not to be. You say, preacher, what are you talking about? Being filled with the Spirit. Here's what I'm talking about: your human personality dominated by the divine personality. I know we associate things, we hear things, and and religious gibberish is is mixed in here, and you've got to separate your mind from that and just find out what the Bible says. Because when a person's full of the Holy Ghost, they won't act like a fool, they'll act like Jesus. That's what means to be full of the Holy Ghost. When you're filled with the Holy Ghost, you're filled, like Paul was praying, with all the fullness of God. You know something of that indwelling fullness. And that's why he prayed that they might know the love of Christ. Being filled with the Spirit of God is being filled with an understanding of the greatness of his love and coming under his divine control. By the way, God saved you to live his life through you. Paul told those believers in Corinth, you are not your own. You don't belong to you no more. When you got saved, you got bought with a price. Now therefore, what are you to do? Glorify God. What? Your body and your spirit. I don't belong to me anymore. And so as a Christian, and here's the big catch, if you will, as a Christian, you and I can live, be live, have life, but not have it more abundantly. We can be alive in the Lord Jesus because we're saved. We have Christ. And that life doesn't vary. You've got life. You have eternal life. But you and I can suffer from not being filled with the Spirit of God. Not having that abundant life. I want you to see this morning that he died for a whole lot more than what most of us enjoy. He purchased on Calvary something better than what many sitting here actually have. You say, preacher, what are you talking about? I'm talking about that sweet victory That fullness that's very real. Now I know I'm in a Baptist church, so don't be thinking weird or that I'm going off on strange doctrine. It's in the Word of God. And when you study your Bible, you find out that what made Paul Paul was not Paul, it was the Holy Spirit in Paul. Didn't he not say that? He said in Galatians two twenty, he said, I I I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. He understood that it was the living Christ inside of him that made the difference in his life. And he went on to talk about when the Corinthians pushed him a little bit and about his ministry He started comparing himself to the other apostles, and he said, I've done more than them all. He said, Not me, but the grace of God in me. It was that fullness that makes the difference. Now, dear Christian, again there's no accidents in the Bible. The Bible tells us we're not to be drunk with wine, and one of the things that's taught here is that just as alcohol takes control, the Holy Ghost should take control. Because that's what alcohol does. It takes control. You ever seen anybody under the influence? You can tell it, right? It's funny, my wife and I are watching this program, and they were giving this guy one of these uh sobriety tests. And I said to her, I said, I don't know that I could do some of that Unintoxicated, right? So you should have seen us the other night if our if our windows were open, that this is what we were doing. We were trying to see if we could stand on one foot and count, and neither one of us could. I mean we're falling round. I look, I hope we don't ever get pulled over. I said we gotta practice this better. Right? Yeah. Now you know what? Some of you'll go home and do it and you'll find out you can't do it either. Man, you gotta have good center core muscle control to stand on that one foot and count, you know, one one thousand, two one see Well help us. But you know why they do that? Because they know alcohol controls you so that your body doesn't function like it normally does. God wants to control me so that I don't live like I normally would, so that I might live so that Jesus might be seen. You know what happens if I'm not full of the Holy Ghost? My flesh shows. And you've got it, I've got it. We all have that stuff. The reality is we've got an old nature in us, and we'll carry that thing till we put her down in the ground in the grave. And the only way to conceal it, if I can use that word, or the only way to deal with it, is to be filled with the Holy Spirit. And Jesus said, I am come. Here's what I came for. Not just to give you life, that's eternal life, but to give you abundant life. A life where you live under the control of the Holy Spirit. Now listen, how many sitting here have said, Man, I wished I hadn't have said that? You know the only way to keep from that? The Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit's the only one. James said, we've been studying this or have, James said, that tongue no man containment. You you think, well, preacher, I I can control my tongue. You get in the right situation, I guarantee you you won't be able to. Because no man can tame it. But aren't you glad God can? Brother, sister, are you full of the Spirit of God? Can you honestly sit in these pews this morning and say I'm under his control. A lot of times we live our lives reacting to all the external rather than being controlled by the one who lives on the inside. We live a reaction, right? But God wants us to live the reality that we're under His control. That's why the Spirit of God is likened unto fruit. What do we bear as Christians? We bear the fruit of the Spirit. Fruit doesn't come instantly. Oh no, it takes time, don't it? And it's amazing as that fruit forms and it goes through the the process uh of of of being developed from flower to fruit. That that there's there's a there's a growth process there. And and and though it's unseen, you know, and it's something you go out in the garden, you look, there's a flower. And you go back maybe the next day or two and there's a little bitty something there growing, and you go back a few weeks later and it's much larger and and then comes harvest and oh it's already, it's ready to pick, it's there It didn't happen overnight. It just comes on gradually. And what I'm saying is that the fruit of the Spirit of God is not an instant It's a daily working walk of as you walk with God, God works in you. As you yield to God, God works in you. As you submit to God, God controls you. And so that you get on down the road and you start looking more like Jesus and less like yourself. That's what he wants for all of us. Everybody sitting here. There's no there's no class Christianity. I've never been on an airplane, never flown, don't intend to. But I do know that there are certain seats that are different than other seats. Alright? I know you can get first class, and it's a whole lot better than economy. I I am smart enough to look on the internet and look at pictures, right? And so I I have seen that boy who whoever flies first class flies a whole lot more comfortable than that crowd back there in economy. In in economy, it looks like everybody sits like this. You better pray you're not a a well-developed individual if you've got a fly in economy because you ain't gonna have a whole lot of room There are no classes. Please hear this. There are no classes in Christianity. You're saved by the grace of God. We're all saved the same way. And God's people need to understand that God wants all of us, all of us, to be filled. You say, That's good for you, preacher. It don't work for me. Pardon me. If you're saved, it works for you too. Because you need to be as full of the Holy Ghost sitting right there as I do standing here, because we all need to be under His control. Be filled with the Spirit of God. Jesus said, I am come that they might have life and that more abundantly. Can I speak to those this morning who are barely alive? Oh, I know you're alive. You know the Lord Jesus, and I thank God for that. It's not a light or a small thing to be saved. It's a miracle of God's grace to be on your way to heaven. And it's like Tim said this morning, it's none of your doings, it's all the mercies of God. And you and I owe everything to the Lord Jesus if we're saved. But may I speak to you, dear brother or sister, maybe you're sitting here struggling. Maybe you're in a battle. I mean a real battle spiritually. Maybe you're wondering, is all this living for God worth it? You know, this morning we're talking about David going to Gath. David got to a place where he said, I just can't fight like this no more. I'm done. And if you've been saved more than five minutes, you've said the same words. I I just can't go on. Lord, I'm in a battle. Lord, this is fierce. I can't take it no more. I need some help. Well, I'm gonna tell you something. There's help. Aren't you glad that he didn't say that the Holy Spirit in you would be a cup of water? Do you notice that? He said he's a river. And I'll tell you, like a river, like a river, the ministry of the Spirit of God is sufficient. Now if you live by a river, you can drink all that water you want, and it's not going to diminish it one bit. It's just going to keep on running. You know something else a river will do? The rivers that God's put on this planet keep this planet clean. Rivers carry debris off. You stand at a bridge when there's been a heavy rain and watch the waters flow, and you'll find out there's a whole lot of stuff in that water. It's cleansing the earth. And that river inside of you will keep you clean. He said there's a river. That river inside of you is the Spirit of God, His ministry. Well you say, preacher, how in the world can a person have abundant life? Some of you think it's impossible you've been saved long enough. to know that uh you can't do it and you've been saved long enough to understand that your experience says, uh, as far as I'm concerned, it's impossible. I I don't seem to uh know what this is or or can't seem to get a hold of it. And I hope this morning the Lord will help you see that you too can have abundant life. The Apostle Paul had it. You know, and it's not always what we think it is. When you read what he wrote that he went through there in Corinth, he or to the Corinthians rather, and he was telling them about the night and the day and the deep. Fastings often. He talked about all the suffering. And you know what the conclusion is? I'm still going on in spite of that. In spite of the of the privations, in spite of the needs, in spite of the suffering, he said I was was stoned and left for dead. In spite of all of that, I'm still carrying on. Why? Because he had a river on the inside. Listen, you need to understand that when you get full of the Spirit of God, something will carry you when you can't carry on. Someone will carry you forward. Thank God for the ministry of the Spirit of God that Jesus said, I am come, that they might have life and that more abundantly. That abundant life is possible. That abundant life is promised. It's promised to everyone who's saved. Jesus made the promise. Now, brother and sister, there's a lot of folk y you say, they made a promise, they might shake your hand, they might sign a contract. You better keep an eye on 'em But not the Lord. If the Lord makes a promise, count on it. He keeps everyone. He always has. And listen, he's making a promise that you might have life more abundantly. He's made that promise. And by the way, the power of this promise rests in him. He's the giver. I'm not talking about mustering up courage. Gritting your teeth. Trying harder. Oh my. Christianity's well nigh consumed itself with just push on, brother. Do your best Pick yourself up by your bootstraps and plot ahead and do all listen. If you're saved long , there'll be a place you'll get you know you can't go no more You'll get to a place where you just can't take another step and you say, Lord, I just can't do it. That's when you'll find out that that Holy Spirit in you can. That being under the control of the Holy Spirit means that He'll take over where you can't go. That He's able, He's able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. Christianity is not an endurance trial. It's not something that you just try to get through somehow the best you can. There's help, brother or sister. There's help in the Lord. And the Holy Ghost inside of you wants to control you and help you to move forward for his glory. Oh, how much our God helps us. How we need to see it. Would you note with me four or five things here about the abundant life? Number one, you need to confess you need it. I think contentment here is the enemy of this. You know a lot of people sitting here this morning, you're saved, you're going to heaven, and that's as good as it gets. And that is good. But there's a whole lot more. Are you are you willing to make a confession of your need, not to me, but to God? It's an awareness. That confession comes as a result of an awareness. You recognize, Lord, I do not have what you promised. I'm alive, I have life, but I don't have abundant life. You've got to confess that need. Oftentimes we ignore it. We say, Well, I'm fine. Or we dismiss it or we excuse it. We just say things like, That's the way I am. Well, can I say very plainly, that may be the way you is, but it's not the way God wants you to be. God's got something better for you. God has something better for you, brother, sister. He's made a promise and it starts right here, Lord, I need that fullness. I need you to take control of me. I need that abundant life that you probably it's a confession of need. Number two, I want you to notice something else. It requires a conscious desire. A desire. Oh God, I want to be filled. I want to be filled with the Holy Spirit. I want to be under your control. I'm not talking about desiring a second work of grace. Whoever come up with that term needs to read the Bible. Aren't you glad grace works more than twice? God's grace works again and again and again. I think I'm living somewhere on the millionth, hundred millionth work of grace. I need grace every day. I'm not talking about getting saved. I'm not talking about getting something I don't have. I already have the Holy Spirit. I'm talking about getting that help that the fullness of the Holy Ghost brings. Coming under His control. Lord, I desire that. By the way, do you know God responds to desire? I think of what said the New Testament praying when you pray, desire. Desire. It's funny that we seem to stifle that sort of thing in our Christianity. We come in like robots and we sit down like bumps on a log and we don't we dare not encourage any holy desire. Well, dear brother and sister, I hope this morning to put a little gas on the fire and stir your desire. Because we need to desire, that holy desire. Lord, I want that abundant life. You know people want to win in everything but Christianity. I know this is the day of everybody gets a trophy. Shame on us Well you showed up. Good for you. Well, what did you do when you showed up? If that's all you did, you need to do a little better. Paul said they that run run to win. He said the Christian life is like that race that we're in, and we're running, and what runner runs to lose? You know, we put some of our spiritual terms in such ignorant ways. We say, well, I'm just glad to get to heaven. Well, that's good, but man, don't go as a loser. Run to win. Run your race so that you can say, I've I've I have finished my course, I have fought a good fight, I have kept the faith. That's the language of a winner. That's somebody who said, I want all that God has for me. Do you know the children of Israel? They had so many opportunities to see God do more, but they stopped They stopped. God didn't stop. They stopped. Elisha went to a king one day and he said, Put your hands on my hands. The king's dying. And he says, Shoot an arrow. He shot an arrow. And he talked about how that he would win this battle. He said, Take that bundle of arrows and strike the ground. He struck three times and he stopped. And the prophet said, You should have kept going. Because had you kept going, God would have annihilated your enemies, but he'll only do it three times. Do you know what he missed out on? He missed out on because he didn't just push ahead. He didn't have that desire to see God do more. And I think the enemy of church and the enemy of Christianity is that we sit here content. Well, we got a nice building. Thank God for it. Now don't minimize any of that, please. I do praise God for our nice building. I do praise God for all the effort that's put into it. I praise God for people that come to church. I praise the Lord for all these good things. But don't you want more from the Lord? I'm not talking about in a material way. Don't you want to know what it is to have the fullness of the Holy Ghost and have life and that more abundantly? A holy desire that says, Oh God. The children of Israel, do you know they have never dwelt in the full tidal promise that God gave them in the land? They've never had all that land. Why? Because they wouldn't take it. The so everywhere the soles of your foot shall tread be yours. Well boy, I'd be praying. God put something in me so I can walk till I drop over. You know what they did? They went a little ways and stopped. They'd go a little further and stop. They just don't have that desire. Oh Christian, may God help us. And listen, gotta be honest. I I don't have that desire. Tell God you don't have that desire and let Him put that in your heart. And then there has to be a clean heart. And again, I think here, here's where it gets too serious for us to take another step. I gotta have my heart clean. 1 John 1 9 says, if we, that's on you. That's on me. If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we, if we I've got to candidly deal with all known sin in my life. I can't dismiss it. I can't excuse it. I can't try to cover it up and say it's not there and ignore it. I've got to face it and say, God, it's true. You're right. I've sinned. This is wrong. God forgive me and get it out of my heart. And if you'll candidly deal with God, he will candidly deal with you. When David got confronted, you know what? He said, I've sinned. I love the next words out of Nathan's mouth. God's forgiven your sin. When you get honest with God, God will get honest with you. I don't know if kids say it nowadays, but remember that term get real? It's something else now, I'm sure. But they say, get real. Can I say to you, get real with God Stop playing. You know we often pray and we tell God what we think he wants to hear rather than just telling him how it really is. You're not going to get help that way. I mean imagine. Imagine your child. Imagine imagine my son as a little boy walking in and say, I say, Son, are you hungry? And he says, no, Dad, I'm rather full. I'm content. You take such good care of me and have fed me so well. Thank you, Father. I'm fine. Well, number one, I'm going to say, who stole my boy? And then number two, I'm going to say, if you're hungry, just tell me. Huh? And if you've sinned, just tell the Lord. I'm glad there's blood in heaven. Listen, the blood of Christ will put all sin away. There is not a sin committed that the blood can't put under. Now don't come to me after church and say, well preacher, what about this or that? I I I stand by what I say, there is not a sin committed that the blood of Christ can't put away. His blood's got great power And he forgives and cleanses us from all of our sin, beloved. And listen, if you'll just go to him, and you know what we often do? We beat around the bush. How many of you are married? Alright. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand. Don't. Okay? I don't want you to incriminate yourself. But how many of you have had a fuss? Alright. Be careful. And I know it was her fault, but you had a fuss And aren't we weird? Instead of just getting it right and say, look, I'm a dummy, I lost my temper, said something I shouldn't, whatever, you know. We kind of beat around the bush. Yeah, isn't it weird? The longer you're married, you you you you don't deal with that thing candidly like you ought to. Sometimes you're like, what would you like for supper? You know, you're trying to get back in good graces. Huh? Now look, I don't even have to have my glasses on though some of you are polishing halos while I'm trying to preach. Because you know I'm telling you the truth. Rather than just saying, Let's fix this. I'm gonna tell you something, if we knew how little time we got on this earth, we wouldn't waste a lot of time being foolish. And you know what I believe God says sometimes God don't do this, but I believe if He if if He would, it'd shock some of us. He just put His hand over our mouth and said, Hush, let's fix this. You've sinned and we need to get this right We've got to candidly deal with our sin. We've got to get a clean heart and get washed. And then number four, it requires a complete surrender. I'm talking about the abundant life. A complete surrender. What does that mean? D. O. Moody said, sign a check, a blank check, put your name at the bottom and put it in the Lord's hands. Put it in the Lord's hands. That's what you need to do with your life. The Bible says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. That's awful demanding. So was Calvary. So was Calvary. Lord, here's my life. I I I'm I'm putting my I'm putting the title deed. I'm signing the title deed to my life. I'm signing it. It's yours. Don't belong to me no more. It's yours and and I want you to take it and I want you to rule it and I want you to own it. A complete surrender. Look, as long as you retain the right to rule some part of your life, you'll never have abundant life. As long as you say now Lord, you can be in charge of everything but this. And number five, it requires a cry of faith. Simple faith. I don't know if you've ever read this verse. Go with me to Galatians 3:14. Galatians chapter three and verse number fourteen Galatians chapter three and verse number fourteen says that the blessing of Abraham Might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ. Now listen to this part: that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. How do I have abundant life? How do I be filled with the Spirit of God? I believe it starts with a confession of need. A conscious desire, a clean heart, a complete surrender, and then lastly and very simply, this cry of faith. It's not about emotions. That's where we often mess up. Well, I don't feel. God never commanded you to feel. He called you to believe. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and what? Thou shalt be saved. Believe, just take God at His word. I can still hear old Dr. Paisley. And it puzzled me why he said this when he prayed this way. But now I understand it, I think a little better. He would say Oh God, thank you for the gift of Pentecost. I take, He undertakes. Here's what he's praying. God, you promise the Holy Ghost. I'm believing by faith for his fullness. Lord, undertake from me. Nothing wrong praying that way. Some of you need to pray today, God take control of my life. Because I'm about to ruin it. Lord, some of you need to surrender or deal with sin or or or just confess you need him. You're too smug and content about being a Christian when really, man, you're just wading out there not even ankle deep, and there's waters you can yet swim in. And I'll tell you, if you get honest with God and do business with God, He'll do business with you. And then we just by faith believe that God will do what He said He would do. You know what God honors? He honors faith. Hebrews 11 says, He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Just by faith. By faith. Faith says, God, you said it, and I'm counting on it. That's what faith says. Faith says, God, it's settled already. I know it because you said it in your word. I'm going to stop arguing about it. I'm just going to put my head on it and rest. Imagine getting to bed at night in a big old soft fluffy pillow and you lay there and you look at it and you argue with it. I don't believe that's soft. I don't believe that'll support my head. I don't believe I'll sleep well. Well you'll let you sit there and do that till the sun comes up the next morning. Sometimes you just gotta put your head down and go to sleep and rest. And listen, that's what God's done with these promises. These are pillars to put your head on. God has said He'd fill us with the Spirit. He said that He would give that abundant life. Just lay your head down right there and rest. And watch God do what only God can do. Oh, may the Lord help us. Do you have abundant life? The burden of my heart this morning is not to those who are unsaved. If you're not saved, you don't even have life. You need life in you. You need to be born again. You need to come to the Lord Jesus in simple faith, just as the believer does. and call upon him for the gift of eternal life. And friend, he gives that gift to whosoever calls on the name of the Lord. He died on the cross for it. He shed his blood for it. They put him in a grave over it. And he got up again the third day and he's alive. I'm not saying call on a dead God or call into the empty air. I'm saying call on the Savior who's alive and well and able to save today. Call on Him. But dear friend, after you're saved, don't stop. Don't just settle down and go to heaven. Get stirred up and filled up. So that you can go home to glory with a little bit of glory on the inside. God wants to help us, church. Do you know the best and worst advertisement is the same person for Jesus Christ? It's the believer. We're not selling nothing, but we do show someone When you go to work tomorrow, guess what? Folk are gonna see somebody. They're gonna see you, or they're gonna see him. And in the proportion that you're full is the proportion in which they'll see the Lord Jesus. This isn't just for service. This is for life. Oh, you need the Holy Spirit to preach. Yeah, I do. But you need the Holy Spirit to go home in a few minutes. And you need the Holy Spirit in you to live as husband and wife. You need the Holy Spirit to raise your family. You need the Holy Spirit to go to work tomorrow. You need to be under his control, whatever you do. Why? Because there's people watching us. And they're either seeing my old flesh and your old flesh or they're seeing the Lord. Now are you fool? Listen, if you're not, get it settled. It's not his fault. He's given us everything we need. If your tank's empty, it don't have to stay that way. Somebody will feel it. So you gotta humble yourself and say, Lord, I'm running on E. I need some help May the Lord help us. I don't know who needs it. Maybe I need it. Maybe this message is for me and me only. God knows. But I do know this. I need him. I need him. I can't make it another step without him. Sometimes my tank gets low. I need the Lord. Be filled with the Spirit of God. I am come, Jesus said, that they might have life, and that more abundantly. Christian, does abundant life describe your Christianity? It should. May the Lord help us. Would you stand, please?