Let's open our Bibles, please, to Revelation once more. Revelation chapter 21. And I hope our study tonight is a great encouragement to you. So much of the revelation is the dark and a foreboding book. You read about the vials and the trumpets, all the judgments that are poured out. You look at the dealings of the man of sin as he conquers the earth and Even in the beginning at the failings of the church. So much of the book in study form, anyway, often leaves your heart very heavy. But we've we've passed all of that now. We've moved into a whole new part of Revelation and a whole new portion of time, if you will, which Revelation 21, time 's no more. We've moved into that great eternity that's to begin just before us My what a description John gives us here in chapter number 21. The title of this chapter and what we're going to call this study is All Things New. In fact, that comes right out of verse number five where he says, Behold, I make all things new. New not so much as in the avenue of time, but new in kind. Much of what we know will be no more. And to that we can say a hearty Amen. Thank God there's coming to pass. There's so many things that will pass that will be no more. And so keep that in mind as we read this good chapter. I want to read the whole chapter. uh in your hearing, beginning in verse one of Revelation twenty-one, and John writes, And I saw new heaven and new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them. And they shall be his people, and God Himself shall be with them and be their God And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying. Neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. I want to stop there and remind you that the Bible is more than words. These are not just merely words that have been put down on paper and have very little meaning. These are God's words. And God said about his word that it's both true and faithful. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega , the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. He that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But the fearful and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers And idolaters and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. And there came unto me one of the seven angels, which have the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither, I will show thee the bride, the Lamb's wife. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God. having the glory of God, and her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone clear as crystal. And had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, which and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel. On the east three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three gates And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in the names, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof, and the city lieth four square, and the length is as large as the breadth And he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs. The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal. And he measured the wall thereof, a hundred and forty-four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel, and the building of the wall of it was of jasper. And the city was pure gold, like unto clear glass. And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was Jasper, the second sapphire, the third a Chalcedon, the fourth an emerald, the fifth Sardonx, the sixth Sardius, the seventh chrysalite, the eighth burl , The ninth a Topaz, the tenth a Chrysophorasis, the eleventh adjacent, and the twelfth an amethyst. And the twelve gates were twelve pearls. Every several gate was of one pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, as it were transparent glass. And I saw no temple therein, for the Lord God Almighty, and the Lamb are the temple of it. And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof. What a place. And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor into it. And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day, for there shall be no night there. And they shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it. And there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie. But they which are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. We are literalists and believe what we just read Is so. We believe that there is a place called the New Jerusalem. And I'm telling you, dear friend, that when God reveals this thing, this new thing, uh, what a day that's going to be. And I believe with all my heart that I'm in a company of people. Many of whom I know your testimony, and by profession of your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, I believe I read your future. I believe I read about something that you're going to enjoy, something you're going to experience, and something that you're going to exalt the Lord Jesus for all of eternity for. And may the Lord encourage your heart. Friend, this is not all there is. Thank the Lord. I'm glad this isn't the even this isn't even as good as it is. Uh let me say this, if you're saved, this is as bad as it gets down here, because you've got a far better home awaiting Up in heaven above. Let's pray and ask the Father to speak to us. Now, Lord, we bow and pray you'd help. Would you have your way in this meeting and encourage the heart of your children? I thank you for portions of the Bible that have so much bright light and good hope and grace and strength for your people And Lord may you minister to in portion what's needed in the heart of each one. And we'll thank you and praise you, for we ask it in Jesus' name, and God's people said. You'll notice that word new is prominent in this chapter. Five times it's used in Revelation twenty-one. Five is God's number for grace. Isn't it something that the grace of God makes all things new? Even what lies ahead in the future. There are three new things described in this chapter. Three things we really don't know anything about save what's told us right here. Three things that are going to be so new it'll be like nothing we've ever experienced before. Now we really can't compare what we know to what God tells us we'll be. It it's beyond us. That's why it's called new. New heaven, new earth. New city, new life, all of that's just so new that it's just hard for us to wrap our little heads around what lies ahead. But here's what I do know. God said, Write these things because I'm faithful and true. And I promise you this, they'll be just like God said, and probably even better, because it's of his nature to do exceedingly abundantly and above. uh what we ask or even think. So think about these new things with me for a few minutes tonight. I want you to notice number one, there's a new heaven and earth Says it in verse one, John said, I saw. And we are liberalists because we believe that what John saw, we will see. He said, I saw. What did he see? He saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. John said he saw this new heaven and earth. He looked at it. He scoped it out. He gives us not even a description of it outside of there was no sea. What kind of place is that going to be? Now remember you say, preacher, what happened to the old one? What happened to the old earth and the old heaven? Well, flip over to a couple of books in 2 Peter. And let me read to you what God says he's going to do with the old one. 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse 5 says, For this they willingly are ignorant of. That by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water. By the world that then was being overflowed with water, perished. But, verse 7. The heavens and the earth which are now by the same word are kept in store. That means kept protected, preserved Kept ready, kept in store, reserved under fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. But beloved be not ignorant of this one thing that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But his long suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. Now watch this, in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and shall melt the earth also and the earth that are therein shall be burned. You say, what's going to happen to this heaven or this earth in heaven? God's going to burn it up. He's going to supernaturally, specifically, burn it up so that it is no more. Verse 11 says, Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved. And the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, we according to his promise look for a new heavens and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. God 's going to burn this old earth and the old heaven, He's going to burn it up. You say, Preacher, why is he going to do that? I believe there are three reasons. Number one, he's going to replace uh this heaven uh and earth, he's going to replace it because of sin. Both bear the marks of sin. Both have the stain on it, if you will. You know the beautiful mountains that we just think are so so uh you know unbelievably uh awesome. Are a mark of the sin of man. That great flood that God used to destroy the earth and to mar this earth Those mountains and the ocean and a lot of the uh characteristics of this current planet are after effects of the judgment of God on sin. So this earth has to be replaced because of sin and even heaven itself. Secondly, I believe it has to be replaced because of Satan. Satan has left, if I can say it like this, his slimy footprints in both places. And there's no way to extinguish them except burn them up Would you go back here to Job with me real quick? And I I want you to see a verse, and I I believe this is the reason, one of the reasons God's going to give us a new heaven and a new earth, uh the devil himself has contaminated both places. Job chapter one We read the account here of what was going on in Job's life from heaven's view And the Bible says in verse 6 of Job 1 that there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord. Look at that next statement. And Satan came also among them. He is with them. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. He's left his footprints on both places, and God says, I'm going to exterminate not only and deal with Satan himself, but I'm going to do it away with everything he's ever defiled. God's gonna burn it up. You know there are some things you just can't wash out. Right, right. You just gotta put them away. I think it for I guess cause it was cold years ago. I'd only been pastoring a little while as a little family in our church. And the the fella I I heard them talking and and they were trying to figure out how to get some oil for their old furnace. And uh we heard 'em talking about that and I said, Listen, brother, we'll get some oil. We went to a little old station, got all these little five gallon cans that we had and filled them up with some uh off-road diesel and took over there and and was pouring it in. I'll never forget I'm standing there and he's got a great big funnel and we're trying to pour that thing. Got a little bitty rickety, rickety old uh step ladder that I'm standing on. I mean that thing it couldn't hold up a mouse, let alone a man, and it didn't hold up a man. It certainly wouldn't hold up a mouse. And that thing collapsed and when it did That whole uh that whole thing came crashing down on me on my suit. It was right after church. I don't it wasn't just a few minutes after the evening service. And I got all that diesel fuel all over my shirt, all over my my suit, my coat, my pants, and uh that was back in the day when I probably didn't have two maybe suits. I Mixed, matched everything around, make it look like I had more than I did. And uh I said, Liz, we've got to do something with this thing. Look, you cannot wash some things out. She said, I'm afraid after we wash it to put it in a dryer, you might blow the house up. So that suit had to go by the way of the fire in the burn barrel in the backyard. And it burnt well. Super well. You know what I'm saying? I'm saying there are some things you just gotta do away with. And God said, There's going to come a day when I'm going to do away with this old earth, and I'm going to do away with heaven as well A new heaven and a new earth. Look, much of the details are left out, but here's what I do know. If it's a creation of God and it is, it's going to be perfect like our God truly is Can you imagine what kind of earth? I believe we're going to hearken back to paradise. We're going to go back to those first days of Adam and Eve. We're going to see an earth like we have never seen before. My preacher used to talk about how they might be bananas as big as telephone poles. And and they not have he said they won't they won't even be them all aggravating kind. You gotta pull apart. He said they'll have zippers on them so you can get to them in a hurry Just take a skin right off. I don't know about that. That's not in the Bible. But I do know this if God makes it, it's sure gonna be good There will be a new heaven and a new earth. What a day that's going to be. Dear child of God, that lies somewhere out there in the future. Now listen, there's a whole lot of talk about saving this one. And I don't believe we ought to be uh destructive in our behaviors and lifestyles, but I will say this. There's no use trying to rescue what God's going to burn in the fire. There's no way that man, and I don't believe that listen, I don't believe man can destroy what God has set in store for judgment God said, I'm protecting this thing. I'm holding it together, and it's going to be here right ready when the time comes to burn her up. You want to talk about global warming? This is God warming. He's going to burn this thing down. My what a thing that's going to be. And then, and then there will be a new heaven and a new earth Number two, I want you to notice there's going to be new life. A new life. Starting in verse number two, the Bible says that I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven. prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. I want you to notice this new life is going to include access to God. He said, I'm going to be with you. God will not be distant. Now you say, preacher, he's not distant now. I know he's not. But in a sense, we walk by faith and not by sight. He's with us in a spiritual way. He's with us in the person of the Holy Ghost. But in this place, he's going to be there in person. He's going to be there in some form or fashion that we'll be with God and God will be with us. The wonder of this place is that we're going to have access to God continually And listen, there's going to be no hindrance. Have you ever, don't raise your hand, please, but have you ever needed to pray and had to get right before you could pray? You know what you did not have? You did not have access till you got clean. There was a hindrance between you and the Lord. You ever had uh uh something in your life that uh that that just uh put the presence of God, the manifest presence of God at a distance? It wasn't that God was not near, it was that you could not enjoy that nearness because of the grieving of the Spirit of God. And there was a wall between you and the Lord. It's like when you and your wife have a fuss. Now I know you're say people and don't do that kind of thing. But uh just because you have a little falling out doesn't mean you're not married. Right? Still married. Now you might not have fellowship, but you're still married. And my friend, you and I can have falling out, so to speak, with the Lord and not be right with the Lord, and not have that fellowship with the Lord, though we still belong to Him and He to us. But listen, there is coming a day when that won't happen ever again. When God will we'll have access to God and God to us, He'll be our God, we'll be His people. There's no longer that barrier, there's no longer those walls. There's no longer that division and separation. Thank God. We'll have instant access, continual access. The Bible says that the whole earth will be full of his glory. I don't understand everything I'm preaching, but I believe it. And I'm grateful for the reality that there's coming a day where no longer will I have to say, Oh God, come near me. No longer will I have to say, Dear Lord, cleanse me so that I can come near to thee. Thank God we'll have a place of access and God himself shall be with them. He won't send a representative, he won't send a spokesperson, it will be God Himself with His people. Thank God for that access. Then I want you to notice the actuality of this life, and there are five verses that speak to it. Verse 4 says, And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And here's the key: there shall be no more. So this actuality is that there will be a series of no more's or a succession of no more's. What? No more tears. You know what tears in the Bible represent? I know we can have tears of joy and and and and tears that of excitement, etc. But these tears that Revelation speak of are the tears of sadness, the tears of sorrow, the tears of brokenness. Those those are the the tears. And you know what he said? No more tears. You know there's nobody gonna cry themselves to sleep ever again. There's no tears going to fall on anybody's pillows. There's no tears going to run down your cheeks. There's no tears going to fall on those blessed streets in glory. We're going to a land where there's no more tears You dear weeping saint, you may weep over things down here. You may weep over your sin and weep over sad things and weep over sorrows, but thank God you're going to a land where you'll weep no more. God shall wipe all tears from their eyes. Then hallelujah for this, there's no more death. None. No more graveyards. Oh Hicks will be out of business. Hallelujah. No more death, no more no more cemeteries, no more graves to be dug, no more death to have to confront. No matter how death comes, the Bible calls it an enemy It can be long expected, and yet it still bears the sting of an enemy who breaks in. And yet the Bible says there's coming a day where we'll have no more death. Wow, what a day that's going to be. You think about that. You'll never die. Your saved loved ones will never die. Those already in glory, listen, there's no more death there. I've stood at uh at about as many graves as I care to stand in. I know if the Lord tarries, there'll likely be more I'll have to stand by. But I'm here to tell you, I'm glad I'm going to a land where nobody dies. No more death. The Bible goes on to say there'll be no more sorrow. No more sorrow. No more broken hearts. No more, look what it says. No more crying, neither shall there be any more pain. Reckon God put that there on purpose? Man born a woman is of a few days and what? Full of trouble. Like the sparks fly upward. I'll tell you if you've lived a half a second, you know something about pain. You think about a little baby entering this world, he's been in a warm, safe environment, and suddenly he's jerked out of that situation. No wonder little things crying are baffled over what's going on. Then sometimes, I don't know if they still do it or not, they did when our kids were born. They turn them up and give them a whack on the backside. And you start this world getting a spanking. Isn't that something? Well, there's a whole lot of pain in living. There's pain that comes to the heart. There's pain that comes in the mental way in a mental capacity. There's that that emotional pain and mental pain. There's physical pain. These old bodies break down, don't function, get sick, hurt. There's pain. It's pain of all kinds and sorts. But listen to me, we're going to a land where God said, I want you to know something, there's no pain up here There will be no more pain, for the former things are passed away. Everything you know about living, you're gonna have to forget because it's not gonna happen up there There's not going to be the existence that you have now up yonder. Those former things, the Bible says, have all passed away. This is the actuality. He goes on and tells us. Verse number eight, the fearful, unbelieving, abominable murderers. Thoremongers, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. You know what there is? There's no more sin No more sin. Can you imagine being in a place where there's no more filthiness, no more ungodliness? There's no more wickedness. Man seems to taint everything he touches. Everything. I I was thinking of old Billy Kelly, I was listening to him preach this week, and Brother Kelly said you can't they can't hardly sell hog feed with some s without putting something filthy on it anymore You know why? Because we're just so immersed in sin. We're so so stained by it and touched by it everywhere you look. Remember the first time we drove through we drove through New York City, we got turned around Got on that sawmill parkway and went ended up down driving through the Bronx and Josiah was just a little thing. I said to him, I said, son, do not look out the window. And I uh you know, I knew better than tell him that, but I it helped my conscience feel good that at least told the little monkey not to look. Next thing I know he's turned around. If he had a pair of knocklers, he'd be using them looking at everything ungodly and filthy. I couldn't believe some of the advertisements and some of the stuff on the sides of the streets and so on. Just you know, you've been there you use your imagination. What I'm trying to say is, is that I'm going to a land. Where there's no more sin. There's no more wickedness. There's no more ungodliness. Can you imagine a land where there's nothing but righteousness, holiness, the goodness of God? Oh, what a land that is. No more. I want you to notice with me as we consider this land Forgive me just a minute. That's an alarm. I forgot to turn off. I had to be somewhere the other day at five minutes to seven. And I said it and I forgot to turn it off. So if you know his five minutes to seven, by the way, if you count and are worried about it Ask Chalde. I start to say, Jerry, are you playing something or is the Lord coming? I'm hearing noises, you know. Lord help me, what a week. Well, life as we know it will be no more It listen, the the the sort of life we know will no longer be as we enter a new life. Can I say just quickly, let me run through this, this new city. The Bible describes it in verse 10 that he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God. And he gives us a first description in verses 10 to 14. He speaks of its light. He says, having the glory of God and her light. was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone clear as crystal. The only thing earthly he could describe it to, and I believe, from studying this thing of Jasper, that it very well could be a diamond And when I think about that, I think about the reality that what he's saying is this place is going to glow like a precious jewel. And it's going to glow with something that's unearthly. It's the glory of God. Have you noticed how many times the glory of God is described as a bright light? When Saul got converted on the Damascus Road, he saw a great light. When John, when John on that Isle of Patmos, he saw a great light, then he saw the Lord. This glory of God describes a great light. He talks about a wall that's high and great. That speaks of the security of this place. Aren't you glad there's a God in heaven? We're secure in him. He said, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. There's no overthrow in this city. There's no overtaking this city. God has secured it. It's an eternal city. And notice he talks about the gates. He says there's twelve angels, and they bear the twelve names of the twelve tribes of Israel. What is that all about? That's about the covenant that God keeps with his people. One thing about it, if God promises that you can count on it. God is a promise keeping God. And then it has twelve foundations. The twelve apostles' names are inscribed there on. This is a representation of New Testament truth. And God, in one great sweep, lets John see something that strikes him with the magnificence of a place like this. Now you say And I know there are people who believe that this is figurative. It's it's just um a a description uh of things so we can kind of understand it, but it's not really true. Well, I got a problem with that because every time John said I saw, he literally saw something. And I believe if he saw something and he described it to us, I believe what he saw I'm going to see. And my eyes are going to look on these things. Then he gives further details in verses fifteen to twenty-one. He gives the size of it. Fifteen hundred miles square Cubed, if if you can understand that. Fifteen hundred miles. You imagine that? You say, preacher, what's it doing? It looks to me like it's a hovering over the new earth. That it's come down, that's what it says, it came down from heaven, like a bride adorned for husband, it came down. And so obviously, wherever God stations it or fix it. I believe it's going to be over the earthly Jerusalem as that heavenly Jerusalem comes down and it's going to just be there. You say, preacher, how's that going to happen? I don't know. But I know that God's able. We believe what that choir started us out with tonight. We'll know that God doesn't have a if he can hang the sun up yonder in the heavens, he can hang a city up there too. He's able to do that. That's the kind of God we serve. He speaks of the special materials. In verses 18 to 21. He talks again about the jasper. He talks about the gold and the twelve jewels and the pearl. You think about this, those walls of Jasper speak of durability and delightfulness. Ah, what a place this is going to be. It won't wear out. I don't care how good a building material you use, you're going to have to replace it. At some point in your life and time you're going to have to work on it. If you use concrete or block or rock or whatever you think, there's going to come a time that you're going to have to do some work and repair it. But what God builds with will never have to be repaired. God won't ever have to redo. He won't put up signs and say, construction ahead, going to have to rebuild the walls. Thank God. They're going to be durable and eternal. Think about those those gold, those streets of gold, and you notice it says clear as crystal, transparent, speaking both of purity and deity Heaven's a reflection of the holiness of God, and everywhere you look, you're going to see God. You're going to see the handiwork of God and God Himself. Those twelve jewels, I don't have time to go into them, but but I like what one old writer said. He said, here's a dozen ways the splendor of God is beyond compare A dozen ways that God demonstrates his splendor. God's at no loss when it comes to doing things in a magnificent way. God is at no loss. Look, man spends a lot of time designing and building something that is very impressive. Um I never paid much attention to building and fixing and repairing things a whole lot until I came here Since I've been here, I've sort of gotten into looking at that sort of thing, and it fascinates me how somebody can take something and make it totally different using the structure that's there. And they can take an old rundown something and make it look beautiful and make it look magnificent. The skill and all of that is impressive to me. The builders and the designers and all of that working together, that again just really gets my attention. I love that sort of thing. But I'm here to tell you God's going to blow your mind away when it comes to heaven. You're gonna see something you ain't never seen before. I'm gonna tell you the Biltmore estate and the uh the winter tour home over there, DuPont place All of these things look are th they don't even make a good hog shed what God's gonna build up yonder in glory. Years ago, my daddy and I, we went over to the Biltmore house. He'd never been there, lived in Asheville, but around that area his whole life, and we decided to take him, Mama, we'd got some tickets And we're walking around this thing, and and you know, Dad wasn't too impressed and didn't care for that sort of thing. He'd rather be on a creek bank than he would be walking down a palace uh, you know, corridor and He's looking around. Me and him walk outside. I can tell he's getting a little antsy. And I said, let's go out here on the on this big balcony. And you could look out all over the Pisgah Forest. You can see All of that grand estate and the gardens and man man it was a sight to behold. And you know, I I'm I'm making conversation. I said, Daddy, look at that. Isn't that the most beautiful thing you ever saw? You imagine sitting out here on this great big balcony taking all this in. Dad went. And I thought, well you little rascal, you're just being crotchety, what's your problem, you know? And and then he made a statement. I couldn't refute it, Brother Andy. He said, Son, this wouldn't even make a good doghouse in heaven. See, he had already seen a land that was fairer than day. He was looking for something bigger and better than what man can do. I'm here to tell you Abraham look for a city whose builder and maker is God. Thank God we're looking for a city whose builder and maker is God. And one day the looking's going to be over. We're going to be there and behold it and see it with our own eyes Ah, what a place. And then those gates of pearl. I remind you that pearls are formed from the suffering of flesh. Pearl's the only gem that is formed by living flesh. The only gem. It's formed as in a crucible of suffering, a little grain of sand, a parasite. some sort of damage in that oyster. And that that thing begins to secrete a covering and builds that little pearl. Those gates are forever, eternally established to remind you that you're here because of the suffering of another. No matter if you come from the east or the west or the north or the south, you're going to come through a gate made of pearl. And that gate of per listen, it's going to be a sweet reminder. I'm here because Jesus died. He bled and suffered on the old rugged cross. He opened the door for me to be saved. Listen, heaven's going to be flooded with the gratitude of the redeemed for all of eternity, because everywhere you look is a precious reminder that I'm here because he died. I'm here because he was buried. I'm here because he rose again. He suffered on my behalf. Ma, what a place. And then he gives us those final distinctions. Verse 22 to 7. Verse 22 and 3, he reminds us that there is no temple there. No sun or moon. None of it's needed. Why? Because the Lamb is the light thereof. Aren't you glad that that all of this form and all of this shadow is going to be replaced with substance? Reality. We're here tonight worshiping a God we can't see with our physical eyes. We can't touch him with our old hands of flesh. But there'll come a day. Job said, My eyes shall behold him. I'm going to see him. And if you're saved tonight, you are too. You're gonna see him. You're gonna you're you're going to sit be in the physical presence of the Lord. There's going to be no temples erected, for we're going to worship the Lamb. We don't need a temporary reminder. We don't need a memorial. to take us back to see what once was. We're going to be in the presence of the one who forever is the great I am. And then you'll notice the access in verse 24 to 7. There's no closed gates. And you know this fascinates me, and I don't have time to get on it, but let me just mention it. that there's going to be a continuation of some sort of life on earth because these kings are going to come in from the nations. And the kings of the earth will bring their glory and honor. And then what 's I don't know, you say, preacher, what does that mean? I really don't know, other than there's going to be some form of structure and carrying on of life. Isn't that going to be something? There's going to be no contest for God's glory. You see, they'll bring the glory and honor of the nations into it. No man will steal the glory of God. No man will be elevated above what he's supposed to be. God alone's going to get the glory. Ah, what a day. And there's going to be no corruption. Verse 27 says, There's no w there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh a lie. But they which are written in the Lamb's book of life. What a place. You say, preacher, is this real? This is for real. And let me say this, it's for the redeemed. It's for the redeemed. Take heart, dear Christian. We're closer than we've ever been. You're nearing the shore. I'm gonna tell you something. The old devil's crawled up on many of you's shoulders. And he said, You flew your life away. Look at you. You've lived for Christ, you've given yourself to Him, you're wasting your life You're missing out on what the world has. The old devil will come along and he'll he'll lie to you like that And he'll tell you, look, you you you've missed it, man. And maybe as you get a little older, his lies get a little bit stronger and louder. And he's saying, Hey, look at look at all you miss. Look at all that you miss out on. Because you live for the Lord. Every once in a while the old devil will climb up on my shoulder and say, You threw your life away God saved me when I was eight years old and at 16 years of age I surrendered at four distinct places in in the world, if you will, that are very special to me. One's the parking lot in Kissimmee, Florida, where I got on my knees next to an old super bus that was been around. We were having an outdoor service, and it was there. I said, Lord, I'm through fighting I was fighting God and fighting his working in my heart, and I just yielded and surrendered and said, Lord, whatever you want. It wasn't too many months later in a old-fashioned altar at Trinity Baptist Church and the old auditorium in Asheville, North Carolina. I got on my knees and said, God, I know you want me to preach, but you're going to have to help me. And I surrendered to do that. Wasn't much longer after that we were attending an old uh uh camp meeting out on the Cherokee Indian Reservation. It was called the Cherokee Indian Camp Meeting. And my preacher preached that night on being filled with the Spirit of God. And I I didn't do business with God in that meeting, but I got in my car and drove across Soko Gap, little mountain, from the reservation back into Haywood County. And at the top of that mountain I pulled over. I couldn't take it no more. And I got down the leaves and I said, God, I want that fullness. I want you to take control. I'm tired of trying to do this thing in my own power. Lord, fill me with the Spirit of God And then there was another very precious place that I really got serious. God the Holy Ghost said, I want you to get serious and give your life. I've tried and I know God forgive me. I'd love to have done a whole lot better But I've tried my adult life. I've not chased money. I've not chased a career. I've just tried to do the will of God. And I've tried that, and sometimes the devil says, Well, you got to show for it. I mean, look at your life. What do you have in this world? And then I read something like this here in my Bible. And I realized, look, I'm not living for here. I'm living for there. We're not living for the things of this earth. We're living for what lies just over in the glory land. Hey listen, our treasures laid up up yonder. Down here all this moth and rust and corruption will break through and steal. But up there, my friend, there's eternal reward. And look, you ought to live for what's important. You're not wasting your life. You're not throwing anything away. You young people don't believe the lie of the devil. Give yourself to God Give all your life to God. Give everything in your life to God. Live for Him with your whole heart. You'll never regret doing that, because there's coming a day when that which is eternal will yield the rewards that this old earth can't carry. Thank God for that. And dear brother and sister, this thing's about over. Lift your head, weird Satan. Sort of strain your ear a little bit. If you can hear if I mean you can listen close enough, you might just hear an angel licking his lips and the Lord Himself getting ready to blow the trumpet and call us up and home. It's coming. Well, I know the scoffers say where 's the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue. I know Professor Doohickey is telling you that this thing ain't true and you don't trust your Bible, then man's can, you know, corrupted it and what have you. But I'm telling you, believe this old book. There is a land fairer than day. And when you leave this world, it's there you go if you know Christ as your Savior. And I'm here to tell you there's a home awaiting us all who are saved by the wonderful grace of God. And I want to just quickly say, if you're not saved, you won't be here. There's a place called the Lake of Fire, and dear friend, you need to be born again. Your sin has separated you from God and left you dead. You're spiritually dead. But there is a Savior who comes by dead people and says live. And when he says live, the dead rise up and live. And those that can't walk stand pull up on their feet. Why? Because God saves old sinners, and he'll save you if you'll let him. Thank God for a salvation that's full and free. Oh dear Christian, be encouraged tonight. This world's crazy. We're going to get crazier. Folks losing their mind. They're following the devil and living and acting just like him. But this world is not our home. You getting ready to trade all this in for something a whole lot better. So look up, child of God, and and let's live close Because seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought we to be? An all-holy conversation. I mean, how should we live considering all this is temporary and God's got something eternal? We ought to live like men and women with eternity stamped on our hearts. Because that's what lies ahead. Would you stand with me, please? Father, please