I want you to take your Bible, please, and go to the book of Genesis. Genesis chapter number twelve. And I'd like to read the first eight verses of this. In your hearing. Genesis chapter number twelve. And while you're making your way there, let me read a New Testament passage in Romans chapter 15. In verse number four, the Bible says, For whatsoever things were written aforetime, were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the Scriptures might have hope. Now, Genesis chapter number 12, if you found your place, would you stand with me please? And we'll read these first eight verses together. Now the Lord had said unto Abram , Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran. And Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran, and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan. And into the land of Canaan they came. And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Shechem, unto the plain of Morah, and the Canaanite was then in the land. And the Lord appeared unto Abram and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land. And there builded he an altar unto the Lord, who appeared unto him. And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. And there builded, he builded an altar unto the Lord and called upon the name of the Lord. I want you to notice these two occasions where Abraham, he's called Abram here, The Lord will change his name just as he'll change his nature down the road. But he built two altars. He's going to go on to build two more. And this morning, the Lord helping me, I want to preach on altars that altered Abraham's life. There are four altars that altered his life, that changed his life forever. May the Lord speak to us from his word this morning. Father, again we bow, acknowledging our need and looking to you for your sufficiency. Lord, would you speak and help? We'll give you the glory, for we ask it in Jesus' name. And God's people said, You can be seated. I read Romans chapter 15 and verse number 4 because I think a lot of times we look at the Old Testament as an unnecessary part of the Bible. We say, well, it don't speak about things I need to know. Well, I quite disagree. I think the Old Testament lays the groundwork for everything that will come in the New Testament. Someone said the Old Testament is the seed bed for the New. So every doctrine that we find taught in the New Testament is in some latent form in the Old Testament Now in the book of Genesis here, we read about altars. If I've counted right, there are about twelve altars that we're told were built during the time period of the book of Genesis. The first one that we're told about was built by Noah After the flood, the water had receded. The Bible says there in chapter number 8, verse 20, that Noah built an altar. Now, Abraham's going to build four altars. There's four altars in his life. And you say, what do they represent? Well, those four altars are milestones in the life of Abraham. It's at these altars God begins to change him and make a new man out of him. Now let me say something about altars. Altars in the Bible were not ornate structures. They were not anything that were beautiful to look upon. We might pass by and say, that looks like a pile of stone. All that looks to me is if they stacked stones on top of each other. That's all it was. Because you see, the purpose of the altar was not to please the eye. But the altar was out of obedience to the Lord. And oftentimes man puts too much emphasis on the outward adornment rather than the inward reality. And we learn that from these altars. Here at the altar that Abraham would build, his first altar, we're told, in verse number seven, was built at Shechem. Now remember, an altar is a place where man did business with God. If you will, it's a place of spiritual transaction. It's where men uh respond to God and react to God and realize what God is doing in their lives. And so here Abraham builds his first altar Now the altar at Shechem, I want you to notice something special here. The Bible says the Lord appeared unto Abram. Now, back in the Ur of Chaldees where Abraham came from, God spoke to him and said, Get thee out. But the Bible never says he appeared to him. It was not until he got in the land of Canaan, here at Shechem, that the Lord appears. The Lord shows himself at this altar. The first recorded deed of Abraham in the new land, in the land of Canaan, was the building of an altar. You say, what does she mean? Well, it it when I first looked up the word, I thought, that's odd. What does that mean and what significance does it have? Because the word sheem means back or shoulder. It's a description of where this is located on the shoulder of a mountain. But it also carries with it the meaning of a place where you put a burden. If you're going to carry something heavy, God's given you shoulders that help you bear a load. And you put those things up on your on your shoulders. Maybe you remember as a little kid being carried around maybe on your dad's shoulders. Or maybe you've carried some heavy load. When you carry a pack, you put that thing on your back and that load is on your shoulders. And it's your shoulders that carry the load. Shechem is a place where burdens are laid down. Now think about that for a minute. Abraham builds an altar here, and I believe this is the altar of salvation. I believe this is the place where the burden of sin is laid on the altar of sacrifice. It's the altar of salvation. Now, friend, you and I don't have to go pile up stones and bow down and put something on it. But you and I can by faith turn to the Lord Jesus Christ and lay the burden of our sin on the altar of sacrifice and receive the gift of eternal life. The burden that Abraham, by the way, the burden that Abraham carried is the burden that every one of us carry. Everyone in this building knows what I'm talking about when I talk about the load of sin. And you know that load increases by time. The longer you live, the heavier it gets. The load increases. The reality is, whether you deny sin or whether you do not believe in sin, the reality is the load's present. There's a load you feel. And you know when the when the Bible goes on and Moses is given instructions to pass on to the Levitical priests Who will offer sacrifices in the tabernacle and then later down the road in the temple. He was he told them, God told them through Moses , that if a man sinned, he was to take a sacrifice, he was to take an animal that to could be offered to God, and he was to put his hand, or his hands rather, on the head of that sacrifice And he would confess his sin, and what was happening judicially, his guilt was being passed on to that sacrifice. And that sacrifice would take his sin and it would die in his place. And when that sacrifice was killed And offered up on the altar, much like the altars that Abraham built, that that bloodshed and that offering Would be something that God would accept in lieu of this man's life, and this man would be forgiven because a substitute died in his place. On Calvary, the Lord Jesus became my sacrifice. On Calvary, God the Father. I couldn't put my hands, but God the Father judicious, judicially put the sin of mankind on the person of his darling son, and the sins of the world were punished in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ so that man could be saved. My friend, the only hope I've got is Jesus Christ and His righteousness. He is my only plea. He's the one I'm trusting in. You think about this. When they built the Ark of the Covenant, when they built that that would be situated in the center of the tabernacle, later in the heart or the holy of holies of the temple. On that box, if you will, that represented God's presence among his people would be a covering. And on that covering would be something that's called the mercy seat. There the blood would be applied. Do you remember in the Old Testament when there were uh when the ark was brought up out of from the Philistines? And they opened the ark. Do you remember that? And they looked inside. Now to open the ark, you had to move the mercy seat out of the way. And now in that, we know what was in that ark. We know at least there were the the Ten Commandments, the tablet, I believe the broken Ten Commandments that Moses had made. And broken after seeing the people sin. But inside that box, inside that ark, was the broken commandments of God And when they moved that mercy seat away, do you know the Bible said there were 50,000, and I believe 700 people killed instantly? You say, what was that? That was the wrath of God unimpeded by the mercy seat falling down. And when I read that I thought, oh my, how thankful I am for the mercy seat. Because if the mercy seat, if Jesus didn't exist My soul would perish forever in hell. The wrath of God that I justly deserve would come raining down like fire out of heaven. But the reality is between me and God's wrath is a suffering, bleeding lamb, buried, risen again, living eternally, the very Son of God who saved me from my sin. This altar Abraham built was the place he put his burden down. On the shoulder of the mountain, on the shoulder of God, on the sacrifice, he laid the burden of sin down and walked away free. This generation don't read much and would benefit if they did. But if you have ever read Pilgrim's Progress, anybody you know what I'm talking about I know it's an old book and language that sometimes is a little difficult to understand, but Pilgrim talks about his salvation. And John Bunyan wrote this as an illustration of what it is to become a Christian. And he talked about how he made his way up Calvary. And when he got to the foot of the cross, he bowed down under that great load. And he said, when he bowed down at that before that cross, when he bowed down before the Lord Jesus, he said that load fell off his back. And he said it rolled down the hill and went into an empty grave, and he said, I see it no more. It's gone forever. That's what happens to every person who's saved. The moment you come to the Lord Jesus in faith, you lay the burden of your sin down. You've been trying to carry it. By the way, you can't do anything to situate that burden any softer. I I I'm gonna shift it a little. Well that's not gonna change it. It's still gonna be there. The first opportunity I had to go moose hunting in the highlands of Cape Britain, Nova Scotia We drove as far as we could drive, and then this fellow said, well, we're going to walk in a ways. I've learned, ask the definition for a ways. 'Cause a w uh uh uh a ways may be five miles, it may be ten miles, and we had to carry our stuff. We had to carry our tents, we were staying back there for a week And our rifles and all the things that we were were hunting with. And I learned in a hurry that I wasn't near as healthy as I thought I was. I thought I would handle that load. And here's what I discovered. I could shift it from this side to that, or I could pull it around in the front, but it was a load. And I also discovered that about 75 pounds after one mile and two miles feels like 150. And then three miles it multiplies again. And when you're four or five miles, it's it's worse. And it just kept growing and growing. And I thought, how like sin. You know what we try to do? We try to shift that load around and say, well, you know what? I'm going to be religious for a while. And all it does is it moves the position of the load. Well, I tell you what I'm going to do. This load of sin that I'm under, I'm going to try to compensate by doing good works. And yet all you're doing is shifting that load around. You're not getting rid of it. Do you know there's only one place to get rid of that load? It's at the feet of the Lord Jesus. He bore my sin. My Bible says he became sin, who knew no sin. Whose sin did he become? He became my sin. And he took my sin and he paid my sin debt. And I'm so glad that the Bible teaches me there is therefore now no condemnation To them which are in Christ Jesus. My friend, the burden of sin is removed at this altar of salvation. And it's not so much a place, it's a person. In Abraham's day it was a place so that you and I could discern what this really means. But in our day, it is a person. You can lose the burden of your sin sitting in your couch at home. You can be sitting there and believe on the Lord Jesus and be saved in a moment of time and that load of sin be lifted off. You can be saved on the side of the road. You can be saved in a multit I mean, listen, anywhere a man's willing. To call upon the God of heaven and receive the grace of God in the person of Jesus Christ, you can be saved in that spot. Brother Willie Mullins, the old Irishman, was a preacher of days gone by. He was laying in a hedge in Northern Ireland. Waiting to rob a home. He lived a very sinful life. He was a thief and a and just a drunkard, and he was just a vile man And yet before that night before he had been taken to a gospel meeting. And he said the preacher had sewed the Word of God in his heart. And he said all the night long he kept hearing over this verse of scripture in his mind. And he said as he lay there in the hedge waiting for darkness to fall, he said that verse came back. He thought, what a terrible place to be thinking about Bible. I'm thinking about robbing this house and and here the Bible's coming in my mind. And he said the longer he lay there, the stronger this conviction came on him and the scripture over and over and over And he said, laying there in that hedge, waiting to rob this home, he said, Lord, if you'll save somebody like me, I'll take you. And he said, the Lord saved me. You said, what did he do? He didn't rob that house. He got up and he went back and he went to the place he was staying. He was staying with a bunch of outlaws, just some thugs, and and he went in and they said, Willie, did you did you knock it off? And they s he said, No. And they said, Well, what's wrong? Did you lose your nerve? He said, No. And they just kept pushing him and pushing him, and finally he said, I asked Jesus to be my Savior. He thought for sure they'd pound him. He figured these guys bad. They'll beat him up and throw him out. And they had a they had a man, beautiful Irish name, Patty. Patty was the ringleader of this gang. And he stood up and he cursed those men and he said, If any of you touch Willie, you'll have to answer to me. You leave him alone. Come to find out, that man had a praying grandmother. And he knew what it was to be a believer. He wasn't saved himself, but he knew some that were. What I'm trying to say is that God can save you anywhere. Wherever you're willing to lay the burden of sin on the altar of sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ, he'll save you in a moment of time. But that wasn't the only altar he built. He built another altar. We read about it in verse number eight. It's the altar at Bethel. And I want you to notice something particular here, that here he called upon the name of the Lord. It says here that he called upon the name of the Lord. Now Bethel means the house of God. It is here that in Judges chapter 20 And verse number eighteen that they would erect the tabernacle, or they would situate the tabernacle here in Bethel. Bethel represents a place of fellowship. Abraham has been to the altar of salvation, and now he moves to the altar of fellowship. Now he can call on God. His sin has by the way, the only prayer God hears from a sinner is the be merciful to me. God's ears are stopped up to those that are lost in sin The cry that he hears of the lost is the cry for salvation. And Abraham could not get his prayers heard until he was saved. Now that he's saved, he calls on the name of God and has fellowship. It's here he holds communion with the Lord. You know, God's given the believer a rich a rich treasure in open access to the throne of grace. The Bible says, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. There is a place you can go. There is communion you can have. There's fellowship with the Lord. And this is not a small thing. Imagine that God would hear you, or God would hear me. Is it not a marvel that the God who said, Let there be light bends a listening ear when one of his little children calls Is it a wonder that that he has anything at all to do with us? And again, it's because of the altar of sacrifice, it's the altar of the Lord Jesus, it's because it's in him. The Bible says it's by Him we have access into this grace wherein we stand. It is by the Lord Jesus that we can approach the throne of God. When I bow and pray, I'm not giving God orders. When I bow and pray, I'm not making demands as if I deserve something. When I bow my head and pray, I'm coming as a child. Of my Almighty Father. And I'm crying out to him, my friend, listen, who holds my life and breath in his hands. And I'm to reverence him for who he is and all that he is. But listen, my friend, he he's opened a way. Hebrews describes it as a new and living way for you and I to approach God by And that's what we see here at the altar at Bethel. But I want you to notice something. You can leave this altar. The Bible says in Genesis chapter number 12. That there was a famine, verse 10, in the land, and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there. For the famine was grievous in the land. Now Egypt is always the top of the world. Nothing good came out of Egypt. Every time Israel went to Egypt, Abraham went to Egypt, anytime these people went there, it came at a cost. It represents a different way. It's always in disobedience. Abraham went down to Egypt in disobedience to God. It was there he would sully his character by telling lies. It was there that he would, again, pay the price of going in the opposite direction that God would have him go. But isn't it interesting when you come to chapter 13 and Abraham comes up out of Egypt? Where does he go The Bible says in verse 3 that he went on his journeys from the south, even to Bethel, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning between Bethel and Ai. Under the place of the altar which he had made there at the first. And there Abram called on the name of the Lord. You see, he left that place of fellowship and went down to Egypt. He didn't build altars down there because you can't fellowship with God in the world. He did not worship God or call on God down there. It wasn't until he got back to Bethel that he was able to call on the name of the Lord. It was once he got back to that place of fellowship. And can I say this? You'll get your fellowship with God back when you go back to where you left it to start with. That step of o of disobedience, that step of rebellion, that step when God said God said to you, Come this way, you said, No, I'm going that way. When you you said no, when God wanted you to say yes, I'm just saying that you'll get your fellowship back at Bethel. You come back to that. And my friend, this is an altar that ever must be tended. By the way, he didn't go back to Shechem. Because he didn't need salvation. He went back to Bethel because he needed to get his heart right with God. And when you are saved and you get out of fellowship with God, you don't have to be born again again. Because salvation's a work of God. It's a one work of grace as far as salvation is concerned. But my friend, there are many times I've got to get my heart right with the Lord. There are many times I have to do what 1 John 1 9 says and confess my sin. And because God is faithful and just to forgive me my sin and to cleanse me from all unrighteousness. Fellowship needed to be restored, not salvation recovered. So he comes back to Bethel and he gets his heart right with God. There's another altar. It's the altar of Hebron. We read about it in verse number 18 of Genesis 13. And the Bible says, then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar Now, Hebron in the Bible is the place of Caleb's inheritance. It's also the place where David will be crowned king. It is also the place where David had a sanctuary in 2 Samuel chapter 15. But the significance of it in Abraham's life is that it was built after his departure from Lot. Lot looked toward Sodom and said, That's the land I want. And Abraham stood waiting upon God for his choice. And you read on, and it tells you in those previous verses That the Lord said to him in verse fourteen, Abram, after that lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes and look from the place where thou art, northward, southward, eastward, and westward. For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed forever. You know what this altar represents? It's the altar of identification. Here Abraham identified with God. There's a separation that takes place between Abraham and Lot. And by the way, this name Hebron means association. It's a it's it it has the idea of making a league. It was here that Abraham recognized that that my inheritance is not so much a possession of land, but it's the possession of the Lord. It's here he identified himself as the Lord's own person. You might call this the altar of separation. He bore the mark from Hebron on of being one of God's people. He left it all to follow the Lord. And I say to you this morning: if you're saved, God's still calling you to come out. He's calling you to come out. He's calling you to come out. He's saying, come out, come out from that world and come out from that mindset. Come out from that rebellion and come out from those associations and come out and follow me. Come and I'll be your inheritance. I believe this demonstrates the positive aspect of separation. Because often we hear of what we gotta leave. But here is the one for whom we leave. It's not the matter that we're leaving everything behind. It's a matter that we're taking up with the Lord. It's not that we're abandoning all things enjoyable. We're we're trading them, if you'll let me say it like that. We're trading them for something far greater. The Bible says if you'll come out there In the book of Hebrews, come out from among them, be ye separate, saith the Lord, and I will receive you. It's a matter of being received into close fellowship or identification with the Lord And you know, it's high time this altar be rebuilt in some lives. This is an altar that needs to be revisited again. Because the drive of this age is let's everybody just fit. Let's just follow the crowd Let's all be like everybody else. My friend, listen. If you're saved by the grace of God, you can't be what you once were. He's so fixed you that you're not any good for this world. He's made you for a new world. My friend, why do we want to go back what to end to what God's pulled us out of? Here Abraham identifies. He said, Lord, Lot made his choice, but I'm letting you choose. And the Lord says, Well look around here. He said Lot may have gotten Sodom. But you look north and south and east and west, all that's yours. And furthermore, I'm yours. I'm yours. Your inheritance is me. And that's why Abraham wandered those years looking for that city, never finding it, but thank God one day he did. He was looking for that city. He was looking for his inheritance. And my friend, listen, take this world, take this world. It's temporary anyway. It's all passing. It'll all perish. i in the using, take it, take it. One day there's something eternal in the heavens awaiting the child of God. You're not home and this it in your home. Thank God we're just pilgrims passing through here. Hear the call of this altar. Hear the call of the Lord in your heart. Come out. Come out. One thing I don't ever want to do is be an encouragement to go back in. Puzzles me why churches will be places that foster such foolishness. It's fatal. It's fatal. It's like throwing lambs to wolves. It's a fatal and uh it's a fallacy, my friend, that that that we've got to be like the world to reach the world. That's the lie of the devil Who wants to be reached if if they if if a person has no evidence that they've first been reached themselves? I don't want a drowning man to save me. I want a swimming man to save me I want someone with strength. I don't I you know, I I don't want a weak, God forbid, but if I fall down these stairs, I promise you I won't do what Brother Coffee did. They tell me he was preaching up here one day and went head over heels off of this pulpit and fell and slipped and then got up on his feet and kept preaching, never stopped. That won't happen. That won't happen. I d I don't know what'll happen. I I'm not even gonna get close to try. But the reality is, my friend, I'm gonna need some help. And can I say this as best I know how I don't want some scrawny little fella to come try to get me up. Because I'm too much for scrawny. And I want somebody, I want a strong man to pick me up. I want someone with strength greater than my own to get me back up on my feet. I'm saying to you, there's a strong man, stronger than any one of us, and that is the Lord Jesus. And when he picks you up, he doesn't patch you up and put a band-aid on you, he makes a brand new creature out of you. Hear the call of this altar, come out of that world, come out and identify with the Lord Jesus Himself. Be an out-and-out Christian. You remember when that used to be something you heard in church Be an out and out Christian. Make no doubt about it. I hate the times that I've got to stand over a casket and try to give comfort, and I'm not sure myself. Because somebody lives so close to the world, it's hard to know were they saved or were they not. Vance Abner said you could put the average Christian and lost man in a paper bag, shake them up, and dump them out, and you couldn't tell them apart The reality is that's where we're at. And what we need are out and out Christians. I want to live and die in such a way that folks say he was the Lord's. There's no doubt about it. He belonged to God. He was saved by grace. And listen, my friend, you and I ought to live in such a way that there is no question marks. There are no wonderings. There are no no no no scratching the head and saying, I wonder, is he saved? Is he lost? Is he a Christian? Is he not a Christian? We ought to be out and out for the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what Abraham's doing here. He's out and out for the Lord. We come to the last altar. And oh, this was a costly one. He would build this in his old age. It's the altar at Moriah. In Genesis chapter 22, verse 9, the Bible says they came to the place which God had told him of And Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order and found Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. This is where Solomon would build the temple. We're told in 2 Chronicles 3:1. This place that God showed Abraham literally means chosen by Jehovah. Chosen by Jehovah. This altar at Moriah is a place that represents surrender in the life of a Christian. We've looked at the altar of salvation. You've got to start there. You can't surrender until you get saved. You can't go on in fellowship at the altar of Bethel until you come to the altar of Shechem and be born again. You cannot come to the altar at Hebron and identify with the Lord except you go first by Shechem. This is a progressive thing. And so we see him coming now to Moriah. And here he lays Isaac down. The dearest thing in Abraham's life is this young man named Isaac. He waited years. God said, Abraham, you'll have a son. Abraham, you'll have a son. Abraham, you'll have a son. Abraham got anxious and took matters of his own hand. He had a son, but it wasn't the promised son. And God said, Abraham, I'm going to give you a son. Hold on. And when time had passed for Abraham and Sarah to be able to have children, lo and behold, God gave them a son. And now God kept his word, and this young man grows. And don't you know he was the He was the prized possession of his father. I mean, Abraham had waited and prayed and trusted God and walked with God and he had looked for this boy. And now he held him in his arms. Now he watched him play at his feet. Now he saw him as he grew up to be a fine young man. And then God says, Abraham, take him and make him a sacrifice. By the way, you and I know the story, but Abraham didn't understand at the point at this point. God wasn't looking for Isaac. He wasn't interested in Isaac. He wanted Abraham. He wanted Abraham to surrender He wanted Abraham to give it all. He wanted Abraham to lay it all down and say, God, you're more important to me than Isaac. You're more important to me than anything. I'm going to lay my Isaac and I'm going to lay him on the altar because Lord, what you want me to do is more important than this young man to me. I surrender him. I surrender him to you. I wonder how many of us have been to this altar? How many of us have presented our bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service? How many of us have surrendered all and said, now Lord, I my life is not my own. It's yours. I'm going to put that Isaac down I've got my plans and dreams and thoughts, but Lord, I'm going to lay all that down and do just what it is you want me to do. I'm going to yield myself up to you. I'm going to give myself. I heard a man say this week. He said as a young man he surrendered. To be a missionary to a particular field. Only to find out, only to find out God didn't want him to go to that field. God wanted him to be surrendered, to be willing to go. And that explains some things for me because as a as an eighteen year old young man, I said, Lord, I I thought the Lord wanted me to go to Japan, and I surrendered to go to Japan. And I started preparing and getting ready, getting ready, getting ready, and then the Lord just PAM. And I was devastated. I said, Lord, but I'm willing to go. They need missionaries in Japan. And boy, all that came together. The reality is that God didn't want, it wasn't God wanted me in that location God wanted my heart in a position of saying, Lord, I'll go. Lord, whatever it is. Lord, whatever it is you want me to do. I had to lay my Isaac down. Now, Christian, you'll never be a joyful Christian until you lay your Isaac down. God's not going to call everybody. God may call you. God may call you to some place, and God may call you to some people. And God may call you in some direction, and God may put you in some service. But the fact is that God wants all of his people to be surrendered to his will and say, Lord, I'm going to live my life not for me, but for you. And that's what Moriah was all about. God wanted I Abraham to come fully surrendered before God. Now here's the beauty of that thing. Abraham came off that mountain, not with a dead son. But with a deeper understanding of his Lord. You remember he got up there and God said, Now, Abraham, you've not withheld your son, your only son Over there's a ram caught in the ficket. There's your sacrifice. There's a lot happening on that mountain. Because there on that mountain was the picture of Jesus. See, I was the Isaac and you were the Isaac and our lives are uh are sh should be we should give ourselves because of our sin, but the reality is that wouldn't do, it wouldn't pay the sin debt. But God's provided a lamb And and Abraham said it going up the mountain, and whether he understood it all or not, I don't know. But here's what I do know. He said these these words. Isaac, God will provide himself a lamb. And boy, some 2,000 years ago, God provided himself a lamb in the Lord Jesus, and he took my place on Calvary's Dark Hill. And I'm saying to you, God wants you to surrender your life. He wants you to yield your life. Have you laid your all? Lord, here it is. And understand this what God plans to do with it is far greater than what you could ever do with it. You and I say, Well, I I'm gonna do this, and I and I know, and and you know we manage and finagle and think, but I I've got news for you. All of that will fail. None of that'll come to anything of value. It's amazing. When that little boy took his lunch, five loaves and two fishes. When he took that little meager meal and put it in the Lord's hands, God multiplied it and fed 5,000 people. You and I, you know what we do? We hang on to it. You're not getting my lunch. And we sit around and chew on the crumbs. And the Lord says, give it to me, and there'll be a banquet. Give it to me and there'll be a feast Just lay it in my hands. What I can do for yeah, but but Lord, what w if you take it out of my hands, it won't be in my hands. How many listen? I think the greatest thing we learn in life is that nothing's in your hands Now some of you are under the illusion that it is, but it's not. It's not. It's not in your your life's not in your hands. My life is not in my hands. My children are not in my hands. As much as I love them and want to protect them, they're not in my hands. I can only do so much, but I'll tell you there's a God in heaven who can look after them. Hey, have you put it all? Have you put it all on the altar? The old hymn says, Is your all on the altar of sacrifice laid? Is it all surrendered before the Lord? Have you ever said, now Lord, I take my dreams and plans and ambitions and desires and I just lay them all out before you and you do with them what you will. Lord, here's my all. Abraham built this altar at Moriah. And this altar altered his life. A man was visiting England and heard the evangelist Henry Varley Make this statement. He said, it's yet to be seen what God could do through a man totally yielded to him. That man heard those words and it gripped his heart. He couldn't think of anything else. He said his whole time in England was worth hearing that one statement. He returned to the United States, and here he said, God, make me that man. I want to be that man that is totally yielded and surrendered to you. And Lord, if you could just take me and do something with me. That man is a man that many of you know by the name of D. L. Moody. D. L. Moody , it it I love to read some of the English take on his visits. They m the his his speech was contemptible. The Englishman thought he was such a a ruffian. He he couldn't speak clearly or plainly. He butchered English He he was not uh intelligent or quick in thought. They they they made all sorts of side remarks, but when he started preaching and hundreds started being saved. They said there's something to it. It must not be with oratory that we reach men. It must not be with eloquence of speech that we convince hearts. There must be something more, and I'll tell you what it is. When you put it all on the altar and God gets it and uses it, it may be a rough tool, but it'll get the job done. Used to work with a man and make fun of me. He had a hammer. That was the ugliest looking, messed up hammer. But he would always say at the end of the day, it gets the work done. And I'll tell you, our tools may not be that beautiful to look at, but if our all is surrendered, God will do something with it. I got a picture of old Uncle Buddy Robinson in front of this Bible. He's a constant reminder to me. Uncle Buddy was a Nazarene preacher, and he had a bad speech impediment. He stuttered. He had a cleft palate. He had real difficulty in communicating. But he said God called him to preach. And in that day he sat before the Nazarene tribunal and said to them, God has called me to preach. They said, There's no way. So so messed up that you it we just can't hear. It's hard to believe that God would do something like that with you. And he said, but he has, and they turned him away. So Uncle Buddy got him a little tent and he started traveling around the countryside and he'd put the tent up and preach. People got saved. Lots of people got saved. I read the story of a very wealthy family in Georgia, state of Georgia And Uncle Buddy knocked on their door and began to speak to them, and the lady of the house was was just offended that a man like him would be at her door and she s she she shooed him away. And he was so brokenhearted he sat down on her porch and started to cry. And she watched, she heard him out there weeping. She couldn't stand it, and she walked out there and she said, Sir, I'm sorry. What is it you wanted to say? And he said, I wanted to invite you to the tent with great difficulty. He got those words out. And she said, if you'll stop crying and just go on, I'll come. And being good to her words, she came. And you know what? God saved her there. God saved her and that family, and they became a very useful family for the Lord Jesus in that state. You know why? Because the man who everybody said couldn't did. Because he was surrendered. About 15 years into his ministry, many had been saved, and he was starting churches. Lots of churches. I don't know how many churches Uncle Buddy started in his lifetime, but God used him to start many. And then and the the the Nazarene council gathered and they said, Uncle Buddy, we'd like to um ordain you now. We'd like to bring you in, but we we we would like to acknowledge that God's hands on you, and Uncle Buddy said, Well, you wouldn't have nothing to do with me then, and I'm not too interested in having anything to do with you now, so have a good day. We'll go on serving the Lord. What I'm trying to say, my friend, is God wants your all. Don't discount your all as not enough. It's enough If it's your all, it's enough. It's exactly what he's looking for. And he'll take whatever weakness and whatever inability and whatever deficiency And he'll use it in ways that you'll never imagine he could. Why? Because he's God and He gets all the glory. Have you been to that altar of surrender? Have you put it all? Said, Lord, here I am. Sitting here this morning, there may be people who need to be saved. You need to come to that first altar at Shechem. And my friend, again, it's not so much the place. You can be saved in this altar. You can be saved on that pew. You can be saved in your pew. You can be saved listening to this broadcast. The fact is that you come to the Lord Jesus by faith. Christ died for your sin, according to the Scripture. He was buried and he rose again the third day. And my friend, he gives salvation to whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. There is not a plea for mercy that's ignored by our gracious Father. He'll save you, friend. He'll save you. Some of you need to go back to Bethel. You've wandered off into your Egypt. It's time to get back in fellowship with God. And get your heart where it needs to be. It may be that you need to come to that altar of identification and come out like the Lord says. There's things God's saying, hey, leave that alone. It mars my name. It brings my testimony down. It makes it doesn't become a believer, and he's saying, come out. And it may be God's calling you to that altar of Moriah. The place of surrender where you just say, Lord, I give it all. Here am I. Which altar needs to alter your life here this morning? May the Lord help us to let him have his way with us. Would you stand with me please, Brother Dow