I'm going to invite you to take God's word and go with me to Psalm 33. Psalm 33. And I'm going to read this psalm in its entirety. There are 22 verses in the psalm. My text this evening comes out of verse number 12, which states, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. And the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. But the Psalm reads, the entire Psalm, Psalm 33, and I invite you to stand with me, please. We honor the reading of God's Word. Psalm 33 states, rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with harp. Sing unto him with the psalter and an instrument of ten strings. Sing unto him a new song. Play skillfully with a loud noise. For the word of the Lord is right, and all his works are done in truth. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. He gathereth the waters of the sea together as in heap. He layeth up the depth in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spake and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the faults of his heart to all generations Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. The Lord looketh from heaven, he beholdeth all the sons of men. From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth. He fashioneth their hearts alike. He considereth all their works. There is no king save but a multitude of an host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength, and horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy, to deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive in famine. Our soul waiteth for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our hearts shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name. Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us according as we hope in thee. I want to preach, as I said earlier, with the help of the Lord, on America. Please come back to God. In Psalm 33, 12, we read about this blessed nation. A blessed nation. And I know we're talking about Israel. We're referring to the nation of Israel. That's who David is writing about. But I do believe that any nation whose God is the Lord can call themselves a blessed nation. And it is our desire to be such. Let's have a word of prayer and we'll begin our study. Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you again for the privilege that we have to be in your house. And we stand, O Lord, in this place where we need thee. Lord, we need to hear from heaven, both the preacher and the hearer. And Lord, I pray that you will do the work that's needed in all of our hearts for your great glory and our eternal good. Lord, help me, please. Hide me behind the cross and And Lord, help me to lift up the Lord Jesus. And Lord, help me in these moments that I have to make much of the Lord Jesus. Because we know, Lord, that you're the answer. I pray, Father, that you will just help the hearer open their hearts and their minds to hear and their ears to hear the Spirit of God. And Father, have your way, and we'll praise you for what you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I want to preach tonight as if I had the ear of the nation. I know I don't. I'm uh like the old country preacher who sat down in front of the radio microphone and when he was told that he was on air he said hello world. I know the world's not listening. I I know I only have the handful of of ears that hear But I do want to preach as if I did, because as a nation we need to come back to God. Uh someone said this very clearly, we've got to go back before we go under. The answer, but by the way, all our problems weren't solved uh in the election. We in fact very few of them were addressed. We're still a nation who today killed a multitude of little babies, took their lives. We're still a nation that is that is elevating godlessness, worshiping uh people that are vile and filthy. and going down a very wrong path. But in this text I I find the the a statement here that that our Lord makes very clear that blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. The nation of Israel was really the only theocracy that ever existed on this earth. The nation of Israel operated for many a year, in fact many a century, under the rule and the leadership of the God of heaven. And they were a nation who truly could say, we're a blessed nation because God is our Lord. We are a nation that is blessed of God. And, you know, when we look back over our history, regardless of the attempts to rewrite it, The multitude of people and the majority of the people who made up the founders of this great country were a people who had a heart to be a nation whose God is the Lord. It was the desire of many that this land be a land where we're free to worship and free to preach the gospel. Free to publish the word. And it it bothers me today that we don't read the real sources of history And we listen to the new uh information that's given out. And there are a lot of Christians who really don't believe that God had his hand in the starting of this country. My advice to you would simply to be go back and read as old a history books as you can find. Go back and read some information that was that that that was pinned down before we were worried about being politically correct. and worried about fitting in among all the multitude of the countries and realized there were some some valiant people who said, we need a place that that we can be free to worship God. And a place where we're free to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and point men and women to him. Now we may not agree with everything they believe, but the basic premise of what they believed is the same that you and I stand upon here today. But as we think about a blessed nation, how do we get back to that place? How do we become a nation who can say once more, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Well, it starts with the people. It starts with the people. Did you notice in the Psalm, in verse number one, it says, Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous. The people that are spoken of here have a position of righteousness. Can I remind you that the only righteous people alive, the only people with righteousness today are people who are saved by the grace of God. We are not righteous by what we do. We are not righteous with whom we affiliate or by whom we affiliate. We are righteous because we have believed on the Lord Jesus Christ and He has given us His righteousness. If you're saved, you can claim the righteousness of Jesus Christ. The wonder and miracle of salvation is that God imputes righteousness to people who believe on his son. He gives what you do not have or cannot get any other way simply through the Lord Jesus Christ. Isn't that a mercy And we ought to praise God today, if you're saved, that you can say, I'm righteous, not in a boastful way, but we can simply say we are righteous because of what Jesus Christ has done for us. I really believe that America needs to be evangelized again. America needs to be reached with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We need to saturate our country once more with the gospel. You say, well, we've got gospel preachers in many places. Yes, we do. But we've got many, many more places that do not have gospel preaching. We need to go back to understanding that the answer The answer for our country has never been wrapped up in a political party. It has never been wrapped up in in any movement, if you will, of man. But the answer is in the Lord Jesus. He's the answer tonight. And listen, the remedy for a nation that is morally bankrupt is to get righteousness which can only come from the Lord. And that righteousness is found in Jesus Christ. So we need to be telling people about the Lord and pointing men and women to Jesus Christ and praying for the salvation of our fellow countrymen because that he's the answer for what ails us in this late hour. I see a people that are righteous here. And not only do I see a people who are righteous, but I see that their praise is mentioned. Notice what he says: for praise is comely for the upright. And he goes on to talk about, praise the Lord with harp, sing unto him with psalter and an instrument of ten strings, sing unto him a new song, play skillfully with a loud noise. You say, what's that all about? Here's what it's all about. Praise is the act of giving credit where credit is due. Praise is just simply saying, Lord, this is you. All of this, it's you. This has come from you, this is because of you, and we're recognizing that and giving you the glory. Wouldn't it be something if the advances that have been made in the last, say, five decades in this country, somebody would stand up and publicly say, Lord, that was you? I want to thank you for the thinking ability that you've given some human beings. I want to thank you for the technology that you have blessed us with. I want to thank you for the things you've done. That's what praise is all about. It's about giving God the glory that his holy name's worth. And so we see not only a righteous people, but a people of praise who are giving God the credit. How like man You know, we looked at Nebuchadnezzar. I can't remember if it was Wednesday or Sunday, last Sunday night. My days run together, it seemed like Seems like we'll be done here Sunday, it'll be Wednesday again. We'll be done Wednesday, it'll be Sunday again. But whatever night it was that we looked at Nebuchadnezzar You know, he stood and looked over Babylon, and he had been told already that God had made him a great king, that God had made him a place of great influence, and God had blessed And given him that position of great power. And yet he stood with his pride-filled heart and said, Isn't this the great Babylon? That I have built? Isn't this the great country that I'm responsible for? And you know the rest of the story. But what I'm trying to say is that as we look at this people, here is a people that understand where real blessings come from. Who understand that every good and every perfect gift comes from above. Folks, we live in probably one of the most prosperous countries in the world And we enjoy privileges that the majority of this world long to know just a little whisker of or a little taste of. And we have all of these things, and yet who are we thanking for them? Who are we saying to you be the credit? Who are we praising tonight? Oh, we ought to be praising the Lord. The Bible says praise is comely for the upright. Giving God the credit and the glory that is due his wonderful name. And let me just stop right here and say it's fitting for a child of God to praise the Lord. I think sometimes we get a little too stuffy in this department of life. And we excuse our deadness but by our personality, or we excuse Our disobedience by, well, that's just me, when God tells us, let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. He's worthy of our praise. And we ought to be careful to give him the credit and give him the glory for all that he has done. There have been great people in this country in the past who have said, this is the work of God. This is what the Lord has done. And they have been not careful, not careful, nor backward, nor bashful whatsoever to stand and say, the Lord has done these things. The Lord has wrought these victories, the Lord has protected us, the Lord has prospered us, the Lord has blessed us Go back a hundred years, 150 years, and read some of the statements made by our former presidents. And read how they give God the glory for giving us food to eat. And how they give God the glory for protection in battle, for bringing victory and deliverance. And then fast forward to today and think about the sad uproar that would come across this land if someone stood up as an elected official And said, listen, I just want to stop and say thank you to the Lord for what he's done. And I'll tell you, people would come out of the four corners of this country saying, you know, we shouldn't talk like that. We might make somebody feel like they don't belong. I'm saying, my dear friend, somebody needs to feel like God and God alone deserves the glory for all the good things that He's done. Do you realize how much of this country tonight is suffering from either the floods or drought or wildfires and There is a large swath of our country that's really suffering what man would say from natural disaster. And I don't believe in natural disaster. I believe in a sovereign God who orders the weather, the wind, and all that is involved with that. And I think we need to wake up America and come back to God and start giving him the credit. We can produce all of the g genetically modified foods we want and try to feed multitudes on sparse pieces of ground, but at the end of the day that food you put in your belly You ought to give God the credit because He's the one that gave it to you. And my friend, the blessings we enjoy to God be the glory. Praise is comely for the upright. Not only do I see a people in their position, I see a people in their praise, but I see people with the proper attitude. Would you skip down just for sake of time to verse number eight? The Bible says, Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe in Him. That's the proper attitude. May the Lord help us as a nation to get back to God so that we recognize there's one who is awesome. Just one. There's one who who is worthy of that title of saying, I stand in awe of you. There's only one. The Bible says here very clearly, let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. Have you ever watched the sunrise and thought the Lord ordered that? Or seen a sunset and looked at the brilliant painting that God puts on the earth before he puts it to bed and think that God did that? Have you ever seen the power of a thunderstorm, the lightning, and hear the rumbling of the thunder and think, my God did that? My God is doing that? Have you ever stopped and thought of the wonder it is that He saved a wretch like you that he washed your old sin away and made your dirty heart clean and made you a new creature and just stood in awe of him Have you ever opened your Bible and read it and said, Lord, I need something here this morning. If you don't give me something, Lord, I just don't think I can go on. And you get to reading it and all of a sudden God gives you something. You might have read that passage a hundred times, but here God comes and he makes it fresh and it's just like a a a home cooked meal for your soul. And you know what? That ought to make you stand in awe of him and say, God, you did that. Have you ever thought about Jesus hanging on the cross, bearing your sin debt, thinking about the reality that all of my sin was placed on him, he paid my debt in full, and he took that burden away? And you look at that cross and you think about the fact that my sins are gone. I'm no longer condemned. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus Have you ever stood at the cross and just stood in awe of him that he would do such a thing for you? Have you ever lingered around the empty tomb and looked back and said, Oh, he's not there? Death couldn't hold him, it could not defeat him, corruption could not overcome him. He got up on the third appointed morning, he's alive, he lives, hallelujah, he's alive forevermore. Have you ever just stood in awe of the Lord? Oh, that's the attitude we need. I'm afraid sometimes we're too caught up in what man can do, and we have forgotten what God has already done. We get awful impressed and I'll tell you, man can do some pretty amazing things. There's some things that have happened in the past we say, how in the world did that happen? How could uh uh uh a mere man do accomplish something like that? But I'm telling you, it is nothing in comparison to what our Lord can do. You know, in isn't it a wonder some of you are old enough to remember days before the internet. Do you remember that? Do you remember when you didn't have cell phones? Anybody remember that? And you know, you d do you remember those days when, I I don't know, were we primitive? Is that what you'd call us? I don't know. But you remember those days when we did not have that technology? And now I I can stand right here in this pulpit, I can send a message, it can go around the world hardly before I finish a sentence And somebody on the other end of the earth can open their device and there's that message straight from me. And that to me that's a that's an awesome thing. That's an amazing thing. We can communicate with missionaries in far-flung places and talk to them and communicate, encourage them, and be a blessing to them, get reports from them, all in just the click of the finger. But I want to remind you that don't impress God. Our God stepped out into nothing, said, Let there be light. There was light. He took man and formed him out of the dust of the earth and gave him the kiss of heaven and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. I don't care how many experiments they do in some far-off lab, there is there will never be in the abilities of man to produce life, only God can give it. God must give life. God is the author of life, and by the way, he is the ruler over death. That's all in his hands. And may I remind you that as we look at the Lord, we need to have an attitude. Oftentimes we spend too much time looking at man's accomplishments Rather than contemplating God's awesome work, I do believe that technology is a blessing. But it's a double-edged sword. It's a curse. There's a curse in technology. Because it enraptures our thinking with man-centric ideas. Our eyes are on men. Had a friend of mine recently say, he said, look, just don't send me anything except personal message. He said, I'm tired of videos, I'm tired of all this. He said, I'm just bombarded by so many people and I can't take anymore. He said, if you need a friend, if you need help, if you need prayer, if you need something, just just reach out. But he said, don't send me anything else. And I don't I think there's some people drowning tonight and they don't even know it. They're drowning in this use of technology. I mean they live, they live glued to that thing. And it's just turned all of our thoughts and all of our attention on something that's built around man. What's what man's doing, what your neighbor's doing. By the way, I really don't care what you had for supper. I love you, but the Lord bless you. It's likely going to be something that I can't eat, not good for me, so please don't send me a picture. All it does is make me hungry. And I don't need to be any more than already am. Amen. Just let me be. But but but you know something? We're we're so absorbed. I I'm just trying to help us tonight. There is a God in heaven who's more awesome than anything you can imagine. There is a God that is so great and mighty that the very angels bow their heads before him and are in awe of the wonder of his mercy and grace. They've never tasted it They've never been redeemed, but they look at you, washed in his blood, saved by his grace, and maybe even wonder why we're not so awestruck as they are Those angels that encircle the throne of God cover their eyes because they're in the presence of one who's so fiercely holy they cannot look upon him. And my friend, we've got to get back to the reality that, oh, men can do a lot of things, but there are some things only God can do. And God alone is worthy of your heart being bowed in awe of Him. So I see a people. God fill our nation with such people. God fill our churches with such people. God give us a people who are righteous, a people who recognize that God alone is worthy of the glory and give him praise. God fill our nation with people with a proper attitude of awe towards the Lord. You know, as I've studied Revival, I've come to this conclusion. That revival is just a return of an awareness of the majesty of God. Men just get mesmerized, if I can use that word, at who God is. They're in awe. That a great God would make such a great sacrifice to save such great sinners for his great glory. And they're humbled by that. They're in awe of that. They're struck by the wonder of it all. And there's a melting of that hard, proud heart. Oh, that God would give our nation a host of such peoples. That God would give Maranatha a host of such people. That God would raise up a multitude of individuals whose hearts are humbled at the thought of holy God dying for sinful man. Who are struck with an awe of the the greatness and the majesty of the God of heaven You know, sometimes when you see a great thing, it makes such an impression on you that you're just sort of awestruck by it. I mean, you're just like, wow. That's an amazing thing. I remember the first time I saw the ocean, I was shocked. You know, I'd never seen a pond that big. It was an amazing thing. I'm in my mid-teens before I ever saw the ocean. And I remember looking at that and thinking, I wonder where that thing ends. Look at all that water and look at look at the majesty of that thing and and and look at those waves and I I remember for for days I I'm just a teenager, I'd stand out there on the balcony there in South Carolina and look and I was like I'm just amazed at that. I never seen anything like that. Oh, we had little Lake Julian and we had a little Davison River and we had some lakes around that part of the world, but I'll tell you you could see always the other end. And and and they didn't have the power that this thing had. And and it it just it it did something to me for days. I was just amazed by that that great body of water. But if we could just get one glimpse of him. Oh. Listen, everybody in the Bible who saw him were changed. They were never the same. John the revelator, my friend, when he saw the Lord, he was never the same man. He had an image burned on his pupils and an awe that was burned on his heart that he never got over. Peter even wrote later, he said, or rather John wrote earlier, John said, our hands have handled this word of life. And the the structure of that sentence in 1 John Is that what we've seen and what we've heard and what we've handled is still impacting us today. I'm still struck by what I saw. I'm still struck by what I heard. I'm still struck by what I handled And oh that we could get back to a place. And I'll tell you when we'll get back there. We'll get back there when we get back here. When we get back here. That leads me to my second point. I want you to see, as we think about America, please come back to God, not only the people, but the promises. Look in verse number four. For the word of the Lord is right. That's the promises. The word of the Lord is right. Here's an authority for us, church. Here is an authority. You know, I hear a lot of people say we need to get the Bible back in school. I'll tell you where we need to get the Bible back. We need to get it back in our church. We need to get the Bible back in our pulpits We need to get the Bible back in the house of God. Oh, you say, preacher, you're silly. No, I'm not silly. You listen to a lot of preaching and and I try to listen to a lot of preaching. I'm thankful for that part of technology And I'm bothered by the reality that so much preaching is just glorified storytelling. And so much preaching is void of the scriptures. It's void of the truth. It's full of opinion. It's often full of enthusiasm. It's full of moving, compelling, and even tear-jerking uh stories. But where is the word of God? The word of the Lord is right. This is the only thing right. And my friend, we need to get the Bible back in our churches I think we would have revival if preachers would determine to preach the word. Paul told Timothy, preach the word. Don't preach about it. Don't preach around it. Just simply preach the word. Preach what the Bible says. Preach when it's Amen. Preach when it's O me. Just preach what the Bible says. Why? Because it's right. The word of the Lord is right. You don't have to back up and reframe your theology if you're preaching the word. Because the word 's right. The Bible don't change with the culture and it don't change with the wind. It is right. It always has been right and it always will be right. Preach the word. We need to get the word back in our churches. And you say, well, preacher, that's your job. We're off the hook. You just tear yourself up and we'll just sit here and listen. But let me say something to you, dear brother and sister. God's people need to have an appetite for the word. Uh there's a there is a great deal of churches that'd be emptied out if the preacher opened his Bible and just shuck corn. Because they don't want to hear it. The Bible says in the last days they'll heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. And they'll be turned aside from the truth unto fables. And so the truth of the matter is a lot of people don't want the word, but they need the word. And I'm saying that if we're going to come back to God, America , We've got to get back to the Bible, the promises of His Word, and get back to the authority. We live in such an age that really nobody's right in everybody's opinion. Most people say, well, there's really no truth. It's your truth. I had a man tell me recently, he said, that's your truth. I said, it's not my truth. It was around a long time before I came on this earth. It's the truth of God. And listen, this isn't your truth or my truth, this isn't Baptist truth or or or some other religious truth. This is Bible truth. And Bible truth is just Bible truth. That's what it is. It's truth. And we need to get back to that sense of authority that this is, listen, we're hurting our little children. We're hurting our little children, telling them there's nothing right or wrong. We're tearing out from under them the stability that mentally and emotionally keeps an individual by saying, hey, this is right and this is wrong. And we're we're we're destroying their little minds. Do you do you realize that there is a big percentage of our children that are medicated just to get by? They're medicated because of nervous disorders and various problems. And it's not because they have a physiological issue, it is because that they live, have been taught that there's nothing certain in this world, that there's nothing true, there's nothing right, there's nothing wrong. Well, who would have ever dreamed that if you took two plus two and wrote five, that you s you're you're not wrong You say, Preacher, what are you talking about? I'm talking about the average public school system and they're teaching them math. That you really never can come to a definite conclusion Sort of reminds me of those folks that are always looking for the truth but not finding it, never getting to the knowledge of the truth. They're always searching and always looking. And church, I'm just saying we've got to get back to an authority. And your opinion and my opinion aren't on the list. The word of the Lord is right. We got to go back to the word of the Lord. Not only is it an authority, but look at its ability. Verse 6, by the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. That's the ability of the word. Folks, that's power. This book has power. One of the reasons the devil hates it is because it's a powerful book. The Word of God is a powerful thing. And and listen, it has great ability. This isn't a book of fables. This isn't a storybook. Can I say something to our Sunday school teachers? Don't tell your children stories. Tell them Bible accounts. Don't paint the word of God as if it's a little another fairy tale book like Mother Goose or something like that. You let them know that this is the Bible record. This is what God said. This is a voice of authority. This book has power. He tells us that it was by his word he made the heavens. If you don't think God's book's powerful, when you go out, well, it's cloudy tonight, I reckon, but if it wasn't cloudy tonight, after we left church, you could look up into heaven and see all the stars and know his word did that. His word did that. Brother Tim talked about the the his salvation and the testimony of his salvation. And can I remind you, his word did that? We're born again by the incorruptible seed of the Word of God. His Word did that. I believe when revival comes, His Word does that It'll be his word that does that. You'll never sing up a revival. I love singing But you'll never sing up re Oh, you'll sing up some tears, you might sing up some shouts, you might sing up some some good feelings, but you'll never sing up a revival. I'll tell you what, this book will bring one This book has great power. There's power in this Bible. Has it not fed your soul when you were hungry? Has it not supported you when you were weak? Has it not been a staff you could lean on, and a sword you could fight with, and a shield that you could beat off hell with? That's what God's word does. It has power. When Jesus faced the devil, he didn't debate him. He didn't get into some long, lengthy argument. He just said, it is written. Three times he said it, it is written, it is written, it is written, and finally old Slowfoot got the the notion and understood it is written, and when it is written, he gets to walking. Because he can't stand what is written. That's the power of God's word. You know not only will the Bible put some things in you, but it'll keep some things from you. This book has great power to keep things from you. And listen, you need to use the Word of God. It's ability. I'm talking about the promises. And then we see finally its application here. Notice the application, verse 5. The Bible says he loveth righteousness and judgment. Do you know what he's talking about here? He's saying, just take the Bible and put it into practice. Just put it into practice. Do you know what would happen if we took what this said and started doing it? I said we. Do you know there's folks bowed up and hold grudges And they're not right with God, and they're not right with people. And yet my Bible says, be ye kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another. You know what that do? Most Baptist churches I know have have grown by division Get in a fuss here. That's why the mountains are full of churches. There weren't great evangelistic pushes, they great big old fights, and people get mad and say, I'll go down here and start me a church I figure it's the same here. I just I I didn't like that. I'll just go start my own. We'll do it our way. Well go ahead and do it your way, but if you're not right, you're just not right. I'm saying, my friend, that if we'll just take the Bible and put it to practice and and we'll put it to use, our homes are in chaos today because we don't live by the Bible. There's no order in our homes. You know why? Because there's no head in the home. God did not make that precious wife the head of the house. He made the husband. And we we live in such a a messed up world That even in a good church like this you can feel the tension when you say something like that. You can you can feel the fierceness of that women's lib attitude come strolling forward like a green fog. You know why? Because we've gotten so indoctrinated by this sin cursed world that we think that that's archaic, that's out of date. It's not out of date, it's God's way. It's God's order. God set your home up like that. And your home's gonna be chaos till it's got one head. Listen, nothing with two heads. You know what that is? That's a freak. God meant for your home to be led by that husband. God put that precious wife there to be cherished and loved and to be honored. God said to do that. God gave those children in a place of submission. They're to be in submission to their parents. We need to get back to that order in our homes. Our homes are in chaos because children are raised and they have no regard for authority. Don't believe they'll respect a policeman if they won't respect you. I gotta confess something. I find it hard to go out in public and watch children act like brats. I understand things my dad used to say that I don't under that I didn't understand back then And you feel like taking not the little child but saying, hey, mom, dad, can I talk to you? Do you do you know who you are? You're their parents. That means you tell them what to do. They don't spit their food back at you. You tell them you're eating this whether you like it or not. Listen, that's applying the Bible. That's just taking this book. Spare the rob, spoil the child. God designed children with the perfect spot for correction. God made you that way Oh, I know it don't fly with today's society, but listen, there'd be a whole lot less of them locked up in jail if some mama and daddy took a hold of their attitude and corrected it every once in a while. I shudder to think. I honestly shudder to think what kind of person I'd be had I not spent so much time in the woodshed. I'm pretty no account like it is, but I'll tell you I'd be way far worse had I not made so many trips to the woodshed. I often contemplated putting a little cot in there because I lived down there so much. And we had a literal woodshed, actually, we did. We had a place all dad would do is nod his head and I was like, oh nod again. Here we go, and we'd make a little trip. Honest to goodness, the grass was wore bare in our backyard to that spot After I came into the family. I think my brother started it, but anyway. I'm just saying I thank God. I wish my daddy was alive. I'd say thank you, Daddy. I appreciate all the times you got my face. Tune me up. I remember saying a bad word one time. One time I I remember that. I'm not gonna tell you what my daddy did. If I did, some of you think he's awful. But I remember doing that, and and I thank God for that. I I I'm never tempted Without thinking. What dad did that day. I was fifteen years old. And I remember I I'll never forget it. I'll as long as I live. I'm I'm so glad I had a daddy like that. I'm glad I had a mother that would tune me up if I needed to be tuned up. I knew she loved me. She wasn't interested in being my friend. She was my mama. And we need a generation that needs to get over trying to be your kids' friends. Start being their mom and daddy again. And take this old Bible and apply it. We'd be a whole lot better off if we'd shut that television off at night and open this book and read it together. Get on our knees as a family and just seek God. Say, Lord, we need some help. We need some help. I'm telling you, there's answers here. There's answers in this old book. America, please come back to God. Come back to your Bible. We need our country filled with the Word of God again. We need the Bible in every home. It needs to be the rule book for how to raise children. It needs to be the manual of how to have church. It needs to be the blueprint of how to build your life. It needs to be the instructions that we follow when we're asking questions and don't know what to do. He knows the way. He shows the way. This Bible gives the way. It's a lamp under my feet and a light under my path. There's a blessing in applying his word. Oh, what a different nation. But I'd say this, what a different church If we were ruled by the Bible. You know every man has this responsibility to bow to the authority of God's word. I'm given the task to be your shepherd, your pastor. But there's an authority that trumps my opinion every time. My ideas and my thoughts. Everything has to be subservient To thus saith the Lord. Oh, listen, I see the promises, and then quickly let me say this. I see a protection. Notice in verse 10, the Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. You know, when this nation is a people and they lay hold of the promise, there is a protection that God grants I see here an intervention, God gets he gets involved. I love the fact that he brings the counsel of the heathen to naught. He takes all their schemes and plans and he messes them up real good. He takes all their devices and he turns them back on their own head. He undo listen, only God can do that, church. Some of the the wonders I like to read about are uh about the revolution, the American Revolution, and how how God intervened and You can see God messing up the plans of the enemy to get his people. God does that. And God will do that for you, and he'll do that for me. See, we we live in a world where we have battles, but we have a God who will intervene Not only do I see his intervention, but you'll see in verses 16 to 18 his inspection. What's he looking at? Well look, it says that he looks from hit from the place of his habitation, verse 14, he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth. What's he looking for? Verse 18, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. God's looking for a people that are looking to God. God's looking for men and women who are saying, now Lord, we know we're no match for our enemies, but we're looking to you. Lord, will you show us mercy? Old Hezekiah, I still love that account when Hezekiah spread the letter from the Assyrians and he said, Lord, we're just a little bitty bunch of people. They're a great big multitude. They're a fierce army. We don't know what to do, but our eyes are on you. 185,000 are dead before the sun rises. You know why? Because they were looking to God for mercy. And I'm telling you, my friend, we have got a God who will protect us. You say, but we live in a wicked world, yeah, and hang on, it's gonna get more wicked. You say, but I'm uh there's danger on every hand, and I really believe it. I I think it's pretty much everywhere like that now. Danger on every hand. But I'm glad there is a God in heaven who's looking for people who are looking to him for mercy, who's able to protect his own. And then I see an invocation. You know this thing ends with a prayer. Verse 22 Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, according as we hope in thee. That's a fitting prayer for a failing nation. Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us. Lord, we don't deserve this, but show us mercy. Lord, we sure want mercy from you. America, please come back to God and cry out for mercy. Cry out to the Lord for this mercy. God is able to grant it. He said, Oh Lord, let thy mercy be upon us according as we hope in Thee. Lord, we're trusting in Thee. We're looking to Thee. We know that you have a storehouse of mercy that's inexhaustible because you refresh it every morning. We know that our greatest need is for mercy from above. We don't want what we deserve, God, because we deserve hell, but we want mercy. God, please show us mercy It is an invocation, a prayer, a pleading with God. God, please have mercy. There's no beating of the chest. There's no stroking of the spiritual suspenders. Saying we're okay, we're rich, we're increased with goods, we have need of nothing. This is a brokenness. This is a uh a laying out before the Lord. Oh God, please, we need mercy And church, if we could just see where we are and how far we've come and what shape we're in, I think we would in a unified voice say, Oh God, have mercy. God have mercy on us as a nation. God have mercy on my little family. God have mercy upon me. Oh, listen, there is a God in heaven who responds to pleas for mercy. I'm going to tell you something. You cannot show me one place where a cry for mercy got ignored. All through the Bible. Mercy, Lord. Remember those ten lepers? Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on us. Go show yourself to the priests. They turn and go away. We're healed. He healed us. Blind Bartimaeus, have mercy. Man on the cross beside Jesus, have mercy. The publican, have mercy, have mercy. What does God do when man cries for mercy? God moves his direction. God shows him mercy. Church family, can I urge you tonight make mercy the top of your prayer list? Put it right in big bold letters, mercy. Pray to God for his mercies. Oh, listen, his mercies are such wonderful things to enjoy. The mercies of God, as I've said already, are new every morning. There's mercy that saves us, according to Titus. There's mercy that keeps us. There's mercy that provides. There's mercy that protects. There's mercy that causes us to prosper. God's mercies. Oh, how we need the mercy of God. America, we need to wake up and just come back to God. Hosea Said this, Come, let us return unto the Lord. For he hath torn and he will heal us. He hath smitten and he will bind us up. That's mercy. Lord, we've sinned and made a mess. I know my child. Just come home. I'll show you mercy. I've wasted my substance on riotous living. I know, my child. Come home. I got mercy for you. I've got mercy. I'd say to you, if you're lost in this building or you're listening to this broadcast and you've never been saved, you say, Preacher, is there mercy for me? You better believe there's mercy for you. There's mercy that can save you on the spot if you'll cry out for it. There's mercy, my friend, you say, but I'm I I I knew the Lord and I walk with the Lord, but I've gotten far, far away. My heart's cold, my eyes are dry, my spirit's hard, my Bible's closed. Let me say to you, my friend, there's mercy for you. There's mercy. You cry out for it. There's mercy to be had. You weary Christian looking for God to do something from heaven. There's mercy for that. There's mercy for that wayward son and daughter. There's mercy for this nation that seems to be in a moral tailspin. There's mercies to be had. But old friend, there's mercies never given unless they're requested. Let's be a people who are saying, God, show us mercy. Show Maranatha mercy. Show this church mercy. Show this community mercy. Keep the light on around here, Lord. Keep the gospel light shining bright till Jesus comes. Show us mercy. Show us mercy, O God, and visit this vine. It's dry and it's it's crumbly and it's it's crispy, it lacks water, it lacks moisture, it lacks life. Oh God, would you show us mercy and come visit this vine? I believe God delights in hearing that sort of thing. And I believe God will do it. I believe God will do it. Let's cry out to him for mercy. America, please come back to God. People come back to God. Come back to the promises of God. Come back under the great umbrella of his protection. We're honoring our veterans. I thank God for everyone. My heart is full of appreciation for that great number that stood across this sanctuary this morning. and stated their s their rank their their service, their branch of service and stated the years. My it I don't know if you paid attention, but it went from present all the way back to I believe fifty two. That's a long time, boy. And we had seemingly a representative through all of that. What a joy. But I'm going to tell you something. We don't have the military might to protect us from what the devil wants to do. There are some battles you don't fight with tanks and guns. There are battles that are only in his hands. But oh, we are more than conquerors through him that loved us and gave himself for us. Oh, may God help us. May God have mercy on America. And may God have mercy on this, on us as a people, this church. And may God be pleased to look our way in a merciful way. Once again, I'm going to invite you to stand. I'm not going to have a formal invitation. I want to have an altar of prayer.