And I want you to take your Bibles to turn with me to Acts chapter number three. Acts chapter number three. And I'm going to read a passage of scripture and bring a message this morning that perhaps is a little different than what I normally preach on a Sunday morning. But it is a message I believe the Lord's given me, so I'm going to preach what He's put in my heart. In Acts chapter number three, when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand once more. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. Acts chapter number three. And verse number one says, Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, be in the ninth hour. And a certain man, lame from his mother's womb, was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple, which is called beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple. Who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked an alms. And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us. And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them. Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. And he leaping up stood and walked and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God. Wouldn't that have been a sight to behold? And all the people saw him walking and praising God, and they that knew it was he which sat for alms at the beautiful gate of the temple. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him. And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John , All the people ran together unto them in the porch, that is called Solomon's, greatly wandering. I want you to look at just two little words. I've got them highlighted and underscored throughout my Bible in this chapter. And I want you to think with me for a few minutes on this thought and John. And John. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would undertake and help in this meeting. Father, help us to be obedient to the leading of your Spirit and be faithful to the text of truth I pray, Lord, that you would do the work that's needed in every heart, and we'll give you the glory, for we bow our heads and we ask these things. In that name that's above every name, the precious name of the Lord Jesus. Thank you for such, Lord, such a powerful name, and we know it's such a powerful name, for it is thy name. And Lord, we bow before you, and may we lift up that name here today. Thank you, Lord, for what you're going to do and for who you are and all that you are. We praise you, and we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said, You can be seated. If I could elaborate on those two words, I would just simply say this, and John was there too. Have you ever read the Bible and wanted to emphasize something you see And say, but it's happening, it's there too. It's in the passage. I'm not talking about adding to the Bible or taking away, but I'm talking about magnifying something that is clearly here. Did you notice how emphatically the Spirit of God recorded that it wasn't just Peter who was there, but John was too? John never said a word. In fact, in the next two chapters here of chapters 3 and 4, John has very little to say. But John was there too. John was there as they went to prayer. John was there when they were confronted by the lame man wanting alms. James, or John, excuse me, was there when this man was healed and raised up. John was there in verse eleven when they held Peter and John and all the people ran together. And John was there when Peter stood up and began to preach. Now, Peter feels this account. By the way, Peter was the kind of man that wherever he was, he feeled wherever he was. He just seemed to be the spotlight was on Peter. When Peter was in the room, it was as if all eyes were on Peter. If nothing else, all ears were tuned in because his mouth was the one you heard. Peter brings a message or he works the miracle in verse 6. Of course, God does that through him. He brings a message in verses 12 to 26. And then over in chapter 4, you'll see on the morrow It says that it came to pass, verse 5, chapter 4, verse 5, it came to pass on the morrow that their rulers and elders and scribes And Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John and Alexander, and as many were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem. You'll notice they set them in the midst. That's both Peter and John. And verse 8 says, Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, But can I say this? John was there too. John was there too. All throughout this passage, John was there. John's not in the spotlight. In fact You'll be hard-pressed in the New Testament to find John in the spotlight. John was always that second man. John was Seemingly always in the shadow somewhere. John was always serving without recognition and without applause. And yet John was there too. And I say something this morning, John, is a picture of the faithful believer who serves God in the shadows. That's who John is. John 's a picture of that individual that he's not in the spotlight. He's a man behind the scenes. And do you realize that the majority of the church of the living God operates with the fact that many are behind the scenes. The majority of the children of God do not find that place. Most are unknown. Most are unheralded, most are unapplauded, but every single one is essential. John was there too. And I believe the Spirit of God wanted you to know that and me to know that, because he said, and John, and John, and John. John may have never opened his mouth and brought a message. John may not have been the one who was the vehicle from the healing came to this man. John was not the one who stood and confronted that mob of angry people, but John was there. John was faithful. I want to encourage you with something this morning, and I pray the Lord will use it as he sees fit, but I want you to think about being John and being there too. Think about what it is that God has called you to do. And let me say this, just if you're making notes, please note this. Like John, feel your place. John was there too. He was filling his place. Now he wasn't like things they put in our food sometimes. He wasn't just a filler. He wasn't just someone taking up space. John had a purpose. John had a purpose. John was there for a reason. And know this: if you're saved, God's got a reason for you. God's got a purpose for you. God has a place and a plan. There is something God's got for you, just for you. And my friend, don't think for a minute just because it's not uh uh heralded or applauded that it's a place of insignificance. Feel your place. I want you to notice something about John. Number one, his place was always near Jesus. John 13, 23, the Bible says this: there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. When you read the Gospel of John, you read about a man who calls himself that other disciple. He calls himself the one whom Jesus loved. He calls himself, or they call him rather, the one leaning on Jesus' bosom. He's content to be near the Lord Jesus. Can I say this? Your place and my place is to be near the Lord Jesus. Whatever the external place it may be, my place is near the Lord Jesus. Christian, he saved you to stay close to him. He saved you to walk near to him. And so notice here's John. He's near the Lord Jesus. But I'm going to say this, number two, he was needed by Peter. Now, I never really noticed this in studying my Bible, but you rarely see Peter without John. In fact, I want to challenge you to show me some places where Peter was without John. They seem to be always together. Now, if Peter, James, and John were the inner circle, Peter and John were the circle I mean they were the heart of that thing. Because Peter and John were always together. You say, what about at the betrayal and the denial of the Lord Jesus? Do you know John was there too? The Bible says he's the one that let Peter in the gate. He's that other disciple who opened the gate and let Peter come in. so that he could see the proceedings. John obviously had some sort of connection to be able to get in there, but whatever it is, John was there. And everywhere you see Peter, you see John. He was needed by Peter. Reminded me of 1 Corinthians chapter 12. For our comely parts, verse 24, have no need. But God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that which lacked. Can I translate that for you? The things that are not visually attractive are not absolutely necessary. How many of you know you can live without your hair? Some ought to say, Amen, preacher. You can live without your hair. You can't live without your digestive system. Now you don't see it. It's one of those unattractive parts. Wasn't it good of God to put all the ugly stuff on the inside and cover it up? I was thinking of that this morning. I'm glad we're not like some of these fish that are see-through, you know, and everything that's going on inside of them you can see. That'd be quite awful. But God has made those things you can't see quite necessary. Those things that you can't, that inner workings of your body Are not attractive. In fact, you see them, you're like, ugh, that's kind of remember the first scope I had done, the doctor said, you want to see this? I'm like, Oh yeah, yeah. I want to see it. I was wide awake. They didn't give you anesthesia in that part of the world. So he turned the screen around. He says, Look at this. This is your esophagus and he described everything as he went through And I thought, man, what a nasty looking place. That's ugly. But aren't you glad all that works like it's supposed to? It's a portrayal of what the Bible says. Those things that are visually attractive are not necessary And can I say to you, my friend, you may feel like you're part of that digestive track in the local church, but understand that you're needed by the Lord and you're needed by your brothers and sisters. Peter needed John. Peter needed John. I'm going to say more about that in a minute. But I want you to notice something else about John. John stayed near the cross. When everybody left, look over here in John chapter 19. Jesus is about to utter his final words. And in verse 26 and 7 , For context, let's read verse twenty-five. John nineteen twenty-five. We'll begin there. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister Mary, the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. And when Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, that's John, He saith unto his mother, Woman, Behold thy son. Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother. And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home. I want you to notice where John positioned himself. John positioned himself near the cross. Not only did he stay near Jesus, and he was needed by Peter, but he just kept near the cross. The old hymn writer said, Jesus, keep me near the cross. Friend, listen, the best place for you to be as a child of God is to not stray far from the cross. Feel your place. Feel your place. Your place may not be at the head. Your place may not be in the spotlight. Your place may not be recognized, applauded, even appreciated by some, but the reality is There's a God in heaven who knows that's your place, and you feel your place like John, and know that as you feel that place, God will use you in a powerful way, like he did John. John was there too. Many of you are the John. You're like John the Beloved. You're many of you are like this dear man. And you need to feel your place. And by the way, where would we be if you didn't feel your place? Where would we be? So feel your place. Can I say this? You need to find your place and then feel it. Find what it is God's called you to do and find what it is the Lord would have of you and then just fill that place. Fill that place. Don't try to be a Peter, God only made one of them. Be who God's called you to be. Don't try to mimic someone else and try to to to be just like them. God didn't make you them. God made them them, made you you, and so you just be you and feel your place. I'm thankful for a dear old gentleman that he was our janitor in our church for a at least fifty years. It could have been much longer. And that dear brother, his whole, all he did every single day was he filled his place. He cleaned our facilities when the church grew and they built a new big building. He was right in there cleaning. And what I remember about him as a young fellow is that he always wore a shirt and tie when he worked. If he was scrubbing the toilet, he did it with a shirt and tie. When you talk to Mr. Stewart, he he would say, This is the Lord's house. Many times he would come into the restroom and get on the young boys who were Playing and throwing water when they should not have been. And he would talk to us like this. He wasn't a hateful man, he was just the sweetest man you ever met. But he would say, Now boys, you're in God's house. Don't be throwing God's water around in God's bathroom. Everything was God's there. And I remember him making that point to us as little children and and and and he and he He he displayed that in his character. You know what he did? He just filled his place. He filled his place. There came a time when his body was too weak to do the work to keep up with the facilities as they grew. But you know what? He kept wanting to fill his place. The pastor said, now, Mr. Stewart, we've got to hire someone that can take take care of all this is just so much that needs to be done. And he said, that's okay, I'll help out where I can. And you know, until that dear man died, he was on that property, he was picking up stuff, cleaning up stuff. Just filling his place. He had found his place and he filled it. Now I'm going to tell you something. A lot of people may say, well, what a big that's not a big deal. I'm going to tell you there's a God in heaven who said that a cup of cold water given in his name would get a reward. And I believe cleaning a bathroom and and and mopping a floor And doing things like that will will get the same reward because listen, there's a God who's fair and faithful to his little children. Fill your place. Just feel your place. Number two, can I say this? Be content. Perhaps this is the greatest challenge for us all. Be content You'll notice that John doesn't say, hey, look over here. I'm with Peter. I'm here too. John was content being where God put him. He was content being unseen. He was content being unknown. He was content being unheralded. He was content even being unrecorded. He was just content. Know this, God has a place and a purpose and a path for each of you. And my friend, you'll never be content until you get there. And when you get there, be content. Just be content. You'll notice what he was here to Peter. Number one, he was a prayer partner. Look at him in verse 1. Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer. He was a prayer partner. He was going with Peter to pray. And I believe, my friend, there are many a warrior on their knees that has accomplished way more work. That 's been done in any other place known. I've told you the story about Mr. Spurgeon and all those people that prayed for him in his assembly It's recorded in several places that over 500 people prayed once the ministry reached a certain spot, that over 500 people prayed for him in a secluded place, in a private place, while he preached the word. Now, my friend, those people, they say in that tabernacle, I forget how many thousands it holds, but in that great tabernacle that there was not a place where someone had not been converted. There was not a pew, not a spot in that property where someone had been converted. And often people say, oh, what a gospel preacher Spurgeon was. I say this, oh, what a praying people he had. It was the prayers of God's people, I believe, that made all the difference in the world. Not only were were his own people praying for him , But I've shared this with you recently, but I believe it goes needs to be stated here that there were thirty men in Wales when Spurgeon started his ministry that said, We will pray for this young man to do great things, for we believe God has great things in store. And they prayed weekly and consistently. And for 30 years, those 30 men never broke that prayer covenant. And not a one of those men died in those thirty years. God kept them alive. You know why they had a work to do They'd found their place. I believe John here had a place of prayer. But John not only did have a place of prayer, but he had a place of observation. He was watching what God was doing. Verse 6 and 7 we see that Peter said, here's what Peter said to the lame man, silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. Now John wasn't involved in that. John did put his hand in with Peter's. John didn't come along and say, now, Peter, let me help push him up. John just observed what the Lord was doing. Sometimes it's a happy place to see what God is doing around you. And John was content with seeing what God was doing. Now I'm not promoting laziness. I'm not saying don't get involved. But I am saying there comes a place. Not every place is my place. Not every work is my work to do. Not every responsibility. Hey, by the way, this may come as a shock to many today, but not every opinion needs to be spoken. Isn't that funny? Not every listen, you say, but I've got an opinion about it, and everybody needs to hear it. That's the curse of social media, by the way It's put value on opinions that once held that that once were kept in secret. And by the way, some of them need to go back in the closet where they came out of. That's free. You can have that. Thank you But he was content to be an observer. He didn't take part in this great miracle. He didn't have a hand in this. But I want you to know something. I believe in the background old John was praying. I believe in the background John was saying, Oh, thank God Lord, thank you for using Peter. You don't see jealousy or animosity or strife. You see great joy. And here they all lock arms, it tells us later. And here Peter and John and the lame man go leaping and walking and entering into the temple, praising God together, rejoicing that that that they'd seen God do great things. He was just content in being of the observer Let me say this, he was content being a stabilizing influence. You know, in John chapter 20, and you might want to read this sometime, in John chapter 20. Peter and John run to the grave. They run to the tomb where Jesus is buried. John outruns Peter. John 's looking around, John's gathering the facts, and Peter gets there and he blows right in like a bull. And he said they see everything, and he comes back out, and yet the Bible says that John saw And he believed. John believed. Now Peter's all frantic. Where is the Lord? I don't know where he's at. Where'd he take him? We better go find him. Something's going on here. And here's John just quietly standing over in the corner somewhere saying, I believe. He's alive. He's alive. Do you know what you know what John was to Peter? He was a governor for that man. He was a stabilizing influence Find it again, John 21. By the way, I find it interesting, even though John believed that Jesus was alive, he went fishing with Peter and the rest of that crowd. And I don't believe John was fishing for the same reason. I don't believe that John had given up hope like the rest of them had and said, we're going back to our old occupation. I believe John was there. Maybe he was there keeping his eye on Peter. John was doing what John's been doing since John met Peter. He's been watching out for him being a stabilizing influence. And Peter's fretting over all of the fact they haven't caught fish, and he looks out on the shore, and there's a man and says, Children, have you any meat? And they say no. He tells them what to do, and they catch a big draught of fish, and then John says, This, Peter. He says it to Peter, by the way. It is the Lord. I don't know about you, but I need some people in my life who will say, It is the Lord. That's what John did. John said, Peter, it's him. Peter, I told you. He didn't give him a message. Now I would have, but he didn't. He didn't give him a message and say, I told you he's alive. He just simply said, Peter, it's the Lord. Over yonder on the shore, that's him, that's him. And what does Peter do? Peter puts his coat on, he dives in the water and swims to shore. He can't wait. Again, being impetuous like Peter always was. But here's John being a stabilizing influence. He's content saying, just bumping somebody on the shoulder and saying, hey, it's the Lord. It is the Lord. Listen, you and I can be content in a spot when we're pointing men and women to Jesus Christ and saying, Hey, it is the Lord. It is the Lord. Often we fail to recognize God's will because we think it's too plain. We say it's too simple, or it's even unattractive. If I can just say it in simple language, God works through ugly as well as beauty. Be content. I don't know about John must have had some patience, even though he was a son of thunder. John had to be a man of great patience just to put up with Peter. Study your Bible and see how much John went through hanging out with Peter How many obstacles and difficulties and shrub? Again, hear it after the resurrection, they're out there fishing. I don't believe John's fishing out of unbelief. John 's just fishing keeping his eye on Peter. Here Peter jumps in the water. And and John has to go through all of that night of fishing But listen, he does it because he's content knowing this. There's somebody there around me that I need to say it is the Lord. There's somebody near me needs to hear from me, it is the Lord. It may be a difficult spot. Listen, it may be the job you work at. It may be the community you live in. It may be the people that are around you. It may be a place of great difficulty. But somebody there needs to hear you say, it is the Lord. They need to see you point to him like John of old did. John was just content. He was content with where God had placed him. But let me say quickly, number three, I want you to see this. God always honors faithfulness. 1 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 2 says, Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. You know something we value today that God puts no stock in? Flashiness. God don't care about that. I can still hear dear brother Howard Andrus. He was a preacher in our Bible college that God sent our way. He was an unusual man. And uh I remember him for several reasons. I remember him challenging all of the young preacher boys on his first night in class. on why we believe the King James Bible is the Word of God. And he didn't do it from a point of view that he he believed it. He he said, I want you men to prove me. He acted like he didn't believe that statement. He said, but I want you men to prove to me that the King James Bible is the Word of God. And it immediately went through that group of young preachers. He's a Bible denier. I'll never forget being a group of young men went to the pastor and said, Pastor, do you know Howard Andrus doesn't believe the King James Bible is the Word of God? He said, Where'd you hear that from? We said his lips. He said, really? He said, I'll talk to him, but he said, you boys, it do well to open your ears instead of your mouths. We went back. Preacher spoke, chut you mount and go back. But we battled, listen, we we would come loaded for bear every single class. At the end of the year, Dr. Andrews stood up. I can still see him just weeping. He was a big old man, real stocky. He stood there and his old lip began to quiver. He said, Boy, some of you Do not believe I believe this precious Bible. And he gave for two hours one of the greatest defenses of the scriptures I've ever heard in my whole life. He said, all I wanted to do is to make some of you dig and stop having knee-jerk reactions. I took his class the next year. He taught another class on pastoral ethics. And I remember something he said. He said, men we're workhorses, not racehorses. He said racehorses come out for the big show. He said, work horses just do their work faithfully every day. Give them a little oats and give them a good place to rest and put them in the harness every single day. He said, men your workhorses, not race horses. Well, I've never forgot that. But you know what he was? He was a faithful man. John was a faithful man. The Bible tells me if you fast forward a little bit, John doesn't stay in the shadows. John doesn't remain Peter and John. John gets the privilege of living to a ripe old age. John gets the privilege of being the last living apostle. John gets the privilege when you turn over to Revelation chapter 1. John gets the privilege of a revelation. Look at it in verse 1. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him. There's God rewarding John's faithfulness. God revealed himself to John in a special way. And then not only that, but he revealed the future. He said it should to show his servants things which must shortly come to pass. And he sent and signified by his angel unto his servant John. We don't see Peter's name here no more. We don't see John back in the shadows. Here we see John being forced to the forefront, and here's John. God says, John, you've been faithful. I got a reward for you. John, you've stayed true to me even on the Isle of Patmos. He's in exile for the testimony of the Lord Jesus, for the Word of God. And God says, John, I want to reward you for being faithful. I've got something I want to show you, and I'm going to tell you about things to come. God did something for John, he didn't do for any other apostle. And I believe it was because John was faithful. But I want you to see something. Please don't miss this. Verse number two. Who bear record of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ and of all things that he saw. I want you to notice that though the faithfulness was rewarded by revelation and the future was unveiled before his eyes, John 's focus remained the same. John 's been put out here in the spotlight, and you know what John said? John said again, just look to Jesus. He said, I'm going to bear record of the word of God. And the testimony of Jesus Christ. John didn't say, now 's my time to shine. Let me tell you all about me and my ministry. John says, Let me tell you about the Lord Jesus. Let me tell you what I saw in him. Let me tell you about his goodness and his greatness and his value. Let me tell you about his hair that's white as snow and his eyes that are flame of fire. Let me tell you about his feet that are burnished brass. Let me tell you about the Son of God, the Lamb of God, oh, the the line of the tribe of Judah. And on and on he goes in the book of Revelation. The most beautiful picture of Jesus is painted in the last put pages of the Bible. Oh, listen, his focus remained the same. You know what John learned in the spotlight? Jesus is the only one who deserves it. That's my message. That's that's where I was trying to get. John learned in the shadows That Jesus alone deserves a spotlight. John was okay. By the way, John knew something about Jesus, that Jesus Jesus had sweet fellowship with the man living in the shadow. There's no disciple or apostle that was as close to Jesus as John. We find him continually. When the great question came up, who will betray Jesus? Peter said, John, ask him. You're over there close. You ask him. You know why Peter wanted John to ask him? Because John had a closeness and intimacy with the Lord that got answers to questions. John was close. Can I ask you something this morning? Are you feeling your place? Are you feeling your place? It may be frustrating, it may be aggravating, it may be taxing, but if it's your place, just feel it. Feel your place. It's a place God's designed for you. I had a man in my church was faithful to shovel the snow off the sidewalk every service. And you say, well that's not a big deal. Well it is a big deal when you get several feet. And the wind, our church was positioned right on the mouth of the Bay of Fundy, and the wind blew continually. And you could clean it at 8 o'clock and by 9. 30 it needed to be cleaned again. And he did it. He did it year after year after year. And as he got older, I guess he found it a little harder, and so I noticed the sizes of the shovel went from here to here, to finally it was a little shovel, a little square shovel. But he was still cleaning. We're at a men's meeting one February, and the preacher preached on that tribe of Israel that their job was to bring up the rear. And their job was to basically clean up the mess, everybody else left. And that tribe was faithful. And he talked about serving in that position. Nobody, I mean listen, nobody likes to come along behind and clean up somebody else's mess. But God appointed a tribe. God made a tribe in the nation of Israel with the responsibility that it was their job to do that as they traversed through the wilderness. And so they had to clean up. That was their job. Here they are. They're coming along behind. They're the last they're sort of the tail on the animal. And they're picking up and cleaning up and going their way. Man, that preacher, Brother Doug Fisher, he preached that message and he challenged, he challenged all of those men. Just feel your place, even if it's the place of cleaning up behind everybody else. Feel your place. We rode home together and I remember it was cold. It was remember we got in the car, it was minus thirty-seven. And you know, we were all just you know, shaking trying to get warm and and we had a long drive, had well, not a long drive, a couple hour drive and We're driving back, and I this brother, I could tell he wanted to say something. He was sitting in the front seat. The other fellows were back a couple of seats talking and going on. And he said, Preacher, God spoke to me tonight. And I said, that's good, brother. He spoke to my heart too. It was good. He said, no, no, no. He said, I need to tell you something. He said, you know, I've been awful upset about being the only one that seemed to notice that the snow needs to get off the steps He says, it's kind of bothered me that all these years I'm the only one that'll show up and shovel and clean that path. And it kind of made me mad. I said, in fact, I've been doing it, but I've been doing it with a bad spirit. And so I just want you to know that I'm sorry about that. And I I've asked the Lord to forgive me. And I'll tell you right now, from this point forward, I'm going to be the happiest snow shoveler that 's in this building. And you know what he was Saying ain't a big deal. It is a big deal. It's part of filling your place. It's not an attractive spot. It's not an applauding place. It's not a place that's recognized. But I'll tell you what, thank God for somebody that'll do it. Filled his place. Let me ask you something. Are you feeling your place? Well, there's a whole lot of places to feel. And there's places that need a body, that need an individual, that need a heart, that need someone with a passion to say, hey, this is my place, and I'm going to give it my very best. Listen, friend, are you feeling your place? And are you content with that place? You'll never do your job if you try and do everybody else's. Find that place and feel it, and then let me say this: just be faithful. God puts a great premium on faithfulness. Are we being faithful? You know, the thing about John is, when the time came, if I can say it this way, for him to shine. All that desire to shine was gone out of his heart. He didn't want to shine. He just wanted somebody else to see Jesus. And you've got the book of Revelation because John wanted somebody else to see Jesus. And my friend, I wonder who it is that needs to see Jesus in you and me. Wonder who it is that's counting on you and I to be faithful. I wonder who it is that's counting on you and I to be content. Wonder who it is that's good that God is counting on and that these individuals may be counting on. that that we might be found faithful in that place of God's choosing. We fill it and we fill it to the full. May the Lord help us to lay our lives down. At the feet of the Lord Jesus and say, Lord, take them and use them as you see fit. Do you stand with me, please?