Amen. Thank you, dear brother. Thankful for the grace of God and his goodness. I appreciate the joyful singing. And uh as we think about heaven and And we'll be there, as our brother said, all because of the grace of God. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it's the gift of God. It's not of works lest any man should boast. I'm grateful that we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus. And uh thank the Lord for grace. Appreciate the encouragement already in the house of God. We could say Amen and go home and say we've been fed. Amen. Now we're not going to do that, but we could do that. Amen. I want you to open your Bibles to Ephesians 4. And I want to preach on seven words. out of Ephesians 4. Seven words, and there are seven, pardon me, very familiar words. I want to make our Sunday evenings over the next little bit very practical. Aren't you glad the Bible is practical? It not only tells me what to believe, it tells me how to live. Uh this is not an archaic book. I kind of chuckle when somebody says that book's outdated. I feel like saying that says you've never read it. Uh, 'cause if you ever read the Bible, you realize how up to date it is. Somebody said the Bible's more up to date than tomorrow's newspaper. And that's true. The Bible is up to date. And it's relevant. People say, well, the Bible's irrelevant. No, you you just don't understand the reality that what this Bible addresses are the issues of life. Very relevant. It's a very relevant book. And so tonight as we look in Ephesians 4, there are seven words. You've heard them before. I preach in this passage on many occasions, but I want to remind us of these seven words found in verse 32 They're the very first statement in verse 32, and be ye kind one to another. Can we say that together, please, Ephesians 4. 32? Not the whole verse, those seven words. Let's say it, please, and again. And be ye kind one to another. Father, I pray that you would help us. We bow our heads before you tonight and ask that the Spirit of God would take the Word of God and work in all the children of God. Have your way in this gathering. We sure need you, Lord. I thank you for what we've been encouraged with already. Lord, you've sure bless our hearts as we've sung about heaven. As we thank you for grace, Lord, you've refreshed us from above in these ways, and we thank thee for it. I'm grateful, Lord, that we can assemble with the people. Who have something alive, rather someone alive in them. We thank you, Lord, that you live within us. Christ liveth in me Oh, what a treasure, Lord, what a privilege it is that in these earthen vessels we have the Lord Jesus. We praise you tonight for that. We pray now that you would help us, Lord, undertake hid me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. And Father, we'll praise you and thank you for all that you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said I want to say tonight that these seven words can transform a Christian's life If we take these seven words and make them personal, you know. I find sometimes when we preach things like this, we're awful quick to say, yeah, that's right, I hope so-and-so 's listening. But in reality, I need the Lord to say to me, Now, son, I hope you're listening. Because this is what you need. This is what your heart needs. And be ye kind one to another. I not only believe this can change the Christian's life, but I believe it can change a church's life. When this thing is taken and put into practice and lived out in reality, I believe this can really change a local church I believe it can make us stand out, if you will. Now look, I I have always been, was raised in, God saved me, in an independent Baptist church. And uh God has has allowed me to have that privilege of being in that group of individuals. And and I'm just going to say this. There's a an alarming trend in our circles that really, really bothers me, but take me out of the out of the equation because it really violates the word of God And it violates the Word of God in this way in the lack of Christian kindness. It seems like that there's almost a badge for being nasty. That you're not a real independent Baptist preacher unless you're nasty. That somehow or another you just gotta be downright mean, like junkyard dog mean. You know, that's meaner than the average dog, you know. When I first started going to see Miss Elizabeth, she had a junkyard dog. Her father had a junkyard. And they had a junkyard dog, a pit bull. She was a pit bull, wasn't she? And her name was Buffy. And she was mean. She hated people, especially me. She really hated me. And I don't know if the author talked to her before I started coming around or not But I had to carry something in my hand to put in her mouth so that I wouldn't get bit from the car to the house. And buddy, i I I pray every time I went there I said, Oh please let Buffy be asleep Um, I even prayed this a few times, Lord let her go to heaven and don't let her go on. And I I prayed that she wouldn't get me, but every time there she was, she wasn't that tall. But she was that big and she was more mouth than she was anything. And and look, I'll I'll tell you what, she was just mean. She never had a good day, or at least she never showed me she had a good day And what I'm saying is that we have sort of developed a culture in our Christianity that says it's okay to be nasty. That unkindness is somehow or another a badge of being born again and a real Bible believer. And I've got news for you that violates the Word of God so terribly. It goes against what the teaching of Scripture is, and I hope to emphasize that tonight by the help of the Lord. The Bible says, and be ye kind one to another. Now, I I can't take the Bible out of context. We wouldn't do that. I don't believe we should do that. And we don't have to do that. But verse 31 tells me some things that are not kind. You say, preacher, what does it mean to be kind? Well, the Bible tells you some things that are not kind. Look at verse 31. Let all bitterness And wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice You know what those are? Those are six things that are not kind. They're the opposite of what God says when He says, Be ye kind one to another. Bitterness is that grudge holding, extreme hatred. I'm gonna tell you something, friend. You're not right with God if you've got a grudge in your heart against somebody. You're not being kind. Well, they they hurt my f they did something they said and and it could be look it could be totally wrong. What they did or said could be totally wrong, but you and I have no right to hold a grudge. The Bible says, be ye kind one to another. This bitterness, he says, put it away. Wrath. You know what wrath is? This word here, as it's used in Ephesians 4, means explosive anger. If I can put it like this, short-tempered. Short-fused. Listen, dear friend, if your fuse goes off real quick, you are not kind. Just not kind. I've never seen a short-fused person with a kind disposition. When the explosion takes place, there is no kindness to be found anywhere in the In the premises. So this wrath, he says, put it away. Then notice he says anger. The next word. That word anger means to be offended by an injury. Now I know a little bit about Baptists, been around them a while. And I know there are some Baptists who carry a chip on their shoulder hoping you'll knock it off. They're just angry. You might find this surprising, but I believe there's people come to church looking to be offended. They come and say, I hope I get offended there so I can have a reason not to go back. That's anger. That's that's that's the Bible says put that off. Then this word clamor, you've got to look that word up. That's an interesting little word, but but it's what the children of Israel did in the wilderness. They complained continually. They complained about the manna. They complained about the water. They complained about the meat. They complained about everything God did. There was nothing that suited them. They complained continually. Now beware, that's not being kind. Again, notice this next word is the word evil speaking. And it has nothing to do with cursing or swearing. It means to backbite or gossip. Or here's the culmination of the two: it means to speak with the intent to degrade. I if I can just put it in plain old mountain language, it's just to go running people down. Just running people down I I I listen I try to listen to preaching a lot and I d I don't listen to a lot of music, but I do listen to a lot of preaching and I notice something that That that there seems to be a certain style of preaching that it seems it's not preaching if they're not running somebody down. If they're not attacking somebody And so uh again, I I'm just saying let's take the word of God, let's measure, let's make the Bible the measure and the standard, and if we take the Bible and make it the measure and the standard, that's just not preaching. When we're degrading or running somebody down. Oh, you say, and I hear him say this all the time, well, Paul called out Alexander the copper coppersmith. He did. He called out Alexander the coppersmith, but listen to what he said. He did me much evil. He didn't degrade Alexander the coppersmith. He just said he did me much evil. He didn't run him down, talk about how low down and dirty he was and all of that. He just said he did me much evil and he said, you beware, because he'll likely do the same thing to you. But he didn't degrade him. He didn't use evil speaking. Look at the next word. The word is malice. And malice is a hurtful disposition. It's a disposition that is looking for someone to wound. Now I said all of that to say this. That's not kind. That's the opposite of what God said when he said, Be ye kind one to another. But notice he goes on to tell us two more things that are associated with being kind in verse number 32. He says, and be ye kind one to another. Look at the next word, tender-hearted. It means to be compassionate of heart, or soft, if you will, of heart towards others. To be sensitive to others, if we could put it in that statement, sensitive to others. He said, be tender-hearted. And then he said, also forgiving. one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. So this word tenderhearted and and forgiving is something similar to this word being kind. Now let me give you a definition, then I'll get to the message quickly. I want you to notice to be kind means to be benevolent. We're going to see that in a few minutes in the person of Christ. It also means to be disposed to do good. Disposed to do good. It can also mean to be pleasant, and I love this definition, easy on others. Do you know what a spiritual man is? A spiritual man is easy on others and hard on himself. A carnal man is hard on others and easy on himself. You know why? Because he's not kind. I want you to think about this, and be ye kind one to another. The Bible says, number one, that this is a command. If I could put it in the structure in English that it is here in our Greek language, it would be this, you be kind. You be kind. As God makes the command, I want you to consider this that God's commands are not optional. This isn't a, what's the word? This isn't a cafeteria Uh this isn't um I was trying to think that one mom and dad used to like to eat at. Um smorgage board. What was it called, honey? No. No, it was before you, son. Long before you. J and S. Yeah. J and S cafeteria You go down the line and and they've got all kinds of meat and all kinds of vegetables and all kinds of desserts and all kinds of bread. And they they got the most Sour people working there. You had to be sour to work there. You couldn't work the line if you had a good nature. And when you're coming by, they say, Meet ma'am, meet sir. And you had to pick. And I mean you had to pick quick. Because if you didn't pick, they'd say, go to the next one, go to the next one, and they'd run you off. And it wasn't nothing to write home about. I mean it was just it was food. I guess it kept you from starving. But but it was you could pick you could pick chicken, you could pick beef, you could pick ham, you could pick I don't know, whatever else they had. Yeah, there's all kinds of things that you could pick. And you could only pick one. So when you pick that one I remember first time I went there, uh man, they had some some good looking fried chicken, so I picked chicken, and then I got a little further on that meat line, and I thought, man, they got some nice looking roast beef So I'm standing there and there's another person there who's given out meat and I said like roast beef. And they looked at me real hateful. And I was like, Well can I not have it? She said, You got chicken. It's chicken or roast beef? Either one. You know, I'm like, okay. Well, let's be that way. I'm not gonna eat you know, I felt like Sam, you can have your chicken too. I don't want to eat here at all. You know, that'd be unkind. That's really unkind. What I'm saying is, is that this commitment is not optional. It's not an option. He's not saying now Now, this is one of those that you can pick and choose. If you don't want to do this, then you don't have to do this, no, not according to the word of God. He commands me to be kind. It is not optional. Let me say quickly, number two, it is not dispos di dispositional. I know what we say sometimes, we say, now, Lord, I'm just not a kind person. Hold on a minute. He did not tell me to be kind if I am kind. He said to be kind, period. The command here of kindness is a command that has nothing to do with my disposition. Why? Because it's regenerational. You say, what do you mean by that? Go over a couple of books to Colossians and chapter number three and verse 10. And look what it says there. Colossians chapter 3, verse 10. And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that created him. So, in other words, when you get saved, God made you a new person. The Bible word is a new creature. He made you a new creature. And because he's made you a new creature, you have a new nature. And he says, put on that new nature. And remember this, that nature is created after the image of him that saved you. In other words, that nature is like the nature of the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, put that on. Stayed people can be kind because they've been given a new nature. Has nothing to do with our old disposition. Has nothing to do with our old nature. It has nothing to do with who we are or what we are. And we all to some degree have our own unique personalities and temperaments and all that business. That's the way God made us. That's the way we are. That's the the way we've been formed. But know this when God says be kind, he's not telling you to be kind in your old nature. He's telling you to be kind in that new man that lives inside of you because of Jesus Christ. It's a command of God. We can be kind because we got a new heart that God's made kind. The Bible tells me if I'm in Christ, I'm a new creature. He doesn't come and do a a a remodeling project on me. He comes and and does a a a regenerational. He makes me over and makes me new. and gives me a new nature that is created in his image. So it is a command. You see, it's a very serious thing to say, God, I don't want to be kind. I'm not going to be kind. You know what that's called? It's called disobedience. God wants us to be kind, be you kind one to another. Number two, I want you to notice who it involves. It involves Christians. Christians. That little phrase, and I'm not going to take the time to do it tonight, but if you took that little phrase one to another, it's always in the context of a local church. It's always in the context of Christian to Christian. One to another. Are there, let me think, there's seventy-three, seventy-three one-to-another's in the New Testament? A whole bunch of 'em We got a whole bunch of responsibilities to each other. And he says one to another. He's talking about Christians. He's saying, now you Christians, be kind one to another. We're not talking about being kind to the lost world. We're not talking about that's a whole different uh message. We're not talking about being kind Uh y you know, to people who are are not even a part of the local assembly. Let's let's just keep it narrow where it is here, as far as the local church. And he says, You be kind one to another You Christians be kind to one to another. And why? Does that puzzle you a little bit? Why does God have to command Christians to be kind? Why does God command Christians? I'm talking about people who are saved. People who are saved by the same grace, people who are washed in the same blood, people that are going to the same heaven, God has to say, now you be kind one to another I'll tell you why, number one, because of familiarity. It's awful easy to get around each other and start taking each other for granted. Familiarity. What's that old saying about familiarity? Familiarity breeds contempt. Familiarity has a way of breaking down barriers that God has put there for a reason. And if we're not careful, we'll say, oh, oh, you know, that's just old so and so. I I don't I I can just be any old way. No, the Bible says be kind. Familiarity. I'll tell you another reason I believe we have to be kind and we have to be commanded as Christians to be kind, because we're a family. We're a family. The Bible says we have the same father. That makes us family. We have the same father. We're we're part of the same family. We're part of the household of God. And God's our Father, and Jesus Christ is our Savior, and we're a family. Now listen, you know what I know about family? Sometimes family don't treat each other right. Sometimes we use family as an excuse to be unkind. Can I park and just preach a minute right here? I think sometimes we you know husbands and wives have to have to be careful that just because they're family They have no excuse for stopping being kind one to another. Say we're family. Like the old fella said one time, Well, I told my wife I loved her forty years ago. If I changed my mind, I'll let her know Well be a knucklehead if you want to be a knucklehead. But the reality is is that the everybody likes a little bit of kindness And husbands and wives need to remember this: that kindness can go a long way to making that home either heaven or the absence of it can make it a little taste of hell. Be ye kind one to another. There needs to be a kindness. Listen, we're a family, and as the family of God Again, we've got to remember that oftentimes because we're family, we 're we're not as careful as we ought to be at being kind one to another. But there's a third reason. This is the biggest. This is the largest reason that we're commanded as Christians to be kind one to another. It's because we have flesh. Galatians 5. 22 says that the fruit of the Spirit is kindness. And it goes on to say in the latter part of that chapter: if we walk in the Spirit, we will not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. You know what I know about my flesh? My flesh is not kind. And my flesh can't be kind. Now, you might be one of those people that believe you don't have flesh no more, that your flesh has been eradicated. I've got news for you. Read your Bible again And then go and read it again. And then read it once more because you're going to need it that have the your eyes open, that there's no eradication of the flesh. Here's Paul, a saved man, a mature believer, and he writes Romans 6 and 7 and talks about how his flesh, he does things with his flesh he don't want to do. And there's things that he wants to do that his flesh gets in the way and keeps him from doing. What's he having? He's having a battle. He's having a battle like every one of you sitting here who's saved and honest. would acknowledge I have a battle sometimes. I my biggest enemy, like old Mace Jackson said, is that bird I shave every morning. Maze Jackson was up in my house. He was standing with some folk and he was preaching and and he was the jokester. He's always, he's like Billy Kelly, he's always doing stuff. just to sort of get people on the edge and and uh he he he was telling 'em at the supper table there's a man he wanted to kill. And there was people in the that well they he said there was meek little quiet people, just little mousey like people And he said, I I'll tell you if I ever see that fella, I'm gonna kill him. He said, I want him dead. He's caused me so much trouble all these years. He said from the time I've been born to right now, he's given me nothing but headache. He said, if I ever see that fella, I'll kill him. He said that little wife dropped her head and looked real funny at him and then the man and and he said when he got up and leave to get ready for church and started upstairs he heard I bet they were uh getting on the hotline calling the preacher. Do you know you've got a preacher in here that's wanting to kill somebody? And May said he got up there and he was he got in the bathroom and he thought, now here's my chance. He looked in the mirror and he saw himself. And he said, There he is, there he is. He said that little fella come running up the stairs and said, Oh preacher, remember your testimony. Don't kill nobody. Remember your testimony. Well, you know what he was getting at? He was getting at the th the reality that the one person that gives you and I the most trouble is our old flesh. I know we like to put it off on everybody else, but the truth of the matter is I and you are our own biggest problem. Our flesh. Man, that stuff's real. That flesh you've got to battle every day and and and you say, Preacher, well, I I'm I'm getting older. I hope my flesh will get weaker. I I found something about flesh. It gets meaner as it gets older It gets sneakier as it gets older. I'm telling you, you've got to watch your flesh. There is no safe place between here and heaven until we lay this stuff down in the grave. My flesh is the reason I am, as a Christian, commanded to be kind one to another. Friend, listen, we have been given the help of the Lord to do this. We've been given the person of the Holy Ghost, and I'll just say this there's no excuse to be unkind. Can I give you one more thought? Not only are we commanded, and not only are we commanded as Christians, but it's Christ like to be kind. In Luke chapter 6 and verse 35, do you know he's kind to the undeserving? By the way, I think sometimes we excuse bad behavior because we say they don't deserve it. Well, they don't deserve me to be kind. They don't deserve my kindness, you know I was talking to someone who works in the restaurant business, whatever, and they were talking about how they hated Sundays. And I thought, why do you hate a Sunday? They said, I'll tell you why I hate Sunday because Christians come and eat. And here's what that person said. They said they're the nastiest people to serve. That's what they said. They said they that they complain the most, they're the most uh the most critical, they're they're they're they're the and and they also said this, they're the cheapest tippers. Say preacher, what are you saying? I'm saying sometimes we make excuses for unkindness and there's none for them. The Bible says that he's kind unto the unthankful and to the evil. Do you know what the Lord is? He's kind to folk that don't deserve it. He's kind to people that are not worthy of his kindness, and by the way, that's you and me. I don't deserve his kindness. Tim, you're saying it in your testimony. We don't deserve his kindness. We don't deserve his mercy in our lives. We don't deserve any of his goodness. But I'm sure glad he's kind. I'm glad he's kind to the evil and the unthankful. And we're like Christ when we're kind to the undeserving. By the way, who makes us the judge of who's worthy of our kindness? It may be that one you think don't deserve it needs it most. Undeserving. I had a preacher friend He was preaching as a lady sat in the back, and he said she had an awful scowl on her face the whole time. And he said the harder he preached, the meaner she looked. And he said, I'm going to get her. He he he sort of got a personal vendetta And the more he preached, the more nasty she seemed to look at him, and he thought, I I don't know what her problem is, I don't know why she keeps coming back, but I'm going to load her wagon. He did that night after night after night. And then finally on that last service He was going to go back there and say something to her. It just bothered him so bad. And when he approached that dear lady, he noticed she was crying. And she said with a speech that was difficult to understand, thank you. You helped me this week. She said, forgive the disfigurement of my face. I've had a stroke. It's taken the ability away from me to smile. It's left my face in this awful deformity like it is. And I want you to know you bless my heart. That preacher said he felt about that big. He said he felt like crawling under the pew, and he said he actually got on his knees and said, ma'am, I've got to ask you to forgive me. I've had awful thoughts and been very unkind. And I'm here to tell you, friend, a lot of times we got our mind made up already and we say he did that and she does that and we know the reason behind it And what we've got to remember is that we need to be kind. Deserving or undeserving, that's none of our business. We just need to be kind because it's being like Jesus when we're kind. I believe we've got wrecked our independent Baptist churches because we're so unkind. From pew to the pulpit and back. Number two, when we're kind we're like Christ, and Christ was benevolent. Tim read this text, Ephesians 2. 7. Did you notice that? That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus? the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness. That word benevolent there simply means to give, to care. And I'll tell you what, God gives riches with grace, and he's abundant in doing that, and that's an expression of God's kindness God's showing his kindness to us. His benevolence is kindness in action. That's what it is. It's the kindness of God. And listen, when you and I are kind one to another. We're following the path that the Lord Jesus Himself took. We ought to be benevolent. We ought to be thoughtful of how we can encourage one another. People say, well, nobody's ever encouraged me. Well, I'm sorry, but maybe we ought to start thinking not so much about ourselves but about others. Maybe there's somebody else that you can be an encouragement to. I found this. I when when you get your eyes on others, it it'll help you. And oftentimes, what is that proverb that says, The liberal soul shall be made fat, and he that watereth shall be watered also himself? I love that proverb. He that watereth shall be watered also. You know what that means? That means when you're over here watering this little plant, God's coming right back here watering yours. When you're over here trying to help somebody else, God comes along and he starts helping you. The liberal soul shall be made fat, and he that watereth Shall be watered also himself. The Lord says, you get busy loving on others, encouraging others, being kind to others, and you'll reap a harvest you never dreamed possible. Christ like when we were kind. Let me give you one more, Titus 3:4. Titus chapter 3 and verse 4. Not only was Christ kind to the undeserving, he was benevolent in his kindness, but he demonstrated his love. And really, kindness is a love issue. If we want to get down to the brass tacks, kindness is a love issue. You know why we're not kind? Because we don't love. Now I'm going to tell you something that's not biblical, but it is traditional or historical about John the Apostle. He was known as the Apostle of Love. He was the apostle who encouraged us with 1 John, 2 John, 3 John, talking about love. Every letter he wrote was saturated in the love of God and said, love one another. They say that when John got old, he was carried from assembly to assembly. And would often say with a very weak and trembling voice, I'm afraid, little children, we don't love one another. Now let me remind you who this John is. This isn't John who was always John the Apostle of Love. This is John who was the son of Benazeres. This is John, the sons of thunder. This was John who said when the people rejected them, let's call fire on them. This is John, if I could say this, this was John the old Independent Baptist, who said, Let me tell you something. They wouldn't hear me, Lord, burn them up. Let's just scorch them real good. Let's send fire down on him. That was John. But God did something in John's life from that point to the end. God began to mold and shape and make him and put the love of God in his heart So that there was an overwhelming love and there was an urge in his heart to say, hey, we need to love one another. Listen to me. Don't let the liberals hijack that glorious Bible word There's there's folk that would say, well, preacher's liberal. He's preaching on being kind and showing love. Well, call me what you want. I I've learnt this. They're going to call you what they want to call you, whatever you do. They've already got their mind made up, so you just might as well do what God wants you to do and let them talk like they want to talk. But here's the reality, dear friend. These are Bible truths. This is Bible words. These are things that God expects of his people, and he tells us that we're look- look at it there in Titus. Did I read it yet? Titus chapter 3, verse 4. But after that the kindness and love of God, our Savior toward man appeared. The kindness of God came from his love. The kindness of the Lord Jesus came out of his love for you and I. And there will be kindness where there is love. And John encourages us with his holy example that God can change a man, that God can make him brand new I'm thinking of a man right now in heaven, when I first met him, he was the most critical, hard, mean, and hateful person you ever met. He was saved, sure enough, but he was mad about it. And I'll tell you, he would no more care to tell you to go to hell as he would go to heaven, and he'd give you a Bible while he told you to go there. Man, he was rough. I don't know the people that he had tried to witness to, that he had put near annihilated with the gospel. And people, I mean, there are people who say, well, I'd come to that church, but so and so goes there and he's mean. He's not a Christian. But I watched God start working in that man's heart. And I watched the Lord start doing something for this dear man that made him a new creature. And I'm here to tell you that man went from being the hardest nut to being the sweetest soul you've ever met. He got to the place where he had sit we were in a living room and this guy was really lab uh I mean this guy was blamblasting us He was saying, you know, your name's on the list. The Pope knows it. And and the Catholic Church here in town's blacklisted. There's no way you're going to get out of uh hell. You're going to burn forever. And man, he was just scorching us And before, this man would have been one of those men that would have blown him and his Roman Catholicism out of the water with the Bible. But I watched him sit there and start to cry. And I was sitting there to be honest with you, I didn't know him that uh that well, but I knew God was doing something in his heart. I was praying that it wasn't tears of anger and he's gonna beat that man to death. And then he began to talk to him. He said, Sir, you don't know what you're talking about. You're just talking about things you've heard. He said, you're emotional, you're upset, you're angry. He said, but please hear me. Jesus loves you. Did you say that make it any better? Mm-hmm. It got worse. I mean it got to the point that man was ready to get us by the seat of the britches and the nap of the neck and throw us out the door And he actually told us to leave, and I was obliging him, but that dear brother wanted to say more, and so he stayed there, and they just kept on. But I want to say this, man, he showed that man he loved him Furthermore, he said, sir, I want you to know something. He said, I've got arthritis sabbat my niece. I can't hardly walk. He said, walking in this house has been a painful experience He said, I've been walking down this street knocking on doors and it was cold, man, it was wicked cold. And he said, you know, this I'm going to pay for this tomorrow. And I may have to stay in the bed a little longer, but he said, I come here because I love you and I don't want to see you go to hell. And that man said, You don't know me. How can you not uh know me and still love me? He said, I love you because Jesus loved you. I'm going to tell you something. He took an old rotten nasty sinner and was kind to him. You know who did that for him? The Lord did that. The Lord did that in his heart. I'm not talking about going and taking classes and learning the twelve steps to kindness. I'm talking about yielding to the Holy Ghost and saying, Lord, make me kind. I'm talking about saying, God, come do an operation in my heart so that my old disposition is not what it uh i i is not dominant in my life. I want the Holy Spirit to be dominant. I want Jesus to be dominant. I want the Spirit of God to work in me and make me more like Jesus and help me be kind. And I'm going to tell you something. If you're sitting here tonight thinking, well, I'm kind, you ain't kind Why, preacher, I'm the kindest person you ever met. You might be caring in your person. But I believe a spiritual person would say, God, I need you to make me more kind. I need you to do something for me. I need you to really help me because, Lord, I know I've got flesh. And I know even fleshly kindness is not the same as spirit-filled kindness. World of difference. Fleshly kindness is kind as long as it's being kind too. But then it stops. Fleshly kindness says, I'm kind until you tread on me. You tread on me and I'm going to strike you like a snake. That's fleshly kindness. Bible kindness is like Jesus You look at him hanging on the cross and they're gambling and cursing and calling him all sorts of things and he says, Father, forgive them. But they know not what they do. Church, I submit to you tonight we need a revival of kindness. We need a revival of kindness. Bible kindness. Our churches need to be kind. Churches. We need to get back to being like the Lord Jesus, one to another. One to another You say, well, I'm gonna tell you something. John gets on my nerves. Can I testify? No, I'm not gonna testify That's me. Charlie, go ahead. Long time shout, Charlie. If that's the case, I'm gonna tell you something. There's personalities that are just personalities. I'm gonna tell you what overcomes personalities is the power of God. You pray. You start praying for somebody. It's hard to be unkind when you're laboring for them on your knees. When you're in your prayer closet and you're there secret, nobody else knows but you and God, and you're praying for that dear soul, and you're asking God to do something for them and to bless them and to help them. Not be envy. Might be envy. We we might envy what s what somebody else has You know, let me be silly here. I I I might say, man, I wish I could have a beard like Ben Cox. I think Ben could grow a beard overnight. I believe he does. I mean I work on one for a whole year. I'm just getting there, man. If I could grow a beard like Ben, buddy, I'd have a Moses thing. That rascal bee. I'd never cut it. I'll tell you that right now. You know what we do? We get envious. Let me tell you something. A lot of our churches are dying because we're envious. You hear me? God blesses somebody and we say, they must be liberal. God don't bless Bible believers. Hold on. People get saved and God starts working somewhere. And you know what you ought to do? Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord, for blessing those dear people. Thank you, Lord, for helping that pastor. Thank you, Lord, for working in that church. Was it F. B. Meyer pastored in the days of Spurgeon and Morgan? I believe it was G. Campbell Morgan. Charles had Spurgeon, the dying days of his ministry, and F. B. Meyer. And he would, he would, he, he got envious, he got jealous. Spurgeon could fill every build in the open. Not spurgeon, God did it, but you know what I'm saying. G. Campbell Morgan would have Sunday evening Bible class, and he was a superb Bible teacher, and they would flock, young people especially would flock by the droves. Morgan's over here at Charlotte Street Chapel, and he says, I got a handful. You start getting envious of those brethren. So much so that he said, I started preaching to find wrong in them. He started censuring Spurgeon for his Calvinism, started censuring Morgan for his theology, his his dry teaching. He started trying to blast these men, and then he realized that all I'm doing is just being envious. He said, I got on my knees and repented of my sin, and I said, God, would you please bless them? Would you please bless them? Would you feel that tabernacle? Would you feel that assembly? Would you work in those places? And you know what he testified? He said, You know what God did? He filled my little place with the overflow. The folks that couldn't get at Spurgis, folks that couldn't get to Morgan, he said, start coming here. And he filled that little chapel. You know what he learned that God don't bless envious people, but he sure does bless kind people. You know this revival of kindness, it's gotta start somewhere. It might as well be here. It's gotta start with somebody, it might as well be you and me. I'm going to say this, it's got to start sometime. Why not now? Why not now? And be ye kind one to another. Perhaps tonight as we close this meeting out we could find somewhere to pray and say, Lord, help me to be kind. Not flesh kind, not old nature kind, but help me be like Jesus kind. Help me to be kind one to another. I'm gonna tell you what, church, it'll change this fellowship. Sometimes we're like old sore-tailed cats just walking around waiting for somebody to step on our sore tail so we can claw their eyes out. We shouldn't be that way. Well, to come in here and say, now I want I want to help somebody today. How can I do it? Lord, who needs who needs the extra Oh or pardon my he'll be English, an extra dose of kindness. Lord show me And Lord help me. Because my old well of kindness runs out awful quick. God keep it full. Keep it full. Let's stand together.