Makes a difference, does he not? Praise his name. Take your Bibles, please, this morning, and go to two places with me, Second Timothy chapter three and first John chapter five. Second Timothy chapter three And 1 John chapter 5. When you find those two places, I'll invite you to stand with me as we read God's Word. I started two weeks ago a series that will be as long as the Lord leads on what the Bible says. And I'm grateful that the Bible has a lot to say. And may I say this? Everything that the Bible has to say is relevant to where we are right now. This is the only book in the world that speaks to the time, no matter the time. And that is proof of its inspiration. But 2 Timothy chapter 3, I want you to look at verse 14. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. Notice this phrase, and hast been assured of. Knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. I'm interested in that statement in verse number fourteen, and has been assured of Paul's reminding young Timothy that what he's been taught comes with assurance. I've got a friend of mine who says, I've got the insurance of my salvation. I said, brother, that's not the right word. It's the right concept, but it's not the right word. Whether you call it insurance or assurance, the scriptures give us assurance of what we believe. It's been assured of. You've been made sure that There are a lot of things I'm not sure about. In fact, the older I get, I'm less sure about a lot of things. There are things that I was I mean dead sure of. And I'm not talking about Bible things, but There were things I was dead sure of as a younger man. The older I get, I live long enough to see, oh no, that's not true. But there are some things that you can be sure of, dead sure about, absolutely sure about. And you don't have to doubt it because the Bible declares it. And my friend, that's where our assurances have to rest. So let me ask you a question. Do you have the assurance and do you know how to get assurance? this thing of assurance of salvation, what does the Bible teach about it? Father, as we bow our heads, we're asking again for help. We know, dear Lord, that what we're about to study, and Lord, truly anything in your word is spiritually discerned. We pray that the Spirit of God would have great liberty in this assembly. And I pray, Lord, that the Word of God would have free course. And above all, I pray the Lord Jesus will be lifted up. And I pray you'd meet the great need of every heart. We thank you for this privilege to gather. Teach us and help us, and God will give you the glory. Hide flesh, exalt Christ. May the Spirit of God have liberty, for it's in Jesus' mighty name we pray, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated. The first church I pastored, I was standing at the back door and a lady who was a member, very faithful person in our church. Started out the back door and I just said somewhat casually as she left, I said, uh, well, it's good to know we're saved. And she said, Well, I hope so. And that kind of took me by surprise. I said, you mean you hope so? Oh, she said, one can never be sure. I'd be honest with you, I didn't really know what to say there at the door. I didn't say anything. She left. And I began to think about that. I wonder how many people sit in our Bible preaching churches and say, I'm just not sure. Not long ago, I met someone who said, I pray and ask the Lord to save me every night. I said that's not necessary. Salvation is not something that I I must secure again and again and again. Friend, I want you to know something. You can know that you're saved. You don't have to worry about it, doubt it, fear, or fret over it. You can have the absolute assurance that you are a child of God. Would you go to 1 John 5 with me and I'm going to try your patience and read the whole chapter? But in 1 John chapter 5 , I was looking back through my notes and our brother brought a message last Sunday morning on the birth certificate of a believer. And it's been in my heart some days now to really emphasize how you can know, how you as an individual can know. You say, preacher, I uh do I have to know all the Bible? You don't have to know all the Bible. You just have to know what the Bible says about this particular subject. So 1 John chapter 5 verse 1 starts like this. Whosoever, I'm glad for that word. Whosoever, that just means you, me, all of us, anybody, everybody. Thank God for that big word. Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And every one that loveth him that begat, loveth him also that is begotten of him. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous. For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Now I'm going to just stop right there and say that's a great big word you ought to highlight in this chapter because it's critical to assurance. It's critical to assurance, our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God? This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ. Not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth. For there are three that bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three are one. And there are three that bear witness in earth, the spirit and the water, and the blood. And these three agree in one. If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater. Now again, I want you to highlight that phrase because the witness of God is greater. It's greater than your feelings, it's greater than your ideas, it's greater than your thoughts, it's greater than your opinions, it's greater than anything you put beside it The witness of God. For this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his son. He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself. He that believeth not God hath made him a liar, because he believeth not the record that God gave of his son. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his son. He that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. And this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And if we know that he heareth us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him. If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death. I do not say he shall pray for it. All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not unto death. We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not. But he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not. And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness. And we know that the Son of God has come and hath given us an understanding that we may know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen. I want you to see that verse number 20, because really we often read verse 13 and say, well, see, here's how you have assurance, but notice what verse 20 says, and we know that the Son of God is come and hath given us an understanding. That we may know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his Son, Jesus Christ. Notice what it says. This is the true God and eternal life. Folks, I want to say as I begin this morning that salvation Is an absolute certainty. It's not a hope so. You're not thinking so. You're not hanging on praying it is so. It is a certainty based on what the Bible says. You can be sure Oftentimes our tender hearts are troubled, and we think, am I? We read statements out of 1 John, like it says in verse 18, we know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not. And immediately that tender conscience might be pricked and say, Hold on. I I I sin. I have sinned. And John said this in 1 John chapter number 1, that if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. Well how do we rectify or justify that? How do we balance that out? How do we say, well yes, I I know I'm saved. I I know I sinned against the Lord. I failed the Lord. And I confess my sin and I ask him to forgive me and he cleanses me. But how do I know for sure I'm saved? Well, I want to give you three things real quick this morning. Number one, I want you to look at the facts of Scripture. And if I don't get any further than that I think that's near far enough because the reality is the facts of Scripture are what make me sure. Remember what Peter said? We have not followed cunningly devised fables. Folks, you need to be absolutely sure that what you hold in your hand is heaven-revealed facts This is not the opinions of men. This is not the ideas of religiosity. This is the word of God. Paul told Timothy, all scriptures given by inspiration of God. All of it. Genesis to revelation, all of the scriptures inspired. I want to say something. Commentators or commentaries are not inspired. Notes in the margin are not inspired. Some of our thinking about the Bible. Well, preacher, I know, I know, I know. Well, hold on a minute. You may not know all you think you know. My ideas and my thoughts and my opinions. But here's what I do know: everything God says is absolutely true. It's all inspired. It's all inspired. And so, when we think about the facts of scriptures, I want you to notice the three things that is magnified here in this chapter. Number one, I want you to see the facts about the person of Christ. He really spends a lot of time in those first six verses emphasizing who Jesus is. In verse number one, he says this: Jesus is the Christ. Jesus is the Christ. Of course, that simply means, according to John 1. 41 When Andrew found Peter, he said this. He said, we found the Messiah, which being interpreted, the Christ. Jesus is the cross. You say, what are you saying? I'm saying that Jesus is God's provision for man's sin He's the promised one. Genesis 3. 15 talked about. That one who would come and crush the serpent's head. That's who Jesus is. Now, friend, you will not find out who Jesus is apart from the pages of the Word of God. You say, but preacher, I've heard the church teaches this. I don't care what the church teaches, what does the Bible say? Because what the Bible says trumps what the church teaches. It ought to govern what the church teaches, but sadly, that's not always true. But what does the Bible say about Jesus? And let me be very clear, the Bible says that Jesus is the Messiah. He's the sent one. He's the provision. And shadows and types are fulfilled in the person of the Lord Jesus who walked this earth some 2,000 years ago and went to a hill called Calvary. That's who Jesus is. Now you need to get that settled in your heart. Because I'll tell you what, we live in a world that'll tell you Jesus is not who he said he is. And you will listen, you will go and remember a friend of mine saying when he went to university, he said it was strange in the religion classes that he took that everything seemed to be a direct attack on the person of Jesus Christ. I said, strange. Don't be surprised. That's just the reality of the world we live in. Jesus said, the world hates me The world hates me, the world still hates him. Jesus is still the most controversial individual who ever walked the face of this earth. Men either hate him or love him, but one day all are going to bow before him. And the reality is that the Bible tells you who Jesus is. He is the Christ. He's God's provision. Notice something else it says about him, verse 5. It says that he is, Jesus is the Son of God. Notice that in verse 5. Jesus is the Son of God. He's the incarnate one. When Jesus Christ was born, the Bible says the Word was made flesh. Now hold on a minute, the Word was made flesh. In verse number one of chapter number one, it says, In the beginning was the word. So there the word was before that beginning ever was, and then in verse 14, the word was made flesh. And so the word that was became a man, and yet the Bible says we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. What does that mean? That means that what he was, or what he was in the past, he still was in the present when he was born, and all that he ever was, he always is, because he's not the I was, he's the I am Jesus is the Son of God. Foxy was not a glorified angel, a created being. He was the very Son of God. God who took on Himself the form of a servant and became like sinful man, he died for our sin. Listen, friend, the Lord Jesus is the very Son of God. Or I know his humanity is magnified, but his deity is too. Yes, he was enough man to get hungry, but he was enough God to raise the dead. He was enough man to be weary in his journeys, but yet he was enough God to say, drink of this water that I give, and you'll never thirst again. He was enough man to hang on a cross and say it is finished, and yet he was enough God to say I dismiss my spirit And enough God to say on the third and appointed morning, I am he that was dead, but behold I'm alive forevermore, and got up out of the grave alive and well. Folks, he is the Son of God. Can I say this very clearly? You can't be wrong about Jesus and be right with God. You can't believe wrong about Jesus and be right with God. The Bible gives us the facts. The facts concerning the person of Christ, who is the Christ, who is the Son of God. And then verse 6 says that he came by water and blood. He came by water and by blood. I believe there's a dual picture here. I believe it's a reference back to the waters of baptism when the Son of God was baptized in John. As he baptized in the river Jordan, the Holy Ghost came down. John saw the Spirit of God descend and rest upon him, and then Matthew says a voice spoke from heaven, said, This is my beloved Son Now, by the way, John saw all of that. He witnessed it. I mean, look, I've seen a lot of things at baptism. I've never seen anything like that. First baptism that I did as a pastor, speaking of that little church, the first lady that I baptized was terrified of water. Terrified, literally terrified. She was so terrified, in fact, that that uh, you know, I uh it was just the Lord that got her to that place where she could get in the in the baptismal tank. And my pastor, my pastor who's now in heaven, Dr. Shaxton Sr. he said, son, I'll come out and help you. I know you've never done this before. I 'll I'll be there and kind of instruct you and give you some direction. And but you know, I after it was over, I thought, Preacher Sexton, I wish you hadn't come, because all he did is tell me tragedy stories that happened while he baptized. Told me about people he dropped and told me about, and I'll tell you, he had me so scared when I got in the water. And here she come. You could tell she was terrified and I said to her, I called her by name and I said, please just you know we're not gonna drop you. I got a deacon here and a deacon here and they're pretty hefty fellows, they can get you up. So just just relax. We'll this will be quick And you'll be obedient to the Lord and we'll go. But when she was immersed, when we put her under , She knocked my feet out from under me because she was struggling and she was fighting, and she knocked my feet out from under me. And then she went to grab the glass. We had a sheet of glass across the front of the baptismal tank. And she nearly broke it. She pulled it in. And I thought, we're going to have a flood and a catastrophe. So when I reached up to grab her hand to pull it down, we both went swimming. Now I got her baptized about a half a dozen times over. And I thought, what am I telling you? I didn't know what was going on. But but I listen, the reality is you see a lot of things in baptism. Nobody's ever seen what John saw. He witnessed the Spirit of God come out of heaven and descend like as a dove on the Son of God. And he heard the voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. He witnessed that, he saw that, he viewed that. But can I say to you, there came a point in his life that it got so dark that he said, Are you the Christ? Now if you're sitting here thinking, well, I you know I must be a second-rate Christian because I've got doubts. Can I say to you that even John the Baptist Jesus said there's not been a man born a woman greater than he? And at that last point of his life said, are you really the one? And what did Jesus do? Jesus took him right back to the scriptures. and said, John, these are the facts, this is what the Bible says, this is what's going on. I'm a fulfillment of the scriptures. And what I'm trying to say is is that the only place you can can get the full assurance of your faith is in the facts of the Word of God. We find the facts about the person of Jesus Christ that He came The blood speaks of the death he died on Calvary when he shed his blood. And isn't it interesting when they pierced him on the cross? That both blood and water flowed from his side? Well, we have the witness or the facts of the person of the Son of God. Number two, I want you to notice the witness of God in verses 9 and 10. Verse 9 says, if we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater. For this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his Son. He that believeth on the Son of God hath a witness in himself. He that believeth not, God hath made him a liar, because he believeth not the record That God gave of His Son. What's the witness of God? Two things. Number one, God testified of His Son. Do you know when you fail to believe what the Bible says, you're calling God a liar That's pretty serious stuff, isn't it? I know lying's so commonplace in our culture that too many people don't get wound up about it, but there was a day if you called a man a liar, he might just He might just lay out. Because you know what? If if a man don't have his own character or name, what else does he have? And you know what? When you say, well, Lord, I know the Bible says this, but I just don't believe it, you're saying, God, you're lying. That's serious, isn't it? But I'm glad my God doesn't tell lies. He speaks truth. That's what the book says. He speaks the truth. Notice with me again the Son. And then in verse 10, he talks about the record. That he's given us a record of his son. You say, what is that? You're holding it. Here's the record You know, when you uh how many of you are married here? And you went and got a a um marriage certificate? And wherever it was, whatever courthouse or place you went to, in that courthouse, if you go back there today, guess what? There's a record. That record's there. Uh y there's there's a there's a record of your birth somewhere. Now there might be some old enough, they didn't write it down, they might have chiseled it somewhere on a cave wall. That's very possible. But the reality is, there's a record. There's a record of it. And the record says it's so. The record says it's so. And I'm glad I got a Bible that says the record is so. Jesus is everything he said he was. He's everything he claims to be. I've got the record of his son. I'm going somewhere. Stay with me, please. What does the Bible say about assurance? We've got the facts, the scripture, the person of Christ, the witness of God. Now look quickly with me at the foundation of faith, verse 11 and 12. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. He that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Here's the foundation of faith. Here's the foundation of faith. Every other foundation is faulty. Now, preacher, I know I'm saved because I'll tell you, Elizabeth and I were sitting in a Sunday school class years ago in a little church, Friendship Baptist Church, Hendersonville, North Carolina. And as we sat there in that class, the man started giving his testimony. And I love to hear how people got saved, and I don't care if I've heard it a thousand times, I like to hear it again. It's just someone said the only thing better than your own salvation is somebody else's. And you enjoy hearing that testimony. And he started to talk about, well, I know I'm a Christian. He started to weep. He said, one day I lost my keys. No, okay. Maybe this is going to go somewhere. And he said, I couldn't find them, couldn't find them, and he said, I prayed and I said, Lord, please, please help me find my keys. And he said, you know As I was walking through the driveway, I got this burning sensation in my side, and I looked down, and right there were my keys, and I looked up to God and I said, Thank you, God. He said, I know I'm a Christian. I said to him afterwards, I said, Sir, how does that have anything to do with you being saved? I get a burning in my side. I might as well better off call doctor and say, hey doc, I got something going on. Salvation is not some extraordinary experience. The assurance of your salvation is not even found in your feelings. You say, Preacher. I feel I'm saved. I've just noticed in some of the hymns we sing, a lot of times there's such an emphasis on feeling, and I'll be honest with you, there are times that I do not feel like I'm saved. You get a f you get one of these Hong Kong Louis flues and you tell me how saved you feel when you're up all night Huh? You don't feel saved. You're praying, God, just kill me somehow, get me out of this. This is torture. I'm not talking you don't feel, you don't always and somebody says, I feel saved all the time, they're lying. My emotions have nothing to do with my eternal security. My faith is not resting upon how I feel My frame or my feelings will change. You know, it just a cloudy day can throw some people in a turmoil. You know that? I mean listen, you you know that. The weather affects you when it's dreary and droopy and you know, no sun and just I mean, you just feel like, man, I I don't know. But our feelings, our feelings come and go, our emotions come and go, our thoughts and our ideas are all subject to change. But here's what I do know: this Bible does not change. My faith has found, the song says, a resting place where? Not in device nor creed. Oh no. I'm trusting the ever-living one. It's his wounds for me shall plead. The assurance of our salvation is founded upon the precious word of God. The record and the reality are faultless. This is what the Bible says. And this Bible can be trusted like no other. Oh, friend, listen, there are facts of Scripture that cannot be denied. How do I know I'm saved this morning? But, preacher, I I really want to know. Open your Bible. There you will find the answer. Let me just say this. It's not your job nor mine to tell somebody they are saved. I can't give you the assurance of your salvation. That's not my responsibility. You can't give me an assurance. You know where you got to get it? You got to get it on what the Bible says Because you see, like Paul reminded, I believe it was the Corinthians, he said, your faith and hope must be in God That's where it must rest. So number one, I want you to see the facts of the scripture. Number two, quickly, I want you to see the faith of the saved. Here's what I've heard people say. But preacher, do I have the right kind of faith? Do I have the right amount of faith? Preacher, I don't have a whole lot of faith, and according to the Bible, I don't know that anybody does, because the Bible says if you had faith, a grain of a mustard seed. You say that mountain moving, it'd move, and I don't know anybody moved mountains in my lifetime. So the reality is that this faith that saved, that saves is very unique. You say, what is it? Number one, it's in a person. You notice what it said in verse 1, whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. Verse number five, who is he that overcometh the world? But he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God? Friend, listen, the the only place that your faith can rest is in the person of Jesus Christ. The kind of faith you say, preacher, I'm I'm trusting, I d I I have little faith, I have small faith, I have struggling faith. But can I say this? It's not the amount of faith that matters, it's the position of that faith in whom you trust is what really matters. Paul said it like this, I know whom I have believed. I'm not he he didn't say I believe a whole lot. He said I just know whom I have believed. Not only is it in the person of the Lord Jesus, but it's in the power of Jesus as well. In verse 4 it says, For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Verse number 10: He that believeth on the Son of God hath a witness in himself. Notice, believeth on the Son of God. You see, the faith that saves is not only in the person of Jesus Christ. But it's in the power of Jesus. You know what you're saying? You're saying, Lord, I can't, but you can. I'm believing on. Now look, every one of you are believing on the pews you're sitting in because you're sitting there right comfortable Some of you are well nigh comatose. And you believe that pew 's going to hold you up of what you you've come in like I and you've sat down a multitude and you've said this old this thing's going to hold me and you sit down We had a neighbor and bless her heart, she lived in our community, and I don't think she ever bought a a a batch of groceries in a lifetime my lifetime anyway. But she she had a keen knack at visiting uh neighbors at mealtime. We were on the supper routine And that aggravated my father to no end. It wasn't that he he didn't want to help her, he would. It was just there's a lot to it anyway But one thing I remember about her, she's about six foot four. She's the tallest woman I'd ever seen in my life. And when she went to sit down, she did it sort of like a giraffe would in stages. And when she hit those chairs, I mean she had real confidence in them things because she'd hit that thing and it'd scoop back a couple of feet and then she'd inch herself back up to the table. She was sure they'd hold her. Well, my father rather impishly had a chair that wasn't that well built. And so he set it for her one day at supper. And when that frame unfolded and sat down in that chair, that thing exploded like a grenade and went off in the kitchen. And she didn't come eat supper for many, many weeks after that. It sort of fixed the problem for a while. But you know what you do? You rely. I'm talking about putting your faith in someone who has the power to save. When you trust in the Lord Jesus, when you believe on him, you're not saying now, Lord, it's it's the measure of my faith that matters. Oh no It's the mightiness of the one in whom you trust. He's able to save to the uttermost them that come to God by Him. Folks, He's able to save. It's not your hold of him that matters. It's what he's done for you that's important. His power to save. And then I want you to notice the possession you have. I'm talking about this faith, the faith of the saved. Verse 11 says, this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Look at verse 12. He that hath the Son hath life. If you believed, you have a possession. You have the possession. He's yours. And by the way, God doesn't play games with the souls of men. Salvation is not a carrot on a stick. Come on now. Come on now. Follow me. I'll give you just enough assurance to make you stay true or right. That's not the way that he works. You know what John said? John made it very clear. He says you have the Son or you don't have the Son. And if you're saved, you have the son. And if you don't have the son, you're not saved. He makes it very clear this possession, this possession is the result of believing on the Lord Jesus. And you say, but preacher, some will say this, I just don't feel like I have him. You know what you're doing? You're trusting what you feel over what the Bible says. Oh, I I you know, I just I just don't feel. How many of you, now be honest, you Christians, and I know you are, but listen. How many of you would say, preacher, there have been times or moments in my life I felt like the Lord was a million miles away? Huh? Sure you have. Lord, I I just don't feel you near. I don't feel you close. Lord, I I just don't feel like you're close to me. But aren't you glad that he made a statement? He said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. That's what he said. And you know why he said that? Because there's sometimes you're going to say, that's just not true. That's just not true. A dear missionary friend of mine had his little boy run over on an island. He was there to reach those people with the gospel. And it was a tragedy of tragedies. And he went in such a dark place and I can't throw rocks at him. I've never been to that to the in that kind of situation But he walked out, he said in the ocean that evening and lifted his hands up and he said, God, you forget me? You forget who I am? Lord, I'm here trying to tell these people about Jesus. Why did you let this happen, Lord? Where are you? Where are you? He screamed. And before we look down our long, cold spiritual noses and say, I'd never do that. You've never been there. And you don't know what you would do when you're there, but here's what I do know: what God said. God said, I will never leave thee. You know how I know I have him? Because I have the Bible that says I do. The Bible makes me sure. Saving faith. Rests on the scripture. That's just where it rests. I put my head on what the Bible says, and I trust the Lord. Because this book comes from him. Let me close by saying this. There's fruit. There's the fruit of salvation. And I'm not going to belabor this. I believe our brother last week did so quite quite clearly. But 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says that if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. You say, preacher, what's the fruit of salvation? Change life. Change life. I need to make sure I'm saved. Oh, I know all things don't don't happen instantly or or I don't uh immediately become a good Christian or a great Christian. But the reality is that there's something and many things that fundamentally change when I get born again. And he changes my life. He listened. Can I be quick with this? Verse 1, he says there's a love for God and his people. There's joyful obedience in verse 3. There's victory in verse 4. You say, what is victory? It's the ability through God to overcome. There's things you can't beat, and you say, Victor, I've tried. Isn't it wonderful? When you get saved, God gives you the victory and you beat them. The victory. The Holy Spirit. We talked about this. Verse number 10. You have this witness within yourself. He lives inside of you. Please don't tell me something as big as God will move in and it leave you the same. I know this, if your mother-in-law moved in your house, things would be different My mother-in-law is probably listening to this message, and I know if she moved in my house, it would probably be different. And you mean to tell me a human being could move into your home? And and it I mean listen, you remember when your first child was born? How many of you remember that? You remember that day, those days? Did things kind of change around there? Was your house not a different house? Things were not the same after that little one made its appearance. And what I'm saying is that the God of heaven, when he moves into a person's life Please don't tell me that it goes unnoticed or that life goes unaltered. Our God is such a God that He comes in in great power. And he changes. When Jesus went into the temple, what did he do? He cleaned it up. He threw the money changers out. And if you get saved, you get really saved, friend, he'll start cleaning you out and cleaning you up and making you more like his son. And then the confidence. And I want to just end here because I believe this is critical. Verse 14. And this is the confidence that we have in him. A confidence in him. When Paul wrote to the Philippian believers, he wrote this in chapter 3 and verse 3. We are the circumcision. You know they're making a big deal about that around there. Well, we keep the law and we follow this part of the law. We circumcise, we continue the rituals and rites, and he says, hold on a minute. Whether you're circumcised or not has nothing to do with you, soul. He says, We are the circumcision. Watch this. Here's the best definition of a scripture of a Christian in the scriptures. Which worship God in the Spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh. Now that's what a Christian is. A Christian is someone, my friend, listen, who worships God in the Spirit. Who rejoices in Christ Jesus and who has no confidence in the flesh. Do you know there's a lot of good Baptists that aren't born again because they're good Baptists? Their confidence is in their, I'm a Baptist. Hold on. I don't see anywhere in the Bible that says you must be a Baptist to be born again. I do, I'll have to be honest. I I sort of feel like uh some of my brethren in the past, V. R. Lakin said the Methodists got after him, tried to get him to join. He had, what, 19 churches, 17 churches? He rode a mule and preached to them and was circuit rider in his day. And they said, Dr. Lakin, if if you'd just come over, he said, we'd take you in. He said, if you folks would go under, I'd join up. But here's what he said. Somebody said, Dr. Lakin, what would you be if you weren't a Baptist? He said, I'd be ashamed of myself. Oh, come on now, don't get all grieved. I'm a Baptist by conviction, my friend. Because if there's anything closer, that's what I'd be. But here's what I'm saying I don't care if you're a good Baptist or a bad Baptist, being a Baptist is not going to get you to heaven. We have no confidence in the flesh. What do we have confidence in? Jesus Christ, the crucified, buried, risen Son of God who saves to the uttermost. My friend, that's the kind of faith that saves, and that's the fruit of salvation. Not trusting me. I'm not trusting the prayer I prayed, the tears I shed, the kneeling in an altar. I'm not trusting the professions I've made or the words I've spoken. I'm trusting in the Lord Jesus and Him only. Now friend, our assurance is found right here in the Word of God. Are you struggling? Go to your Bible. Go to your Bible and say, now Lord, is this true of me? Is this what you've done for me? Is this, oh the facts are true. The facts are true. But what have I done with those facts? Friend, you can rest assured. Your heart may be troubled and weary and struggling. Just put your head on the pillow of truth and rest. Because God doesn't lie and God doesn't change. Stand with me, please. Father, I make it my prayer this morning, if there's one here lost, you'd save them. If there's some dear