All right, well, good evening. Thank you, church, and thank you, Pastor, for giving me the opportunity to be here. If you got your Bible with you, go to the book of Jonah. The book of Jonah. Pastor texts me a f about a week ago, I guess, and asked if I would preach this evening. I started praying about what the Lord would have us to hear tonight and uh well I was pretty unsettled about it. And this afternoon I I was praying about it and uh this was one of the thoughts I had on my heart and on my mind. And I thought that this would be uh good good for us to have here. I think it's something for our world that we need. Uh it was gonna be a hair out of Jonah, very familiar story. We're just going to read the first 11 verses. And if you don't mind, if you got it there, would you stand with me as we read the Word of God? Jonah chapter number one And we'll begin reading the first eleven verses. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amittai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness is come up before me. But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. And he went down to Joppa, and he found a ship going to Tarshish So he parried the fare thereof and went down into it, to go with them unto Tarshish, from the presence of the Lord But the Lord sent out a great wind into the sea, and there was a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken. Then the mariners were afraid and cried every man unto his God, and cast forth the wares that were in the ship into the sea, to lighten it of them. But Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship And he lay and was fast asleep. So the shipmaster came to him and said unto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? Arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us, that we perish not. And they said every one to his fellow, Come, and let us cast lots, that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell upon Jonah. Then said they unto him, Tell us, we pray thee, for whose cause this evil is upon us, what is thine occupation, and whence comest thou? What is thy country? And of what people art thou And he said unto them, I am in Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land. Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said unto him, Why hast thou done this? For the men knew that had he that he had fled from the presence of the Lord, because he had told them. Verse eleven, then said they unto him , What shall we do unto thee, that the sea may be calm unto us? For the sea wrought and was temp tempestuous Let's go ahead and pray and ask the Lord to bless us. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you for your word. And God, I pray as we we gather here tonight, we need your help. And Lord, I I and I want to speak what you was laid on my heart, but God, I pray that you'll direct my thoughts and give me clarity of mind. Lord, guard my mouth to keep me from saying anything I should not. And Lord, give me the boldness to say what I should. Lord, please speak through me. I need your help. God, we don't want to hear from me. We want to hear from you. So please meet with us. God, I pray that you can have free liberty to move up and down each row and touch each heart. And God, may we do business with you where we need to. We thank you, we praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Thank you for standing. So here in the book of Jonah we have a familiar, familiar story, right? Everybody knows about Jonah and how he was swallowed by the whale and he was spit out of the whale and then went and preached unto Nineveh finally like he was supposed to. And the city, famously, it repented, and uh then Jonah was mad about it, and uh how crazy that is. But that was the case basically the synopsis of the story of Jonah And as you read it here, I think about uh my key verse comes from uh uh verse number six, where the shipmaster came to him, says So the shipmaster came to him and said unto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? Arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us that we perish not You know, I thought about this as I was reading it uh and just a little while ago, and I thought about this, thought we need to wake up in America. Our churches today, our Christians today, our pastors today, we need to wake up. You know, I think about how the world looks upon us and we're sleeping in the hour in which we live in Many of you might be sleeping here in just a few minutes, so get comfortable, amen. But wake up, amen. We need to wake up. I think about how I I I 'm sure all of you have heard the term in the world today, the the woke uh agenda of the the new people. We don't need to be woke. We need to be awakened unto the Word of God and the thoughts and the mind of the Lord. And you know where you find it? Right here in the pages of the Word of God. Christian church, it's time for us to wake up. You know, I think about a lot of times we are just asleep here in this situation. I think about how in the beginning of this uh chapter we see the command going from God to Jonah to go to Nineveh. And preach unto it. And if you study out Nineveh, you understand it was a wicked city, and uh the Israelites were hated by the Ninevehes, and also the Israelites hated the Nineveh. If you study that out, you understand what all uh how how terrible the Nineveh were. So Jonah didn't want to go preach to them. And how sad it is we think about, and I've preached a message not that long ago about uh at the end of the book where what uh Doest thou well to be angry when God asks Jonah that And I think about how oftentimes we preach uh and we have a uh an attitude towards the lost world where we almost want them to perish. And we see the wickedness in the world and we see how crazy things have gone and how uh all these uh the baby butchers in the abortion clinics and the homosexuals and the trans community and everything like that that's so against God And how often we we kind of get bitter and hard against it, and we we almost act holier than thou towards them, not realizing that if not for the grace of God, there go I And Jonah's in that state here where Jonah looks upon the Ninevehites, who were a destined people to be per to perish very soon. But God wants to give them, extend mercy to them And he wanted Jonah to go preach that to them. He wanted them to repent and turn to him. As we know the Bible says that he wants all to repent. He doesn't want any to perish. The the same God of the that was here in Jonah's day is still on his throne in heaven today, and he wants all of us to come to repentance and accept Jesus Christ as our Savior. He doesn't want anyone to go to hell But yet, so many of us in the world today call ourselves Christians, maybe call ourselves a preacher, and we're asleep to the fact that the world's dying around us. When Jonah was here, he had a command from God, but what did he do? He went the opposite direction. Amen. Jonah was told to go to Nineveh. And in verse three we see it there that he rose up to flee unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. And he says it there again at the end of it, from the presence of the Lord. I think about how terrible it is uh to flee from the presence of God. But I think about how often we do that You come to church and you get your toes stepped on, and we flee from the presence of God because we get a little convicted, and instead of making things right, we go and run. But you say, well, I'm not going back to that church because that preacher hurt my feelings or whatever it might be. No, the word of God convicted you, and instead of getting right, we fled from the presence of God. How many of us have done that? Amen. Jonah's doing that here. You know what where the pres in the presence of God, if Jonah would have stayed there and and would have been praying and doing whatever, guess what? The Lord would have been continually on him saying, Go to Nineveh and preach to that city. But Jonah thought I can outrun this. I can get away from God. If I go from the presence of God, if I go where he's not at, if I go amongst the people that don't love God, if I go amongst the world, maybe God will leave me alone there. We know that ain't the case. Any of you you Christian folks ever tried to do that? We ought not try to do that, but we can see what happens, how the tragedy strikes up in our life. But because of that, I noticed there in verse 3 the direction he went. He went down to Joppa. Anytime you go out of the will of God, you're going down. Amen You're never going up. I think about that song, I'm I'm pressing on the upward way, new heights I'm gaining every day, right? Jonah wasn't doing that. He was going down. Down and down. Down a little bit later there you see that he went down into the ship. He went down to Joppa. He went down into the ship. Guess what? We're going down when we run away from God. Amen. Here we see how Jonah disobeys God. And he he gets down into the ship. And this whole thing was because of his sin. This storm that came up that was going to almost cost them all their lives, almost cost the ship and all that they had, was all because of Jonah's disobedience to God. I'm gonna tell you right now, I think a lot of the things going on in this world today are caused because our churches are asleep in several areas We've gone disobedient to God's word, and we've got in amongst the world, and we thought, well, we're just going to lay down here in a corner and we're going to go to sleep. And guess what? Things are coming apart on the uh on this at the scenes around us. Amen? We see it here in chapter number one of Jonah and verse number six. He he went there and he's asleep. Verse five, he's fast asleep in the ship. The problem is caused by Jonah. He's disobedient to God, but number one, we have this problem because we're sleeping when we should be preaching. We're sleeping when we should be preaching. Here Jonah is asleep in the ship, going opposite direction of where he should be going to preach the word of God. He's to go and preach what thus saith the Lord, but instead he's asleep. Our churches today are are in the shape we're in because we're asleep when we ought to be preaching. Amen. And I'm not just talking about those that are sitting in the pew when the preaching's going on, although that happens frequently. And I I I stole a trick from him. I took my glasses off, so I can't even see any of you. So if you fall asleep tonight I won't squirt you with a squirt gun or anything like that because I can't tell. But you know, that's the thing. When you sit stand up here and you preach, uh this church is nice because it's long. You don't see that much, even if I had my glasses on, I can't really tell But uh back home our church is a lot shallower, I guess. It's a smaller building. And you can see when they're sleeping, especially when there's only a handful of people there. It's discouraging I'm just going to tell you right now, please don't sleep on your preacher. Alright, I'm not your preacher. You can sleep on me. But don't sleep on your your preacher. It's just very disheartening. When you're you've you spent hours in the Word of God, you spent hours praying and you're wanting a message from God. for his people and you get up there to deliver it and you look out and three people are sleeping and three people are eating a hamburger and you're like, I want a hamburger. Where'd you get a hamburger at? you know Hey, let's not do that. Alright, let's let's try to be attentive to the word of God. Amen. But hey, there's problems because our preachers are sleeping How many churches across the country are are suffering from a dead preacher? Now you don't have one here. Alright? Your preacher here is not asleep. You heard a message this morning that was very uh powerful by the from the Word of God, and the Holy Spirit was on that. And I pray that as the men prayed there in the prayer time beforehand, I pray that somebody will get under conviction and come to Christ from that message. They heard the gospel. Amen. That's what we're here for. Hey, the preaching is to reach the lost But you know, the preaching doesn't just stay with the preacher. It's not just his job or my job to preach the word of God. It's all of our job Hey, you know, the the the Bible still says in Mark chapter 16, verse 15, it's still there, it's still in mine, and they haven't cut it out of mine. It still says, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. I mean that's still there. It's very plain. That command has not left the Word of God, but sadly it's left the heart of his people. We have fallen asleep when we should be preaching. I think about the verse as I was studying this out, I read Romans chapter 13, and verse 11 through 14. It says, And knowing that the time, that now is high time to awake out of sleep. For now our is our salvation nearer than when we believed. Amen? Hey, that's the truth. Hey, the day is coming to an end here, folks. If you don't have a if you're I mean pull your head out of the sand though the trump is near to sound. This morning when Brother Bishop was doing that choir song there and that trumpet was blasting over there, I got cold chills all the way down my spine. Because I thought, you know what, one of these days, wouldn't it be awesome if that would have been this morning? Right when Brother Bishop went to blow that thing and we heard the heavenly trumpet said And hey, we're out of here, friend. I don't know about these crazy people that want to say and around for the tribulation, but I I'm trusting my word of God that says I'm pulling out with a trump And the shout of God, hey, the dead in Christ are rising first, and I'm going to meet them in the air, praise God. Hangs will stay around for no tribulation, because God has saved my soul, and he's not going to let leave me for that. Praise the Lord. But the Bible tells us there in Romans 13 and verse 12 that the night is far spent and the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness and let us put on the armor of light. I think about how that it's talking about the day is at hand. The night is far spent. Hey, you're supposed to be awake during the daytime and asleep at the nighttime. And he says, hey, it's daytime right now. I got cupboards opening up here Anyway, it's supposed to be awake during the daytime, asleep at night. He says, listen, we're in the day and we're getting close to dusk. The sun's setting, folks The sun is setting on this age of grace, and Jesus is about to come at any point in time. Hey, are we awake? Listen, awake out of our sleep. That verse 14 there in Romans chapter 13 says, But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. Make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. We need to wake up. And start serving God. Start preaching the word of God. Hey, the time has come drawing to a close. That hourglass is nearly out of sand. And friend, I'm telling you, there is a lost world that is going to split hell wide open if we don't go preach what thus saith the Lord. Amen. We gotta do it, folks. It's not time to lay down and go to sleep. It's time to go preach the word of God. Jonah was laying asleep when he had a command to preach to a very vast city that was about to be destroyed. He God said, In forty days I'm going to destroy Nineveh. Go preach to him before that forty days is up. But what'd Jonah do? He went and got in a ship and went the other way. And he fell asleep when the time is ticking on Nineveh. And God said, Guess what? You need to wake up and go preach what I told you to preach. 1 Corinthians 15 and verse 34 tells us to awake to righteousness and sin not. For some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. When I read that verse and it started to begin to break it down, I thought about how awake to righteousness means to stir up, arouse to righteousness. And what's that mean? How do you wake up to righteousness? Hey, watch and be sober and attend to righteousness. What's righteousness? The holiness of God. What's righteous in the eyes of God? Hey, that holy, sanctified life we're to live. We need to wake up and start doing it. It's not time to lay down and not do it. We're not playing dead. We gotta get up. And that that last part of that verse says That some have not the knowledge of God. There's a world around us that don't know God, and it's to our shame, as the Apostle Paul wrote. He said, I speak this to your shame. Paul points the finger across there at the Corinthians, he says, I speak this to your shame. You read the book of 1 Corinthians, read what's going on in their church Amen. Read the first couple chapters of 1 Corinthians and you'd say these people are lost. But they're not. They were saved folks. Hey, they're carnal Christians. He said you're fighting over who even won you to the Lord. You got people doing uh ungodly fornication with family members. Hey, this is straight out of the pits of hell, and you guys claim to be Christians. He says, hey Awake to righteousness. Because guess what? The time is drawing to a close, and there's a lot of people that don't know Jesus, and it's your fault, is what the Apostle Paul was saying to them. Hey, that's still here today. I don't know about you, there's not a perfect church. There's gonna be uh little issues and stuff, and you know where how they all come about I've I've I'm not an expert by any means. I'm not very old. I've only been preaching for a short time, but I've seen a few things here in several different churches that I've been able to be in and talk to some very seasoned men of God And you know where what I found out the problem in every church where it comes from? I. Pride. Amen. If you'd read the Bible and get the mind of Christ, of humility upon each one of us and say, hey, it's not about me. It isn't about you. It's about the Lord Jesus Christ. It's about getting people saved and bringing them in here. You know, going out there full of the Holy Spirit. When you come in here and you get recharged, and you go out there and you preach hellfire to the lost world, and they say there's something different about him, there's something different about her, and I gotta have it because I don't have it here in my drugs I don't have it in my alcohol and I gotta get it, and it's only gonna come by the Lord Jesus Christ that they're telling me about. But we're asleep, friends And we're too busy fighting one another. We're too busy worrying about that sister so-and-so sat in my pew. This is an honest this happened in a church that I I I grew up I grew up in. We had a a dinner, a church dinner And a lady got mad because someone set their crock pot in front of hers. And she nearly split the church over that Hey folks, that's a big, bad case of pride. Amen. Her dinner wasn't even that good. Listen, your food, none no one in here can cook a dish good enough to split the church over. Amen? I feel like preaching tonight, amen. The Bible tells us we need to wake up here, amen. Jonah's asleep. When he ought to be preaching what thus saith the Lord. Christians, we're asleep when we ought to be preaching what thus saith the Lord. Awake to righteousness. Live a righteous life My testimony vo verse, and I I may have told some of you folks this before, but uh when I was living in Michigan and I was out of the will of God and I be I found a t a good gospel preaching church and I began going there and I was hungry for drawing back to the faith, and I was saved as a little boy, but I had got away from it. And I was convicted by By my life and the Holy Spirit within me every time I'd I'd sin and go a little further he'd say, You know that ain't right, Joe. You know that I bought you with a price and you're not your own and you shouldn't be doing that. And you know, as I found the church and I got in there And uh it wasn't maybe the second or third service. And the pastor, Pastor Summers up there in Michigan, he preached a series out of Titus, chapter number two. And when he got down there to verse number 11 through 13 is when the Lord got a hold of my heart. On Wednesday night, uh I didn't at the church. My pride kept me from the from taking care of it at the church, and I went home Got out of my bed in my apartment, and I I got down before God, and I said, You know what, Lord, this is what I need. Titus chapter two, verse eleven through thirteen tells us, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly thus, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world Verse 13, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. You know what'll I heard uh Oliver Green, I think it was, preaching a message and he said, You want to get church folks to live right, get them looking for the blessed hope. And he's right. When I got a hold of that verse, when the Holy Spirit showed me that verse and spoke to my heart, and he told me that the grace of God teaches me how to live my life for God. Amen. When I think about what Jesus did on that old rugged cross, the grace that held my Savior there for my sin, and I know I ought to be in hell right now. I shouldn't even be alive and breathing right now. I certainly shouldn't be standing here preaching the word. But God's grace has saved my soul And God's grace not only saved me as a little boy, but he brought me back when I was in my twenties. And he said, Listen, son, I'm not done with you. There's some work to do. Awake out of your sleep and awake to righteousness It's time to wake up, but not just wake up, but start waking up to righteousness. Living godly in this present world. We're to do it now. I know there's a thing about the churches back home. I this church I I'm glad I hear a few amens. I get uh a little disturbed when God's people don't know how to praise him. But I was uh church back towards the house there and uh We went to a special meeting and it was a revival meeting. And I thought I almost got shot by people because I said amen in there. And I thought about how, oh We're going to be singing and praising God, saying, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, for all eternity. And I'm thinking these people, they're going to have a hard time over there. These people if they if my little shout is is causing them some distress they're they might want to check where they're going. I don't know. You know, because seriously Hey, it's you don't have to shout and carry on, but it ought not bother you if someone else gets happy in the Lord. Hey, because you know why? They know that they're saved and they ought not be You know, I I've I've seen all kinds of different ways that people get happy in the Lord and it it doesn't bother me one bit. I love it. I like watching senior saints. There's a dear lady at a church that uh we're helping there at home And uh she'll sit there and she sings her hymns and she'll she'll get both her hands up like this and she just closes her eyes and wears back and you can see the tears come out of her eyes. Why? Hey, because she knows that she's saved and she shouldn't be. And she's still happy about it. Amen. I'll tell you what, a righteous, holy life will keep us. When we're staying close to God, you're going to understand and praise the Lord, and it's going to show up in your life to where you're going to be awake and preaching to people. Jonah was sleeping when he should have been uh preaching. Next point is he's he sees I see here. You notice the lost men there in verse five. The mariners were afraid, and they cried every man to his God. Notice that, little G 's, right? Here we have a boat full of lost men. And they're praying. They're praying. But the man of God is sleeping. Not only in our churches are we sleeping when we should be preaching, but we're sleeping when we should be praying. We're sleeping when we should be praying. The man of God here should have been praying. And I noticed there as they prayed to their own their little G gods, they didn't get any help. Excuse me. They got no help from their little G gods. Why? Because there's only one true living God. Amen? He is the I am He's the same God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Amen. He's the God that rolled that stone away on the third morning. Amen And he's still alive forevermore. He's Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. There's nothing. There's no there's no start. There's no ending for him. Praise the Lord Almighty. Amen. Hey, they're wanting Jonah to pray. Jonah knows. In the beginning of the chapter, Jonah was just talking to him. But it was a one-sided conversation. God was talking to him. I didn't see Jonah answering back. But Jonah told uh God told Jonah to go do something. Jonah knew the only true living God, he's asleep. These men are fearing for their lives and they're praying to everything they can think about praying to. That's our lost world today. You've seen it These people that that they when they fall down at the end of the their rope and they don't know what to do and they start trying to pray and they don't even know what they're praying to. It's like Paul talking to them, folks. You're praying to the unknown God, you worship, you know not what. Amen Because why, hey, they were s people are sleeping when they should be preaching, introducing them to the the God, the only true living God, and then we're sleeping when we should be praying They go and wake him up. I love that they go find him there in verse 5. He's sleeping. And they wake him up in verse 6. And he says, What meanest thou, O sleeper? Arise, call upon thy God. But notice that one's capital. Jonah's God is a real God. And if so be that God will think upon us that we perish not. You know, here these guys come and wake up the man of God and say, pray for us, but he doesn't pray. You see that? I look in my Bible here, and guess what? He comes to the terms of let me get thrown overboard. He didn't pray. When does he pray? He prays in chapter 2 and verse 1 when he's in the belly of the whale. Amen. Hey, we're sleeping when we should be praying. We're getting thrown overboard when we should be praying. There's things that are going on in our life when we should be praying. We got a whole handful of lost men looking at him for the answers, and he says, I don't have them, just throw me overboard How many lost people are looking at you and I and we we end up giving them no answers? They're wanting answers if we just get a hold of God for them. Show them how they can call upon the Lord. If Jonah would have sat down and said, you know what, guys, this is all my fault. You're in this condition because of my sin, my disobedience to the only true living God that I know very well, very personally But I'm going to tell you right now, fellas, let's get on our knees right here. And let's call out to God. And he'll hear our prayer as we turn this boat back to sh towards Nineveh. Because that's where I've got to go We've got to turn this boat around and go to where God told me to go, and he'll hear our prayer, and he will save us. But you know what? He doesn't do that. He says, just throw me overboard. What a shame. The man of God is sleeping. The people of God are sleeping when we need to be praying. I find this not to be just the case here in Jonah. If you've got your Bible, flip with me to Matthew chapter 26. I've read a lot of verses and not made you turn there, so turn this one so you're awake. Matthew chapter 26. Matthew chapter number twenty sixty. Here we have the story of the Lord going to pray. Very familiar, right? Matthew chapter 26, look with me at verse number 36. Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, that's James and John, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Verse 38, then saith he unto them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry he here, and watch with me. Verse 39. And when he went a little further, fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep. And he saith unto Peter, What could ye not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. And he went again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done And he came and found them asleep again, for their eyes were heavy. And he left them and went away again and prayed the third time, saying the same words. Here we have the Lord Jesus in his darkest, saddest hours. And I think about, I read this passage all the time, and I'm very convicted myself. Because when I think about my prayer life, and I think about how often sometimes uh I don't know if I'm the only one that's ever done this, lay awake at night. And uh can't go to sleep or something, which doesn't happen very often for me because I'm like a dead man when I hit the sheets. But anyway, lay there awake sometimes and I think, you know, I'm gonna start praying. I'll start praying And I don't even get through maybe four names and I'm sound asleep. Does that ever happen to anybody? And you know, I I don't know that that's a bad thing. I believe how the Lord gives you the comfort and the peace to do that, but I think about how often When we pray, our prayer time is basically asleep. Have you ever pray a prayer, go through a prayer list, and didn't actually pray after you got done with it? Am I the only one that's not spiritual? I uh there's been a lot of mornings when I've got up and I've read through my prayer list and I realized after I got done that I didn't pray for anybody. I just read their names. But I didn't earnestly pray for any of them folks. You know what, we're basically asleep in our prayer time. We're asleep when we ought to be praying. We're asleep when we ought to be preaching. You know, uh the Lord Jesus Christ took his his three closest disciples with him in his darkest hour, and he took them up there in the garden, and he said, Would you watch and pray with me? And it's he's exceedingly sorrowful. He just had explained to them how he was going to go to the cross. He just had the Last Supper. They just were there. And then all of a sudden they , I'm too tired to stay awake for you, Lord. But would any of us have been able to stay awake either? I don't know that we could have. The spirit is willing, but the flesh indeed is weak. Hey, we're asleep in our prayer time. We need to wake up to pray. I see there in Jonah that he was asleep when he should have been preaching. He was asleep when he should have been praying. But lastly, I see that he was asleep when he should have been praising. Now, I'm not trying to add to the word of God or stretch anything, but you'll see what I'm what I'm getting at here in a second. Back in Jonah, chapter number four. In Jonah chapter number four, read with me verse number five and six. Verse number five of chapter four, Jonah says, So Jonah went out of the city. This is after he preached to them. They repented and got saved. Sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth, and sat under it in the shadow, till he might see what would become of the city. And the Lord God prepared a gourd, and he made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head, to deliver him from his grief. So Jonah was exceedingly glad of the gourd. Amen. So we know the story here. In chapter number three, Jonah finally listened to God. He went into Nineveh and he preached. And look with me at verse number 10 of chapter 3. It says, And God saw their works that they turned from their evil way, and God repented of the evil that he had said that he would do unto them, and he did it not. That's amazing, isn't it? Amen. Wouldn't that be awesome to go in to have a revival meeting somewhere and you set up a tent out there and you go out and you're street preaching and door knocking and everybody that you've talked to Trusts the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. You've got a hundred percent success rate. Wouldn't that be awesome? Hey, Jonah was a Baptist because he didn't praise God Amen. That's our churches today. We we could have a hundred percent success rate here and we'd complain about too many people We complain about something, right? But here we have Jonah, he in chapter four, he put him a booth in the shade, and I say he's sleeping when he should be praising. The Bible doesn't say he was sleeping there, but you know what he's doing? He's kicked back in the shade. Relaxing and just watching Nineveh. Watching and hoping that they're gonna get destroyed. Hoping they'll turn back and God will just ri just go back and wipe them out When he should have been praising the Lord for what had happened. He should have been down there in Nineveh saying, Oh boy, isn't God good? Boy, isn't God gracious and isn't God merciful? And let me show you how you do sacrifices to God. Let me show you how you call upon God. Let me show you how you gain favor with God. But what's he doing? He's sitting there sleeping in the shade. Amen. Isn't that us? Isn't that so many of us? He 's laid back sulking in the shade when he should be praising God. I heard a preacher preaching. He said, we have too many 3S Christians in the church house. Sit, soak, and sour. Amen. But you know what we ought to be? We ought to be singing, shouting, and serving. Amen. We got too many three S Christians that are sitting, soaking and souring when we should be singing, shouting, and serving Why? Because, hey, we're not bought with a price. He did it all for me. Amen. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. I'm going to sit here and go to sleep. That's us. What a shame. As I read this story of Jonah here and I think about how he's sleeping when he should be preaching, when he's sleeping, when he should be praying. When he's sleeping when he should be praising God, I couldn't help but see ourselves there. And I couldn't help but see myself there. How many times in my life Am I sleeping when I ought to be doing God's work? And I'm not just talking about when it's time to go to bed and you're in bed sleeping, but I'm talking about when we're awake, out and about in the world, but we're not awake in the world. We're not awake to righteousness. We 're asleep. The time is drawing to a close, folks. And we need to wake up in our churches. But not be just awake here. We need to be awake out there. We need to be awake out there preaching. We need to be awake out there praying. We need to be awake out there praising God. You want to Be something funny Stand in front of a lost person and praise the good Lord of heaven for what he just did for you. You want to see something funny? Watch their faces. Amen. I was telling a a guy I worked with about how I got uh this is on the radio. Anyway, I drive truck for a living and I happen to be driving past a state trooper And uh I was doing everything legally, but you know, I just prayed a prayer and said, Lord, please don't let him pull me over today. And as I drove by him and looked in my mirror , He didn't pull out after me. And I got back to the shop and I told the guys, because he said, man, the stadiums were out sick. They had trucks pulled over everywhere I said, yeah, I know. I said I went past one and I prayed that he would not pull out in front of behind me and pull me over. And I said, and guess what he did? And I said, The Lord was with me. He answered my prayer. And the guy said, What's a coincidence I said no it isn't sir. Hey it's not a coincidence. Amen there's no coincidences. Hey You know, God hears our prayers and he answers them even when sometimes he shouldn't. Not a few weeks ago, well a month or so ago, I guess it was, is preaching back home. On a Sunday night we had a really good service after the service uh I think it was the eight or nine year old boy he came forward to get saved. I was able to show him from the Bible how to be saved. He trusted Christ as Savior. Amen. What a blessing We're getting in the car, we're driving home, and I forgot the speed limit drops from 55 to 40. And right there that sheriff sits right behind the sign. And I knew he does I 've seen him there all my my life. I drive down that road all the time. Guess what? Whoop whoop whoop Pulls me over. And I as he's walking up, I praying to myself, Lord, please don't let me get a ticket. I deserved it. I was going 55 and a 40, right? I mean, I was breaking the law. It's a speed trap, but that's beside the point. But I was breaking the law, and you know what? God heard my prayer. That officer came up and I told him, I said, Well we just come from church, and I was not paying attention to speed. I just I wasn't paying attention We're talking and stuff and he uh the lady she said well uh I'm gonna let you go with a warning and I just slow it down. Remember it drops through here and I said, Oh thank you. I gave her a track, I said, Well take this and read this sometime while you're sitting here tonight And uh, you know, thank you very much. And uh, you know, I thought maybe the Lord just had me get pulled over by her so I could give her a gospel track. I don't know. But praise God for he answered my prayer. He didn't give me a ticket. And praise God I was able to give her a track and she didn't give me a ticket for that. You know, and she took it and was very nice. Yeah, I I learned you wait till after they give give you the warning to give 'em the ticket or the track because if they're against God they write you a track any or a ticket if you give them a track. But anyway, that's beside the point. That's the joke. Give them the gospel, amen. Give the gospel out. Awake. We need to wake up. Amen. Isn't any of us going to live a perfect life, but we ought to try. And you know the thing is, when we get down, we draw nigh to God, he'll draw nigh to you. You think I I struggle with life. I struggle with being awake to the surroundings of I I I don't have a concern for the the people. I I seem to just let things drift by me like I'm asleep. Hey, praying God, ask God to wake you up. Amen. We all need to wake up to these things, folks. As I said earlier, the time is drawing to a close. Hey, the Lord could come at any moment. We're not waiting on anything. That trump could sign. We're going to pull out of here. And you know whoever's left behind is going to have a really, really hard time to get saved. If they heard the gospel, they won't be saved. We know the Bible says a strong delusion will come over them. They'll be lost. But those that haven't heard the gospel will have an opportunity, but they're going to get killed for it if they do trust the Lord. So it's going to be awful hard for a lot of folks to get saved during the tribulation. So we have time. We're still here. Amen. You didn't get saved just to get to heaven because if that was the case, God would have taken you home the moment you prayed and asked him to save you. But we're left here for a reason. So, Christians, are we awake? Are we awake to preaching to the lost world? Are we awake to praying for the lost world? And are we awake to praising God for what He's going to do and what He has already done? Let's pray, Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for this time, we thank you for your word. God, I pray that you'll help us.