Please open your Bible to the book of Proverbs. And would you go to the fourteenth chapter and find the fourteenth verse? The 14th chapter and the 14th verse of the book of Proverbs, and when you find it, if you'd stand with me, please, I'm going to read this one text. The Bible says the backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways, and a good man shall be satisfied from himself. And Father, I want to thank you for the opportunity that we have to open the book. We ask you, O Lord, to be our teacher in this time together. Lord, would you help us? We need heaven's help now. And would you grant that both for the preacher and the hearer? Have your way, Father. And we'll praise you for all that you do, for we're looking to and waiting upon thee in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said. Amen. Well, perhaps you know what I'm going to be preaching on this evening, uh, because it's the prominent theme of this proverb. I want to talk to you for a few minutes on this thing of backsliding. Now, like Brother Fielder says, uh this isn't going to be a how-to. We Baptists got that down pat. But it is going to be what the Bible says because friend backsliding is a reality. Now, we're not going to look at all of these scriptures, but in Jeremiah chapter 3. The word backsliding is found for the first time, Jeremiah 3, and I believe it's verse number 3. About five times in that chapter, and then proceeding throughout the book of Jeremiah. Jeremiah chapter 8 verse 5, Jeremiah 31, 22, Jeremiah 49, 4. The word backsliding or backslider is used again and again. It's used in one more book in the Old Testament, the book of Hosea. Three times in Hosea, Hosea talks about backsliding Israel. Hosea 4. 16, 11. 7, and 14. 4. Now the word backsliding means to turn away or to turn back. It means to be a defector or someone who retreats or moves away. In context of what the word backsliding means, it was always used in regards to the nation of Israel when they turned away from the Lord. You don't find that word in the New Testament. But I believe you do find a New Testament equivalent. And the New Testament equivalent is found in 1 Corinthians. And I want you to go there real quick with me. In 1 Corinthians chapter number 3, I believe we're talking about the same thing, at least in spiritual principles. In First Corinthians chapter number three, well let's begin reading in verse number one. And I brethren could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal If you make notes or mark in your Bible, that word carnal, I believe, is the New Testament equivalent of the Old Testament backslider. He goes on to say, even as unto babes in Christ, I have fed you with milk and not with meat. For hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are you able. For ye are yet carnal. Now, if we're concerned about what it means to be carnal, he's going to take off and tell us. He says, For whereas there is among you envying and strife, and divisions. Are ye not carnal and walk as men? And look at what the dividing point is. For while one saith, I am of Paul, and another I am of Apollos, are ye not carnal? Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man? I have planted. Apollos watered. Here's the key. But God gave the increase. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Now again, he's talking to a group of individuals who had gone from some measure of spiritual maturity to a place of spiritual infancy. They had reverted. They had gone back. They had turned away from a spiritual walk with the Lord. And now he says, I I can't teach you as individuals who are spiritual. Now listen Not every spiritual infant is carnal. Not every spiritual infant He's likening them to babes. Now, he's going to talk about this later and say, there you should be teachers and leaders and guiders. You should be mature men and women. But you you're still back here on the meat, or on the milk, rather, and not on the meat, so so that you're unstable in your spiritual walk. He says, you're carnal. Not every baby is is or spiritual baby is is carnal, but when one goes from spiritual maturity to spiritual infancy , That's carnality. And can I say in a word, that's backsliding. That's backsliding. It's turning away from the Lord. I've heard it said and I believe there's a measure of truth in this, but if you've ever been any closer to the Lord Then you are at this moment, then you've backslid from where you ought to be. Now the Bible tells us very clearly here In Proverbs 14:14, the backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways, and a good man shall be satisfied from himself. If you're making notes, you say, preacher, why are you preaching this? I'll tell you why I'm preaching this. Because we're all susceptible. And I want to help you. And I want to help me. If you're making notes, I want you to see, number one, my first point I've already stated it, but all Christians can backslide. I'll never forget just being shocked, Dr. Hitchens, sitting in Bible college and hearing a professor say, Young men, the easiest place to get out of fellowship with God is right here. No, what? How do you get out of fellowship with God when you're in church every day? I mean, you go to class and we had uh we had Preaching teachers. We had some teachers that preach more than others. We had some classes that I can still see old Brother Charles Nations. He's in heaven now. But uh B. P. Boyle was our Old Testament theology teacher, and Brother Boyle was a master at taking the Old Testament types and And painting the picture of the Lord Jesus. And sometimes he would get carried away and he would stop teaching us and start preaching, and it would turn into a meeting in that little church basement. And Brother Charles Nations would get so excited he'd turn his desk over and run out the door and shout and run up and down the hall, praising the Lord. And uh Pastor would come down, are you boys okay? And we're yes, sir Just enjoying the Lord and his goodness. But you know something, friend, you and I can get To a place of undue familiarity with the things of God And it can become commonplace. What did Paul remind these Corinthians? Look over here at 1 Corinthians. Maybe you're still in that area. But 1 Corinthians chapter number 10. And verse number 12. 1 Corinthians chapter 10, and I believe it's verse number 12. Look what he says. Wherefore Let him that thinketh, he standeth. Take heed lest he fall. He said, You better be on your toes You better be paying attention to what's going on in your spiritual life. And the very next verse says, There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape that you may be able to bear it. Next verse, wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. We're not talking about pagans here. We're talking to Christian people. Flee, he said, from idolatry. Run from the idolatry. Why? Because listen, the reality is every Christian can become a backslider. Every one of God's people. Now let me just make a statement here I believe needs to be made. There are some who are class backsliders who have never been born again. And the problem is they don't have new life. Oh, they may have prayed a little prayer and they may have gone through a little motion And we say, I I just don't know about this thing of getting saved and then never having a heart for God and never living for God and being a backslider all your life and die backs in a backslidden state having never lived for God in the first place There's something wrong with that kind of Christianity. But the reality is, is that everybody here can backslide. Everybody here can go from spiritual maturity to spiritual infancy, oftentimes just based on one choice. We can make decisions in our spiritual life. In fact, anywhere I tell God no in my life, I'm starting in a backslidden way. Anywhere I refuse to deal with what God prompts me to deal with, I begin drifting away. How many of you have learned in your spiritual walk that it's either forward or reverse? There's no neutral. There's no coasting. We were driving through Algonquin Park in Ontario and ran out of gas. They told us as we started into the park, you're so many hundreds of miles and there's no gas, so take an extra can and Be filled get filled up before you start in here. And I thought, you know what? I don't know who put that sign there. They don't know what they're talking about. And guess what? Those signs are put up for a reason. Because people have done that sort of thing. And I remember coming up over the hill that evening. I don't know if Elizabeth Josiah remembers. And uh man, we've been seeing wildlife. We were excited and saw a moose and uh and a wolf had jumped across the railing and And that had not been that far away. And I and the vehicle started. And I had to look down at the needle and it was it was sucking fumes. And my first thought was, I wonder who's going to walk and get gas. Because that wolf is pretty close. Now I'm thinking, which one of these children do I love more? You know? I'm trying to figure out who's going to be the sacrifice. No, I'm just kidding. But you know, I I had had this problem before in my times, and so I knew that if I rocked it a little bit, I'd go a little further. And so I was doing that and it it would start and stutter and sputter and man it was something else. When I come around the corner, there was a station. And I put that thing in neutral and I said, please Lord, let it coast and get there. And do you know something? The Lord in his goodness let it coast right to the pump. Stop just like I pulled up to get gasoline and that's the way I got out. Like I meant to do that. Thank you very much. I'm here to buy gas. But listen Spiritually speaking, you don't coast into a good place. You may start drifting, but it won't be towards God You'll drift away. The danger of drifting is that we'll drift from the Lord. We drift from the Lord. You never drift to the Lord. How many of you have noticed that the second law of thermodynamics works in the spiritual realm too? Winding down. And spiritually speaking, if you're not winding up, you're winding down. You're losing. You're going back. You're sliding back. So please understand the saving that all can. Many a believer started out well, does not finish well. Not everyone who says I'm going to live for the Lord will live their whole life for the Lord. Beware of that. That ought to make us tremble. It makes my heart tremble tonight. Because I'm preaching to me as much as I'm preaching to you. Because just because I stand behind this pulpit and bear the responsibility of being the pastor of Marinath the Baptist Church, that does not mean I am not susceptible To backsliding. In fact, I often feel like the devil's got a bigger target and he's doing all he can to drag me back. Every one of us can backslide. Number two, let me point this out that backsliding starts in the heart. You notice what it says? It says the backslider in heart. In heart. It's in the heart that we backslide. It's in the heart that we get away from the Lord. You say, preacher, I hadn't missed it, I hadn't missed the service. In ages. Well, that doesn't mean you haven't backslidden from the Lord. You can backslide sitting on the pews faithfully Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night and be in your place and still not be in your place. It's very easy to get away from the Lord and the very things of the Lord. As the Preacher reminded us there in school, he said, you can begin to handle the things of God without letting the things of God handle you. And you and I can sing hymns and pray prayers, prayers, and rebible and and and give tithe and offering and sing uh in the choir and do many other things. And we can be engaged in spiritual activity and yet be drifting further and further away from the Lord. You know when Jeremiah rebuked the people, they were still making sacrifices and they were still outwardly exercising their Judaism, but he said, you are backslidden. It's interesting to me the terms that he uses. I'll talk about those in just a moment. But in Matthew 15, 8, here's what the Lord said. He said, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth. And honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Oh, they say the right things and they do the right things, but their heart is gone. Their heart is gone. I guess I'd pastored two years, and I was preaching on heaven one Sunday morning, and there was a man setting about where John McClellan is. And that that man was looking at me with the most intent look I'd ever seen. And I thought, boy, he's really listening. And I notice his wife look at him and nudge him. He's still looking at me. He's still got this intense stare. And then she let out the most awful scream that I'd ever heard, and some men ran to her side, and that man went to heaven sitting there. And he was looking dead at me. But he wasn't there. Man, I'll never forget the shock that brought to our little congregation. That man sitting there listening to the word of God about heaven went to heaven sitting there from that very place. Now listen, friend, he was there, but he wasn't there. And I often thought since that time there have been a whole lot of people. The medics haven't had to carry them out, but they're there, but they're not there. They're there, but they're not there. They're there, but but their minds a thousand miles away, their hearts a thousand miles away. They're there honoring God with their lips. They're there saying all the right words. They're there And and do you know something? We we can learn we can learn how to make it look like everything's okay. That's easy to do. But my brother used to I'd go see him, stay with him. I was just a boy, and and uh he'd come in from work, his wife had fixed this big meal, that's why I went. She was a good cook. And I found out if you hang around Big Brother's house, you're gonna get some good d meals. And Vicky would cook these meals and and then he would go in there and he would sit in his chair or he'd lay down there on the floor. And uh we would watch Andy Griffith or something like that, and he'd go to sleep. But he learned That if he acted like he was awake, she wouldn't fuss at him, say, Go get in the bed. You know, she'd be waking him up. And so she said, Watch this one day. We would laugh, and he would laugh. But he's asleep. And she would make a statement about something happening and he would say, Oh, isn't that nice? And he's sound asleep. She said, Watch him. And if she said anything to him, she would say to him now, you need to get up and go to bed. He said, I'm awake. I just laughed. Did you hear me? But Charlie, he was sound asleep. He had learned how to get out of trouble to make it look like he wasn't doing what he really was doing. Brother, sister, is a whole lot of Christians. And they've learned how to make it look like they're not doing what they are doing. They make it look like they're not backsliding, but in heart they've left the Lord. In heart they drifted from God. And I'm saying it starts in our heart. Do you know there are two prodigals in the prodigal story? I don't believe there's just one. You say, preacher, only one went to the far country, yeah, but both of them's hearts were there That elder son, though he was there, he wasn't there. That elder son was going about the motions, but he wasn't, his heart wasn't there. He proved it in his anger when that boy came back home. Backsliding starts in the heart. That's why the Bible says, keep thy heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. Can I say to you, dear brother, sister, protect your heart. Protect your spiritual heart. Keep it warm. Keep it close to God. Keep it surrendered. Keep it full of the Bible. Stay filled with the Spirit. Walk in obedience to the Lord. Keep your heart. Keep your heart because you're listening friend, that's where you'll start slipping is in the heart. Backsliding starts in the heart. Number three, let me say this. There is a way of backsliding. There's a way. Backsliding has a way. Back here in Proverbs 14 it says, the backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways. And by the way, if you'll go up just a little bit there and read in verse 12, you'll see there's a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. That's the way. The backslider 's way. I I I'm saying that if there's an avenue, it would be called the Backslider Way. There's a backslider way. Do you know in Jeremiah chapter number 3? Here's what he said. He said in chapter 3, verse number 6, you've played the harlot. That's the backslidden way. In verse 8, he said, You've committed adultery. That's the backslider way. You say, what is the backslider way? The backslider way is the selfish way. It's the way I want to go as opposed to his way. That's what the backslider's ways are. And you'll notice it says that the backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways. He'll be filled with his own ways. This is my way. This is what I want to do. Call it being headstrong or whatever you or self-willed or Whatever you want to call it, it's what it is to be to be a backslider. A backslider says, I'm going to go my way as opposed to going God's way. A backslider says, my way's better. You know, when that when that prodigal went to his father, he said, give me. See who was the focus? Me. Give me. One thing that concerns me about the hour that we're living in is that we're living in Laodicean days. And the Laodicean days, the Laodicean age is the age of me, the people's rights. Give me, recognize me, listen to me, honor me. And I'm here to tell you, my friend, me and you and all of us need to bow our knee to the authority of God and say, Lord, not my way, thy way, not my will, your will. We need to go his way, not our way. No matter how it may look right to me. It may look right to me. But if it's not his way, it's the wrong way. The backslider in heart shall be filled. Notice that word field. He's consumed with his own ways. He's just right full. Have you ever heard somebody say, boy, he's full of himself? You heard that statement? Well that's what a backslider is. He's full of himself. He's full of his own ways. He's full of his own notions. He's full of his own ideas. He' He's full of his own heart. He's this is my way, this is the way And and again, again, going back to the Word of God, the truth of Scripture, bowing the knee and saying, Lord, I surrender, it's it's saying, Lord, this this is right, this is what I want to do. How many of you know what you want to do is not always what you need to do? You ever been there? Man, I want to. Somebody cut you off in traffic. I don't want to do spiritual things. Is that anybody else identify with that? And especially when they start acting like you're the dummy for doing what you did when they were the ones that did it. You I don't pr I probably shouldn't confess a whole lot here. But it's aggravating. And and what you want to do and what you need to do are two different things You get up in the morning and a lot of times you know what you want to do? Not get up But if that's your time to be with the Lord, you need to. You may not want to, but you need to And you know what I found? I found when I've wanted to the least, I've needed to the most It's when I've had the least desire that I need that spiritual discipline. I know it's true about going to the house of God. Do you realize that going to church is as much a discipline as it is a devotion? It's a matter of incorporating and planning and saying this is What I need, it may not be the most convenient, it may not be the easiest, it may not be what I even want to do, but oh my friend, how I need, how I need to be with God's people and I need to pray with the saints of God and I need to sing the Lord's praises and I need to worship the Lord and need to hear from God in his word. I need that. I need that And sometimes I've got to get myself by the scruff of the neck and the seat of the pants and say, get to it I hope you think not ill of me for this, but there's times, boy, on Sunday afternoon I think, boy, if I could just stay in this recliner. You know? And and I've noticed that the older I get, the more comfortable that crazy thing has become. I used to never care for sitting in a chair like that, but it it's gotten quite inviting. And sometimes you have to remind yourself, this may be what I want to do, but what I need to do is follow the Lord. You may not want to tell somebody about the Lord, but you need to. You may not want to. It may be the last thing on your mind. And like Tim said, it it may be something that that an opportunity that comes your way. And listen, if we're driven by what we want to do rather than what we need to do, we'll miss a a million opportunities to be a blessing for the Lord Jesus. The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own way. Instead of being filled with God's ways, he's walking in his own way. Now let me point out this. There's an answer to the backslider. There's there's a remedy, there's a cure, there's help. I'm thankful for that. There's not a person here who's been saved five minutes can say, I've never backslid. I've never walked away from the Lord. I think we all would have to confess with bowed heads, I'm guilty. So what is the answer? Notice this this chapter, I love this chapter of Proverbs because it's full of contrast. Some of the Proverbs are like that. You have one thing opposed to another thing. And one thing being bad, the other thing being good. And that's what's true here in verse number fourteen. He says the backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways. That's bad. Here's the good part. A good man shall be satisfied from himself. In other words, he'll be delivered from his own worst enemy. Do you realize that self is your greatest enemy? Sometimes we forget that our greatest enemy is not the devil. Oh, he's an enemy. Mark her down, he's the enemy. But our greatest enemy is not the devil. Our greatest enemy is not someone who opposes us. In fact, sometimes those that oppose us may do us the greatest favors of all. But my greatest enemy is that fellow I look at in the mirror. My greatest enemy The one that I struggle the most with is not someone who's in my life. It's someone who's in my skin. It's me. And he says, I love this, a good man shall be satisfied from himself. And you'll notice that shall be satisfied is in italics and so the the word of God would simply say a good man from himself and the idea here is is that he's delivered from A prayer I often have to pray, and I pray it consistently because I fear it, is Lord, deliver me from me. Deliver me from me. A lot of times we say, you know the devil's been giving me a fit, and you know who it really is? It's me. It's myself. And the the thing about it is tonight, we might as well be honest that we all have the same we're all made the same stuff We all have the same flesh. We all battle the same battle. There's nothing new. There's no new temptation. There's nothing new under the sun. We all battle, we're all made of the same fallen things and of the same fallen nature, and so that battle and that war that you struggle, listen, the greatest fight you'll fight is you And here's what he said: A good man shall be satisfied from himself. I love Jeremiah 3:12. He said, Return, thou backsliding Israel, for I am merciful. Don't you like that? I'm merciful. He said, Return. I don't want to fall on you in judgment. I don't want to destroy you. He said, I want to help you. Come back to me. Return. I'll show you mercy. And the New Testament picture that paints it so beautifully is the prodigal son when he goes back home and the father shows mercies upon mercies upon mercies to the returning boy. He pours kisses on him from the moment he gets him in his arms. And he puts a robe on his back and a ring on his finger and shoes on his feet. and spreads a meal and says, rejoice, my son that was dead is now alive. He's thrilled. You know why he's thrilled? Because he's a God of mercy. He shows mercy. You know why some people stay backslidden because they believe the devil? They just believe the devil. The devil says you can't go back. The devil says there's no hope for you. Now let me be quick to say this there may not be much mercy found from people, but I believe there's mercy to be found in the Lord. He said, return. By the way, you read chapter three, what Israel was guilty of, and he uses some very explicit language, very plain language. He said you've committed whoredoms of under evergreen tree. He said with every idol that came along you took up with it He says, you've committed spiritual adultery, you've left me, you've turned away, but at the end of that chapter, he says, but return to me Return to me. And Hosea, Hosea, you know the story of the account of Hosea, and and you know what what his wife did and what she was. How she would leave and go off with strange men, and yet Hosea would bring her back. And God said, I want you to do that. I want you to show Israel that that's the kind of God I am. I'm a God full of mercy. In church, I'm just trying to say that the answer is return to the Lord. If you've backslidden on God, don't go any further. Return to the Lord. Repent. Repent. Repent because God in mercy will receive you. Surrender to the Lord and submit yourself. Self is your problem. Lay self on the altar, nail it to the cross. Put yourself before God as a vessel for Him to use and let Him restore you and heal you from your backslidings. God can do that. God can do that. I thought as I read this verse and this prepared my heart for this meeting, I thought of how many precious people, dear people. But I know right now who are backslidden. And they might tell you otherwise, and they might demand and insist that they're right with God, but my friend, they've left the Lord. They're not fervent for God. They don't love souls Like they once loved souls. They don't have that heart to to to put the Lord Jesus in that place of preeminence. And my friend, there's struggling and there's strife and there's division in it. There's all sorts of problems And I'm telling you, my friend, it can all be solved. We'd just get back to the Lord. Get back to the Lord. He said to Israel, come back You know the story in Jeremiah. Jeremiah he ministered in a terrible time. Israel went further and further and further into apostasy and away from the Lord. And Jeremiah wept his heart out and said, Come back, come back. The Lord will take you back. Come back. Come back. And he begged and he pleaded with them to return. And yet it fell on deaf ears. And it led to the demise of a whole nation because they wouldn't return. That brings me to my last point, is that you never backslide alone. You always take somebody with you. You always take somebody with you You know, when someone is drowning and you try to save them, a lot of people are killed in that process because the drowning person in panic Well drown the people trying to save them. It's happened to many people. And many times, my friend, when people get away from God, they don't realize who they're hurting. And how many people they're taking with them. You know, when Lot pitched his tent towards Sodom, I don't think he ever imagined what would come of that decision. I don't think he would ever see him fast forward being the father of his children's children. I I I don't think he ever dreamed that it would get to that point that that that he would be the father of the Ammonites and the Moabites And that that he would be in such a place. Maybe he thought, we'll go down here, we'll make a good living, and everything will be okay. I don't think he realized that he was going to lose his family, that he was going to lose his wife, that he was going to lose all. And by the way, anytime you leave the Lord, there's losses. And losses are not crosses. People say, Well, I'm bearing my cross. Sometimes we're bearing our loss, not our cross. There's a difference. But backsliders always take somebody with them. They always drag along what you might say innocent individuals. Others are affected by their choices. We ought to consider we ought to consider our ways here It's one thing to backslide on God alone. It's another to make somebody else do the same thing. The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways, and a good man, a good man, shall be satisfied from himself. Can I ask you a question tonight? What makes a good man a good man? I'll tell you what does God does. Oh, God help us to be a good man. My friend. We sing that old song, I'm pressing on the upward way. New heights I'm gaining every day. It's called advancing. Spiritually maturing. Making progress. I know the Christian life's not one plane upwards. I wished it was. Most of us would have to say our Christian experience has been But God doesn't want me to be a backslider in heart. He warns me. That it's very possible for me to get to a place that I go back to spiritual infancy when I should be moving on to spiritual maturity. Paul warned the Hebrew Christians. He said you ought to be teachers. But he said, look. And part of the reason was is they had gone back to portions of Judaism that did not help them spiritually mature. And it's awful easy to get crutches in your spiritual life that you hang on to that keep you from moving forward. It may be you're sitting here tonight and you say, Preacher, I'm just right where I need to be with God, and I pray that's so But would you let this be a gentle warning from the Bible? That just because you are now doesn't mean you will be tomorrow. Hear the word of God, hear him say. The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways. And let it serve as an alarm that shakes your heart to say, hey. Take heed to my ways. Guard my heart. It may be you're sitting here a backslider. And you know in your heart, and only you know in your heart, that you're not where you should be with the Lord. Hear him in mercy say, Come back. Return. You know there was, except for that older brother, there was nothing but joy when that young man came home. Nothing but joy. And it may be you're standing at a crossroads in your life. And you're looking at the path back and the path ahead. And you're saying, I wonder which way's best. I don't know a lot, but let me say this, I do know this. It's never best to go back. It's never the right way that goes away from God's way. Nothing good ever comes of that. Go with God. Go with God. Follow the Lord. Take your old flesh and lay it down on the cross and say, by the good grace and mercy of God. I the cross before me, the world behind me. No turning back. No turning back. And go with God. Go with God. Would you stand with me, please?