Wasn't that a blessing this morning? And well, if you're saved, the truth is, he is the best thing that ever happened to us. Mark chapter 15 is where I'd like for you to turn this morning. Mark chapter number 15. And I'd like to read beginning in verse number six. I don't know that I've ever Dedicated a whole message to this character and the Word of God, but I do want to magnify what the Lord did in his life and who he represents. Mark chapter number 15, and if you look in the Bible in verse number 6, I'll invite you to stand with me, please, and we'll read these verses together. Mark chapter 15, I'll read aloud and you follow along silently, please. Mark chapter 15 and verse number 6 says, Now at that feast. He released unto them one prisoner, whomsoever they desired. And there was one named Barabbas. Which lay bound with them that had made insurrection with him who had committed murder in the insurrection. And the multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do as he had ever done unto them. But Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the king of the Jews? For he knew that the chief priest had delivered him for envy. But the chief priest moved the people that he should rather release Barabbas unto them. And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What will ye then that I shall do unto him whom ye called the king of the Jews? And they cried out again, Crucify him. Then Pilate said unto them, Why? What evil hath he done? And they cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify Him. And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them and delivered Jesus when he had scourged him to be crucified. I'm going to stop reading there, and I want you to think about this man Barabbas. Father, help us this morning. Would you open the eyes of our understanding? work very special in our hearts, how we thank you, Lord, for the songs that have already been sung, that have prepared our hearts to hear from your word. I thank you for the reality that, Lord, you are the best thing that ever happened to us. Lord, the real difference here this morning is not that we're Baptist or not that we've been baptized or not that we're religious, but that we've been saved by grace through faith. That Lord, you've done things in our lives that nobody else could do. And Lord, we bow and worship you this morning. Would you work in our hearts? Help us, we pray, to give you all the glory. We look to you now in Jesus' name. Hide me behind the cross. Help me to rightly lift up, Jesus. And Lord, would you please work and we'll give you the glory in Christ's name. Amen. You can be seated, please. Barabbas is a infamous character in the Word of God. When you read about what happened here and what he's guilty of and all that's took place, it's kind of a shocking story, an account that's found here, not just here, but in every gospel. Rarely did every writer address all the subjects Some things Luke records, and Matthew and Mark and John are silent. Other things Matthew might record, and perhaps Mark and John would leave those out. But this man named Barabbas was recorded by all four men. Here in Mark 15, again in Matthew 27. In Luke 23 and John 18, all three gospel writers tell us something about this man named Barabbas. I want you to see him not as just a mere criminal. I want you to see him as representing both you and me. When you see Barabbas, I want you to see yourself. The Bible is a mirror, is what the scripture says. It's a mirror that we look into and we see ourselves. And when you look into this mirror of the man named Barabbas, I want you to see yourself staring back. The Bible tells us that his name, the Bible, but we know from what his name stands for, his name is the Son of the Father. It's an interesting name, Barabbas, the son of the father. The son of the father. He's a representative of a family. He belongs to a family. He has a father. He's the son of the father. He represents a family. What family does he represent? I believe he represents the family of Adam or the fallen race of man. Romans chapter 5 verse 12 says, Wherefore, as by one man, sin entered into the world. One man, you say, where'd all this sin business come from? It started in the Garden of Eden When Adam chose to sin, he plunged the whole human race into a fallen nature, a fallen state. You didn't go to school to learn to be a sinner. Now you might have learned to sin at school, but you didn't go to school to learn to be a sinner. You didn't have an education on sinning. As precious as little Jack is, and I find it very uh hard to believe that that little fella could do wrong, one day he will, because he's got a sin nature. He's got a sin nature recoursing through his veins. He's a fallen creature, just like we all are But here is a man, Barabbas, who represents the fallen race of man, the fallen nature of man. Every one of us come under this category. Again, the Bible says, wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world and death by sin, so now death has passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. And so because uh again we see in Barabbas the picture of fallen man, a man who is very clearly uh many things that I believe will reflect what the Lord does. uh in our lives when he saves us. But number one, I want you to notice about this man, Adam, he is a condemned man He's a condemned man. If you take the time, and I'm not going to do it this morning, but if you take the time and read all the charges All of the charges. The gospel writers, it seems, just each one sort of added the charges, but the entire charge is: number one, Mark says he was guilty of insurrection. He led a government, he led an uprising or an uh he tried to overthrow some sort of authority Whether it was Jewish authority or Roman authority, he was guilty of something or another of trying to bring down authority. He led a resurrection an insurrection. He led a sedition. The Bible says in uh Luke's gospel that that he was guilty of sedition. That means an unlawful uprising. Not on the same level of insurrection, but enough to get him in trouble and make him guilty of death in the eyes of Roman law. So you see the charges are building. John says he was a robber Now, whether he stole during this uprising when they tried to take over and took things that didn't belong to them, or perhaps that was just his trade, that was just what he did. Prior to this particular event. And then Mark, we read, says he is guilty of murder. He took innocent life. Well, he's got some pretty strong charges against him, don't he? Matthew gives no charges, but here's what Matthew said. Matthew says he was a notable criminal. By the way, that means when Pilate said, What about Barabbas? Nobody looked around and said, Who? Who are you talking about? Um they it was it was in the Jerusalem times. It was in the Uh you know the Israel Post, it was published all out through the country. This man Barabbas was known by the multitudes. He was a notable criminal. The charges were clear. By the way, can I remind you of something? That every person born, every person living Every person who's drawing breath and will draw breath, listen to me, dear friend, we are under charges. James said if we have broken one law, we're guilty of the whole. And he's talking about the law of God, the commandments, the Ten Commandments, I believe, very specifically. And when you go down that list of Ten Commandments, there's not a man, woman, boy, girl sitting here that hasn't broken at least one And so James indicts us on the law of God with charges that we're guilty of breaking the whole thing. Like Barabbas, we stand condemned. I want you to also think about his choices. Why did Barabbas do what Barabbas did? Why did he make the choices they made? We could talk about his environment, but we don't know about his environment. We could talk about his upbringing, but we don't know about his upbringing. We could talk about his family and we could talk about his his his his um uh financial status or level wherever and and we can talk about a lot of things, but you'll notice the Bible is absolutely silent about those things. Why? Because, friend, listen to me, it's not your choices, or rather, it's not your environment that makes your choices. It's the condition of your heart. That makes you make choices you make. You know why you sin? Because you're a sinner It's as simple as why do the birds sing because they're birds. And a duck quacks because and I know this is simple, but I believe the Bible is supposed to be a very simple and straightforward thing. I I mean you do what you are and sinners sin because they're sinners. We don't become sinners when we sin, we sin because we're sinners. We've got an old nature. Our choices reflect the condition of our heart. And then I want you to notice the cost that was involved here. The Bible makes it clear that he was kept with these prisoners who, along with Jesus Christ, were condemned to death. So the cost of his insurrection, the cost of his sedition, the cost of his uh his robbery and his murder was going to be his life. He remember this now, he was set to be crucified. If I can put it in plain terms, Barabbas was next. He was his neck was on the chopping block. He was the next one in line. He was the man that was to die. These these people knew that, the crowd knew that, Pilate knew that, everyone was full aware that the the insertion of Jesus into this Time of death and time of death penalty was simply a ploy by these chief priests out of envy, as the Bible says, to make sure that Jesus was put to death. By the way, can I remind you that the wages of sin is death? It's what the Bible says. It's not what the preacher's saying. I'm just telling you what the Bible says. That the wages of sin is death. What is the cost involved? What is the cost for my sin? It's death. And the Bible teaches us that there are two deaths that we need to be concerned about. There is the death of the physical man, and there is death that the Bible teaches us is separation from God forever, first in hell and then in the lake of fire. Those are very real things that lie in the future for those who are not saved. We read this morning in John chapter 3. Let me read verse 17 and 18 again to you. John 3. 17 says that God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But hear this. He that believeth not is condemned already. Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Sitting here this morning, listening to this uh broadcast, whether internet or radio, there are two kinds of people There are people who are condemned, and there are people who are not condemned. And by the way, the condemnation is not an earthly condemnation, it's a heavenly condemnation. If you have not believed on the name of the Son of God, you're under the condemnation. What's condemnation? It's the threat of coming judgment. And by the way, it's very, very real. You know something? We sort of live in such a lax society You've heard parents say to their children, now if you do that one more time and little Johnny does it fifty more times And you know we we s we count, I heard a little a little uh child, I don't know if it's a boy or girl, but the the the mother was counting, she was she was trying to get it to do what it's supposed to do, and she went one And you know what that little thing did? It went two. I said, I believe you're gonna have to change methods, dear. He's already or she's already caught on to what's going on. And listen, the threat of coming judgment is not light on the end of God As far as God's concerned this morning, if you're not saved, do you not realize there is a cloud of judgment that's waiting to meet you out yonder in eternity somewhere? There is a threat of condemnation. Listen, you are condemned already. It's as if, please hear me, it's as if you've already stepped into that place That you've already made that choice, you've already entered into that place. Here is a man who condemned. In the eyes of the law, there were no more pleas There was no more opportunities or appeals. Barabbas was a dead man walking. He was to go and be crucified. He was a condemned man. But I also want you to see something rather strange. He was a chosen man. He was a chosen man. You say, how? Notice the circumstances. You know I like this. The Bible tells us the motives of man. Our Bible says in Hebrews chapter 4 that it is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. The Bible will expose the why behind the what. And here's a group of people that said, we want you dead, Jesus, and we're doing it out of envy. He was encroaching on their territory. He was a threat to their religiosity. And so they said we want him killed. And the Bible exposes that. But notice this here was a man, Barabbas Hated perhaps only under Jesus, but he was given freedom. Their hatred for Jesus brought about his freedom Now you say, preacher, those are strange circumstances. They sure are. But I will say this: that his choosing or his being chosen was no accident. It was no accident Barabbas would be next to be crucified. It was no accident that he was called for by the people. It was no accident that he was notable in his crimes. All of this was not by accident. He was a chosen vessel. Hear these circumstances, regardless of what they are. People say today, Well, preacher, you know, things just happen. No, they don't just happen. There is a God in heaven who orders the affairs of men And I don't believe there's an accident that if you're sitting here not saved or listening today and you're not saved, the circumstances of life that brought you here are the workings of God to do his will in your life. I see not only the circumstances, but the choosing. And you know the crowd chose him. They said, Give us Barabbas. But do you know where the real choosing was? The real choosing took place in heaven. John 15 says this, ye have not chosen me, but I've chosen you. And ordained you that ye should go and bring forth fruit. Now stop and think about it. That's Bible church. People say, well, I found the Lord. You didn't find the Lord. He wasn't lost. He found you. He came looking for you. You were lost. You were dead in trespasses and sin. He came looking for you. Now can I confess these are waters to swim in that are deeper than I can go? This is like jumping in the depths of the Atlantic Ocean hoping to get to the bottom, and you're not going to live long enough to get to the bottom. This is deep water, this thing of being chosen, but notice this, it was not the crowd who chose Barabbas, but Jesus Christ. He said, You haven't chosen me. Salvation's not of man, church. I remind you there's a version of Christianity that is impotent in its power to save Because it puts all the choosing in the hands of men. And it r it removes the reality of the drawing of the Holy Ghost, of the conviction of God, of the workings of God. And I'm here to tell you, friend. You can say all the sinner's prayers you want to say. You can do all the things you want to do and say, Lord, you're going to save me. I'm I'm demanding it. I'm requiring it. But unless the sweet Holy Ghost of God gets a hold of your heart. Shows you you're lost and hellbound, opens your blinded eyes, you'll die in the same state. You might die with the name Christian, but you'll not die with the nature of a Christian. And here's our confidence. You say, what confidence can we get out of that? Go over here to Ephesians with me real quick. Ephesians chapter 1 and verse number 4. The Bible says, according, this is speaking here of Christ, the book of Ephesians, chapter one and verse number four. According as he hath chosen us in him, when? Before the foundation of the world. You mean before the world was ever made? That's what it says. That we should be holy and without blame before Him in love. You say, preacher, I don't understand that. Let me just simply say this. Here's the confidence I have this morning: that my salvation is not an accident. My salvation is not accident. Now, I'm sure there are many of us who could say today, Lord, why me? Why did you save me? And you know there's no really uh earthly answer to that thing. You and I don't know why he did what he did, but we know he did. I I don't know why he saved me, but I know I'm saved. I don't know why he would save the likes of me, but I do know, thank God, on the authority of the Word of God, that I am saved. Now, friend, he's chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. You being saved didn't take God by surprise. When you got born again, God didn't say, Well that shocked me It might have shocked some people when you got saved. Some people might have said, Well, I never thought he'd get in. And I'm here to tell you, there have been a time or two I've thought I never thought I'd get in. But thank God it didn't shock him. He knew before the foundation of the world you'd be his child. He knew before the foundation of the world that you'd belong to him, that you'd be in the family. Salvation is such a glorious thing, and the confidence that we have is that look, we didn't just fall into the family. We got born by the marvelous grace of God, chosen in him before the foundation of the world. Then I want you to notice one more thing about old Barabbas. Barabbas was the condemned man, that's for sure. He was a chosen man. You see, you say, what happened to Barabbas? We don't know. We have no clue what happened. He comes on the pages of history and he disappears just as quick. We see him for just a glimmer, just a moment of time. He's there, he's set free, and then he's gone. The name's never recorded again in the Bible. Historically, we know nothing about him as far as where he went and what he did But I do know this on the authority of what happened to him on the pages of the Word of God is that he walked away with this knowledge. He took my place. That should have been me. And if he was an honest man in the deep parts of his heart when he got alone somewhere and sat down and thought Surely he had to think, you know what? That should have been me hanging there. That should have been my blood that was running down that cross. That should have been, I deserved that. I did that. And I believe Barabbas, like everybody else in Jerusalem at that time, knew enough about Jesus to know that he was dying as a just man for the unjust. I believe he had to know that this man did nothing wrong. Pilate, the leader of the ruler of that time, would say, I find no fault in him. They could not level charges that would stick to the Lord Jesus. He was so clean and so clear. In fact, he said, I do always those things that please the Father. Everybody around understood that no man ever spoke like this man. There's nobody like this person who ever walked the earth. And when Barabbas got his free in papers, his papers that set him free, and he walked out of the prison gates, and made his way into glorious freedom, he had to look back to Calvary and look hanging on that hill, and that middle man was paying his penalty and dying in his place. Is that not a picture of salvation? Is that not a picture of every man who comes to God through Christ? Because, beloved, you and I don't look back and look at a bended knee or look back and look at tears in our eyes. Or look back and look at a prayer prayed. We look yonder to heaven. We look yonder to Jesus who bled and died and was buried and rose again the third day. And we say if it weren't for him, we wouldn't be saved. If it wasn't for him, he's the only reason I'm in. He's my savior. He's my redeemer. He's the reason I'm a Christian today. That's why there's no room for pride in the church. That's why we don't have a thing in the world to boast about We don't have a thing in the world to brag about. You can say I've been saved 30 years, but you have to go back and say it's all because of him. You can say I've been saved a hundred years, but listen, beloved, you'll have to say it's all because of him. There's no other reason. There's no other reason. He's the only reason. We all have to give him the glory because he's the one who saved us. But I want you to notice something else about Barabbas. He's a cleared man. A cleared man. Now I'm talking about as far as the law is concerned. He's been cleared. I want you to notice his clearing. The crimes he committed deserve death. And they were answered by death. Now when Barabbas walked off He walked off free from the penalty of everything he deserved. His crime was paid for, you say, how? By Jesus. He died. There's no way you could go back and re-arrest Barabbas and say, He needs to die again. He needs to die. And you well what about the charges? The charges were answered. The punishment was exacted. It was carried out. The Bible says in Hebrews 9. 26, now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. If you ever get a hold of this, it'll bless you right to the bone. Because your charges, your charges have all been cleared. Yes, we're sinners. Yes, we broke the law of God. Yes, we deserve a spot in hell. Yes, we've earned judgment. Yes, we should live under condemnation. But over there on the cross Jesus cleared my name. He took my penalty. He suffered in my place. He pardoned me. Listen, he bought for me a full and free salvation. The Bible said we've been reconciled to God through Him. All that tangled mess of sin that your life and mine produced All that tangled mess of sin has been worked out by the cross of Jesus Christ. Listen, friend, you better get a hold of that. Because if all you've got's a little tingle in your heart, you better get something bigger. Because the devil will steal your tingle. Your circumstances will take your emotions But if you can look back there to the cross and say, He paid for me there. He settled it all there. He answered for my sin there. All the judgment of God was poured out on him. He paid the death toll. That's why Romans 5. 1 says, we are justified. Justified. It's just as if I never sinned. My record's not only been uh cleared, it's it's been completely rewrote. I've got a new record in heaven. You say I don't believe that, then you don't believe the Bible. You don't believe the Word of God. There's a God in heaven who clears the records of men by the death of his son, and beloved, he'd cleared that record I want you to notice not only the clearing but the cross. What stood between Barabbas and judgment? The cross. That's all. And the man Jesus Christ who hung on it. Barabbas should have been hauled off and killed like the rest of the criminals. But Jesus, that cross, stepped in between. I'm here to tell you this morning the only thing that stands between you and judgment is the cross of Jesus Christ. We are made free by the virtue of the cross. John 8. 32 says, you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. That's the only thing. Hey, you better run to the cross and you better run to Christ if you hope to find refuge from coming judgment. I was thinking this morning about this time, several years ago, six or seven young fishermen were killed out just west of the Georgia's bank. They were out there fishing, and they were out there fishing knowing that a storm was brewing there in the Atlantic. That storm, like some of these late uh fall storms do that storm developed faster and stronger than he ever than he ever expected. And so knowing that storm was coming and it was getting closer and the waves and the sea were getting s getting more rough, they turned and they started heading home for the harbor. They knew if they could get in that harbor, they would be safe. The breakwaters were built and the harbor was situated in such a way that when the storm came through, everything in the harbor was safe. You're not going to sink your boat in the harbor. They're not going to lose their lives in the harbor. And they're running as fast as they can. The only problem is the storm was running faster. And out there somewhere between the harbor and Georgia's bank, they believed something nearly of an eighty foot wave. Took that little vessel up in the air and turned it upside down and drove it to the depths of the sea. Every one of those young men lost their lives. That boat was obliterated by the power of the water. And listen, they did not make it to the harbor in time. Lost. It's a sad call that come over the radio. Seven, I believe it was, seven souls lost. Seven souls lost. I'm saying to you this morning, there is a harbor, and his name is Jesus. And the storm is brewing on the horizon, and it's coming faster and stronger than you could ever imagine. And there's no way for you to escape it or outrun it. The only thing for you to do is to get in the harbor. Get to the person of Christ. Find refuge in a time of storm. Know that He alone can save you. I'm telling you, when judgment falls, there'll be no second opportunity. There'll be no pleading for mercy. When the judgment of God comes, man's time to get right will be through. But I'm glad there is a harbor I can sail into. Drop the anchor of my little ship and find safety Not because I'm a good sailor, not because of my works, it is not by works of righteousness which we have done. But it's according to his mercy that he saved us. My friend, the only way you'll get into heaven is through the Lord Jesus Christ. Barabbas is a picture in legal form of what you and I are spiritually. Every one of us are condemned, whether we acknowledge it or not, we're all condemned. The law hauls us up short. Yeah. Hauls us up short. You ever think you was doing a good job and found out you weren't? Yeah. Sort of disappointing, isn't it? Man, I was giving my best, you know. I was doing my best, but my best wasn't good enough. And your best will never be good enough. Your best can never equate to righteousness. Never. I feel sorry for people that are religious. Because all they're doing is trying to give their best and hope it's good enough. Your best will never measure up. You can go to church until you grow roots in the pew you sit in. You can you can memorize the books of the Bible and do all the deeds that you think will get you to heaven, but none of that'll ever do it, friend. The only place to find mercy is in Jesus. It's not by works of righteousness which we have done. It's not what you and I can do that saves us. Look at Barabbas and see him condemned, condemned, but then look at how he's chosen. He's there for this time, for this picture, for this illustration. The Bible draws portraits all through it, and Barabbas is just another page or another picture on the page for you and I to understand the grace of God. He was chosen for a time like this. He was placed in this position for a time like this. He might have thought himself clever, but he was simply a tool, an instrument that God was going to use. And look in this dear man and see the grace of God at work in your own life. But thank God when he walked away from that crowd, he was cleared of all charges. Now listen to me. I don't think Barabbas ever forgot what Barabbas did. And I don't think the people of Israel in Jerusalem forgot what Barabbas did. But in a saving sense, when you get born again, God forgets all your sin. All of it. I'm going to tell you something. I don't know how to explain how omniscience forgets. How does the God who knows it all forget everything I ever did that was sin? How does he do it? How does he put I don't know how to tell you how he did it, but I'll tell you what the Bible says he did. He's cast my sea and the se my sin in the sea of forgiveness. He's put it behind his back. And dear listen, brother and sister, if you're saved by the grace of God, there may be some scarring memories and there may be some things that Haunts you. There may be some darkness back yonder, but I'm glad the blood of Christ answers for it all, and your charges are cleared, and the one who matters has forgotten it all. The one who matters. I'm going to tell you something. You'll not stand in front of one man or woman sitting in this congregation. You'll not answer to some supposed religious power. You'll answer to God. And God alone. And it is God who said that He's chosen to forget our iniquity. Our sin and iniquity, He said, I'll remember no more. I look at Oberabbas. He's a pretty rotten dude. But he sure draws a pretty picture of redemption. He draws an awful, beautiful picture of what God in Christ does for every sinner who will come to Jesus Christ. You may be sitting here saying, Preacher, I'm saved. What good does that do me? Can I tell you something? I was thinking of this early, early this morning. I was thinking about the reality of the gospel. You know why we love him? Because he first loved us. What kind of God would do for Barabbas what he did for him? Jesus was a sinless, the sinless Son of God. And if anybody deserved to die, it was Barabbas who deserved to die. But Jesus died in his place. Hey, you know why you're discouraged this morning? Let me just say this. I'm saying it as graciously as I know how. You know why you're discouraged and defeated and disappointed and disgruntled and despairing and all of that? I'll tell you why. You don't love him like you ought to love him. And you know why we disobey and don't do what pleases the Lord? We just don't love him like we all love him We're look we're over here looking at ourselves and our pitiful performance, or we're looking at our precious brothers and sisters, and we're saying this and that. And listen, we need to be looking to the Lamb of God How can you look at the Lamb of God who shed his blood and died in your place? How can you look at him and say, Well, I guess life's not worth living? I don't have purpose. There's no reason for me. Oh dear friend, you're so precious in the eyes of God. He sent his son to die in your place. He took all the wrath of God on himself and absorbed it in whole, simply so that you could be saved. How precious your soul must be in the eyes of the one who paid it all. How the gospel. No wonder he said to preach the gospel. To the saved, it's the power of God. You and I rejoice in the reality that Christ died for my sin. If the gospel doesn't move you, you need help. If the word of God, listen, if the reality of Christ dying for you can be on that, you need revival. You need to get back like Paul like uh uh John said to the church at Ephesus as as he was delivering the message, get back to your first love. Get back to the reality that he died for me. Don't get over that. I I fear we've got our churches packed out anymore with people that have gotten over their saved and going to heaven. It's no more important to them than getting to go to Walmart. It's no more real to them than just getting in the car and driving to some foreign destination. I've got news for you. You're going to heaven on the merits of Jesus Christ and the holy blood that was shed on Calvary and oh how we bought a praise him this morning. Brother, sister, let God do something in your heart. Just get right dead honest with him and say, Lord, I'm cold and indifferent and I don't care one way or the other, but if you'll do something for me, I might just start caring again. If you'll do something in my heart and open my blinded eyes, help me, oh God. And I'm talking about saved people praying like that. Saved people need to get a fresh reality that Christ died for our sin. We need to get back and understand. I'd be in hell right now were it not for him. I was thinking about them boys, and had they gotten that harbor, they wouldn't be dead. And their wives wouldn't be with us. And their children wouldn't be fatherless if they'd just cut that harbor. And as I lay there and thought about that this morning, I thought about the reality that I ought to be in hell I really ought to be there, but I'm in the harbor. Christ saved me by his grace. And I don't have to worry about the pit, and I don't have to worry about punishment for sin. Christ paid my sin debt. Listen, I may not fit in your theological box, but I'm glad I fit right good in the palms of the hands of the Master. And I'm glad the precious blood will answer for me one day I'm not going to stand there in a tribunal and men say, Well, oh preacher grooms is this and that and the other They may say it but it won't go on the record The record is clean, yep yonder in glory, through Christ and his precious blood. And my friend, that's all that matters. You know why? I want to love him more. I told him this morning real early. I said, Help me love you more. I really want to love you more. I don't love you like I ought to, knowing what you did for me But I sure want to love you more. I want my heart to be more in love with you than it ever has been before. Why? Because listen, that's where devotion comes from. If not if if if we don't get that devotion fire burning All we got's a bunch of duty. I'm not going to ask you, don't raise your hand, please. But how many of you came to church this morning because you had to? I got to. I gotta get 'em go. I got that class to teach. I gotta sing my spot in the choir. I gotta be there. I gotta be there somehow call, somehow be asking, somehow think this, somehow think that. I gotta be there. No, I don't gotta do nothing. I get to be here. I got to get up this morning and get ready and come to the house of God on this good Lord's day, because Jesus died for me. I'm not over here bowing down at an idol or living a godless life or acting like a a a pagan simply because I don't know him. I want to please the Lord and I want to follow him and I want to do his will. Why? Because he saved me by his grace. Everything goes back to that. And if you lose sight of that reality, your Christianity will become a cold form with no reality. Just a cold form. Just a you know, we talk about these dead religions that just go through the motion. Brother, sister, I'm not talking about motion I'm talking about being moved by the Lord. Don't you despise, oh God, please help me right here. Don't you despise the tear in a man's eye? Or a hand lifted in praise. Or the joy in a heart. If we ever get to the place where that's not acceptable, I'm going to tell you something. Ichabod 's just about getting ready to be stamped. Because our God's to be loved, worshipped , served with our whole heart. Everything that's in us. Everything. And living down here as a Christian is getting to the place where we marshal everything that direction. That it walks in step. The old body says, you know , this, why in the world on Sunday morning I can't sleep in one day of the week. I have crossed that threshold of life where a certain time of day my eyes open. And I don't care if I want to, if I plan to, you just can't. And I've learned either lay there and get mad or just get up and get busy Right? Now listen, you can you can learn, brother sister. To do certain things and and and why on Sunday morning is it that just when that's it's time to get up, you get in that good place of sleep. On Sunday morning. I don't get it And just before the clock goes off, man, you and it's Sunday morning, you're relaxed, nothing's hurting, you're like, I could lay here another two hours. But if I do, I'll miss church. You know what love says? Better get your height up. It don't want to get up, but it needs to get up. And and you begin to get ready, you think, man, I could do this today and that today and I gotta do that, and we've got all of our all of us got our to-do lists of things. that we could accomplish. We say, if I could just stay at the house and get it done, and by the way, we do it on prayer meeting night too. And we say, if I could just stay at home and get it done, no, no, no. Lord, I want to get to the house of God. I want to get over there and worship you. I want to hear that choir sing about that lovely name. That helps me. And it's not the the beauty of the singing that really does the the work, it's the power of the message they're carrying. That lovely name. Well, there ought to be something that that that motivates us more than just duty. Duty won't take you far. You'll quit on God before the rising of the sun if that's all you got. But you know what devotion is? It's that first love burning in your heart that says, I got to. I got to because I love him. I mean I love him. I can't I just can't. I I I can't I can't disappoint him. I I want to please him. And it's not a bondage thing. It's a bond. It's a bond in your heart with his. You love him and you want to do what pleases the Lord. Dear friend, look at old Barabbas and see yourself. See the picture God drew for you so that you could appreciate what Christ did on the cross. Say, Lord, I just I want to love you more. I was that condemned man. But for reasons unbeknownst to me and maybe only understood in eternity You chose me. And you cleared my name. Saved. Going to heaven. I got two questions. Christian, are you right with God? And friend, are you saved? If you're not, you ought to take care of both right now. If you're not saved, you can be. Christ will save you. You say, well, preacher, I I I think that's a little harsh. I'm not a Barabbas. I don't have words to tell you how bad you are in the eyes of a holy God. Your sin is awful. Your sin is dragging you to hell. Christ alone will forgive you. Run to him. Don't be like them boys and wait out there too long and lose your soul. Get in the harbor. Hey, and it's not a matter of distance either. It's a matter of acknowledging, I'm lost, Lord. I do deserve to be put in hell. But will you save me and show me mercy? And I know this much, no plea for mercy will go ignored. He'll save you. He'll save you. And my dear brother, sister, do we love him like we should May he search our hearts. Would you stand with me, please? If you need to pray, you come. Our pianists and brother Dows come and go ahead with the hymn of invitation.