He's the only way to heaven. And between here and heaven, he's enough as well. I thank the Lord for that. I want you to open your Bible, please, to 2 Timothy chapter 2. And when you find your place, I'm going to invite you to stand with me. 2 Timothy chapter number 2. I'm going to read the first seven verses aloud, and if you'll just follow along silently. Second Timothy chapter number two. Look at verse number one, if you would please, in God's Word. Thou, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that wareth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. That he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. I want you to go back up to verse number one, and the phrase that is of my interest this morning and on my heart is this phrase: be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Let's pray together. Father, how we thank you this morning for the privilege we have, Lord, to be here. what we've already heard. And thank you, God, for your kindness and meeting with us. Now, Lord, as we open your word, we ask for an open heart to hear from heaven. We pray, dear Lord, that you would speak as only you can. And Lord, would you do for us what we cannot do for ourselves? Have your will and way in this meeting And even as we leave this place, Lord, may the Spirit of God continue his good work in each of our hearts. Lord, for your glory and our eternal good For these few moments that we have, Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up the Lord Jesus. And I pray that He alone would be preeminent. And Lord, I pray that you'd be glorified and pleased with our time together, for it's in Jesus' name we pray these things. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Now, if you know something of your Bible, you know that 2 Timothy is Paul's last letter. He's writing to this young preacher and he's giving him some wisdom and instruction and speaking to him about the ministry. In chapter number two, he he speaks to him about being strong. And of course, being strong is what the Lord wants us to be. And As Christians, whether you're a preacher or you're a Christian, just a servant of the Lord, whatever it is we may be, the Lord wants us to be strong. Christianity today is diluted from what the scripture teaches. I'm afraid that we look at Christianity in the lens of culture, or through the lens of culture. And the way it is reflected is the way that we believe it's supposed to be, but there could be nothing further from the truth. Christianity is often represented as being weak and somewhat effeminate, but I've got news for you to be a real Christian in this wicked world Takes strength that comes from God. I mean to live for the Lord like He wants you to live for is not something that just the run-of-the-mill individual can do. It takes help from above And so Paul tells Timothy, in light of uh of all the things that he'll face, he back in chapter one, you'll notice in verse one that therefore And if you'll trace it back into chapter 1, he talks about some things that happened there in the ministry as he's tried to serve the Lord. And he says, now, Timothy, if you're going to make it, if you're going to be faithful, you've got to be strong. And he doesn't say strong in the Lord, but he says strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Now there's a place where your physical strength can't take you. Stops. I mean you only go so far. Your physical and listen, you may be very strong. There are some very strong men perhaps sitting in this auditorium this morning, and and your strength will take you away. But there's a point where your strength runs out. I'm reminded of Isaiah 40, he said, even the youths Shall faint. That young man, his his strength will fail. And isn't that the mark of the young man is his strength? I mean, that's that's what the Bible says he glories in. And that is the mark of that young man. But know this, that there is a place that that strength cannot take you. You need something more You need a strength, like Paul tells Timothy here, you need to be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Around here for the last little while, we've been trying to figure out something about grace and trying to understand the grace of God And I hope as we've studied that you have gotten the impression or the thinking from the Scripture that the grace of God is far-reaching That the grace of God is all powerful, that the grace of God is life-changing, and the grace of God is limitless in its measure. No wonder when John Newton went to write a song about grace, he called it Amazing Grace. I mean, what else can you call it? This grace that defies, I mean, anything and everything that you and I can think or imagine, thank God for his mighty, amazing grace. And when Paul admonishes this young man to be strong, he says, now listen, he did not say, be strong in your opinion. Any uh I started to say any opinionated people? That wouldn't be nice to ask, would it? I venture there's some opinionated people here this morning. I mean they're and that's okay. Thank God we live where we're free to have an opinion. At least today. I don't know about tomorrow. But at least today we can have our opinion. And listen, but but he didn't say, now, Timothy, you be strong in your opinion. He didn't even encourage young Timothy to be strong in his enthusiasm, though that's a good thing It's good to be excited about things, and we ought to be excited about the things of the Lord. But Paul knew this. He knew that enthusiasm would only take you so far. And he said, You're going to need more than that, young man. You're going to need something more than just mere enthusiasm. He did not even say, be strong in your convictions. And by the way, if you've got Bible convictions, you ought to be strong on them. Because if they're built on what the Bible says, they will not change. They will stand because the Bible does not change. The beauties of the Word, one of the beautiful things about the Word of God is that it it 's like something that is put up for all of eternity. It's like an eternal monument as it stands. And I don't care what time does or people do or cultures change, no matter what happens all around us, the Bible will stand. And so our Bible convictions need to stand. But he didn't say, young Timothy, be strong in your convictions. But here's what he did say: be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Now, I want you to see something about grace here. I believe it was what brought Paul to this place. Paul is not a a young Christian. Obviously, Paul's at the end of the road, so to speak. He soon will lay down his life as a martyr. But as as he's facing that in chapter one, he goes back and he talks about some of the things that that he endured as a as a Christian. He said in verse eight of chapter one. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. You'll notice that Paul's a prisoner literally here. He's imprisoned in Rome at this point. And he's talking about afflictions that he faced for the gospel's sake. Let me say this: if you want an easy road, don't become a Christian. If you want a smooth sailing path, don't follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I know I know today there's a Christianity that says if you want to be healthy and wealthy and everything be wonderful, then just follow Jesus. But I've got news for you. That's another Jesus. The Jesus of the Word of God calls us to walk a path that always goes by Calvary. And there's a cross involved, and there's a tomb involved. There's a burden involved. Paul said that You're a partaker. You've been a partaker of the afflictions of the gospel. He goes on in verse 12, and he says, For the which cause I also suffer these things. He says in verse number 13: Hold fast the form of sound words which thou hast heard of me in faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus. Verse 15, this thou knowest that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me. He names a couple of individuals that were part of that, maybe leading that, I don't know. But what I'm trying to say is that the path that Paul was taking and the path that Timothy was taking was going to require something more than determination. It was going to require something more than gritting your teeth and just taking another step and just going forward. It was going to take the grace of God to make him strong so that he could endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. We are living in a day that I really believe the rubber is going to meet the road, so to speak, for Christianity. Real Christianity is soon going to cost Christians. I believe we're quickly funneling in a direction where if you say, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ, it's not going to put you in good favor among the multitudes. Some of you are old enough to remember a time in this country that people went to church because it was the respectable thing to do. And there was a certain culture of Christianity. I'm not saying it was Bible Christianity, but it was a cultural Christianity. And church, all of us here I think understand that those days are long gone. That sort of thing is past. It's not the place or the country that we're living in anymore. And the further we get away from the Word of God as a nation, the more it's going to cost those who say, I have decided to follow Jesus. No turning back. No turning back. And though none go with me, still I will follow. And so Paul says now Timothy, that's the course you're on, son, that's the path you're in. And it's interesting to me that the illustrations that he uses here to describe what it was going to be like for Timothy. He says, number one, be a good soldier. Be a good soldier. He said, I want you to endure hardness as a good soldier. Now, if you know anything about being a soldier, and some of you do firsthand, you know that there is a certain hardness that's required. There's a certain strength that is demanded. You say, I don't have it in me. Well, they'll put it in you one way or the other My dear friend, I've told you about this, but he I always think of him. He didn't like people telling him what to do. He hated to be told what to do. He didn't like his parents telling him what to do, didn't like his Grandparents tell him what to do. We worked together on the farm. And I remember the morning he marched in, chest out, head up. He said, I'm sick, everybody tell me what to do around here. I joined the Marines He came home after that and I'll I'll never forget old Jason walked in that morning, two o'clock, we're milking, two o'clock in the morning. And he walked in, his chest was out because he was stronger, but his head wasn't near as high. And I remember asking him, I said, well, how did it go? With nobody telling you what to do. He said, Jamie, let me tell you something. He said, they told me when to eat. Sleep, breeze, go to the restroom. Man, they told me what to think and told me what not to think. He said, I've been told everything that you can imagine be told of. I will never say that again. Well, it made a better man out of him. Made a better man out of him. But he had to endure hardness. Isn't it interesting when the Lord said here to young Timothy, now, I want you to go serve me and be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus? The very next thing he says, I want you to endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. There's another illustration he uses in verse 6. He says the husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. He's talking about a farmer. So he uses a soldier and he uses a farmer. And now listen, if you know anything about farming, you know that's that's work. It's all work. I don't know anything about farming that's not work. And just about everything that has to do with that occupation is hard work. Read a funny little story about a fella who left the farm and went off into the military and he wrote back home and told his parents how it was going. And he was talking, you know, they all expected him to have a hard time, but when he got there, he said, you know, we sleep in late. He said we don't have to run near as many miles. We don't We don't work near as hard. You know what I was saying? There's hard work when you farm. Some of you know that. But what I'm trying to say is that Paul is painting a picture here that being a Christian is not just tiptoeing through the tulips. It's about enduring hardness. It's about labor. There's a reality that comes of the Christian life that's going to demand of you a strength you don't have in yourself. But God's grace does. And so he says, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. I want you to see three things real quick. Number one, I want you to see the provision. And then I want you to see something particular here, and then we're going to end with a person. But I want you to see first this provision. Be strong. You say that's not a provision, that's a command. By the way, that's what Paul's doing to young Timothy. He's commanding him, be strong. Now you say, why does it come in the form of a command? Well I believe partly because this was the desire of Paul's heart, he said, Timothy, I want you to be strong. I believe it was the prayer of his lips. He said, I'm praying, oh God, make young Timothy strong. Listen, if you could pray one thing for your fellow Christian that will help them more than anything, you ought to pray, Lord, make them strong. If you pray anything for yourself, you ought to pray, Lord, make me strong. Be strong. But not only is it the desire of his heart and the prayer of his lips, but it simply is a command from God. Now please note this, if you will, that strength commanded is strength provided. Anything God commands, he provides. When God makes a command, God also provides the enabling. Doug read it. I didn't know quite where he was going when he was back here in Joshua. I was hoping he wouldn't just steal what I had to say here. But he confirmed it. In Joshua chapter 1, let's look at it. Would you go back there? I know Doug's read part of this, but Joshua chapter number one. And let's just start reading in verse number one. We're not talking about Timothy now. We're talking about Joshua And yet he's another younger man that's stepping into the position of someone who's left this world because it starts out now after the death of Moses. Joshua chapter number one. Now after the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua, the son of Nun. Moses minister, saying Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, thou and all this people, unto the land which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel. Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you, as I said unto Moses. From the wilderness and this Lebanon, even unto the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites and under the great sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your coast. Now, Joshua's not been in leadership. He's been under Moses. He's been Moses ' minister. He's just served Moses. And for forty years Moses has led these people through the wilderness, and for forty years they've looked to Moses when they had a uh a decision, when they were in trouble, when they had a problem. It was Moses. Help us. Moses. Go to the Lord. Moses, pray. And now Moses is dead and Joshua is alone. And God says, now Joshua? I want you to do not wander in this wilderness. We're done with that. We're getting ready to cross the River Jordan. You're going somewhere you've never been. You're going to face battles like you've never fought. And then I want you to watch this. He says to him in verse 5, There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Now note verse 6: be strong. Be strong and of a good courage. You know what he's doing? He's commanding strength. Just be strong. Now look, please know, he's not saying just be determined. I was thinking, you know, I was just a little boy. My dad cut down a big oak tree for my uncle, and I had two cousins, and they were big boys. They were double the size of my dad, this way and this way. And Dad said, now you boys load that that tree on the truck. And those two big old boys, they wrestled with this it was the butt piece of the log. They were wrestling with it, trying to and they couldn't get it up there. And my dad, being a wee bit impatient, uh said, uh, get out of the way, fellas. And dad reached around that log and he picked it up and he laid it in the truck. And man, I was just I was amazed. These boys were giant boys, big boys. And I said to Dad afterwards, I said, How'd you do that? I said, Why couldn't they do it? They're bigger than you. He said, they didn't want to bad enough. It's amazing what you can do when you want to. But let me say this: I don't care how much you want to be strong, there's a limit to your strength. There is a place you may want to, but you don't have the wherewithal. You can't, you don't have any more. But God said, now Joshua, be strong. For unto this people thou shalt divide for inheritance the land which I swear unto their fathers to give them. Look at verse 7. Only be thou strong. and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded thee. Turn not from it to the right hand or the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. Look at verse 9. Have not I commanded thee, be strong and of a good courage, be not afraid. Neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. I I I don't think the Lord here the the Lord didn't forget he said it already. He repeated himself three times. Why? Because he needed him to get this. You've got to be strong. Oh, but you say, preacher, he's telling to be determined. He's telling no, no, no. He's reminding him. You notice every time he said be strong, he said, I'm with you. I'd already tell you where strength comes from, by the way. Every time he said, Now, Joshua, be strong, be strong, he said, I'm going to be with you now. Remember that, I'm going to be with you. What I'm saying is that the provision of strength Comes in the form of a command. What God commands, he provides. Well, there's a verse back in Deuteronomy, I believe it's chapter 33 and verse number 25, there's a little phrase in that verse that says, As thy days, so shall thy strength be. As thy days. And listen, I believe that just means what comes with the day, God gives strength. What comes for that moment, God will give you strength. There'll be strength for those days. And aren't you glad that God's commands come with God's provision, God's enabling. So we see the provision of strength. Be strong. And can I say to you, Christians, be strong. Be strong. Don't accept this diluted , weak, and effeminate kind of Christianity today. Be strong. Be a strong Christian. Don't be a backboneless Christian. Don't be a Christian that stands up for what the Bible says and lives holy in a godless world. Don't be the sort of Christian that's so worried about offending people that you disregard offending the Lord. If we were as worried about upsetting God as we are the mass of culture, we would have revival in America. But we're too worried about whose feelings. Listen, if the Bible hurts my feelings, my feelings need hurt. I need help, my friend, from the Lord. And sometimes that help comes in the form of rebuke or chasing. The Lord says, hey, that's not right. You're going the wrong way. So be strong. Be a strong Christian. Mothers and dads, be a strong Christian for your children's sake. Because your children are going to walk in your footsteps. They're going to walk the path you walk. They're going to pretty much go in the direction you go. And if your Christianity is weak, theirs likely we'll be weaker. Be strong. Be strong, dear, dear brother, as you lead your family. Be strong men. You know We need a revival of Christian manhood across this country. Be strong. Men, you be strong. God made you a man for a reason. He made you different than a woman. I cannot figure out for the life of me why men want to act like women and women want to act like men. Because God made you different. And God wants you to be different because you've got a different role and a place in the in the in culture and in your family and your society. And God has given you a command to be strong. Young Timothy was told here by the Lord through the Apostle Paul to be strong. It was God's provision, this command, Timothy could lay hold of it. Though Timothy struggled, he had a spirit of fear at times, and though Timothy was timid, he could lay hold of that command and say, God commanded it. And therefore God will deliver it. And by faith lay hold of that strength. Be strong. Number two, look at the particular here. Notice it says, be strong in the grace. In the grace. Now, this is a specific grace. I know grace is a big term that we use to describe a lot of things. in the sense of God's favor, but no, he's talking about something specific here. I've already mentioned in chapter one his serving and his standing and his suffering. And what Paul is telling young Timothy here is that there's grace that will make you strong. It is grace that will give you strength. And by the way, Paul had already learned this, and he had learned it like he had to learn it, like most of us have to learn it. He learned it in the school of experience. He learned that no matter what it is that God puts upon you, or what you come through or against or whatever, that there's going to be strength, and that strength comes from depending completely on the Lord. There's grace. You know, some of you, how many of you know what castor oil is? You don't put it in a motor, by the way And uh how many of you had parents who thought castor oil was the cure-all? Did anybody? Well, there's a lot of us been tortured. Wasn't that mean to do? I I learned when I coughed. Mom said, I got something that's good for it. And you know what? She'd pull out that slick, slimy, nasty. I can taste it right now preaching it. Stuff called castor oil. If you said, my stomach hurts You got a dose of castor oil. I mean, listen, if a bug bit you and you say, man, that but that bug bite it's you, I got something for that. Out come the castor oil. It was the cure-all for a generation. I don't know who ever convinced them of that. Because it really did nothing but make me sick and also made me hide my ailments. I didn't want castor oil after a while. I figured just keep it to yourself. If it don't kill you, you'll get over it soon enough. But I want to say this. No matter what it is, there's grace for it. There's grace for it. There's particular grace. Back in 2 Corinthians, would you look at it real quick with me? 2 Corinthians chapter 12, just turn back a little bit. Paul's dealing with the physical infirmity. We're not told what it is. There's an awful lot of speculation about it, but the reality is we just don't know. But Paul did say this that he prayed about it. And when he prayed about it, he said he asked the Lord three times that it might depart from him. And here's how the Lord answered. Verse 9. 2 Corinthians 12, 9. And he said unto me, this is the Lord said unto Paul, My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. What's he saying? He's saying God's grace was enough. God's grace was enough. You know, no matter what it is, whether you're called on to suffer, where you're called on to serve, where you're called on to stand, whatever it may be, you're called on to do by the Lord. There will be sufficient grace. Grace is enough. There's going to be enough grace. And listen, I don't know about you, but there was grace enough to save me. There's been grace enough to secure me. There's been grace enough to keep me all the way, and when the time comes, there'll be grace to get me home. There will be great. Listen, there is grace. Upon grace, upon grace, God's grace is literally a cure-all. There's grace for that, whatever that is. The storehouse, somebody said this, one of the old writers said the storehouse of grace is well stocked with everything required. No matter what you need, God has grace for it. God has grace for it. I was up in Pennsylvania in an Amish farm getting some tires and I'd never seen a place like this. I mean I'd never seen they had every tire you could imagine. Truck tires, tractor tires. uh loader tires. I mean every kind of tire. And far as you could see behind that place and rims and every I mean you just walk around And I said, there was an old gentleman standing there, an old farmer, he was getting something, and uh he said, I think they've got everything a man could need right here. And you could tell boy he was he was enjoying this. He was looking at everything. And you know what? I I I'm sure there's something there he didn't have. I'm sure there might be some strange piece of equipment that needs a tire or a rim that he did not have. But I know this, I've got a Savior who's full of grace. The Bible says he's full of grace and truth. And there's not a need in my life for grace that he does not have. No matter what. The storehouse of grace is well stocked. You say, but preacher, my situation's a little unique. Well, it may be unique to men, but it's not to God. He's got grace for that. And and then let me just quickly look at this. I want you to notice the person We've looked at the provision in the form of a command. We've looked at the particular in the fact that grace covers all But now look where he takes us to the person, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. I don't know if you've picked up on this yet, but all through this study, grace takes us back to Jesus. It always takes us back to Him. Now there's a reason for that, because grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. There's no other place to find grace. I believe some people are confused today and they're trying to find grace in a religion. And so they join a church and they do all the things that are required of that church and they think that somehow I will get grace. They think if I just go to church enough, I'll find grace. If I pray enough, I'll get grace. If I get baptized, I'll find grace. If I light candles and say the right words. I'll find grace. I've got news for you. The only place you'll find grace is in the person of grace in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's grace embodied. He's grace expounded. He's grace manifested. Look, he is the grace. The grace of God. He's full of grace and truth. Everything, everything, especially grace, is relative to him. I'm glad Doug sung that song. Didn't know he was going to. But he said these words, He is enough. You say, Preacher, it sounds like to me the Bible's trying to tell me that He's all I need. A plus, you pass. He is all I need. He's enough I had a preacher tell me one time, I had some folks that they want an experience and all this and were really struggling. And he said, Preacher, if Jesus is not enough for them, nothing ever will be. You think about it. If you're not content with Jesus, if he's not enough , I like that hymn, my faith has found a resting place, not in device nor creed. I trust the ever-living one, his wounds for me shall plea. Oh, listen, that hymn goes on to say, it is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. It's enough. He's enough. You'll go to heaven on what he did. He's enough. You don't he doesn't need your help. He doesn't need a hand He's enough. It's enough that Christ died. It's enough that Christ was buried. It's enough that he rose again. It's enough that he shed his blood. It is enough. You can be saved by Jesus and Him alone. Church, it's enough. Now tell me something. If God's going to take you to heaven on Jesus alone What else in your life needs your assistance? He's enough Preacher, my heart's troubled. Hear him say, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. Oh, but preacher, I just don't have the strength. I can't. Well, here Paul say, I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. But you don't know the great need I have, but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. You know what the Bible is loudly saying? Jesus is enough. And hallelujah, he forever shall be. The Christian's life is one of learning to lean. Remember the old song, Learning to Lean? I'm learning to lean on Jesus. Finding more power than I ever dreamed, I'm learning to lean on him. Sounds a lot like what Jesus said in John 15 when he said, without me, you can do nothing. I'm enough. I'm all you need. Now, dear Christian, the command is clear. Be strong. Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. You say, preacher, where do I find strength? I'll tell you where you'll find it. You'll find it in Him. The more you depend on him, the more strength you're going to find. Now, your old nature and my old nature has a problem with that. Sin messed us up real bad. And it made us independent even of God. Now I'm an independent Baptist, but I want to tell you something. I'm half a mind to start a new movement and call it Dependent Baptist. Because we've got so independent that we're independent of God. We've gotten so independent that we don't I mean, listen, a lot anymore thing, we don't need the Lord. I've got news for you. We need God. We need Him every hour, every moment of every hour. I need him, you need him. You can't be a Christian without him. You can't serve Christ without him. You can't do right without him. You say, but yeah, I I know how to do this, that, and the other. That's your problem. You've stopped depending on the Lord A lot of the joy of our Christianity is evaporated because it's all self-generated. Instead of, Lord, I need you. Lord, help me. Lord, I'm just going to lean on you and you've got to get me through. Aren't you glad oftentimes on the other end of that thing the Lord's been faithful and you fall at his feet and say, Thank you, Lord, for carrying me forth. How faithful the Lord is. Joshua faced the River Jordan to cross over into the promised land, and they crossed. God said, cross now. It was at harvest time when the river was swollen. In places four times what it normally would flow. Said now's the time. You mean now? I mean how are we going to cross this great river? I'll tell you how. Lord, you told us to do it. Here we go. And the Bible says when the when those priests that were carrying that ark, when their ankles got in the waters, stopped flowing. God held the water. You know what they had to do? They had to depend on the Lord. They had to trust that the Lord was going to be faithful. And Christian, listen, God's not going to send you a blueprint of how and what and when and where. He's not going to lay it all out so that all you've got to do is read the map. He's going to say, you've got to trust me. And you've got to take the next step and trust me. And you've got to take the next step and trust me. And you've got to take the next step and trust me. And then you've got to tak Take the next, you say, when's that gonna be over? In glory In glory. You're just going to have to take the next step and trust him. You're going to have to take the next step and trust him. And you know what that does? That's generating and growing a dependency on the Lord so that you get to the point in your life where you say, now Lord, if you don't go with me, I'm not going. If you don't help me, I'm not going to attempt it. Lord, that's how David got, wasn't it? David said, now Lord, if you don't go with us, we're not going to go fight this battle. If you don't show us that you're near us, we're not going to do it. Hey, church, let me remind you, that's the way God wants us to live every single day, depending on Him. That's what grace is all about. I think many of you sitting here have lived long enough to learn that when you take control, you wreck it. You just tear it all to pieces. When you're in control. I was a little boy, my dad bought me a go-kart, and that thing was fast. And it was so fast he said, I don't think you can handle it. And I said, I sh dad I can. You know, every little boy's uh mm NASCAR race driver at two and knows how he's gonna do it, you know, and I said, Sure I can. He said, No, son, it's uh I remember it sat for eight or ten weeks there and finally after enough aggravation he said take it down to pasture and try and man I took all out through there and then I realized I can't handle it But it was too late then. I turned that thing over and ever forget and it stuck me in a barbed wire fence. I just hung there Me in that go-kart dad come down there and I he didn't pull me off the fence. He got down my face. He said, So you can drive it, huh? Real compassionate feller. A whole lot of times in my life I've done the same thing. Lord, I can do this. Not pray about it, not depend on the Lord. Not seek him. Lord, I can take care. I can have this. Lord, I don't need and then thank God he's gracious enough He's gracious enough to come and say, Now I'm trying to teach you something. I'm trying to teach you to lean on me I'm trying to teach you to trust me and to depend on me and to know that, yes, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheth me, but without Christ, I can do nothing. Dear Christian, there is strengthening grace available, but whatever it is may be required of you. Say, preacher, I never thought that I'd be walking this path alone. There's grace for that Preacher, I never thought that I'd be dealing with this kind of sickness in my body. There's grace for that. Never thought I'd have these kind of battles in my spiritual life. I've got news for you: there's grace for that. Be strong. Brother, sister, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Now, if you're here today unsaved The only way you can access this grace I'm speaking of is to come to God by faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ and trust Him to save you. You see, the new birth is the beginning of new life. And without the new birth, there's no new life. God does not want you to be reformed, he wants you to be regenerated. You must, you must, you must be born again. It's not an optional thing. It's not one of the Take it or leave it. It's something that is a necessity. Friend, you'll die and spend eternity in hell if you don't believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. You must trust Him. But it don't end there. That's just the starting place. Some people think, well, I trust the Lord to save me. That's good enough. Oh no, that's just where it all starts. Because then you trust him to help you and you trust him to keep you. It's a life of trust that begins at the moment you believe on Jesus Christ to save your soul. Do you have that moment? Has there been a place and time where you've called on the Lord for salvation? If not, today can be that day. Thank God he opens a door wide and says, Whosoever will may come. He invites you to come. And he'll save you if you'll trust him. You see, he made a way for you to be born again through his death, his burial, his resurrection. When he died on Calvary, he paid your sin debt and he paid it in full. And my friends, you say, can a man go to heaven trusting Jesus alone? Oh, yes. Thank God, yes. If he made it any other way, there would be people left out. But he said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Dear friend, trust him today. Dear Christian, brother, sister. There's grace for you. I don't know all of the details or all of your need, but I know this. I know we can be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. There's grace for you. There's grace for you. It may be you just need to lean a little harder into the Lord. Say, Lord, you've got to help me. No man said, Lord, help me. That the Lord said, sorry, too busy. No plea, you know I say this a lot, no plea for mercy goes ignored. I don't believe any help, any plea for help goes ignored. I mean real help when we're serious about it. You say, God, I sure need you. Right there he is. You know why? Because here's what the scriptures say. He's an ever -present help. Thank God for his help. Do you need him today? I don't know what your need is, but we're going to bow our heads and stand in a moment. Brother Dow 's coming to lead our hymn. And as he does, if you need to pray, these altars are open. We kneel. People sit on the you find a place of prayer. The place is not near as important as you do in business with God in your heart. And if you're not saved, or if you're someone that'd like someone to pray with you about a matter, would you lift your hand and If you'll do that for just a few moments, a lady will join a lady, a man, a man, and they'll pray with you and ask the Lord to help you in whatever way you need. But let's do business with him this morning. Would you stand, please, heads bowed, eyes closed?