I appreciate how the Lord puts things together. Brother Doug had no idea the burden on my heart this morning. And God had burdened me to preach on this thought because he lives. Because he lives. I appreciate him being sensitive to the Lord. I want you to open your Bibles, please, to Romans chapter number five. And I want to read three verses in your hearing, verse 9, 10, and 11. Romans chapter number 5. And when you find your place, if you'd stand with me, please In Romans chapter five and verse number nine, the Bible says, Much more than Being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son Much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ. By whom we have now received the atonement. Did you notice the emphasis on the living Christ? Up until this point in the book of Romans, the emphasis has been the death of Christ. In fact, if you'll remember back through our studies, we have focused on the fact that Christ died for our sin. We have looked at the fact that he shed his blood for our sin to be forgiven, washed away. But now there's a shift, and by the way, it's a shift that continues right to the end of the book. And that is, if his death did so many incredible things, his life will do even more. I want you to think about with me this morning about what happens because he lives. What's true about us today because he lives. Let's bow for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us. Frother Andy Bishop, would you lead in prayer? And ask the Lord to work in our hearts this morning. Our Father, we come before you now. In the name of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We do thank you, Heavenly Father. that you've made it so very clear that in none other is there salvation. Amen. By trusting Christ, repenting of sin, we can have the assurance by trust your word that our sins are forgiven and heaven awaits us. But Lord we do pray that as we await his return, help us, Lord Help us to occupy until he comes, Lord. Amen. Help us, Heavenly Father, to honor Him To whom we owe even our very life. Amen. Father, have your way. Have your way with us this morning in particular. God, give us ears to hear or hearts to receive. and a determination uh to follow your word, uh whatever it says. Amen. All this again we ask in Jesus' name Amen. You can be seated. I want you to notice how our portion of Scripture begins. In Romans chapter 5 and verse number 9, notice it says, Much more. Much more. Do you know there are seven much more in the book of Romans? Five of the seven are in this chapter. And I believe they make a reference to the fact that Jesus Christ is alive. This word much more just simply means that uh it exceeds and goes beyond So the comparison is that if the death of Christ, and it did redeem us, and the death of Christ did provide a sacrifice for our sin, and the death of Christ reconciled us to God, There is much more simply because he lives. Much more. Makes me think about what Paul Harvey said When he would come on and do his radio broadcast. How many remember Paul Harvey? You know who I'm talking about? And he would start out with some story and he'd be telling his tale, and then he would stop sort of at a critical point. And then he would say this, and now for the rest of the story. And then he'd tell you something that just made the whole story even that much better. What I'm preaching this morning is not a story. I want to be clear on that. What I'm preaching this morning is not a figment of the imagination. It's not something that we've come up with so that we can have church. It's the reality that Christ lives. Jesus is alive. It wasn't that long ago that we celebrated a formal day of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. But every Lord's day is a recognition that Jesus Christ is alive. We gather on the day we gather because He lives. We worship in the manner in which we worship because he lives. We we know we understand this morning that we need this perpetual uh refreshment and reminder that Jesus Christ is alive. Now it's interesting to me that we're we're given two ordinances in the church. And both, in a way, focus on the death of Christ. We have the Lord's table. And when we come to the Lord's table, we may call it communion, whatever you call it, we call it the Lord's table. And when we come to the Lord's table, we remember Christ died for our sin. We're told in the Bible, as oft as you do this, do this in remembrance of me. And so it is a memorial, and by the way, there's no prescribed amount of times to do it. Nowhere in the Bible does it tell us we're to do it this day and this many times and that such. No, as oft as you do it. However often you do that day, however often you do that ordinance or observe that ordinance, however often you do that, just remember, do that in remembrance of me. It's a memorial that magnifies the death of Jesus Christ. Why? Because we are bought with a price. If you're a believer, you need to continually be reminded of something you do not belong to you. You belong to Him. He paid an incredible price for you on the cross. And then we have an ordinance called baptism And in baptism, we represent the death of Christ. The individual is taken into the water, like Christ was taken to death, and fully immersed. Fully immersed. We don't splash a little and it's in brilliant cream. A little dab won't do you here. The reality is that we must be immersed because Christ died completely And was buried. A dear friend of mine who's now in heaven, he was baptizing for me. He baptized the man who also is now in heaven. And this brother was very buoyant. So we couldn't get him under. And Brother Osteen was an older gentleman and he was struggling a little bit to start with. And when he went to baptize Perry, he he got his he got his head under the water, but when he got his head under the water, um the bubble that many was level Kicked him in the air. So Perry's head's in the water, his belly's sticking out, his feet are up. So Brother Osteen says, get him under. There's two deacons trying to help him there. Brother Perry was a handful of a man. And so uh he he he he held him there a minute. He's and those fellows didn't know w what to do, kinda, they'd never had to do that And uh he said, I mean get him under. And all this Symes Perry's head's underwater And he's holding Brother Perry. And and finally one of those deacons realized what so he grabbed Perry's belly and he went boom and he pushed him under. Well, when they brought Brother Perry up out of the water, man, he was gasping And choking, and he hung over the side of that. We were baptized as an old lobster tank. And he hung over the side of that lobster tank, and I I thought he's uh he was on oxygen anyway, he had to have oxygen to breathe. And so I thought nothing worse could have happened to another man than for them to baptize him like that. But but you say, why the big deal? I'll tell you why the big deal, because it represents something It represents that Christ tasted death for every man. And then we're brought up to walk in newness of life, signifying the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. But again, the two ordinances of the church really put a heavy emphasis on the death of the Lord Jesus. But he gives us one day a week to magnify the resurrection. Tells me it's very important that I understand he's alive. When you get up on Sunday morning and come to the house of God, I hope you're not just going through a vain tradition received from your fathers. But you're coming with an expectation, knowing that my Lord's life, that Jesus lives, and that I'm coming to give him the glory that's due his name. I'm meeting where he said to meet. Why? Because he said that where two or three are gathered together in my name. And by the way, that was speaking in context of the local assembly. He said, There am I in the midst. And when we see him there in the Revelation, those some sixty years after the resurrection, John's out there on the Isle of Patmos, exiled for his faith and testimony, and he gets to take a little peek into the hidden world. And when he looks into the hidden world, he sees a church. In fact, he sees seven of them. And he sees in those seven churches, he sees somebody in there walking around. And he's looking at him and he's saying, Why, that's the Son of God. That's just not anybody walking around in there. Look at his head that's white as wool, and his eyes like fire. Look at this individual who's walking in the , and not only is he walking, but he's receiving their worship. He said, I I know who that is. That's Jesus. And Jesus is walking among his people. Can I remind you of something this morning? That when you gathered here, there is an unseen person who gathers with us. There is one who walks among us whose royalty. He's the King of all kings and the Lord of all lords. And he's with his people. Doesn't that put a whole different note of gathering as God's people? That sort of takes it to a whole other level than just a bunch of people getting together at eleven o'clock on Sunday morning at thirty one forty one Old Elkneck Road. That says what's happening there must be of significance if the Lord Himself is there. You know why he's here? Because he's alive. You say, well, preacher, now listen, I I I've never seen what John saw. Well, have you ever read what John wrote? If I can say it like this, if you've read what John wrote, you've seen what John saw. Because what John wrote is what's real in the lives of every assembly. What John pinned down is true of every believer as we gather in every assembly that gathers to glorify and honor the Lord Jesus Christ. He's present among his people because he lives. We've gathered in this place because he lives. We've gathered in this place because we know he's alive and well. And when Paul writes this letter and he begins to talk to these believers And he tells them about the death of Christ. He does not stop there, he goes on and gives the rest of the story And he says, if the death, and let me say it like this, since the death of Christ accomplished so much, oh, much more. Our living Lord is doing things to this very present. The much more 's, well, you find two of them here, verse 9 and 10. Much more, being justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. Much more, in verse number 10, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Look at verse 15. But not as the offense, so also is the free gift, for if through the offense of one many be dead, much more the grace of God and the gift by grace. Which is by one man Jesus Christ hath abounded unto many. Here's a much more, verse 17, for if by one man's offense Death reigned by one, much more they which receive abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one Jesus Christ. That's the much more victory. Verse 20, moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. You know why? All of that's true? Because he lives. Because he lives. The songwriter said, I don't serve a dead Savior, and I don't have a dead faith. He's alive. He lives. I think every once in a while we need to put the brakes on and just be reminded he lives. Just sort of hit the pause button and say, Okay, now I'm not just going to church to sing three hymns here, one sermon and a poem, pray and go home. He lives. I I sometimes need to be uh reminded that when I gather with the people of God, I'm gathering not just with the people of God, but I'm also gathering with the God of the people. He lives And because he lives, there's a work that he is doing. And there is help that we can get because he lives. I'm gonna say this as kindly as I know how, but Buddha can't help you because he's dead. Dead. Graveyard dead. That's right. You wouldn't go out to the cemetery and talk to someone buried in the ground and say, I need you to help me. I knew what listen, I know what I knew when my dad was alive, if I needed anything I could ask. I knew that Now I don't know if he could have helped me, but but there were there were things that if if he could do it, he'd help me I I could go to him, I could call him, I could say, uh, you know, I I could say, hey dad, I I'm sort of in a bind here. Can can you help me with this? And and I know what my dad would do. He'd say, son, tell me how and where and what and when That's the kind of man he was. My dad's in heaven now. He's buried over there at the uh Help me. Snow Hill Cemetery. Just across the ridge from where he lived Imagine going over there to that cemetery and pulling around on that beautiful spot, little dogwood tree planted there on the other side of him, mom 's grave. You stand on that hill, you can see all the mountains around us. It's an elevated spot. And stand in front of that grave and say, Now I need some help. If I can say this kindly, I would ask in vain. Because he's in heaven, but his old body lived in is dead. Do you understand what I'm trying to say? We've not come here to look in a casket and say, We need your help. But I read this morning in Isaiah forty six early this morning, my time with the Lord. I was struck by this. He talked about idols in the first two verses. And he said, you mold them out of gold, and then you carry them and set them on a pedestal. And you say to them, You are our gods. Deliver us. And here's what he said: I have borne thee. I have carried thee and I have delivered thee. He said, Your God needs toting around, but I'm the one carrying you around. You know why? Because he lives. Don't think for a minute this morning that your God is dead. If you're saved by the grace of God, He is alive and well. You may feel in your heart you say, Preacher, now I'm gonna tell you something. I I'll tell you I'm going through a struggle. I'm I'm fighting some things It may be a physical thing. It might be a spiritual thing. I don't know what it is. You might be going through through some things and the and the The stirring of the thing has clouded your view of God. And you know what your emotions say? God's not Near, he's dead, he's not alive. You know, they say it's hard to be spiritually up when you're physically down, and I believe that's true. God is so interwoven us as as body, soul, and spirit peoples that all o all of the of our man, whether it's spiritual, physical, uh mental, emotional, whatever it may be, it all, the whole man, affects the whole man. But yet aren't you glad this morning that you've got a Bible that tells you the truth and nothing changes that? But don't change. I may be out of sorts, but God never is. Isn't that good? He lives. Paul said there's so much more. Much more. Yes, he died. Yes, he shed his blood. Yes, a perfect sacrifice was made. Yes, pardon was obtained. Yes, there was reconciliation. Yes, there's cleansing. Yes, there's a secure home in heaven. But there's much more because he lives. What's the much more about, number one? Because he lives, I'm saved, please hear me, from future wrath. Because he lives. That's what it says, verse nine. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. Not through him who was, but through him who is. Going to be saved from wrath through him. Revelation chapter 20 says, There's coming a sad day. Glad day for a believer, but a sad day for the lost. And on that day they will face what's called the great white throne. John got let us see some of this uh what did he call it, the wrath of the lamb. And he let us look at that wrath, and that wrath of the lamb made people hide their face. But they couldn't hide. They wanted to get away, but they couldn't get away. You ever had a dream where you're running from something and you couldn't get away from it? That's terrifying, man. You're trunk running trying to get away and you can't get away. It just keeps gaining ground These people are going to be, as he pours out wrath on the earth, and as he pours out wrath at the judgment at the great white throne, these people are going to say, Rocks and mountains fall on us. Hide us. His face is too holy. His glare penetrates me. Fall on us. But you know what the Bible says? They'll have nowhere to hide. They'll have nowhere to go. There's no place to go. The wrath of the lamb's being poured out. At that great white throne, as he pours out his judgment, he's going to speak words that's going to strike terror in every heart that hears them. Depart from me. You workers of iniquity, I never knew you. You imagine that? I can't imagine that horrid scene. And I'll tell you what that stirs my heart to do as a gospel preacher is to tell you the truth. Whether you uh uh like it or appreciate it or don't, I've got to tell you the truth because that day's coming in our near future. And as that day approaches, friend, you need to understand something. Every person who stands at the great white throne is lost and will be sentenced to an eternity in the lake of fire apart from God forever. But I'm talking to the saved just now. My Bible says, because he lives, I'm saved from wrath through him. I'm saved from the fear of the coming wrath. The wrath of God has already been tasted, poured out, absorbed in the person of Jesus Christ. So now in him I find escape. I find a place of relief. I find someone who'll hide me. You know what I sort of believe, and and you forgive me if you don't believe this way, but I believe when that time of wrath comes We're going to be hiding behind Jesus. That wrath that's going to be so horrible, and that wrath that's going to be so unescapable, there's going to be a crowd, that crowd called the Redeemed. That people called the saved, they're going to be hiding behind their advocate, the Lord Jesus Christ, and we will be saved from wrath through him. You won't hide behind church then It won't matter what church you belong to at that point. It's not going to be important in heaven that you were a card-carrying member of Marinatha Baptist Church that'll burn up in the smoke of eternity. It's not going to be important, beloved, that you've done good deeds, that you've been a moral person, that you've been baptized, that you've been religious, that you've done all it's not going to matter. You know what's going to matter? Do you know him? Are you his i or is he your savior? And that living Lord, that living Lord is saving you from fear of future wrath. I hope you understand something this morning. It's not arrogance saying that we do not fear that coming wrath. It is not arrogance. It's an understanding of the reality of being in Christ. We're not boasting, oh, God help us, please. The Lord delivers from such a notion, but we're not boasting and saying, oh, look how good we are. We're all saying, look how good he is. Look how wonderful he is. I'm saved from wrath through him. It's all because of what he did. It doesn't have anything to do with what I am or who I am. It's all because of him. I'm saved through wrath through him. Because he lives, I have a living friend who advocates for me. He's there. As John said, he's he's we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And so standing between me and wrath is Jesus And you better believe this morning, my friend, that there's no wrath that can get through him, because it's already been poured out on him on the cross. So when we step into eternity, we're not stepping into an eternity fearing wrath, because we have a friend on yonder side. We have an advocate with the Father. Jesus is my refuge and hope. He's become my salvation. He's my deliverer. My strong tower. He's my living Savior. He stands, and my friend, it's his wounds that plead for me. It's his death and his burial and his resurrection. And the fact that he lives says I'm free from the fear of future wrath. Quickly, number two. I'm saved. Because he lives, I'm saved from present condemnation. The Bible says, for if when we were enemies, that's what we all were before we got saved, we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of His Son. So God reconciled me to Himself through the death of Jesus Christ. How do you reconcile a sinful past? You take it to a merciful Savior. How do you reconcile a wicked life? You bring it to God and confess and acknowledge your sinner and you're lost and hellbound and there's forgiveness found because Christ paid your sin debt in full. We're reconciled by his death. Now look what it says. Much more. Much more. Being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. What does that mean? That means that he is currently, how can I say this? Help me, Lord, keeping me reconciled. You know what the scripture says? If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. The reality is, if you'd just get real honest this morning, you would have to say, along with this preacher, and this preacher being first, we sinned after we got saved. What keeps me from being punished? What keeps me from being put in hell? What keeps me from get tasting the wrath of God? I'll tell you what, I have an intercessor. I have someone who's pleading my case and he's taking and reconciling me to God through his own blood. I like this. Romans 8 33, who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? I preach I could tell you a thing or two about old Andy. Ooh. I I if you'll just listen to me now. I'm not talking about old Andy. Not not Help me, Lord, to use the right words. The old Andy before he got saved. I'm talking about the Andy right now. I i i i i Lord, there's some things I could tell you about Andy. Isn't that what the devil's doing right now in heaven? Uh he's scumming. It's what he did with Job. He he come and said, You consider him? I mean this guy over here Well, I'll tell you what he'll do. I know him. You touch his body, he'll he'll he'll swear, he'll deny you, he'll turn. You know why? Because man, skin for skin. Aren't you glad the devil don't know everything? He don't know everything. He don't know what's in the heart of man. He knows what's in the heart of man, but he don't know the heart of every man. And so he accuses the brethren. What keeps me from having charges laid against me? Well, read on. The Bible says it is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? Tell you what, the devil's in the condemning business. Listen to what he says. It is Christ that died, yea, rather, much more, yea, rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us What's he doing? He's ongoing. That reconciliation's ongoing. So long as I live in this flesh, I'm battling a thing called the old nature and sin. The Bible says, if any man sin. That's what happens. We sin. Our attitude is I'm not going to sin. That ought to be the Christian attitude. But my the reality is I do sin, and when I do sin, I'm glad there is someone who's reconciling me to God again and again and again and again and answering listen my sin is answered for by the precious blood of Christ. Reconcile. And because he lives. Listen. We think some what's God doing right now? Is he sitting up in heaven doing nothing? Oh no. There's a holy scene unfolding up there There's a service in the heavenly sanctuary. Back in the Old Testament, when you sinned, you brought your sacrifice. You carried your lamb or whatever it was, and you went to the priest, and the priest said you put your hands on the head of that animal, and in doing so you transfer the sin you committed to it That's that little animal would be taken and and properly uh disposed, killed, the blood was applied, the altar uh was was lit, the fire was burnt, the blood was presented, and sin was forgiven. And the Bible says that was an earthly sanctuary, but there's a heavenly sanctuary. And there's no longer lambs being carried there. There was one lamb who was slain. And there was one blood that was shed, and it answers eternally for every one of us who are saved. So there's a reconciling because he lives. Because he lives, I do not fear present condemnation. He's interceding for me. I'll tell you what they'll do for you. That doesn't make you want to sin. That makes you want to get out of the sinning business. Number three, because he lives, I'm saved from eternal separation Eternal separation. Look what it says, and not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. You notice who we joy in? That's the delight of all who are saved. We joy in God. You know the difference in being lost and saved is your relationship with God. He's not a stranger. You know, if you're not saved, you don't know him. You're without God. You're without hope. You're dead. You don't have life. You're dead towards the i it it makes no sense to you. There's no connection. You're separated. You're separated. And if you die in that state, you'll be separated from God forever. But we joy in God. Through our notice, through our Lord Jesus Christ, because we know we have a living Savior, because He's alive, we know we've now received the atonement There's a lot to say about the atonement, and I don't have time, but just take it as it is, at one moment. I've been made one with him. Jesus said it like this. He said, I will that where I be, they may be also. He said, I want them with me. I want them to be with me. And because I want them to be with me, they delight in God. They take joy in God. And because of this great deliverance, this atonement that has taken place, my sin has been covered, my sin has been removed. Christ has paid the sacrifice, made the sacrifice, paid the price. Because of that now, He's my He's my go-between. He's the bridge. He's the one that brought me to God. And now I can joy in God because I know Him through the Lord Jesus Christ. And please get a hold of this. It's because of him I have hope. And I'll never be separated because he prayed and said, Where I am, there you may be also. You remember when you was little in school and they picked teams? I hated that time. The only sport I was good at was um kickball. I was a good kicker at kickball. I couldn't run. I could roll. You put me on a hill and turned my little fat body loose. And I could roll with the best of them. And I hated when they d do you remember did they do that in your school? Divide up and then you pick two captains and you said, all right, you pick teams. And they always pick the athletic athletic, you know, and they pick that and all this business And you're over there all, please don't let me be last, you know. And and they cut and and and when it's something maybe every once in a while I I know when we played kickball We played it down in my little elementary school that we went to, Elizabeth and I went to school together there. That little elementary school had a pig farm right behind it. And we played right at the edge of the barn. So you can imagine the smell. And uh the only thing those pigs were good for is when you had got in trouble and had to go beat out erasers for your teacher. Those pigs made wonderful beating blocks. They'd come stand and you could beat the chalk out on their bodies. That farmer would fuss and say, Who was down there today? Well, it was whoever got in trouble. And uh I'm telling you there were many pigs wore the initials J G from an eraser on an afternoon as they made their way around the barn. But listen to me, I'm trying to say something here. It made you feel good when you got picked. I want you on my team. I want you to play for me. I want you to be a part. Well tell you what, when you got saved, please hear me now. God of heaven said, I want you in my heaven. I want you to be with me. Where I am, that's where I want you to be. I don't understand all that the scripture says about being chosen and about election I sort of like the way D. L. Moody put it. He said, listen, he said, over the portals of heaven is a great big hooster ever will. And he said, when you get through the gates and you look back, you'll see elect, chosen. That's God's business, not mine. But I'm telling you that there's a God in heaven when He saves you and redeems you, He says, I want you to be with me. And because I want you to be with me, you're never going to be separated from me. You're never going to be separated, never in eternity, never in time. He said, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee And so because he lives, I am saved from eternal separation. Thank God he lives this morning. The old songwriter said, God sent his son, they called him Jesus. He came to love, heal, and forgive. He lived and died to buy my pardon. And an empty grave is there to prove my Savior lives. Because he lives, I can face tomorrow. Because he lives, all fear is gone. Because I know he holds the future. And life is worth the living just because he lives. Do you know he lives? Let me ask you this. Does he live in you? And do you live in him? Oh beloved, if you know the Lord Jesus, you owe him everything. He lives. And because he lives, I'm saved from the fear of future wrath. I'm saved from present condemnation. And I'm saved from eternal separation. All because He lives. That makes these old knees want to just quickly bow and say, Thank you, Lord. For having mercy on somebody like me. If you're listening to me or sitting in this auditorium and you're not saved, you can be because he lives. I'm not offering a bill of goods or some spiritual salesmanship. I'm telling you there is a Savior who's alive, who will come and save and forgive and cleanse and change and make you anew. He'll do for you what nobody else can do. I'm not talking about joining a church and becoming religious and signing cards and getting in baptismal pools. I'm talking about meeting God Almighty and knowing He's alive and Him coming to live inside of you. And I believe he's only a prayer way. For he's taught us in his word that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. And if you'll simply cry out to him for mercy, he's got an ear for that. He's listening. And those cries for mercy don't fall on deaf ears. Those cries for mercy fall on the ears of one who's merciful and good. And ready and willing to save whosoever will. Will you be one of those If you came to this service today lost, you don't have to leave that way. God in his mercy can save you. Will save you. Cry out to him, for it's eternally too late. Do you stand with me please? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed, penis