To the Gospel of John, John chapter number one, and verse number twenty nine If you were in Sunday school this morning, you heard this text read and mentioned And I know it's the text the Lord has put in my heart for today, and I was praying, I was saying, oh Lord, help him just to read it and go on. And so thankfully he didn't linger there, and it'd been all right if he had have. Because the word of God is good uh in uh whatever form we get it in. But uh John chapter 1 and verse number 29, I want you to see what the Bible says here, that the next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. I want you to ask the Lord to let this verse just sort of seep into your heart and speak to you as only the Bible can. I want to just say four simple things. I want us to look at the scene because God's always working in the present moment. And there's a scene that's unfolding here, and then I want us to look at the statement that is made. There's a very bold and plain statement here, and it's a statement you dare not miss. And then we have to look at sin, because the statement has to do with sin. And uh we've got to have an answer for that. And then I want you to look at the scope of this statement. Boy, it's a big, a big broad umbrella, and thank God for it, because every sinner can get under it. And so behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you for the holy privilege to bow our heads and pray. We thank you, Lord, for the blood that was shed to make us clean. We thank you for the opportunity that we have to be in your house. We ask, Lord, that you would speak to us now, settle our hearts, quiet our minds, let us hear from heaven. We've come with a hungry, needy heart, and God I'm glad that you can do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. And Lord, in these few moments hide us behind the cross and help us to rightly lift up The Lord Jesus, for it's in his mighty name we pray. And God's people said , Amen. I want you to notice with me first the scene. The Bible says in verse 28 that these things were done in Bethbarrah beyond Jordan where John was baptizing. Now the Bible draws the picture here, and this is really a beginning. It's the beginning of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. Up until this point, as we learned this morning, Jesus has been hidden. Not hidden in the sense that nobody could see him, but hidden in the sense that nobody knew who he really was. They were not clear about who Christ was. Even John the Baptist said he didn't know him. And I do agree with Dr. Hitchens. I believe He he knew exactly who he was in in his person, in his man, but he did not know him as the very Son of God, as that Messiah. And so there he is, and and this is the beginning. Aren't you glad that it's not the beginning of Jesus? It's the beginning of the ministry of Jesus. The Bible says in John chapter 1, verse 1, that in the beginning was the word. That just means he was there. He was there, he was already there, and I'm glad no matter where you go, he's already there Go back as far as you want to. Go back to the Garden of Eden. In fact, he tells us that all things were made by him. And there was not anything made that was not made by him. And if you go back beyond that, go back into, we talk about eternity past, but really it's it's just eternity back yonder. Uh it 's really hard to date. It's the dateless past. It's the dateless past. And go back into the dateless past, he's there. That's who Jesus Christ is. He always was, and he's always been. But yet here is a beginning Of his ministry. Here is a beginning of his work. And this is the beginning of the Lord Jesus as he starts his work on this earth. And then not only do I want you to see the beginning in the scene, but I want you to see the baptizing. It says that John was baptizing. We're told by another writer of the Gospels that multitudes come out to be baptized by John. That there were multitudes, there was a great mass of individuals who came to John Well, what was going on here, as we heard again this morning, uh, it was not the magnetism of John the Baptist. John the Baptist was not a um uh uh Ear, tickler, back scratcher, preacher. John the Baptist was the wild man out of the wilderness Uh he's the man wearing that uh leather girdle and and clothing camel's hair and eating locusts and wild honey. He's just a strange individual as far as that goes. And it wasn't the the magnetism of the personality. It was the message that John was proclaiming. John was saying, I'm a light, I'm not the light of the world, but I'm coming to tell you about the light of the world. I I'm not that w I'm not that that one, but I am the witness of that one. And he came baptizing. And again he was baptizing under repentance. It was a baptism of recognition that Messiah is coming. It was a Submission, if you will, to the truth. And get the scene here. God's working in Israel. For 400 years, heaven's been silent. For 400 years, when Malachi 's last words were pinned and the period was put to the Old Testament, God's not said another word. And for 400 years he's silent. And then at the conclusion of that 400 years There's a there's a a rustling it seems, there's a stirring, there's a opening of uh of a new day, and who is it? It's John the Baptist, and he's saying, I've got a word from heaven. There is one coming after me. Whose shoes I'm not worthy to latch. He said there is somebody coming and he's telling the message and he's giving the message. God is working. I want you to know something. God is always working in the present. The circumstances are the tools of God to bring us to Himself. God's working in your life right now. God's working in your life. He's working in your uh your your family, no doubt, he's working in your circumstances. You say, preacher, but what about this and what about that? Here's what I know. I know that God's working in the present moment and the scene of your life, if we were to put it in black and white and write it down, it would say this God's working, and he's working to bring you to see who Jesus is. The whole ministry of John the Baptist could be encapsulated in one statement by simply this He is here. Jesus is here. That was the whole purpose of John the Baptist. John the Baptist was saying, he's here. I just want you to know that he's here. You've heard that he's coming. You've heard that it's been prophesied. You've got all of the prophets testifying, and I'm here as that final prophet. And I'm declaring that he is here. He's coming after me. I don't know who he is yet, but I know he's here and he's coming. And when he comes, he's going to bring salvation. So John the Baptist set the scene for us. And as we sit here this morning, please examine the reality of what's going on in your life in light of the truth that God is trying to bring you to Himself. He's trying to bring you to understand who Jesus is. You might be sitting here saying, preacher, I'm saved and on my way to heaven, and I say, praise the Lord. You say, Preacher, I know my sins are forgiven. I've put my faith in Jesus Christ. That's wonderful. But that's only a beginning. That's the beginning of God bringing you to see truth, bringing you to know who Jesus really is. Jesus is such a magnitude of an individual that it's going to take all of eternity to find out who he is, and we still will be marvelously discovering all and what Jesus Christ truly is. Such a God is He, and such a Savior is He. And so we need not think in our lives that we've reached a place where we don't need to know Him better. Understand him more clearly, follow him more faithfully, and yield ourselves more completely to him. Because he's here, he's working. You say, But preacher, this circumstance I cannot understand You know, I imagine when Job entered his trial, he sure didn't know what was going on He couldn't figure out, why'd you take my kids? Why'd you take my my finances? Why did you take all of this? And he gets to the place That it's it's such a broken situation. Miss Job comes in and just says, curse God and die. And I don't find fault with her. Because you've got to remember she lost her babies too. She lost her wealth too. She lost everything Job lost except her health. But the man she loved watch she watched him lose his health too But what was going on here, you say, what in the world's happening in the scene of Job's life? I'll tell you what's happening. God is showing himself to Job. At the end of the book of Job, Job makes this statement. He said, I've heard thee with mine ear, but now I see you with my eyes. And I repent in dust and ashes. Lord, I I know who you are now. I know you a little better. And look, we're going to live on this earth just as long as God decrees. And the truth of the matter is, is that as we live on this earth We need to be understanding who Jesus is. That's what you're here for. That's why he left us here. That's what we're doing here. If we're saved by the grace of God, he's working in the scene of your life. Now, I want you to notice another thing about the statement. Look at this statement that John makes. John says, Behold the Lamb of God. Which taketh away the sin of the world. Now that I want you to see that behold. And if I can say it like this, it's John saying, get your eyes on him. See, up until this point, their eyes were on John because John's got an announcement that everybody needs to hear. He's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming. Now he's here, and John says, look at him. Look at him. Go down with me to verse 35. And look, he says this again. In verse 35, it says, again, the next day after John stood, this is after the baptism of Jesus. Again, the next day after John stood and two of his disciples, and looking upon Jesus as he walked He saith, Behold the Lamb of God. And look at verse 37. And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. Do you see what happened? They got their eyes on Jesus. They had been following John to this point because John was telling them he's coming. And John was the forerunner of the Lord Jesus. John's job was to point to Jesus and point to the Messiah and baptize him and recognize him and acknowledge this is him. Now when John gets to that point that he's here, he turns to his disciples who were following him and says, follow that one. Get your eyes off me, get your eyes on him. That's why he would later say, He must increase, and I must decrease Some of John's disciples came and said they're all following Jesus now. They're all going after him. And if you'll let me put it in my plain language, it would be like John just saying, yeah, that's what they're supposed to do. Behold the Lamb of God. Can I just say to you, dear people, this morning, get your eyes on Jesus Christ. Get your eyes on Jesus Christ. The only way you're going to make it as a Christian, the only way you'll ever become a Christian is to get your eyes on Jesus Christ. And the only way you're going to make it as a Christian is if you get your eyes on Him. Behold the Lamb of God. Look to the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't be surprised to find flaws and faults and failures in men. That's what we're full of. Don't be surprised that the culture is collapsing and morals are uh evaporating and people are are are are moving or evolving it in a deeper, darker way into sin. That's exactly what we've told is going to happen. All of that will flood your heart with nothing but fear and worry and discouragement and care. But when you get your eyes on Jesus, you get the help that you need as a Christian. He is the answer. He's our answer. Behold the Lamb of God. Then notice this biblical reference. He calls him a lamb. Behold the Lamb, the Lamb of God. And I believe this is an answer to what was uttered way back yonder in Genesis chapter 22, when Isaac said to Abraham, Where's the lamb? Where's the Lamb? And Abraham wisely prophetically said, maybe not knowing all that he said, but saying, God will provide himself a lamb. God is going to provide himself a lamb. And when John stood on the banks of Jordan River and looked over that great crowd of people, and suddenly God said, There he is, there's Messiah. There's Jesus, there's the light of the world. John 's words were in answer to Isaac's question, and he said, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Now these people were were very much aware that lambs had a purpose in that economy. Those lambs that were in fact there were no doubt there was at least two lambs that were Sacrificed on the day John said this. At least two. Maybe more. Likely more. There were at least two. That morning and evening sacrifice went on. And other sacrifices were brought. But you'll remember something, what it says back here in Hebrews, and when you go to Hebrews 9 with me and look at these two verses. Hebrews nine and uh I believe it's verse number twelve and thirteen. Hebrews chapter nine and verse number twelve says That neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place. Having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer sprinkled and unclean sanctify through the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ? Well don't you notice something here? This lamb, this lamb was God 's answer for man's sin. This lamb had come to do something no other land could do. See, sacrifices were being made, blood was being shed, the religious outward ceremony was going on. But John recognized there's somebody here different. He's not here to just carry on business as usual. By the way. I believe the reason a lot of people don't trust Christ is because they know deep in their heart he will not let business carry on as usual. When he comes, business gets disrupted. When he comes, everything changes. And that great multitude of people who stood around John and watch the baptism of Jesus recognize that he's come as a disruptor of the system that we have gotten so comfortable with. He's come to destroy it, actually. In fact, Paul wrote it so he said he he m he annulleth that first. He takes it away so that the second might be established. In other words, he fulfills that old that he might begin the new. In other words, he is the final sacrifice. He is that lamb whom God has sent for man's sin. Behold the Lamb of God. Please don't try to tell me Jesus is merely a moral teacher. He oh my the moral teachings of Jesus Christ would do us all well to live by, but he's so much more than that. Do not tell me he was here to be simply a miracle worker, though he worked many a blessed miracle. Oh, he was here to do more than that. Please do not try to tell me that the Lord Jesus is simply a good model to follow. Yes, he's a good model to follow, but he's here for more than that. He is the Lamb of God. And the Lamb of God would lay down his life for our sin, so that our sin could be put eternally away. Now that brings me to this matter of sin. Notice what he says. Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away The sin of the world. The sin of the world. Let's be honest here this morning. Our biggest problem is sin. I said our. I may be standing up here, but I'm not up here and no no. I said our. Our biggest s problem is sin. Our biggest problem. They say, well, we we need better education. I'm for education, but my biggest problem is not ignorance. It's willfulness. Sinfulness. My biggest problem is is not for an economical overhaul, though Would to God that would happen. But our our biggest problem is not for a better economy. Our biggest problem is sin And you can be educated, you can be wealthy, you can have the perfect environment in which you can grow in and develop in and still find out you're a sinner. You know why? Because the Bible says all have sinned. It comes short of the glory of God. There is none righteous, no, not one I didn't have to go to school to learn to sin. I didn't have to grow up to learn to sin. I was born with that sin nature in my heart. It's a it's a it's a an amazing thing to see sin even in a baby Sarah sent me a picture the other morning of little Jack and he's looking angelic He's smiling. I I've come to believe he's the prettiest baby on earth. I don't know why, but I'm pretty sure he is. I'll say handsome when he gets older. He's still little enough to be pretty But she said, look at this she called him a rascal. She said, look at this rascal. She said five minutes ago he wasn't like this Five minutes ago, she said he was terror. She said he's got a new diaper, he's got uh uh his belly full But she said all he wanted was for somebody to pick him up and hold him. She said, I thought he was dying. Scared her to death. She said, I really thought something was taking his little life, and I picked him up and he's got this beautiful smile like, I gotcha Now listen. In his veins flow fallen blood. He's got an adamic nature. Where'd he get it from? His daddy. I'm sure of that Where did his daddy get it from? His daddy. Do you know what I'm saying? The Bible says in Romans chapter 5 that death has entered by sin. Sin came by one man. And because that sin came through one man, Adam, through that one man, all have sinned. It's it's something we've all inherited. You can't escape it, you can't eradicate it, you can't deny it. I mean you can do all of those things, you can try to deny it and say it's not so, but at the end of the day, when you close your eyes with an honest heart You must have to say that I am a sinner. And my biggest problem in life is sin. But now here is a very blessed statement. Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away, do you see that? Taketh away the sin of the world. He takes it away. Now, up until this point, the lambs and the goats, the bulls, all the sacrifices, the blood, all of that, the Day of Atonement, simply covered sin. It was a covering. But there was going to come a day when that sin would have to be dealt with. You can put a band date on cancer, but it's not going to take the cancer away. You can cover it up. You can hope it disappears. You can say it's not there. But if that tumor is there and it's growing and eating those good cells and developing, it's doing damage and harm, and it will eventually be seen somewhere down the road. Covering it up may make you feel better, but it don't make you better. And man can say, well, we can cover our sin. With our our education, with our polished language, we can cover our sin with all the things that we want to cover it with, but unless sin gets taken away, there is no remedy. When Jesus Christ come to this earth, he came to take sin away. He said in Hebrews 10, 4 that it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sin. It's not possible. But verse 11 says, and every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. By the way, when Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, God made a covering for them. It was simply a covering. It covered them. And it covered them. And of course, again, as the sacrifices were made, those sacrifices just covered sin. But you'll notice verse 12 says, But this man, I'm reading Hebrews 10, this man, Jesus, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. What did he do? He took away sin. Verse 17 says, Their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin. In other words, it's finished. That's what Jesus said. He said it's finished. Sin has been taken away. How? By the blood of Jesus Christ. His blood has taken away sin forever. Not only does God forgive your sin, but he puts your sin behind his back and he never remembers it again. Preacher, that's too good to be true. Well, it's true because it's in the Bible. It's the truth of the Word of God. He takes away your sin. You say, preacher, but I remember it. Well God don't. God doesn't. Isn't that what he said? I'm I'm talking on the authority of the Word of God. You say, preacher, sometimes I feel the the tremble of it. I feel the consciousness of it. Yes. But that doesn't make any difference in heaven. He has our sins and iniquities, he remembers no more. This I I don't I can't get my my little head wrapped around this great big truth that the omniscient God who knows all things has chosen to forget some. Now I forget without choosing. Don't you? I mean, look, the big game I play every Sunday night is where do I put my keys? Until a dear sister helped me with that, and I got a tile now, so I just call my keys, you know. And they're ringing and going off, and I I hunt them down. Sometimes I got help. I'm like, where's that coming from? And I find them. I forget things. I don't want to forget them, but I do. But aren't you glad there's a God in heaven who knows all things, but He's chosen to forget the one thing that's my biggest problem? He chose to forget my sin. Their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. That's the power of this sacrifice that Jesus made for sinners. What lambs could not do, the Lord Jesus Christ clearly did. What the lambs could not accomplish. Now imagine in the background of Jesus being baptized, you can hear the lambs. You can hear the temple activities. In the background, there's the blood still being shed. There's the sacrifices still being made. But one day Jesus is going to die, and when he dies, he's going to give his life. He's going to sacrifice himself. He's going to shed his blood, and his blood's going to answer for my sin yonder in the glory world. And thank God because of that. That don't have to happen anymore, but it went on. You know, on the day Jesus died, the next day after he died, they kept shedding blood. They kept You know what that 's indicative of? Men still try to get around the cross to get to heaven. They still try to do things to get to God They still try to be religious. They still try to pray prayers. They still try to light candles. They still try to go through their rituals. They still live in the bondage. And church, it is a bondage when you are living under the the the the pressure of duty to get deliverance from sin. It is a bondage. The truth will set you free. Jesus Christ come to forgive my sin and cleanse my sin and take my sin eternally away. And beloved, you need to remember this morning your sins are gone. They're gone. They're underneath the blood of the cross of Calvary. As far removed as darkness is from dawn. In the sea of God's forgetfulness, that's good enough for me, the song says, Praise God, my sins are gone. They're gone. And on the authority of the Word of God, when John said, Behold the Lamb of God, he made a very bold statement, which taketh away the sin of the world. Someone said the cross of Calvary was the payment, the resurrection was the receipt. Jesus paid it on the cross when he shed his blood, but when he got up out of the grave he held the receipt for all to see. It's done. Transactions done. I'm saved by the blood of the crucified one. It's no longer an effort of man, it's the work of God. It's no longer requiring something from me. I have nothing to give but my sin But thank God he comes and he takes my sin away. Every saved person sitting here this morning, your record's as clear as can be. Isn't that amazing? I mean this church house full of scoundrels. John called them serpents. I ain't gonna be that bold this morning. I'll just call you scoundrels But this church house full of scoundrels, if you're saved, your record's clean. You can't dig up a charge that'll stick at the judgment seat of Christ. You can't dig up a an indictment that's going to be layer leveled against a child of God. It's clear It is clear. Either it's clear or the Bible's not true, and beloved, I'm going to side with the old book. Because the Bible is true. And I'm glad that God can take and wipe it all, wipe it all away. We're justified, the scripture says. What a declaration. See, God speaks in terms that we understand. And when he said we're justified, he wanted us to know that in the court of laws, which he's referencing here, that there are no charges to bring up. They're gone. Satisfied, clear, there's nothing that can be said. And years ago I foolishly was late for work and I was driving fast and I got a speeding ticket and had to go to court. And there came through a man in the court, and I don't know who he was or what his job was. You may know his proper title. But he walked down the line. I bet there were 400 people standing there. Somebody was busy that week. And I remember standing in line waiting my turn and he's walking, he's taking tickets, and he's saying something, he's writing something, he goes his way. I gave him my ticket and he looked at it and he said, whoa! Man, where are you going? I said, work. I said, I was gonna be late. He said, were you? I said, oh yeah, but I had good reason now So anyway, he looked at it. Mm-hmm. Alright, here's what I'm gonna do. He he wrote some numbers down. He said, when you go into that courtroom. He said, I want you to take this slip of paper. I want you to lay it on the bench. And when the judge says, How do you plead? I want you to say one thing, guilty. And he said, I said, I've never been here. I don't know what to do. He said, just listen to me, keep your mouth shut, go in there, say guilty. And when you say guilty, he'll see what I wrote, he'll make a declaration, and you go your way. Boy, I'm shaking in my boots. I'm twenty-one years old and I'm standing there before that judge and you know, I don't know why most judges, and maybe not all, but the ones I've had to appear before Um just look like they're ready to burn you alive. You know? This guy had a scowl on his face. I I bet he hadn't smiled in 300 years. I mean he was set in stone And I reached him the ticket, I handed it to her, laid it on the bench in front of him, he pulled it over, and he said very sternly, how do you plead? I said, guilty. Very good. And he smacked the gavel down and he said, cleared. Cleared Now, I had to do some things to make that cleared, okay? I had to make a donation to the police society or whatever it was. A donation. A force. I don't it can't be a donation when it's forced. I mean, I didn't have a lot of options. I had to do the donation and pay court costs and all of that. But it was cleared. It didn't go on my record. It didn't go against me. You get what I'm saying? When I stood before God as an eight-year-old boy, and the Holy Ghost said, You're a sinner, and I said, Yes, sir, I am, I'm guilty. The God of heaven said, Because of the blood of Jesus Christ, it's cleared It's clear. Your sins and iniquities I will remember no more. It's all taken away. Thank God for the good, happy day Jesus Christ paid the sin debt in full. What a statement. He taketh away the sin of the world. Let me wind up here. I want you to see the scope. Notice he said, of the world. Now that's big. That's big enough to include me. And big enough to include you John 3. 16 says that God so loved the world. We're talking about a mass of humanity, fallen humanity, sinners. like you and I. And listen, dear friend, uh this who are these? These are the whosoever wills. I believe it's D. L. Moody said uh he he didn't fret too much about election. He said the whosoever wills are the elected, the whosoever wants are not. So I'm going to preach to whosoever wills. Whosoever will may come. Whosoever is a thirst, let him drink of the water of life. Whosoever is hungry, let him take that bread. Hey, listen, dear friend, if you realize you're a lost sinner, that's not of your own doing. If you realize that you're headed to hell and need a savior, that's not something you've wrought. The Spirit of God's working. He's been working in the circumstances of your life. He's drawing you under himself, and he's showing you that Jesus Christ is the answer for your sin. Till you get that settled, there can be no peace. Till you get that settled, there'll be no contentment in your heart. Till you get it settled. I I wonder how many sit on our church pews week after week and they don't have it settled And it may be that they're saved, but they just don't know, or they have not rested in the finished work of Christ. They're still trying to do something. To be acceptable unto God. We are not acceptable by what we do, we're acceptable by what Jesus did. It's finished. I remember as a boy having to come to that place, Lord. I'm just going to trust you. I'm going to put my head on the promises of God and in the person of Jesus Christ. And like that old wise mountain preacher boldly said in my ear, he said, Just go to hell, trust in Christ. And I thought, You can't do that Not if what you've been telling me is true, and not if what the Bible says is true, a man can't go to hell trusting Jesus. Then it dawned on me. You can't go to hell trusting Jesus Christ. Oh, rest on Him, rest in Him. The scope is big and it's plain. It's for you and me that Jesus came to take our sin away. Don't get distracted in this life You can work hard and get all the toys and trinkets of life and still be as rotten and miserable as you currently are. You can do all the things and achieve recognition status and honor. And you can climb ladders and you can do all these things and still be empty on the inside. Because it's not those things, it's not the abundance of things that give you life. It's the person of Jesus Christ. And buddy, when he moves in, he gives life and that more abundantly. In Jesus' ministry, he approached a group of men and said , Who do men say that I am? Group of them there, there's a bunch of them standing there. Who they say I am? Well, some say you're John the Baptist, some say you're Elias. John's had his head taken off. He's in heaven. He's already gone. Some said you're Elijah, some say you're Jeremiah, some say you're that prophet. And they had all kinds of answers, but they were all wrong. And he singled out one man. You may feel like that this morning, and I don't know who you are, but I do know this, the Holy Ghost will single you out. I remember the morning I got saved, I felt like I was the only person in about 2,000 people sitting in that auditorium I felt like a preacher knew my address, knew every dirty thing I ever did, knew how wicked I was, and he preached just to me because I was the one, the only one that needed it. And you know what? I bet he didn't even know my little name. He probably didn't even know who I was or saw me on the radar. I'm just a a speck in the crowd. And I'll tell you I'm glad the Holy Ghost knew my name. And he knew my address. And you knew my need. And so Jesus singles him out and says, Hey Peter, what about you? Who do you say that I am? And Peter made a confession. Oh, it was a confession of faith. What was his confession? Thou art Christ. The Son of the Living God. Listen, and Jesus said, Blessed art thou. By the way, he didn't single Peter out as being any more blessed than anybody else who believes. But Peter at that moment was a blessed man because he knew exactly who Jesus Christ is. And if you're saved, you're a blessed man or a blessed woman if you know exactly who Jesus Christ is. And he said, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. The Father's revealed it to you. In other words, God's done something in your heart. My friend, has the Lord done something in your heart? Can you say, You're the Christ, you're my hope, you're my Savior. Yeah. We put a lot of emphasis on all of the bells and whistles around it Well, you know, preacher, I know I'm saved because I got on my knees to pray. Do you know you can get on your knees to pray and be lost? Martin Luther climbed stairs on his knees. Lost as a goose. You can crawl around this church on your knees till your knees are bloody and still be lost. But preacher, I cried so hard when I got saved. Hey, your emotions could have just got the better of you. I don't try to talk you out of nothing. I'm just trying to tell you the truth. We say I prayed a little prayer that I was told to pray, and look, it's not in the praying of prayers that gets a man in. You say, but I I uh preacher, I I I I've done this and I've done that, and we can add all the extras, all of the adornments to it. But at the end of the day, salvation doesn't come by all the things we add. Salvation is in the person of Jesus Christ. Have you put your trust in him? This is all my uh hope and stay on Christ the Solid Rock. He's it He said, are you trusting him this morning? I'm not trying to get you to join a church. I'm not trying to get you to get in the waters of baptism. I'm not trying to get you to do all these external things and things that are important as you grow in Christ. But I'm saying this morning, if you're not trusting in the Lord Jesus, you're trusting in something that'll let you down. Now you may think it's good. You may think it's good. You ever my son and I were working together yesterday and I climbed this ladder and he said, Dad, I don't know if that's gonna hold you And it wasn't my weight that was the problem. Okay, just don't go there. It was that rickety old ladder I was using. And he said, that thing's given a whole lot. And I, you know, to comfort myself, I said, well it is uh, you know, one of those those special lightweight ladders. It's supposed to give like that. But the more I stood on it, the more I thought, you know, I hope this thing will hold me You know, I have been on them and they give way. And when they give way, I don't care how grounded you think you are, oh yeah, I'm on a good ladder. If it gives way, you're going down. Gravity takes over and you know the rest of the story But I'm here to tell you, there's never been a sinner who's rested in Jesus Christ and been lost. Never a sinner has come to Christ and said, Save me, Lord, have mercy, Lord. And the Lord said, Nope, not you. He came to take away the sin of the world. The whole world. So I can look at every sinner in their God-given eye and say, Christ died for your sin. And he'll take your sin away if you'll come to him today. If you're not saved this morning, friend , no matter what you think about the situation, you need Jesus Christ. I think of the dear old man who's now in eternity. He was my neighbor for years. And that dear man was uh one of the first groups that landed. In Normandy on on the beach on D-Day. He was wounded very early on and left laying in the sand. And he said as he lay there, he thought for sure this was the end. And they began after a period of time collecting bodies. And he said they drug me and took me and put me on a makeshift pier and stacked dead bodies around me and over me. He said, I know what's going on. I I'm I'm wounded to the point that I can't express that at this point. But I know I'm alive, and they don't know I'm alive. They think I'm dead with the rest of these men And he said, just with all of the strength he could muster, when one of the soldiers walked by who was doing this gruesome task, he said, I was able to move my foot. And he said that soldier stopped and said, This one's alive. And they pulled him out and put him on a ship and sent him to the hospital. He lay there for six months. I was working on this man's lawnmower and we're knelt down. I'm knelt beside him there, and he's knelt over there. Justin the carburetor on this little old push mower. At this time, this dear old man's 104 years old. Still cutting his grass, by the way. I tried to blow his snow and he'd come out and run me off and say, look, what do you think I am? Old? I said, sir, you're a hundred plus years old. He said, it's good for you. Shoveling snow never killed anybody. Get out of here. So I did get him though. I'd mu I'd blow his snow at two o'clock in the morning when he wasn't up. But he we were working together and I said, I called him his name and I said, I'd sure like to see you in heaven. I said, you do know there is a place called hell. And he'd come. He'd come all summer. He wouldn't come in the winter, but he'd come all summer and sit in the gospel meetings on Sunday night. And he said, I've been thinking a lot about that, but let me tell you something. I've been to hell already I said, what do you mean? And he told me the story of what he endured laying on that beach. Being placed with those dead bodies and all that he endured during that horrific time. And I said to him, I said, Sir, listen. What you've been through, I can't imagine. I do not have the ability to comprehend it, and I'm so thankful for men like you. I'm grateful that you would be willing to do that as just a young man. That you would sacrifice, that you would give yourself, that you would be willing to die if need be for the cause of your country. But sir, as horrible as that was, and I can't I can't enter into an understanding that he had. No one can unless you were there. I said, I do know this, that's not hell. There is a place in eternity where no man escapes. You escaped. God spared your life. They got you on a ship and and I said, you remember, he said that ship was rough. He said it was just a plank that we were strapped on and away we went And he said, I've never felt pain like that. He said it got a little better when I got over into the hospital and they started caring for me, but he said even that wasn't a cakewalk I said, yeah, but it got better. I said, look at you. Here you are, 100 plus years old, and God's been good to you. I said, sir, I believe God's let you live this long to keep you out of hell. Because had you died at this point, before this point, you'd be in eternity without God. In a real place called hell. And I'm saying to you this morning, friend, I'm grateful for all the sacrifices of our soldiers and all of those that have laid down their lives for our freedom. We cannot thank them enough or honor them in a way that is really as significant as what they did. But there is a sacrifice greater and more significant because you can live in a free country and die and go to an eternal hell. But if you ever get saved, it don't matter what happens, you may you may live in a a place that that that for whatever reason gets overthrown, we may live under the rule of communism. We may live listen, it don't matter what you live under 'cause it's all temporary. You've got a home in heaven that is eternal. It is a place not made with hands. And my dear friend, it's all because you're saved, you're trusting in Jesus Christ. If you've never trusted him, do it without delay. And if you're saved today. Every day is a day to honor the sacrifice that saved you from sin. You can't honor him too much for what he's done. And you know the best way to honor him, listen to what he said. If you love me, keep my commandments. Just live obedient and do what pleases the Lord. Let's stand together, please. Brother Dow want you to come, sir, and