Brother Chris Shaw is going to come at this time and and give us an update, share whatever's on his heart. We appreciate these dear folks. As Brother Hitchens mentioned in the Sunday school. uh first Baptist missionaries in the country of Greenland and have been serving there over over two decades, I guess, now. So We appreciate them. Glad they stopped in to be with us today. And so you pray for them, hear them gladly, and look forward to hearing what the Lord's been doing there. Amen. Thank you, brother. Well every time we uh come back to the Marinath of Baptist Church it's like coming back home. Amen. Uh a lot of good uh memories here. Those that haven't been here for over twenty-five years, uh just to just let you know that actually my wife and I met here in the Bible college. And we got married here twenty-five years ago in this church. And we actually taught in the Christian school for a couple years before we started deputation and before uh We got to the mission field. Uh so a lot of good memories here. I have some high school uh teachers out of here, uh and um Dr. Hitchens, my college professor. Uh a lot of good memories. Appreciate you all, appreciate your prayers for uh for our family. It means so much. You don't you don't realize it, but but I'm just telling you, you it means so much. Uh when we were in Denmark uh last year, you know, away from Greenland, away from our home, away from America, in the middle of nowhere, going through uh Carol's uh treatment there, uh it was a lonely place, but getting your your messages, your emails And uh just knowing that you are praying for us, walking in the door, uh people that we don't know, they know us, you you know our names, amen. Um seeing Jimmy, uh somebody walked in, Jimmy said, Hey Chris, Carol, I pray for you. Uh, amen. You know, our son, our oldest son, he's not here today, Chris Jr. Uh he was at one of our supporting churches last year and uh they had no idea who he was Uh the Sunday school teacher said, Oh, I didn't I didn't know we supported a missionary to Greenland. Uh so it's so good to come home where everybody knows us and everybody cares about us, prays for us. But you uh continue to pray for Greenland, uh pray for that country they need the gospel, amen. And uh we've seen God do a lot of great things over the years, God do so many miracles. Uh we praise the Lord. Just recently, a 19-year-old uh native got saved. Uh so praise God for that. His life has been changed. Uh reads his Bible every day Uh we have Bible studies with him. But he moved away to go to school, so we were we were worried about that. We knew that you know he saved and it's in God's hands. uh but he has tuned in uh to every every online service every week and I send him questions, uh Bible questions uh several times a week and uh he answers those questions. He's reading his Bible. So we just we just praise God. There's another young man in another village who tunes in every week to the services Uh so that's two young natives and then I have my two young sons, so uh so it's four young people in our ministry. You know, that's uh if God would uh get a hold of their hearts, they give themselves to the Lord, wholly to the Lord Uh there's no no telling what God can do in Greenland through these people. Uh but we praise God. Um our boat ministry, just to give you an update there, uh appreciate Brother Wiker all those years uh helping us, uh giving us some information and help. Uh but Lord willing uh we're gonna have a boat uh uh sailing on the seas uh next summer. Uh uh several uh years ago there was a boat that I I really wanted. I thought it was the perfect boat. I researched it Uh we don't in Greenland it's already explained, but it's just we only have five thousand people in our village and there's no roads connecting the towns. So we really don't have like a um a boat yard where you can go and see all these boats for sale. Uh is just a guy who fixed motors and he might bring in one or two boats a year. And if you want to order one, you can order through him, but it might take three months to get it. So uh I wanted this Pacific boat and I contacted this guy in town and he said, Oh, I have one coming. It's gonna be here next week. So I thought, wow, this is gonna be another one of those miracle stories, you know? Well um he ended up selling it. I took too long and he sold it to someone else. Of course, you know, a lot of things happen in in our lives uh uh since then, so it was kinda Lord's I think it was Lord's working Uh but that same exact boat came up for sale and I uh I talked to the uh to the owner and uh it's the the boat is j you know it's brand new still. I mean it's very w very little wear and tear Uh but it's gonna be a lot cheaper, amen. Uh so uh but we gotta work out the details, but it's ours if we want it. And uh so you just keep praying for that ministry. We want to reach those villages with the gospel. We want to get back to some of those villages. One of those young men that tunes in to our services lives in one of those surrounding villages. So we want to get to there that village, spend time with him. Amen. Uh so just again, thank you all. Thank you, Pastor Grooms. Thank you, this thank you, Marinath the Baptist Church. Uh we appreciate uh your prayers, your support for so many years, and everything that God uh does in Greenland, you all have a part in that. Thank you. Brother Chris, would you take a moment to introduce yourself? Oh yes. Everybody for sake of folks that don't know. Please stand, please. Of course, my wife Carol. Appreciate her. You gotta have a good wife if you're gonna be in ministry. And then beside her is our youngest, Magdalena. Uh and then there's Amelia and then Jonathan, our dog Musher, and then Anna and our son-in-law Zach. So he's he's still growing on us, but uh nah. We appreciate him. Appreciate a godly young man Amen. Thank you. Amen. Brother Zach and his wife serve at River Valley Baptist Church in New Brunswick, where Pastor Andy Nisley is pastoring. So Uh appreciate these folks and it's always a blessing to to be surprised with their coming to be with us, amen And so if you have not greeted them, make sure you do before you leave this morning. I want you to open your Bibles, please, the Psalm 100. And then I want you to find your place in Colossians chapter 3. I'm going to read two places here this morning, Psalm 100 and Colossians chapter number 3. And I'll invite you to stand when you find those two places in the Word of God. I'm going to read just one verse in each place. In Psalm one hundred, I will read verse four. In Colossians three, we will read verse fifteen. So Psalm 100 in verse 4 says, Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. Look especially at that statement. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. Colossians chapter 3 and verse number 15 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Notice again that statement, and be ye thankful. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on the subject of being thankful unto Him. Being thankful unto him, let's pray. Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege that we have to bow before you. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity that we've had to read the Word of God. And we thank you, Lord, that we have that deep, settled assurance that everything we've read is absolutely true. For it is your word. And Lord, for these few minutes that we have together, would you help us, Lord, in a special way? Father, in mercy, hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus. Dear Lord, have your will and way in this service, for you know the need of every heart. I pray you'd be glorified among us, and may we see Jesus in him only. For it's in his powerful name we pray, and God's people said. Amen. I don't know if it's strange to you, but it sure seems strange to me That the receivers of so much good from God have to be told to be thankful. You think about what the psalmist said, and by the way, he says it many times. The psalmist says this, Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. Again and again the psalmist says it. He says it in Psalm 136, Psalm 118, Psalm 107. And it's repeated again and again. In fact, in Psalm 136, it's repeated multiple times. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. But you know the reality is we're often like David in Psalm 73. In Psalm 73 in verse 1, David said, Truly God is good to Israel. and to such as are of a clean heart, but as for me, doesn't he sound a little bit like Eeyore? But as for me, God's good to everybody. He's good to Israel. We know that. That's a established fact. God's good to Israel. And he's good to everybody that's got a clean heart. But David was condemned in his heart at that moment, and he said, But he's not good to me. He didn't say that, but he implied that. But as for me. Isn't it strange that we often think that God is good to everybody but us? In Matthew chapter 5 and verse 45, the Bible says, He maketh his Son to rise on the evil and on the good. And sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. You know what that is? God's just good to everyone. The goodness of God is a universal goodness. God don't exclude uh individuals or or or or put aside some and say, I'm going to be good to this bunch and not to that. God is really good to all. In Luke 6, 35, it says this, he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil. He's kind. You say, preacher, how in the world is he good and kind to the unthankful and evil? I'll tell you one of the ways he's good and kind is because they're not in hell at this moment. At this very moment they are not in hell. They ought to be, they should be, just as you and I should be. But aren't you glad that there is a merciful God? If you're not saved in drawing death, listen, God in his mercy is being good to you. God is good to the unthankful and evil. I'm glad the goodness of God knows no limits. It's immeasurable, knows no bounds. It's international. It knows no uh uh uh lines as far as countries are concerned. Uh I'm glad the goodness of God is uh is so So vast and it's it's immeasurable. You and I can't fathom just how good God is. But we live every day on it. And yet he says, be thankful unto him. By the way, it's a command, and if you read that in the manner in which it should be, it's literally saying, you be thankful. You be thankful. It's a personal command given to each one of us, and we're commanded. You say, well, preacher, help me understand that command. In Colossians chapter 3, we read it, Be you thankful. In other words, he's saying, you be thankful. Why does God command us to be thankful? Let me just give you a couple of thoughts here about that. Number one, it's contrary to our nature. You are not naturally thankful. You have to be taught that. I hope that when you raise, and I know you did, many of you did, when you raise your children, you raise them to say, hopefully please, and you raise them to say thank you. And if someone did something for them, what did you have to do when they were little? You would have to say, Now, say thank you. It's not natural. Now it's natural to be selfish. It's natural. Have you ever noticed all the uh sinful things are natural? That's because we're born with a fallen nature. And it's in our nature to do evil and to do wrong. But these graces, these good things, have to be taught. And so we teach our kids to be thankful because it's contrary to their nature. Our fallen nature despises even the God who's good. Our wicked old heart is in such a state that even the very hand of God that gives us food to eat and breath in our lungs and the heart beating in our chest, we often will not even say thank you for the goodness of God in that way. But I'm grateful he's good to the unthankful and evil. And if you ever get a glimpse of the goodness of God, the Bible says it's the goodness of God that will lead you to repentance. When you begin to understand that God's been good to me when I didn't deserve it, and God's been good to me when I was unworthy, God was good to me just because God is good. Oh, how it humbles the old hard heart and makes it come and say, Oh Lord, have mercy. It is commanded because it's contrary to nature. You know, I'm thankful for our young people. One of the many privileges I have as a pastor is if they go a far distance, I generally uh am elected to drive the bus or van, whichever to where we go and so we went up to Philadelphia, my most favorite, unfavorite place to be. And I drove up there And uh we went to uh uh Fort, Fort Mifflin, and then from there we went and had another event and and came back home on on Friday And I I was just encouraged because every young person that got off the van said to my wife and I, Thank you for driving, thank you for going, thank you. Unprompted, unsolicited, it was just simply They were somebody's teaching these kids right to be thankful. And you parents know that you have to say. Now look, you've got to be thankful. But it is contrary to our nature. Number two, at the the corruption within us. This is why God commands it God commands us to be thankful. Have you ever noticed that unthankfulness is a progressive sin? It opens the door. Go over here to Romans with me real quick. Romans chapter number one, and I want you to see something, and this really magnified the power of unthankfulness and the wickedness of it. But if you'll notice in uh Romans chapter number one Verse twenty-one says, Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were what? Thankful. But became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man. to birds and four footed beasts and creeping things. Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between themselves. Listen, church, where did that start? Being unthankful. Being unthankful. Unthankfulness is a progressive sin when the door is open, the corruption erodes or erupts out of that heart and flows out of that innermost being. I'm here to tell you, it's a serious thing to be unthankful. The corruption within. This is why God commands us to be thankful. I believe there's another reason I believe not only because it's contrary to our nature and because of the corruption within, but because of the concentration that it brings. James said it like this, every good and perfect gift comes from above. Where does it come from? The Father of lights. with whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. You know what? When I give thanks, I'm not giving , by the way, we're about to enter that thanksgiving season. And we're not thankful to Mother Nature. She don't exist. And we're not thankful to the universe. Because it's an inanimate object. But we are thankful to the God of heaven, who's the giver of all good gifts. And we direct our thanks in into the God of heaven. And it you know what it does when I'm thankful? It concentrates my focus on him, and I realize that he's the one who blesses me. You say, preacher, well I'm I I I work hard for a living. I'm self-made. There's no such critter. You say, but preacher, I pulled myself up by my bootstraps Well I'm going to tell you something. There's a God in heaven who give you bootstraps to pull. And he's the one that give you muscles and all of the rest. We owe everything to the Lord. It is the goodness of God and the concentration. Our eyes need to be on Him, and thankfulness helps us do that. Good reason God commanded us to be thankful. By the way, it's good for us when we follow his commands. So he commands us to be thankful. But let me just briefly touch on a few of these, the causes. And I really had to pare this down because there's multitudes of causes that you and I need to be thankful for. What's the reason to be thankful? Why should we be thankful? Can I say number one, Jesus Christ? Paul wrote these words in Second Corinthians chapter nine and verse number fifteen, Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift. And that unspeakable gift is the gift of his son, Jesus. Listen, John 3:16 says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. What a gift it was when God gave us Jesus. What a gift. We heard about John the Baptist announcing the arrival of the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. Oh, what a joy it was when the people on this earth heard that news that God had intervened in man's affairs. and provided a perfect Savior who could save anyone, anywhere, at any time, simply because he paid the sin debt in full for all mankind. What a Savior Jesus is. What a Savior Jesus is. And we give thanks. He's the reason we give thanks. You may be sitting here broke, sick, tired, depressed. ready to be done with this whole world. But if you know Jesus Christ, you've got a reason to be thankful. You've got a reason to praise him and aunt. Listen, God gave the very best when he gave Jesus for you and me. I don't know who we are, except the objects of divine love. I don't know why he would do such a thing, but he did it on the authority of the Word of God. He gave his only begotten Son. Oh, I love 1 John 4 and verse number 14. It says, the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. The best gift God ever gave was Jesus Christ. Wrapped him in those swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger outside of Bethlehem. And there that that little gift was God Almighty wrapped in the baby's body. There in that that manger would lay the very lamb of God, the Son of God. And on those hills of Judea would be bleeding the lambs. The lambs would be crying out that would be later taken and sacrificed in the temple. But Jesus Christ would not go to a temple to be sacrificed. He would go to a cross and bear the reproach of mankind and bear our sin. And even Paul said he became sinned who knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. It would be there Jesus Christ would die and suffer and be that Lamb and offer the sacrifice, not at the threat of a Roman spear. Not through the force of some powerful Roman soldiers who held sway over him, but by his own love and out of his own volition, he gave himself. He said, No man takes my life from me. I lay it down. And I'm glad the same Jesus who said I lay my life down had power to take it up again. And he took it up again. He rose on the third day. And he lives, church. He's alive and well. I'm glad our Savior 's not dead, laying in a grave, and we walk by and look through some glass tomb at what was. We come here and open our Bibles and lift our voices and bow our heads and pray to the God who is. He is alive and well. And I'm glad for that this morning. In church, we need that reminder The greatest gift God gave was Jesus Christ. What about the gift of conversion, your salvation? Would you look with me in Colossians? Perhaps you're there. Colossians chapter 1. Think about this. The Bible says in Colossians 1:12, giving thanks unto the Father. What has he done? Which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the kingdom of His dear Son, in whom we have redemption through His blood, even the forgiveness of sins. My what a work. What a work was done in your conversion. Folks, it's a big deal, if you'll let me just say it right plain. It's a big deal to be saved and on your way to heaven. It's the greatest thing in three worlds your soul ever experienced is to know that God has done it. And notice who the emphasis on him. Who have? What did he do? He he's the one who uh who made us partakers. Do you know what? There's gonna be no boasters in heaven. Nobody's going to put their thumbs in their spiritual suspenders and crow like little roosters and say, look how good we are Nobody's going to stand and boast, well, I'm a Baptist. Well, I do feel like B. R. Lacan when they said, Brother Lacon, what would you be if you weren't a Baptist? He said, ashamed of myself. Well, I I do feel that way, but here's what I'm gonna tell you. Being a Baptist is not gonna cut it. Here's here's the thing that we're gonna boast in and glory in And praise him for for all of eternity that Jesus Christ died for our sin. And that he made us meet. He made us prepared. He made us capable. He made us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints of life. He did that work. If you think for a moment You have a shred of effort in your salvation. You need to go back to the scriptures. You need to read your Bible and understand salvations of the Lord. You didn't contribute, you say, well, well, preacher, I I did this and I did that. Well, what you do and what I did is irrelevant compared to what Christ Jesus did And if I'm trusting in that, I'm trusting a false thing. I'm trusting a false salvation. We've made a God in this part of the world out of this thing called the sinner's prayer. We've made an idol out of that, church. We've got to be careful with this thing. We're dealing with souls. Eternal souls. And we say, well, now if you'll pray this prayer, like it's some sort of magic mantra. That if we just say these words, there's power in the words. You know. The power's not in the words. Now we do know the Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And the cry of a sinner's heart is heard by the mercies of God in heaven. And God saves that soul. And you're you you may pray listen, you you say, preacher, well th I can't and you may be like me, I couldn't remember what I prayed And a man pronounced me and said, Sir , you're lost then. If you can't remember what you prayed, you're lost. And I thought, how can that be? And I struggled with that for year after year until I realized the clear teaching of the Word of God. It is not in the words I prayed, it's in the God who heard me when I cried out. That thief on the cross said, Remember me, that's all he said. That publican down at the temple said, God be merciful to me, a sinner, as he beat his chest. Multitudes. Listen, the cry of a man's heart is important, but listen, it's not the words that he says, but it's the turning of that heart to God And the looking to God for that mercy. And when you cry to Him for that mercy, rest assured God gives it willfully. He gives it bountifully. He gives it joyfully. And He gives it because He promised He would. Your conversion and my conversion is a work of God. We ought to thank Him for it. He's delivered us from the power of darkness. Brother Hitchens talking about these trophies of grace and what they were and then what God made them. That's a testimony of the power of God's amazing grace. It's what God He delivers, you know. My dad couldn't lay the alcohol down until the Lord got a hold of him. Couldn't do it. He wanted to, I'm sure. He had a young family and struggling, and he knew he wasted money. And he's he he he full well knew my mother didn't like it, especially when he got his hide blocked outside every once in a while and had to sleep in a cold But the reality is he did not have the power to deliver himself. But Jesus did. He delivers from the power of darkness. He translates you out of the kingdom of darkness into that of his dear son. He changes not only uh your your eternal residence, but he changes that internal residence. You're no longer living under the king of the devil. Uh King Devil, you're no longer under that King of Darkness. You are under the King of Glory. He's now your head and your Father. Our conversion is the work of God, and we ought to thank Him for it. You know, I think sometimes we're so materialistic in our society that we major our thanks on things. We major our things. Well, I'm thankful I got this. And yes, thank God for all of the things that God grants us. But if we had nothing, we still can be thankful because we are converted. We're saved by the grace of God. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of ourselves. It is the gift of God. It's God's gift to you. You don't work for a gift. God gives it freely. Millions today are sitting in buildings going through religious motions And I'll tell you, they're not all outside of the Baptist church. Some of them sit on pews like this, and some may be sitting here this morning like this. And you know what you're doing? You're trying to work your way to heaven. You're trying to do enough. Whatever your religious stripe or flavor is. You're trying to fit in, you're trying to follow the crowd. You're trying to do the thing that is expected, required. uh uh b and believe by you and others that will get you in. Like Martin Luther of old who who climbed on his knees and prayed those prayers and hoped that somehow or another that he could get in You need to realize this morning that it is by faith we're saved through the grace of God. God's grace is what saves us. It's not my efforts. It's not my Church, it's not my religion, it's not the outward exercises of all these things. It is a glorious gift of God And it's available to you. Listen, you're sitting there, maybe lost or listening lost, and it's as available to you right now as if you lifted your hand up and said, Lord, please give me that gift. That's how free salvation is. When my pastor, who's now in heaven, got saved, he said he was he went to a tent meeting. The old Irish evangelist, uh Brother McBurney, had a tent in Asheville, North Carolina. And he was a prophecy preacher, and he was preaching on prophecy and talking about the Jews going back into the land and talking about how you needed to be saved because the Lord was coming soon. And he said as he walked up to the front he wanted to ask a question about his drawing. He had a drawing up on the platform. And he said, Brother McBurney just grabbed him at it, grabbed him by the shoulder. And said to him very quickly, son, are you saved? And he said, Oh no. He said, Well, son, what's keeping you from being saved? And Brother Ralph said, I didn't know what to say. And he said that old preacher began to preach the gospel to me and tell me that that salvation's a free gift. He said growing up he had in those mountains, you know, that have a Methodist meeting in this church house one day and a Presbyterian meeting the next and a Baptist the next and and he said he had heard so many different things he was all confused And he said he remembered Brother McBurney taking a little piece of chalk that he'd been drawing with, and he took that chalk and he said, Ralph, I want to give this to you. And he said, Okay, and he put out his hand, and he put that chalk in his hand He said, son, getting saved, just that easy. Just receiving. As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name It's just that easy. Why do we complicate what God's made simple? How many of you men have ever put something together and tried to follow instructions? Well let me ask it this way, that's only a few of you. How many of you tried to put something together without following instructions, alright? Because you got so aggravated about the instructions, you know. I don't know who they hired to write that stuff But whoever it is must be well more educated than the average bear. Because the reality is, I mean, it's why not just say take that piece there, put it here, and put the bolts in it and bolt it together I mean, you don't have to be convoluted to get the job done. Listen, beloved, the gospel of Jesus Christ is not a convoluted gospel. It's not a complicated message. It's not something God is trying to hold like a carrot on a stick and say, you're almost there, you're almost there. Oh no, he freely gives eternal life. Whosoever will may come. Listen, he describes it like this. If you're thirsty, there's a drink of water for you. If you're hungry, there's bread. If you're dead, there's life. If you're lost, there's salvation. You can't get no more simple than that, beloved. Thank God for conversion. I ought to give him thanks for that. These are causes of giving thanks. And then what about our conquering? Do you realize the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 15, 57? But thanks be unto God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Thanks be unto God for our victory. In 2 Corinthians 2, he says, I believe it's verse number 14, he always causeth us to triumph in Christ. Do you know you're a conqueror here and you'll be a conqueror there? 1 Corinthians 15 talks about the resurrection. It talks about our bodies. being laid in the grave. It talks about putting off this robe of of mortality and taking up immortality. And victory, the victory that we can encounter as we stand and get ready to face death. is the victory that comes through the Lord Jesus Christ. We are conquerors. I'm sure stood at a lot of fresh dub graves, especially in this part of the world. And boys, I've stood there, there have been some precious people who've gone on to heaven. And that last sight that we had of them was in that coffin, that little hope chest, as we lowered them down in the ground. I'll never forget standing in Spring Hill, Nova Scotia, beside a grave of a mother and a wife. Unexpectedly taken out of this world. And it was snowing and cold. I think it was like minus twenty-five, minus twenty-seven. You say, well that's Celsius. When it's that cold, it don't matter. Amen. Somewhere along there they meet up and it's just plain cold. But nevertheless, we stood there, and I watched those kids stand around and say goodbye, and husbands stand there, and then we lowered that casket down the ground. Now remember that dear brother saying, Everything I believed is more important to me right now than it's ever been. He said, What my eyes see and what my heart says are two different things. I see the end. She's just experienced the beginning. I see death, but we really know it's life. To be absent from the body, present with the Lord. I see the culmination of a life lived and a conclusion, but God tells me that if I believe on him, I'll never die. Oh dear friend, listen, we are more than conquerors. Thanks be unto God. Thanks be unto God. I'm telling you, dead religion won't give you victory at the graveyard. Dead religion will not give you victory when you're staring, looking death down the nose. Dead religion will not deliver you uh from from from death and from the hold of death, but thank God the Lord Jesus will. Because you know there's coming a day the Bible says the dead in Christ shall rise first, and then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we, dead in Christ, living, so shall we ever be with the Lord. That's a blessed hope. That's the reality of everyone who's saved. Now I'm going to tell you something. There's nothing in this world offers that except Jesus Christ. Buddha doesn't do it. Islam doesn't do it. No no one. Why? Because they can't. Only Jesus walked to the graveyard and conquered death hell in the grave. Only he stepped down into the chilly waters of death and emerged on the other side victorious. He's our conqueror, old church. How we ought to thank him. And not just in death, but thank God there's victory in this life. He causes us to triumph. The reality is, brother, sister, you're on that winning side, whether you realize it or not I don't follow sports, but I was listening this morning to the radio and just a minute and they were talking about who won the World Series, thank you. I forgot what they called it. And uh I guess there was some Toronto Blue Jays fans sadly disappointed. The old Blue Jay got his tail feathers plucked. And they were saying, well, it was a fair effort. They give them a run for their money, and they did, I guess. But they lost. But I'm glad in the Lord Jesus Christ I'm not a loser. I may look like it at times of this world, but he always calls me to trial. John the Baptist six months, whew, they took his head. Looked like he lost. He didn't lose nothing. He won. He's the conqueror. I mean listen, the believer is the only individual who in the uh estimate of the world can appear to have lost everything and yet still possess all things. Because of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, you they can take many things. In fact, they can take all things. Right down to your very life. But they can't take Jesus away from you or I. Thank God we're more than conquerors. Well, let me just close with this thought. It's our calling. It's our calling. Why be thankful? Be thankful unto Him. Do you know it's God's will? It's clearly God's will that you be thankful. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. It's God's will. You're concerned about the will of God. You're pursuing the will of God. Don't miss this. What God has clearly spelled out helps show the way further. And he's clearly said, in everything. Not, I'm glad he was kind to us, Brad. He just said he didn't say for, he said in. Because there's some things I can't be thankful for, but I can be thankful in. In the midst of that thing, I can say, Lord, I'm going to give you thanks anyhow. I'm going to thank you for that. But in everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God. It's clearly God's will. It needs to be chosen as a priority. And it starts in prayer. In 1 Timothy 2 1, he says, I exhort first of all that supplication, prayers, and giving of thanks be made for all men. By the way, what starts in private will be seen in public. It's sort of like the iceberg, you know, they tell me, and you guys are probably experts on this. But uh iceberg, the part you see is very, very minimal compared to what you don't see. There's a whole lot more to it. And our pri our public Showing of giving thanks is just a mere sh uh a little bit of the private thing that's already been going on in prayer. That's what worries me when people gossip and complain and murmur and criticize. Because if they're doing that in public , there's a whole lot you ain't seeing. What's going unseen probably scare you to death. The reality is, beloved, listen, we choose this thing of giving thanks. Thanksgiving is not a feeling, it it is not something an emotion, but the giving of thanks. Is a priority that we choose because we've been convinced that God is worthy and deserves our things. And do you know the Bible says in Hebrews 13, 15 it ought to be continual? We ought to offer the sacrifice of our lips, giving thanks unto God continually. It's what our mouths are made for. You say, Preacher, I thought mine was made for eating potatoes and beans. It's made to give thanks to God. It's what he made it for. Continually. I want to ask you something. When's the last time you purposefully, publicly gave thanks to God? I mean just did it on purpose. Now you won't do this accidentally. It it won't slip up on you. Just because it's November and Thanksgiving's coming, it's not going to suddenly ooze into your skin like some sort of Process. The reality is that if you're thankful, you're doing it on purpose. You know why you're thankful, to whom you're thankful, and for what you're thankful. Being thankful unto him. The more blessed we are, the more cautious we have to be About deliberately giving God thanks. He warned the children of Israel, when you go to a land and you start living in houses you didn't build, And you drink water from wells you didn't dig, and you eat fruit from vineyards you didn't plant, beware, lest you forget God. Often in the bounty, we forget the blesser. In our plenty, we forget the goodness of God that has put us in that place. Being thankful is on purpose. The church, if we need a revival of anything, we need a revival of thankfulness in our hearts. A revival of using our mouths for what God made them for, to praise Him To thank him. To give him glory. By the way, if your mouth's full of that, you don't have time for it to be full of anything else. My dear friend, if you're here today and you're not saved, can I urge you today to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved? Can I urge you to come to Him? He's the only one who can save you. Marinatha Baptist Church can't save you. The waters of baptism can't save you. Your religion, whatever it may be, cannot save you. Only Jesus Christ can. And he will if you'll come to him and trust him. If you're here today not right with the Lord, I promise you this you're not thankful. Not like you should be. That prodigal son took everything the father gave him and just ran with it and never said thank you. Why? Because his heart wasn't in a place where he could be thankful. And if you're in that position this morning, I've got good news for you. There's a father standing on the horizon, and he's looking. He's looking for you. He's saying, Hey, I hope my son comes home. He's looking for that daughter. He's looking for that individual. Listen, he wants you to be right with him more than you could ever imagine. More than you want to be right with him. He wants you to be right. And boy, when that young man came home, he found mercy. And I'm glad there's a God in heaven who will show us mercy. If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just. And he's just because Calvary. To forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And my dear brother, sister, maybe the God of heavens knocked on your heart's door and said, Hey , need to be thankful. You need to be thankful. You know, I've often wondered, what if God let me have everything I thanked Him for? What would I have left? I mean, everything I purposely said, Lord, thank you for this. May God stir us. Hey, just because we live in a world that demands give me, give me, give me, we need to be a different people. Say God thank you for every good thing you've given me. I want to praise you and thank you and be thankful. Someone said this. Stand with me, please. Come with the invitation. Somebody said this. You're never more like Christ. Until you're being thankful. How many times did Jesus bow his head and say, Father, I thank thee? Multiple times When's the last time you said God just thank you? I'm praying the Lord will grow gratitude in our hearts a whole lot deeper and stronger than it's ever been in these days. Our heads are bowed.