Please do not take your hymn book for granted. It is a rich, rich treasure trove of good doctrine. set to music. And I'm thankful that we can sing these hymns together as a church. And I appreciate our runners taking care of the microphones. And I couldn't tell how fast you were running, but you did pretty good because there was no lag time. And that I like that, no lag time. So thank you and thank you, Brother Dow, for for leading that and for our pianists. I don't know how many songs that we did tonight. We kept count, numbered them, but uh appreciate each one that that took part in that. Before I announce the scripture, let me uh let our ladies know that a baby shower will be held here for Aaron Grubb on Friday. November the 17th. And that'll be at 6 o'clock in the Fellowship Hall. So that's a baby shower for Aaron Grubb. Friday, November the 17th at 6 o'clock in the Fellowship Hall. And I wanted to get that said so that I would not forget it. So uh please mark that down, ladies, if you could. And then also we'll have a deacons meeting this Wednesday night at 6 o'clock. So all of our deacons, if you could plan to be here, I'd appreciate that. Let's open our Bibles now to 2 Corinthians chapter number 6. Second Corinthians chapter number six, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number fourteen. 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse number 14, and I'll invite you to stand with me as I read God's Word. The Bible says in Second Corinthians chapter number six and verse number fourteen Be ye not Unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? And what concord hath Christ with Belial? For what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God, as God hath said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore, come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord. And touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. And will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. I want to preach tonight, the Lord helping me on this thought, biblical truth. For deciding questionable things. Biblical truth for deciding questionable things Brother Charlie, I'm going to ask you if you'd lead in prayer, and when he's finished praying, you can be seated and we'll study this passage together. Thank you, sir. In other words, we take some time just on the bring from your pressure for God just glean from what you have. And God just ask you would open each and every heart and ear, Lord, that we'd be receptive to thy precious Holy Spirit. Function from on high will be the angel preach to teach your word of truth to our father. Give them the message in our hearts. Amen. You can be seated. This is probably a very well-known part of your Bible, if you've been in church any length of time. And I want you to notice tonight that there are several principles that are in these verses that will tell us how to make decisions about things that are questionable. The Bible would teach you, if you study the Bible, you'll find out that the Bible will tell us that we as Christians Are to be distinctive and distinctively different. The Lord teaches us that He brought us out of the world. That we are not a part of the world, and he's made us different from the world on purpose. We're to be distinctively different. You think about what it means to be a Christian, and some of you are old enough to remember the day. That when someone said, I am a Christian, you automatically had expectations of them that were much higher than anybody else. If somebody said, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ, you expected them to be honest. If somebody said, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ, you expected them to be somebody that was trustworthy. One thing you knew for sure if they were a Christian and they said, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ, you knew that they uh certainly wouldn't tell uh dirty jokes or they wouldn't listen to to things like that. That they were going to be different. But unfortunately, we now live in a world Where we no longer expect Christians to be different We know the Bible teaches us we should be. We know the Bible tells us very clearly that if any man's in Christ, he's a new creature. We know that the Lord Jesus lays certain claims on our lives. He lays claims to not just our soul, but he lays claims to the entire being of our person. And because he does that, we know that we're supposed to be a unique people. Vance Abner in his day, and my I can only imagine what he would say now. But Vance Abner in his day said you could put a Christian and a lost man in a paper bag and shake them up and dump them out, and you could not pick them apart. Because we've lost our distinctiveness. We've lost our distinction. Now, we may have lost our distinction, but God still has determined that you and I be different. You say, preacher, why should I be different? What what is it that that makes it possible and what is it that that makes it so important that I be different. Well let me say just by way of introduction several things. Number one, because of the nature of him who lives in me. Jesus was different than anybody who ever lived on this earth. And when the Lord Jesus lived on this earth and he walked and moved among men, he stood out. By the way, he didn't stand out because of the clothes he wore. He did not stand out because of the appearance of his person. Do you know that when they came to arrest him He was so much like the common man that they had to pick him out of that bunch of fishermen. Judas had to say that one. Because he looked like the rest of them He really was not distinctive in that way. But oh listen, our Bible tells us that when he spoke his words were different. He spoke as one having authority. When our Lord spoke, he didn't speak like any other man had ever spoken, and especially like the religious crowd, because The Bible says he spoke as one having authority. And so he was different. And it stands to reason that those who know him should be different based simply on the fact that we possess the nature of him who has saved us by his wonderful grace. I would say quickly, number two, we ought to be different because of the Bible we carry in our hands. We ought to be different because we have a Bible that tells us how to be different. Do you realize if you just read your Bible in a casual way, you will be convinced rather quickly that God expects you to be different than people who do not know the Lord? In Ephesians chapter number four, he goes through a long catalogue of things that we should not do, in putting off our old man and putting on the new man. He tells us where to put away anger and wrath and clamor and malice and all of those things. And he says, let him that stole steal no more. But rather let him labor working with his hands. See, the Lord Jesus in his word has given us so many instructions on how to be different people. You read your Bible. By the way, how many of you know God intended for us to live what's written in His Word? It's God's intention. God 's given us clear instructions in His Word on how to live. I love verse number 32, Ephesians chapter 4, and verse number 32. And the Bible says, And be ye kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. That's different That's different from what the world says. The world says, do unto others before they do unto you. Isn't that what the world says? But my Bible says we're to be kind and tender-hearted and forgiving one. I'm just saying tonight that we have a Bible that we carry in our hands That tells us we are to be different. I think we need to recover this distinctiveness in our day. As the people of God, we need to remember to whom we belong and what we've been taught in the precious Word of God. The Bible clearly lays out for us these reasons as to why we should be different. And by the way, I believe we ought to be different because of the grace of God in our lives. When Paul wrote to Titus, he reminded him that the grace of God that bringeth salvation Hath appeared unto all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, that we should live soberly and righteously and godly in this present evil world. We live in a world that says grace makes everything okay. Do you know that's a lie? Oh grace, I listen, we're I was talking to someone recently, we were talking about a particular activity and I said to the individual, you know, the Bible condemns that. And their answer was , Oh, we're under grace. We're under grace. Can I say to you that grace is not a green light to do what you want to do? If that were the case tonight, then then my friend, what what point do we have to study the Word of God and what reason do we have to gather here As the people of God to learn and be instructed, if if grace just says, go live like you want to live, that's not grace. We're told in the Bible that in the last days that the grace of God will be turned into lasciviousness. Do you know what that word lasciviousness means? That word literally means without boundaries or definable borders. In other words, grace will just come to mean. Basically, do as you please, and God will forgive. Now I'm glad to report to you that the blood of Jesus Christ puts away all sin. And my friend, listen, the blood of Christ can cleanse all sin and any sin and every sin. But at the same time, the Bible teaches us, well, what did John say? 1 John chapter number 2. And I believe it's verse number 1. My little children, these things. Write I unto you that you sin not. I'm writing that you sin not. I'm writing so that you'll know That the attitude of your heart and the allegiance of your person is, I'm not going to sin. But if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And he's the propitiation for our sins and not for our sins only, but for the sins of the whole world. I'm glad there is a remedy for sin, and his name is Jesus Christ. And understand tonight, my friend, that there is an answer for sin, but God has given us clear Instructions by grace, through the grace of God, that we are to be a different people. Let me give you these four things real quick tonight. Number one As you decide. Now, uh some people like to do this and and maybe you're like that, but I want you to understand it doesn't help you to grow spiritually. Some would say, well just tell me if it's wrong, you know. I've met some young Christians and they uh they want to just follow another Christian around and say, Is this wrong? Is this wrong? Is this wrong? You know the problem with that is sometimes people are wrong about what's wrong. Sometimes somebody will give you permission to do something if you're looking to them and it's not right. But you don't need another Christian that leads you by the hand and say to you, now don't you do this, and don't you do that, and you need to do this. You don't need that. You know what you need? You need to pay attention to the principles of the Bible and the person of the Holy Ghost who lives inside of you. Now, the Spirit of God will show you through the Word of God what God expects of you. Now I know sometimes it's easier, trust me. Please trust me on this one. I know it'd be easier to stand up here and say, now, church, I'm going to take the next 15 or 20 minutes and I'm going to give you a list of everything that's right and wrong. It's a whole lot easier. But I'm afraid it wouldn't help us. You know why? Because it would make you dependent on men rather than being dependent on the Lord. But God's given you some principles and Bible truth that lays out clearly for us so that we will know: hey, this is not right. So, number one, if you're making notes, consider this command. Consider this command. Look what the Bible says here In verse number 14, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Do you realize that would answer probably half of our questions? This thing of being yoked, what does it mean? It it means to be joined together in an intimate way In the Old Testament, you have a physical demonstration of the spiritual truth. The Bible forbids you to plow with an ox and an ass. Couldn't do it. You don't put an oxen and a donkey in a yoke together and plow with them. You say, why? They don't get along? Well, they likely wouldn't. They have a different pace. They have a different nature. You know, an ox is just slow, but they're steady. And they don't get in a hurry that they can get a lot done. My grandfather used to log with two big red ox. And uh those things, I mean, they were better trained than a lot of children. Because all he had to do was point or say a particular word, and that pair would work together, they'd turn. They'd back up to the log, they'd take off, they knew right where to go, he'd tell 'em where to stop. They'd stop, come around, come back. You you had never had to do anything physical with them. And it's a good thing 'cause you're talking about twelve, fifteen hundred pound animals. A piece. But the Bible says you don't take the donkey and put him in the yoke with an oxen. Now the donkey's got a different nature. It's stubborn by nature. It often works at a much fast and frantic pace, and it does what it wants to, no matter what you do to it. And God said, don't put them together. Now he didn't do that just simply because he cared about the the connection between the donkey and the and the oxen. But he did that to teach us that, my friend, if you're going to get in the yoke, you better have the same nature. So let me just be plain and say this no saved person should marry a lost person. That's unequally yoked. If you want to have trouble in your life, and maybe there's some young people at you think about this, if you want to have trouble in your life You just marry someone who's not saved. You say, but oh preacher, I'll win them. You know what? They'll win you before you win them. It's unequally yoked. You got two different natures. You can't put two natures together and expect them to labor in harmony and intimacy. They're different. I believe very clearly that we could apply this to work, we could or or or a business. I don't believe a lost man and a saved man can go in business together and come out good on the other end. Because you're just going to have trouble. I mean, he may be a good man, he may be an honest man, he may be moral and upright, but he's not a saved man. And a saved man has a different set of values than a lost man A saved man has a different nature and a different notion, and he's going in a different direction than a lost man's going to go. And so listen, the best way to avoid problems is just don't get unequally yoked. Make sure in matters of close connection and intimacy that there's equality in the yoke. That there's agreement around the person of Jesus Christ. So, number one, consider the command. Number two, we ought to be concerned with our connections. I believe we all understand this, that no one's an island. There's an individual, uh Ben and I have talked about him, he built a cabin uh up in Alaska. And he lived up there for I don't know how many decades. And uh in if you just look on the surface, you think, man, what a hermit. He's way up there He lives on this lake. He has no connections with anybody. And I ordered a couple of the diaries that he kept. Now he kept meticulous notes. the entire time that he lived there. He was in his mid-fifties when he uh when he left civilization and went out into the wilderness and cut down these uh trees and prepared his logs and built his house and started to live there off of the land and And as I started to read his journal, I was kind of disappointed because I realized he was not as cut off from people as I thought he was. He did not live simply. In fact, he loved people. And he loved to have conversations with people. And hikers and hunters. And one man in particular who was a pilot happened to be a Christian. And he he had a a it was, I think it was called the Christian uh Canadian Mission. It was a Sunday school mission. And uh he ran that in a village, and he would fly in weekly, sometimes bi-weekly, and visit with this man. And I thought, you know what? Here's a man who's living in the middle of nowhere, and he's still involved in other people's lives. Here's what I'm trying to say. Nobody's an island. Now you lie you may like to fancy that you are or think that you are, but the reality is we've all got connections of some sort And we need to guard those connections and concern, be concerned about them, because your connections can lead to corruption. Who you're connected to can corrupt you. He says it in five ways. Look what he says. He asks five questions. What fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? What what common ground? What's your common ground? You say, preacher, how do I know if a correct cor uh connection will lead to corruption? What's your common ground? What's your common ground? Is it Christ? Is it truth Is it righteousness? Because notice that you can't have righteousness and unrighteousness connected together. They can't have fellowship. They're at the opposite ends. They are not the same. Number two, he asks the question: what communion? Hath light with darkness. One dispels the other. And that word communion means a joint participation. Hey, when the sun rises, darkness flees. When darkness comes, the light is out. And what he's saying here is that you need to stop and understand that as a believer, there's no joint participation. By the way If if a believer has communion with an unbeliever, you know what's happening? The believer has to be corrupted to have fellowship with an unbeliever. Think about that. I'm not talking about isolating yourself from a world. How in the world can we reach anybody if we never communicate with the with with people who do not know the Lord? But what I'm trying to say is that We need to be careful about our joint participations with those communions that we have with other individuals because listen, if we're not careful, they can lead to our spiritual corruption. Sad thing is, the church has got so much like a world she doesn't have no power over anymore. The church is not a whole lot different than the world, sadly. And that's not the Lord's fault. So, what communion has light with darkness? By the way, I'll just throw this in here for what's worth. One of the reasons that I do not celebrate the evil holiday of Halloween, and one of the reasons we don't trunk or treat or do things of that nature during this time of year. is because what communion hath light with darkness. Why in the world, why in the world would I mean what what what joint participation can be had? Why why are we going to capitulate to the pressure? Oh, I know, I know it's fun. Listen, if if if If your kids need candy that bad, just go buy a whole buggy or a grocery cart full and and take it home and hide it in places all over the house and let them go find it. I'm talking about some very serious things here, but notice this, that these are, we ought to be concerned about our connections. We ought to ask ourselves, is this portraying the Lord Jesus as who he is? Then notice this. He asks the next question. I believe question number three: what concord hath Christ with Belial? Now that word concord means to agree to terms. Do you realize if you take Jesus Christ and Bilao talking about the devil, there's no agreement of terms. They're in opposition one to another. And by the way, if you come to an agreement of terms with the side of Bilal, you have to compromise. Because the devil don't. You have to say, Well I'll agree to your terms. Now folks, I I'm not understand I'm not preaching uh spiritual arrogance, but I am saying we need to get back to old-fashioned reality that we ought to be concerned about our connections And these agreement of terms that we're making with the world, we need to stop giving in, giving over, and giving up and go forward and bring glory to our God who saved us. Notice this. Next question. Question four. What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? That word part means to share an objective. What objective do you share with an infidel? What part, what what's the agreement that or the the objective, the the aim or the goal that you and I could share with an infidel, an infidel now, not just an unbeliever, but an infidel And I believe he's maybe not exaggerating, but he's magnifying these two ends so that you and I will understand that look, we have no part. There's no shared objective. The infidel is bent on rebellion. And the believer should be bent on obedience. The infidel is looking for a way around the truth, and the believer should be walking in the way of truth. And so there's, do you realize what he's saying here? He's saying our connections need to be so clearly formed around the truth of God's word, upon the person of Jesus Christ. And then this last question, look what he says here. What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? Or this one. This one ought to make us really ponder what we're doing today. Why in the world are we making our churches like houses of idolatry? To reach a world that is steeped in it. What agreement? And by the way, that word agreement means to approve of terms. And it's more strong than that concord because it means that you put your stamp of approval on it and say, it's okay, we agree. Well, my friend, listen, this world, you and I can't agree with the mindset or the system or the values or the thinking of a world that is godless in nature. And to try to Christianize ungodliness is nothing more than a sham idolatry. and a prompt up infidelity to the Word of God and to the Lord Jesus who washed us from our sin and bought us with his precious blood. We cannot, listen, we cannot. We ought to be concerned about our connections. A local church must be a place where we do not bring the values of the world into the places or the place rather of worshiping God. We don't worship on their terms, we worship on His terms. And by the way, the w the this this thing of of uh traditional and and uh uh uh the new worship, can't even think of the name of it, but Contemporary worship and all of that, that would be solved if we understood worship. Because worship is about giving God The worthship that he's worthy of. It's recognizing what he desires What pleases him? Well, I I particularly someone said to me, I I I don't like that traditional way. And I said, can you tell me what it is about it that you do not like? And they went on to enumerate some things. And and as I listened to them, here's what I heard. You know, it just doesn't appeal to my tastes. I've got news for you, my friend. The tastes that we ought to be interested in tonight are not the tastes of carnal men and women and unconverted souls. The taste that we ought to be concerned about is what pleases him. And if I'm pleasing him, that's what's important. So what agreement? What agreement hath the temple of God with us? Now quickly, let me give you these last two. Number three, notice the claims of Christ. I'm talking about biblical truth for deciding questionable things. Number one, consider the command. Number two, be concerned about your connections. Number three, know the claims of Christ. What are they? Well, look what he says: ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Do you see his claims? He's made very clear claims upon you and I. We are his temple. Now, friend, understand this that God's made some divine distinctions about you and me, whether we accept them or not. He said, You're my temple. I live in you. You are my people. How many of you know names can be much set by? A name? A last name? My father was very proud of our last name. And I can remember, if I've heard it once, I've heard it a million times growing up. Remember, son, you reflect on our name. What you do is going to bear a mark on our name. It's going to make people think certain ways about that name. That name, that name, that name needs to be something that stands for something good, not something evil. I believe he came to that conclusion because being saved out of such a very lost and broken situation. Where that name stood for things that you couldn't be proud of. And that name stood for things that wasn't recognizable as important or recognized as pure, clean, right. He determined by the grace of God, because of salvation, that that name would mean something. And I'm just trying to tell you that you bear a name that is greater than your last name. It's greater than the heritage you might carry, and you may carry a good heritage, but this is a name that is greater than any of names or any heritage. It's the name of a Christian. It's the name of Jesus Christ It's the name of the Lord of glory. He said, You're my people. You're in my family now. You belong to me. And when you go out into this world, you carry that name. You carry that name. These are the claims of Christ. He says, you're carrying my name. Carry it well. Most people examine us as believers to see if we really believe what we say we believe. And these claims go deep. These claims are very real. He said, I you are my people. You are my temple. Number four, I want you to notice not only to consider the command to be concerned with the connections, And take into consideration the claims of Christ, but look at this very clear promise. And here's the positive side of this thing that sometimes can be negative It is the positive side here. Look at the promise, verse 17. Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. And touch not the unclean thing. And here's the here's the promise. I will receive you. I'm going to bring you into me. I'm going to take you in. I'm going to make you intimately a part of me. Now the negative side of that has come out. Touch not, separate. But the positive is this, I will receive you, verse 18, and will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. You see the clear promise? It's the promise of intimacy. The Lord said, I'll come near you. There'll be closeness. By the way, closeness always requires cleanness. I think a lot of times we miss out on getting close to God because there's things in our lives that prevent it. Yeah, things that keep him out. Things that keep him away. I believe a church, a church can be a place. Where there's no closeness to the Lord because there's no cleanness in the heart. If our hearts are dirty by sin, if we're hearts are dirty by the world, you you know I I don't know how we can be prepared for the Lord's day by continually saturating our minds with the filth of this world. Now now you think about our habits. Do you prepare at all for the Lord's Day? Do you ever stop and say, now I need to get my heart ready? Or do we fill our mind listen, you can't set up watching the late, late, late, late show and then get to church half worn out and not right with God and say, now Lord, I need to get something out of the service tonight. Lord, I want you to show me something. You can't do that. Because the things of this world are at enmity with the Lord. And we can fill our minds with things that will make it utterly impossible to know something of the nearness of the Lord. Hey, how long would your relationship last in your home? Talking about husband and wife now. If one of the other of you was unfaithful. How long would that wife, or how long would that husband tolerate infidelity and unfaithfulness and say, you know, it's okay, uh, you know, I know I know that's your friend or whatever. And listen, we're living in such a sick society that even that's becoming acceptable in some circles, never in God's Word. But in some circles that's acceptable. But I've got news for you, my friend. God don't take it lightly when we two time on him. He's he's preeminent in our lives. That's that's the place he deserves. That's what he desires. What a clear promise. He'll come close. I don't know about you, but there's nothing in this world worth living distant from God over. There's not a hobby, there's not a love or an allurement or an entertainment. There is not one thing in this world worth sacrificing closeness to God for. So God's truth, there's some truths here to consider when we're looking at questionable things. And by the way, there's a whole lot of them to talk about. There's a whole lot of things in our lives today that people say, is it right or is it wrong? Is it right for for me as a believer to get a tattoo? Is it right for me as a believer to drink alcohol? Is it right for me as a believer to go to the places of the world? W what is right and what is wrong? Well, take the truths that are taught in God's Word and apply them to your lives and let God show you the answer. Consider the command. Be concerned with the connections. Listen to the claims of Christ. By the way, if you'll let me say it like this, He's got first dibs on you. You know why? Calvary. Calvary. He's got first dibs And know the clear promise. You know, a lot of times we get so caught up on separation in the negative, we say, you know, I can't do this and I can't do that, but listen to me. Those are so that I can get close to God. It's not a matter of just coming out, it's a matter of going in. When God brought them out of Egypt, he intended to take them into Canaan. When God calls you out of the world, he intends to bring you into closeness to him. Don't stop short. Don't stop halfway Sometimes we miss the mark. We just quit doing this and this and this and this, and we forget that the whole intention of it is so that we can go forward with the Lord and get close to Him. Draw near to God, my friend. And may the Lord help us to be distinctively different. We ought to live in such a way that when it comes time for us to die, there's no questions about to whom we belong. No one should stand and say, Now I wonder if he is a Christian. But let's be honest. There are some tonight. Maybe you're listening to me. I don't know. But there are some tonight that live in such questionable ways that if they left this world tonight Big old question mark. Are they saved? Did they know the Lord? Are they really his? I don't know about you. I want to leave here with an exclamation point times 10. I belong to the Lord. Stand with me if you would, please. We'll close in prayer.