Today. If you have your Bible with you this morning, let me invite you to take it in turn, be pleased, to the book of Galatians and the sixth chapter, Galatians chapter six, to our scripture passage for this morning. Galatians and chapter six. Galatians, the sixth chapter. Apostle Paul writing to the believers scattered throughout Galatia. We're looking at what he has to say by the Spirit of God. If you would stand with me, please, if you're able, and honor to the Word of God as we read our scripture text for this morning. Galatians chapter 6, beginning of verse 14, Paul writes, but God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision but a new creature. And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy and upon the Israel of God From henceforth let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Gracious Heavenly Father, we do thank you. For the opportunity we have to look into the Word of God this morning. And I ask, Lord, that you would open all of our hearts to the truth of your precious word. We pray you'd not allow the devil or his minions to enter in and cause any kind of a distraction. or any hindrance in any way, shape, or form. We pray that all the sound equipment will work as it ought to, that all the uh radio equipment will work as it should, that the uh that that that each one would have hearts that are open and receptive to the truth of the Word of God and responsive to your Spirit We do pray, Holy Spirit, you would undertake for the proclamation and the application of your word to every heart here today, and in the invitation to bring about those decisions that would bring glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. And we ask these things in Jesus' name and for His sake today Amen. You may be seated this morning. Paul is writing this passage of scripture, as we mentioned, the believers that are scattered throughout Galatia, and he's dealing with a problem that he had with uh the Jewish believers against the Gentile believers. The Jewish believers were telling the Gentiles who were just coming to Christ that they were not Christians unless They were circumcised, kept the ceremonial laws in the feast days, and literally proselated to Judaism, can attended the synagogue, etc. etc. And Paul writes to them and says, No. Look, there there there is is is not any outward marking like circumcision or some such thing that is evidence of a person's salvation that way. And he says, uh but a new creature, and as many as walk according to this rule. What rule? The rule of a new creature Peace be on them and mercy and upon the Israel of God. And then he says, From henceforth let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. Shui, uh, as we are looking at that passage of scripture this morning, what does he mean by the marks of the Lord Jesus? Well, I I think right away we begin to think about all the persecutions the Apostle Paul went through. He was beaten uh thirty-nine times with rods, he was shipwrecked uh three times, spent a day and the night in the deep, he was bitten by a viper on the island of Miletus He was stoned outside of the cities of Lister and Derby from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet. He must have been one continuously running scar. But if that would be the kind of march you'd be thinking about, I believe he'd be thinking of the wrong kind because Uh he's not uh he's not been referring to that. He's speaking of being a new creature. It's a different kind of mark. A birthmark of a believer is a change in our heart in our lives. It's what the Word of God tells us is evidence of our being a child of God. And we can rejoice in the fact that we can have that absolute knowledge of our salvation through the Lord Jesus Christ. He uh he he speaks uh of those things. Maybe an illustration would help us with that. I was in a I was in a church once uh around Baltimore getting ready for a meeting and I was standing in the lobby. Shaking hands with folks as they were coming in through the lobby into the auditorium. And there were two or three other little groups of people in the same lobby having conversations among themselves When the door to the parking lot opened and in through the lobby ran a boy and a girl that both had to have had the brightest shade of red hair that I have ever seen in my entire life. It was not dyed red like you see some people diners, green and purple and all kinds of stuff today. It was naturally red hair, but it was so bright I felt like asking them if they had a battery pack somewhere that keeps it glowing that bright And everybody else in the lobby noticed the same thing because everybody stopped their conversations and then everybody realized they'd stopped for the same reason and kind of looked at each other and grinned and Went back to their conversations again. Well about a minute later the door to the parking lot opened again, and this time into the lobby came a man and a woman who both had the identical shade of red hair And everybody in the lobby again stopped their conversation, smiled and greeted those visitors as they made their way into the auditorium. And then everybody in the lobby crept to the door of the auditorium to look around and see whether or not what they thought was true, and indeed it was as that man and woman came down about halfway through the auditorium, they hollered for their son and daughter with the red hair that were up looking at the front of the puppet stage and they went back and sat together as a family back there in that row and everybody in the lobby again looked at each other, smiled and nodded their heads because nobody had to ingrade more than two or three brain cells to figure out to whom those red-haired children belonged. That red hair was a dead giveaway, a birthmark that let anybody know whose child they really were. Well what Paul is referring to in the scriptures is that there are certain birthmarks of a believer that if you are a child of God will evidence that fact. There are many times, folks, I meet in churches who are genuine believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, but they sometimes struggle with the assurance of that salvation we sang about this morning, redeemed and blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. They wrestle with that. I've even known some that have gone to the point of panic attacks. Waking up in the middle of the night afraid if they died they'd be going to hell and even some having scripture that preachers are priests twisted in their mind by uh by that and then in order to try to make them doubt their salvation, then there are some people who struggle with that. There are other folks, on the other hand, who go about claiming that they are a child of God, but if you look at their lives, there seems to be no evidence of that whatsoever. And if you have a problem with one of those things either way, or even if you don't, you may want to jot down with things we want to share with you today because if you don't have the problem, you'll run into somebody else in your lifetime who does And you need to be able to help them from what the Word of God tells us. Because what we're going to do is go to another book of Scripture that gives to us specifically the what we call the birthmarks of a believer. So if you will uh turn with me, having laid the foundation in Galatians 6 there, back to the book of 1 John. First John. Now to begin with, there are a lot of people who say, Well, Brother Reb, I don't believe a person can really know for sure whether or not they are saved. Whether or not if they died, they would go to heaven. In fact, some religious leaders would tell you that if you say you know for sure if you died you'd go to heaven, you are presuming upon the grace of God. I answer those people by saying, I'm not presuming on anything. I'm depending on the finished work of Jesus Christ and the final word of God. We look at this passage of Scripture just very quickly. Look at the first thing it mentions to us, 1 John chapter 5 and verse 13. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may what? I didn't hear you. What? No. K N O W. Not hope, wonder, suppose, struggle with, or wrestle with, but that you may know that you have eternal life. Question. Does 1 John or does not 1 John say you can know for sure whether you're saved or Yes, it does. As a matter of fact, now how many chapters are in 1 John? I'll give you a hint if you're reading that verse, you're in the last one. How many chapters? Five. Do you know how many times that Paul uses or excuse me John uses in this book of scripture, just these five chapters, do you know how many times he uses the word no or or assure or other words to that effect? You know how many times in those five chapters he uses those words? Thirty-two times. Thirty-two times in five short chapters. Look, you can read through the five chapters of first John in twenty minutes or less if you're even a slow reader But in those five chapters you'll come across thirty-two times that the Word of God says you may know. You can be certain, you can be sure, you can know it, you can know it, you can know it, you can know it, you can know it, you can know it, you You can know it, you can know it, I won't bore you with the other twenty-two times, but you get the idea. Look, any person, pastor, priest, or pope who says you cannot know if you died you'd be going to heaven is lying to you. Because God gave us this book of the scriptures that even tells us how we can know those birthmarks of the believers. So what are those things that we call the birthmarks of the believer. Well, number one is not so much a birthmark as it is our birth certificate. That is, first of all, the Word of God. The Word of God. If you back up a few verses from verse 13 to verse 10, notice it says He that believeth on the Son of God hath a witness in himself, he that believeth not God hath made him a liar because he believeth not the what The record that God gave of His Son. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. These things have I what? Written unto you that that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life, and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God. So the Bible tells us God did something so we would know. What did He do? He wrote it down. He wrote it down. He gave us his word. The word of God is our birth certificate. If you're going to go anywhere in the world outside the United States, you have to have a passport. In order to get a passport, you have to go down to the post office or go to the government office and get the applications and fill all that out. You gotta put the the the the fees for that in there, you gotta get the photographs taken for that and you have to include A copy of your birth certificate can't be a photocopy, has to be an actual copy copy they made for you from that office with the raised seal on it. in order to send in to the to the a passport agency who will then use that uh to uh release your passport or make your passport for you so you can come and go in and out of the U. S. at any time that way by using that password. Well the the Word of God is our black and white documentation that we really are a child of God if we are a child of God. The Bible tells us the truth. It tells us the truth about, first of all, the source of man. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Folks, we did not evolve over billions and billions of years. We are not pieces of protoplasm caught in the cosmic matrix. were not an accident or mistake or survival of the fittest. The Bible tells us that God created mankind out of the dust of the ground and breathed into his mouth the breath of life and that man became a living soul. God's word tells us the truth about the source of man. I like that song that my father and his associate used to sing all the time that said I'm no kin to the monkey. The monkey's no kin to me. I don't know much about his ancestors, but mine didn't swing from a tree. Bible says in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. The scripture tells us all things were made by him and without him was not anything made that was made. And and and so the word of God tells us uh that the truth about the source of man. It tells you the truth about the sin of man Some psychologists would like you to believe that man is basically good and that left to himself on this planet, man will one day create a utopia of it. There's a good Hebrew word for that, amen? Baloney Nothing can be further from the truth. Man left himself on this planet, has made it the wicked place that it is today with all the crime and warfare and sin and degradation, that's all the result of man's choice directly to disobey and and and and not acknowledge God. Romans chapter one says that the the the beginning uh the the the the the creation of God is clearly seen being understood by the things which are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that man is without excuse. But then it says that man does not acknowledge God in his heart, so God has turned him over to a reprobate or a darkened mind to dishonor himself. And all of the wicked agenda that we find even being pushed by our our our government, even in this country today, is directly tied and listed in that scripture in Romans chapter 1 as the result of man's disregard of God's rule over his life. The Bible tells us the truth about the sin of man, that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. God is not impressed with how good we are, he knows how good we're not. He knows how good he made us to be, and if there's any doubt as to how good you have to be to please the holy judge of all the universe, you can find it in 1 Peter 1, verses 15 and 16, where the Bible says, unless he which hath called you is holy So be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, be ye holy, for I am holy. How many of us are just as holy as God is? None of us. That's why the Bible says in Romans 3. 10, there's none righteous. No, not one. Romans 3. 12, there's none that doeth good. No, not one. Romans 3. 23. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Galatians 3. 22. The scriptures have concluded all under sin. Galatians uh uh three twenty-two tells us that we are all, every one of us, under under the bond bondage to sin and facing the penalty. Look, Isaiah 64 verse 6 says, all of our righteousness are filthy rags in God's sight. So God's not impressed with how good we are. He knows how good he made us to be, and none of us is as holy as he made us to be. And therefore the Bible not only tells you the truth about the source and the sin of man, it tells you the truth about the sentence of man. There's a punishment for sin. I learned about punishments when I was growing up as a child. I had very patriotic parents. If I disobeyed, they laid the stripes. I saw the stars So the Bible tells us there's a penalty for sin. What is the penalty for sin? Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is death. Ezekiel 18:4 says, the soul that sinneth it shall Romans 5. 12 says, Wherefore is by one man sin entered into the world and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. James 1 Verses 14 and 15 says, Every man is tempted when he's led away of his own lust and enticed. Then lust when it is conceived, bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth what? Death. And so if we receive what we deserve today, we would face first of all a physical death. Hebrews 9. 27 says it's appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. What happens when a sinner dies, according to Christ? Luke sixteen, the rich man died and in hell he lifts up his eyes, begin torments. Sinners die, their bodies buried in the grave, soul goes to hell. Not forever, but until the day of the great white throne judgment. When God will call their soul out of hell and their body from the grave, reconstitute the two, put them before the throne of Jesus Christ, where they'll face the law of God they violated, the list of every sin they ever committed, the land's book of life where their name isn't written, and the lake of fire will be their end culmination. It will be their a that second death, the death that never dies, for death and hell were cast into the lake of fire fire. This is the second death, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. So the Bible says the truth about the source, the sin, and the sentence of man, but it also tells you the truth about the substitute for man. I was preaching on the West Coast once when a young man came after the servants and said, Preacher, I don't believe in a God who wants to send people to hell. I said, Neither do I. He said, Yes, you do. I said, no, I don't. He said, well, don't you believe there's a hell? I said yes He said, Don't you believe that sinners who die go there? I said, Sure. He said, Don't you believe if I'm a sinner and I die, I must go to hell? I said, Son, if you die and go to hell, I can assure you on the authority of God's own word, it was not God's will for you to go there. He said, how can you say that? Because 2 Peter 3 verse 9 says, God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. John 3. 16 said, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but of everlasting life. Galatians 4, 4 and 5 says, When the fullness of time was come God sent forth his , son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them. We sang about that this morning, that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. Okay Well then when do I become an adopted child of God? Because contrary to what most people in the world and even a lot of church people believe, we are not, when we're born into this world, all God's children. Doesn't matter that the secular Christmas song says Santa knows we're all God's children, that doesn't make everything right. The fact is that God tells us that none of us is a child of God when we're born into this world. We are indeed all God's creation, but according to Jesus in Matthew chapter 13 We are children of the wicked one, or in John chapter 8, verse 44, we're of our father, the devil, and the lust of our father we will do. We need to be that's why we need to be, according to Jesus in John chapter 3, 3, born again if we're going to see the kingdom of God. Gotta have a second birth if you're gonna be going to heaven. Well, what is that? It's not a physical birth, it's not reincarnation or something. It is a spiritual birth. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit, Jesus said in John 3 verses 5 and 6. Marvel not that I said unto you, ye must be born again. I ask you, have you had a second birth? A spiritual birth? You see, the Bible says we need the physical birth that causes us to be born in the world a sinner. But if you're only born once, you're going to die twice. You're going to face a physical death, which is then going to be followed at the end of the judgment by an eternal death in a lake of fire forever and ever, the death that never dies. But if you've been born twice, once physically, and then through faith in Jesus Christ spiritually, then you have been born again, you have the second birth, and if you've got two births, you only have to face one death, the physical one And maybe not even that one, amen. If Jesus comes back first. First Thessalonians 4, 16 and 17 says, The Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. With the voice of the archangel and the trumpet of God and the dead in Christ shall rise first, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. You need a second birth. It's a spiritual birth. How do you get that second birth? Well the Bible tells you the truth first of all about that substitute for man that Romans 5. 8 says God commendeth his love toward us In that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. But because Jesus died on the cross, how do I get that gift of eternal life that God wants me to have? The Bible says there are three things we need to keep in mind. First, repent You won't hear that word in a lot of churches today. Acts 3. 19 said, Repent ye therefore and be converted that your sins may be blotted out. 2 Peter 3 verse 9 says says uh that God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Luke twenty four verses forty six and forty-seven says it was meet that Christ should be crucified and the third day rise again and that repentance and remission of sins. should be preached in his name to all nations. God's word says we need to repent. What's that word mean? Well if I walked up to you and I slapped you across the face, what would you think of that? What? Ooh, that'd be a little startling, wouldn't it? Well I said, oh I'm so sorry. I don't know why I did that. Would you forgive me for that? You say, okay, Brother Webb, you're a visiting evangelist. We'll give you a break and we'll forgive you. And I said, oh, thank you for being so kind And I nail you a second time. What? And I said, Well, you nasty hand, you stop that. Would you forgive me again? You say, Brother Webb, I'll forgive you another time. I say, Oh thank you so much for that, for being so kind, and I nail you a third time. What? And I say, Would you forgive me for that? You say I'm going to be Christian about it, Brother Webb. to turn the other cheek. I say good, I'll hit that one too. What? How many of you think I'm really sorry I'm slapping you in the face? Nobody? Oh come on, I said I was sorry. I said the magic words, doesn't that mean anything? No. How do you know I'm not sorry? I keep on doing it over and over and over again. So let me get this straight. If I'm really, truly, honestly I'm sorry, I'm making an impression on your face, the FBI can identify. By the fingerprints of what am I going to do besides say I'm sorry? I am going to what? I'm going to stop. I can tell him back up north again. I was preaching the beginning of the year down south and down there they say Brother Grooms knows this because I heard his accent. They say y'all quit. And if it's a group of people, it's all y'all quit. And I know that because my mother was from LA. That's lower Alabama. Okay. And so I look, if I'm really sorry, I'm not going to keep doing it. Whack, I'm so sorry. Oh, please forgive me. Oh, thank you for your kindness. Oh, aren't you gracious? Oh this No, if I'm sorry, I'm going to turn from what I say I'm sorry for. Look, folks, if we don't mean business with God, he does not do business with us. A lot of people say, oh, I don't want to go to a lake of fire for all of eternity, preacher, but I don't want to change my life. I want to keep living in my sin. And so tell me, what's the prayer I got to pray? Oh yeah, dear Jesus, please save me I'm gonna keep lying and cheating and stealing and all that rest of that stuff. Because hey, I prayed the magic prayer. I said the magic words I've yet to go to heaven. Amen. No, friend, that's not repentance. Don't misunderstand me, you and I can do nothing to make ourselves any better for God to save us. He is the one who changes our lives when he saves us, but he requires that when we come to him for that salvation, there be a willingness to allow him to do so. It's not just a fire escape or a fire insurance deal with God. And so we need to repent. We need to what else? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Acts 16, 31. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. John 3. 16, whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but of everlasting life. John three eighteen, he that believeth on him is not condemned. He that believeth not is condemned already because he hath not believed. in the name of the only begotten Son of God. John three thirty six, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. John five twenty four says, Verily, verily I say unto you He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. So the Bible says, believe. Believe what? Believe that Jesus is God That he came from heaven, that he lived a sinless life, that he died in your place on the cross, that he rose again from the grave, and that only he can save you, and he will if you'll ask him to, because if you don't believe in those things, you can't be saved until you do. Lots of people have the facts of salvation in their head, but they've never had the faith of salvation in their heart. Somebody said some people need an 18-inch conversion. That's the difference from the brain to the dis to the heart. No, the fact of the matter is we need to be believing in faith on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's one of the reasons, the first reason God even tells us in His Word that He gave us His Word to do. Second Timothy chapter three verse fifteen says and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures which are able to make thee what Wise unto salvation through what? Through faith, which is in who? Which is in Christ Jesus. The purpose is to bring us to salvation through the process of faith in the person of Jesus Christ. Believe, do you believe? Have you believed on the Lord Jesus Christ? Acts 16. 31 was where Paul told that Philippian jailer when he said, What must I do to be saved? They specifically answered, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. They didn't say join our church. They didn't say get baptized. They didn't say go on a pilgrimage. They didn't say keep the sacraments or confess to a priest. Or do something like that. They said, believe on the Lord Jesus. And not only did he believe, but he took them home and washed their beating marks and got his whole household out of bed that night to hear the gospel, and they also all believed. and then were baptized in testimony of that salvation. Look, I would ask you, have you repented? Have you believed? And then have you received Christ as Savior? Again, Jesus died on the cross that we might receive the adoption of sons, but when do we receive that? Well, it says in John 1. 12, but as many as received him, to them gave he power to what? Become. See, we weren't before. We become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. At the moment we repent and we believe and we receive In Jesus Christ, we ask him for that salvation. Romans 10, 9, 10 and verse 13 says, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. It's a personal thing that you must do and a personal decision you must make with God yourself. Nobody else can make it for you. It says, For with a heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession of men unto salvation, for whosoever, verse 13 tells us, shall call. upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You can put your name in that word whosoever, and that's what it means. That if you've never done that before, you may be here for the first time this morning as a visitor, or you may have been here before If there's never been a time in your life and you've repented and believed and received, then the Bible has some good news for you. 2 Corinthians 6 verse 2 says, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation, and if today you will believe what God's Word says and repent and believe and receive, the Word of God says, These things have I written unto you That believe on the name of the Son of God that ye may know. So first birthmark of the believer is our birth certificate. The birth certificate is the very word of God. What's the second of the birthmarks of a believer this morning? Well, look at 1 John 3 and verse 24. 1 John 3, verse 24. Last half of the verse says, and hereby know we that he abideth in us by the what? By the Spirit which He hath given us. Look at 1 John 4 and verse 13. Hereby know we that we dwell in Him, and He in us, because He hath given us of His what? Of his Spirit. Look at 1 John 5, verse 6, last half of the verse. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth. Look at 1 John 5, verse 10. He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself. Who is the witness that dwells within every believer? The Holy Spirit of God, 1 Corinthians 6, 19 and 20. What know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit which is in you, which you have of God? And you're not your own, for you are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit which are God's. The Bible tells us very plainly That one of the things that shows that we are a born-again child of God is the Holy Spirit of God. Romans 8 verse 16 says, the Spirit of God beareth witness with our spirits that we are the children of God. Well the charismatic says you have to speak in tongues. No, you don't. In fact, those things are not for today. The scripture told you that it would end when that which was perfect was come, 1 Corinthians chapter 13. You say, Well, that's talking about when Jesus comes. No. If it were Jesus, it'd be a masculine noun. It's not a masculine noun. It's a neuter noun. It's talking about something, not someone. What thing do we have that is perfect that God gave us? His word. We don't look to visions, we don't look to dreams, we don't look to the prophets who prophesy, we look to the Word of God and to the Lamb of God. We know we trust what God has said in his word, but the Holy Spirit of God gives evidence that he has baptized every born-again child of God at the moment of salvation into the family of God. How do I know he's there? Read what Jesus said to his disciples in John chapter 4. 14 through 17, before he went back to the Father, he told them, I will send another comforter who will abide with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, who will guide you into all truth. You know, one of the ways we know the Holy Spirit of God is in our hearts is because he helps us understand the Word of God. A person who's not saved doesn't understand what the Word of God is talking about. That's why it's impossible to legislate righteousness to a world full of wicked people. Why? Because they don't understand the righteousness of God. The scripture clearly states that the natural man, the unredeemed, unregenerated man, cannot understand the things of the Spirit of God. They are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them. Why? Because they are spiritually discerned. Before you got saved, you pick up a Bible and read it. You don't understand what you're reading, but then you get saved and you become a PhD in theology of all of a sudden, right? No, but the Spirit of God comes to dwell within your heart, and he helps you understand the Word of God. You understand more. Why? Because of the Holy Spirit's work in your life. By the way, do you know how I know that charismatic churches are are a cult of the Holy Spirit and not of the Word of God? Because uh their emphasis is on the Spirit, the Spirit, the Spirit, the River, the River, the River. That's their term again for the Spirit. The river, the Holy Spirit, it's all about that kind of stuff. Why do you say does that show it's a cult, by the way? Because the scripture itself clearly states that the Holy Spirit will not speak of himself. But he takes us into the treasure house of God and boasts of all that we have in Jesus Christ. In Jesus Christ. Not the cult of the Holy Spirit. Oh, listen, the Bible says that we can tell the Spirit of God also dwells within us because He can He convicts and convinces us of sin. Jesus said that in John chapter 14 as well. that he's going to convince the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. Look, before you and I are saved, we can go out lie, cheat, steal, whatever we want to do, and it probably didn't bother you a bit. But then you got saved and you went back, you walked into that same bar that you'd walked into before you were saved, and all of a sudden something in here said you shouldn't be here. Right? Remember that? Or you used to be a smoker or whatever and you got safe and then you you started to light up another cigarette after that and all of a sudden something in here said you shouldn't be sucking on that stuff anymore Maybe you lost your temper and said something you shouldn't say to your family after you got saved and something in here said you shouldn't be talking that way anymore. You shouldn't be treating your family that way anymore. That's not something, folks, that's someone, that's the Holy Spirit. And the Bible says in Revelation chapter 3 verse 19, as many as I love I rebuke and chasten, it's the Holy Spirit that rebukes us. And he works in our hearts to help us to know what to do is right, helps us understand the Word of God. Those are all ways to know that the Spirit of God. By the way, it's also the Holy Spirit of God that not only convicts us of sin. But it's also the Holy Spirit of God that puts the peace of God in our hearts when we're doing what pleases God. Remember, the Apostle Paul wanted to go into Asia three times. The Holy Spirit wouldn't let him go. The Holy Spirit said no. The Holy Spirit is what directed the Apostle Paul. No, we don't want you there. And then that night he had the vision of the dream of the man of Macedonia. Come over and help us. And he went there. Ah, the Spirit of God was leading there. There was the peace of God there. And we can rejoice in that fact that when we're doing what pleases the Lord, he puts the peace of God in our hearts. If you're displeasing the Lord by the decisions you're making in your life Then you're not going to have the peace of God that's given by the Holy Spirit. So the second sign of being a child of God, the second birthmark of believer is the indwelling Holy Spirit. But then you're also going to find number three, the third birthmark of the believer is a love for the brethren. Look at 1 John chapter 2, verses 9 to 11. First John 2 verses 9 to 11. The Bible says, He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness, even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there's none occasion of stumbling in him, but he that hateth his brother is in darkness. And walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes. Look at first John chapter three, beginning at verse ten. In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him Because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. Look at verse 14. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we what Love thou brethren, he that loveth not his brother abideth in death, whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for our brethren. But whoso hath this world good, and seeeth his brother have need, and shoved up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him. My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. And hereby we know that we are of the truth and shall assure our hearts before Him. So what is the sign here that a person really is a child of God? The birthmark of the believer is a love for the brethren. A love for the brethren. That means three things. You're going to love to be with the brethren. David said in Psalm 122, verse 1, I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. Is that what you were thinking when you were getting the kids out of bed and ready to come to church today? Oh boy, we get to go to God's house, or was it we? have to go to church again. If we love the Lord, it ought to be we love to be in God's house. We like to be with God's people, you know We ought to have it, the longer we're saved, less and less in common with the wicked of the world around us, and more and more of a desire to be with God's people. It's a blessing to do international evangelism like we do because I can go into a foreign country where I don't even speak the language, but go to a church and immediately there's a bond There's that bond of being brothers in Christ, that Spirit of God that witnesses to spirit. And we can rejoice in that fact that that we have a love for those people. We have a love for the brethren. That means secondly we shouldn't be fighting one with another, right? The Bible says, by this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have what? Love, not war. Love one with another. Some places that are fussing and fighting and fuming and people are mad at somebody else that way. You know, my wife and I were in a church once outside of Washington, D. C. And every time we walked into that church building that week of meetings, it just felt like there was something not right. Something wasn't right. And we went all the way through Sunday through Thursday night. There's not one person that had come to the altar for decision. Not one person had been saved that week. And I turned the invitation over to the pastor, and the pastor said, We're going to sing one more stanza of an invitation song. If nobody comes forward, we'll close the service. They started that last stanza. A lady over here started the cry, came down the aisle, started across the middle. A lady over here. came out of her seat down the aisle, started across the middle. They ran into each other at the center aisle, looked up and realized they were who they were looking for, grabbed a hold and started hugging all over each other, and it wasn't thirty seconds to a minute before the entire congregation that emptied the altar. I just stood there. And after the service ended, the pastor said, You probably wonder what happened tonight. I said, Yes, sir, if you've got some information how to appreciate a little enlightenment. He said, Do you notice it was after that lady and that lady that everybody? I said, Yes, sir. He said, They're sisters. He said they'd been feuding now for seven years. He said everybody in our church has picked sides. Everybody sat on that side of the center aisles for that sister. Everybody sat on that side of the center aisles for the other one. All I could think of was Luke sixteen. In between was their great gulf fix between no man could pass. He said the whole church has picked sides and he said, Brother Webb, they've been feuding for seven years. We have not seen a soul saved in the ministries of our church in seven years. But he said they got right with each other tonight. And not only did we see a great revival among the believers that were there, but the last night of the meetings we saw over a dozen lost folks come and walk the aisle and trust Christ as Savior. Three of them Three of them without talking to each other as far as I know and and uh weren't within earshot when any one of them spoke to me, but went by me that night and shook my hand on the way out the door and said, Preacher You know why I got saved tonight? I said, no, tell me. This said, because if God can fix that, he can save me. Now I don't know your heart. I don't know whether you're upset with somebody or not. I was trying uh setting up a meeting for a weekend with a pastor in Farson, Wyoming. You had don't go through Farson on your way anywhere else. is out there somewhere. But anyway, the pastor said, well, uh we'll we'll come. We haven't had any Sunday night service for a long time, but we'll schedule a Sunday night service. It just people did he said, I've got three congregations. I said, three. He said, yeah, there's Congregation A, Congregation B, and Congregation C. If Congregation A knows that Congregation B is going to be there, they won't come Or a Congregation B, he knows that the Congregation A is going to be there, they won't come. If I can get both Congregation A and Congregation B to come, we'll have a good crowd and we'll get Congregation C. Well, praise the Lord, God worked that weekend, and we got Congregation C and God blessed and brought reviving in the service that much just on the weekend that he said, we're going to go back to the Sunday night service next week. And God blessed in that way. Folks, if you have bitterness or a grudge in your heart towards somebody else, you are not going to give them an ulcer, but you'll do a number on yourself. And you'll hinder the work of God in your local church because the Bible says one of the things that is a sign not just to you but even to the world around us of our being a believer is that we're not like the world who's like the chickens in the barnyard that peck on the weakest one and uh mistreat them. No, we're we're the ones that are supposed to pray for one another and edify one another and lift up one another and have our speech be seasoned like Saul So that it will edify the those that hear it. That's the way we're to be, and that's what shows that we're child of God, that kind of a love for the brethren. Oh, and what about thirdly, what about our brothers and sisters that are not walking with the Lord? What are we to do about them? What's the saying Galatians 6 and verse 1? If a brother be overtaking with the fault, you which are spiritual criticize one in a spirit of meanness. Amen? No, you know there have been some people in pastor that uh uh that have just kind of sat around watching and listening to everything every person says that claims to be a Christian, so when they say something wrong or they get out of line somehow or did something else They can they can publish it all over the world and let everybody in the world know about it. They just like to criticize, criticize. My pastor says all the time that it does uh that it takes no size to criticize It doesn't say if a brother be overtaken with a fault, you which is spiritual, criticize one in a spirit of meekness. What does it say? If a brother be overtaken with a fault, you which is spiritual, gossip about one in a spirit of concern. Now sad to say that's probably what most often happens in our churches. Think about it, some of you can think about somebody who came, maybe a family that came in a revival meeting, they got saved, they were coming for a while, but then they got to be hit and missed, and then they were more missed than hit, and now they're all gone all together. What do we do about that? Don't we find ourselves standing around in the lobby or out in the parking lot when the weather's better and saying, where is so-and-so? Oh, don't you know what's going on with them? Really? Isn't that a scene? They don't need us to stand around and talk about them. They need us to go talk to them. Yes, that's the preacher's responsibility. have more of an influence on somebody's life than the preacher. Everybody expects the preacher to do that. It has a tremendous influence when the regular church person in the pew goes to a brother or sister in Christ and says, hey I noticed this is going on. Can we pray together? Can I help you? And again, what does the Bible say? If a brother be overtaken with a fault, you which are spiritual, restore such in one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself lest thou also Be tempted. God's word tells us that we need to show a love for the brethren. That's what shows that we are a born-again child of God. Alright, so the Word of God, the indwelling Holy Spirit, a love for the brethren, the last two ones we'll give you today. The fourth birthmark of a believer is found in 1 John chapter 2, verses 3 to 5. 1 John 2 verses 3 to 5, and it is an obedience to God's commands. 1 John 2, verses 3 to 5. And hereby we do know that we know him. How? If we what Keep his commandments. Now look at this. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a wonderful Christian with just a few issues. Not what it says, does it? It's what a lot of people want to say. Oh, they're a fine Christian person. They just have a few issues No, the Bible says, He that saith, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a what? I didn't hear you what? I still didn't hear you what? Oh! What you people just said Don't you know the Bible says, judge not that you be not judged? And there you sit this Sunday morning in your pew judging people! Ever heard that before? If you practice biblical Christianity, you'll hear it sooner or later. What what what does the Bible say about that? Look, don't don't let people misquote scripture passages at you. Tell them to go back and read the entire chapter Where Jesus said, judge not that you be not judged, because if they read the whole chapter, they're going to find out he didn't say that we shouldn't judge at all, but we rather we should judge righteous judgments. by the word of God which judges all of us. In fact, it warns us to be careful to make sure that if we ca how can we help our brother if he's got a speck in his eye, if we've got a beam in our own eyes? First, get the beam out of your own eye, and then you can see clearly to help your brother. with a speck in his. But the Bible says, He that saith, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a liar. My pastor and I were down the road from our church. Talking to a young lady at her at her front door and and uh you know you ought to be a are you a Christian? Oh yes, I'm a Christian. I'm a I'm a member of the church up the road here. And the pastor said, that's interesting. What church is that? She said, it's about a half mile up the road here. It sits off in the field on the left side. He said, that's interesting. I'm the pastor of that church. I've never seen you there A lot of people wanna wanna wanna they understand what the word well well why don't you aren't you why aren't you in church well I just don't believe in going to church. I'm sorry, but Hebrews 10 25 says Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as a manner of some is exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see that they approaching. Do you understand that command? Yes, well then why aren't you doing it? Because if we're not obedient to God's commands, if we are, then that's now this is not talking about a person who falls into sin once in a while. That's there's a difference between somebody Who falls into sin and wants to get right back out of it again, and then there's a difference between that and somebody who lives every single day in habitual sin over and over and over again. God's word says there's going to be obedience to command because it goes on to say, but whoso keepeth his word, verse 5, in him verily is the love of God perfected, hereby know we that we are in him. Some people say, Well, you're judging me. You could say, well, no, the Bible says it this way, by their fruits you shall know them, and I'm just a fruit inspector. And I don't see any fruit. You know how that works. You can tell. I was preaching in a church once and Sunday night, the pastor for service said, Could I see you in my office, Brother Webb? I said, sure. And I thought, am I in trouble or something or what? So I went back to the office and the pastor had a there was a lady from the church waiting back there and and uh the pastor said, This is Mrs. So and so she'd like to ask you a question. I said, Yes ma'am, can I help you? She said, Did the pastor tell you about the trouble the deacons are s are stirring up in the church. And I said, ma'am, I have no idea who the deacons you're talking about even are. No, the pastor didn't say a word. And she said, well, you looked right at him today when you said what the problem was. My father-in-law is a pastor, and he's always said he can walk into a church and probably within 20 minutes tell you which people in the church are causing problems. But no, that the pastor said, are you satisfied? She said, I guess so. And so out of the office he went again and he so told me she was right in here this morning as soon as it's represented, accusing me of telling you about the deacons in the church who were doing whatever it was they were doing No. Look, have you ever been involved in Christian camp ministry of any kind? Maybe you drove a bus of young people to camp, or maybe you were a counselor who volunteered to help with camp. If you do, you can have fourteen buses from twenty different churches show up on on the first day of camp and unload for registration. And have you noticed within 30 minutes all the rowdy and rebellious kids have found each other. How do they do that? I mean they don't wear a sign around their neck that says, pick me for the R and R team, rowdy and rebellious, right? But there is an expression on the face, there's a bearing of the body, there's an attitude By their fruit she shall know them. And the word of God says the way we ought to be known as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ is because we obey God 's commands. Anybody here from the first album re-release of Patch the Pirate introducing Patch the Pirate? Anybody know Patch the Pirate? If you do, what is the very best way to show that you believe? Ah O B E D I E N C E. Yes, obedience is the very best way to show that we believe. In fact, the Bible says Jesus said in John 14, 15, If ye love me, what? Wear a 14-foot bumper sticker on the back of your car that says hawk if you love Jesus. No. What's it say? If ye love me, wear a three-foot lapel pin that says love Jesus. No. Well if you love me, what? Keep my commandments. Keep my commandments. So the best way to show that we love God is to keep his commandments. If you invite very many people to come to church, I guarantee you you've probably already run into at least one person who said, I'm not interested in Friend, why? Because the church is full of Well you've heard that before. Problem is too often it's true. If the neighbors can hear your car coming three blocks away, boom, boom, boom, boom, decline, claim, cline, like you can hear theirs Or you pull up behind them at a stoplight, they wonder if there's a minor earth tremor taking place in the street behind them. Then why do they need your Jesus? Your no your music's no different than theirs is If they see you on the back porch of your house in the summertime uh the whacking the top off of a can of beer or a bottle of beer and slugging back a brew with the rest of the crowd, then why do they need your Jesus if you're out there drinking the same stuff that's been destroying their family for years? If you're a believer then then then then why do they need your Jesus if you're always trying to gossip to them about at work about something going on in somebody else's life? You see, they expect there to be a difference. Guess what? You know what? God says the same thing And that brings us to the last of the birthmarks of a believer. Besides the Word of God, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, the love for the brethren, and an obedience to God's commands. The last one is a change in your life and desires. A change in your life and desires. 1 John 2, 15 and 17, love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the love of the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away in the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. The Bible says in first John chapter three Verses six to nine, whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. That means is not in the habit of continually committing the same sins. Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not, whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him. Ye little children, let no man deceive you. He that doeth righteousness is righteous even as he is righteous. He that commits sin is of the devil. For the devil sineth from the beginning, for this purpose the Son of God was manifest that he might destroy the works of the devil. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin or is not in the habit of continually committing sin, for his seed remaineth in him and he cannot sin because he is born of God. So the Bible says then instead of living in sin, and and eventually in sin, we're going to live in righteousness. The word righteousness is right living. We're going to live in a way that is pleasing in the sight of God. There's going to be a difference in our spiritual lives through what Christ has done in our hearts. Anybody remember Paul Harvey? Good day? Well, my wife and I were on our way back from our honeymoon in Florida and listening to the AM radio, which is all we had in the 72 Chevy Nova that I had borrowed from my parents for that trip. And we were listening to Paul Harvey's news and comment one afternoon as we were making our way up through the Carolinas. And the last, he was not on the broadcast that day, he was sick, and a fellow by the name of Mort Crim was filling in for him. But the last article in that entire broadcast that day was about the latest Hollywood movie starlet who had come out and said that she had been born again. And everybody in the industry was dumping on her. I mean, you know, it's just that's that's just a fad, you know, it's just a thing to go through, you know, and she's gonna we'll so you'll see what she's gonna be like , all the rest of that And the the article was defending her and and her profession of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But the last last thing they said in the broadcast that whole day Besides good day. Or whatever. The last thing, the end of that article was, I guess making a profession of faith doesn't make any difference anymore, does it? Unless it makes a difference. Let me say it again. Making a profession of faith doesn't make any difference unless it makes a difference. The Bible says if any man be in Christ, 2 Corinthians 5. 17, he is a New creature, old things have passed away, behold, what? All things are become what? New That's what the word of God tells us. That's what the world expects of a believer. That's what God expects of a believer. And that is what one of the birthmarks of a believer is. Because the things that you used to do, you're not going to want to do them anymore. The things you used to say, you're not going to want to say 'em anymore. The place you used to go, you're not going Ought to be in our lives. So the birthmarks of a believer, let me ask you, how'd you score? How did you make out this morning? The Word of God that tells us the source of man, the sin of man, the sentence of man, the substitute for man, and the salvation of man, and then then the the indwelling Holy Spirit, and then the love for the brethren, and then the obedience to God's commands, and finally a change in our life and desires. How did you make out with those testimonies? How does that square with the way your life is? Has there been a difference? I was preaching a week of vacation Bible school in Clarkston, Michigan, a number of years ago. And the youth pastor spoke to me on the Wednesday night before we started the BBS and said, Brother Webb. uh we're gonna have a teen activity tonight while you are having the regular VBS and by the time you finish the regular VBS program it ought to be about time for the teens to have their snack and their devotion. Would you come back and speak to the teens? I said sure no problem. So after I finished the VBS part that I was doing that night, I went back and I shared a devotional with the teenagers and I went at that time we were living in a converted bus. If you're a Christian, that's the only kind of bus you should live in Anyway, we were we were in that bus outside of the church and I hadn't been out to the to the bus for more than about ten minutes. There was a knock on the bus door. I went and opened it up. Here was the youth pastor. Well the big scrappin' teenage guy from the youth department, he said, Brother Webb this is Tony, he's one of our deacon sons, and he'd like to talk to you. You can use my office if you'd like some privacy. So I grabbed my Bible and into the youth pastor's office we went. And I said to Tony, Tony, before we talk about anything else, I want to ask you, do you know for sure you're saved? He said, No, I don't. I took Tony through the same five things I just took you through this morning. Tony, what about a change in your life and desires? Nope, been living the same way all my life. Okay, what about an obedience to God's commands? No, I'm always doing the opposite of what God tells me to do. What about a love for the brethren? No, I'd rather hang around with a cuss and swear and drinking party crap. Okay, what about the indwelling Holy Spirit? Do you do you find conviction when you No, I can do anything I want to, doesn't bother me a bit. Alright, what about the most basic? What about the Word of God? Has there ever been a time in your life when you truly repented and believed on the Lord Jesus and asked him to save you? He said, Brother Webb. When I was a child and they were having a week of vacation Bible school and an invitation was given, some of my friends got up and went forward. He said, I was thinking I'm a deacon's kid. It wouldn't look good if I didn't do that too. So he said, I got up and I went forward He said, somebody sat down with me, they prayed a prayer for me, they wrote my name on a card, and they said, I got saved. I said, Tony, I'm asking you on the authority of God's word in your life, are you saved? He said, no, sir, and he bowed his head. I said, Tony, would you like to do something about that today? He looked up, there were tears in his eyes. He said, Yes, sir, I would. I had the joy of praying with Tony right there in Youth Pastor's Office as Tony called on the Lord and asked him himself to come into his heart and to forgive his sins and to save him. And when he get w uh when he stopped that he he looked up, he drying the tears. See there was no uh CIA, FBI, NSA Christianity for this fellow. When he walked out of the youth pastor's office, he walked straight over to the youth pastor, shook his hand and said, I want you to know I just got saved. He said, I made a profession of faith when I was a little kid in vacation Bible school years ago. He said, I didn't mean business with God and I've been living a lie and not even a good lie, but he said, I I meant it tonight. I asked the Lord to save me. tonight. And the youth pastor said, Well thanks a lot for telling me about that, Tony. We've dismissed the rest of the young people. They're all out under the parking lot, lights around their cars. Would you mind telling them? He said, no problem. I followed the both of them out to the parking lot. The youth pastor quieted everybody down. Hush up everybody, listen up. Tony's got something he wants to say to you. And never forget what that young man said. He didn't mumble under his breath. He spoke right at me. He said, Hey, I want you all to know I just got saved. He said, I went forward to some of you. We were kids in vacation Bible school years ago and I never meant business. Somebody prayed a prayer for me and they put my name on a card, but I never asked Jesus to save me. But he said, tonight I asked Jesus to save me. And he said, I want to ask you to do two things, please. He said, with those of you who are also saved, please pray that my life will show it now. That I'll be a good example for the Lord Jesus. But he said, secondly, I want to ask some of the rest of you to make the same decision I just made because I see your life. You aren't any more saved than I was five minutes ago. Wow What about you? What about you? Somebody put it this way, if it was passed in Congress of the United States to be against the law under penalty of death from now on, to be a born-again Christian in this country And somebody accused you and you were arrested and tried for being one, would there be enough evidence to convict you? Can you say with Paul, from henceforth let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus? Let's bow together for a word of prayer this morning. As you bowed our eyes are closed, very quickly I'd like to ask how many here today can