I want you to take your Bibles this morning and turn to 2 Timothy chapter number 3. 2 Timothy chapter number 3. And when you find your place, I'm going to read two verses, and you're hearing verses 14 and 15. 2 Timothy chapter number 3 verses 14 and 15. I want us to stand together, please, as we honor the reading. Of God's word. Please note those first three words in verse number fourteen. But continue thou. In the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. We've looked at the statement, but continue thou. This morning I want to look at salvation, but continue thou of salvation. Heavenly Father, I pray in Jesus' name you'll help us just now. But Lord, what we need today has got to come from you And so we lift our hearts to you, Father. We pray you'd meet the great need, be glorified in the doing of it. Lord, save the lost, reclaim the backslider, hide me behind the cross, and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus. We love you and we praise you and we thank you for this time together in Jesus' strong name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I'll just quickly remind you that those three little words are the key to this entire book. I believe if you take those three little words and put them in front of every verse, it it applies. The little word but means there's a contrast, means in spite of, in spite of all the evil, in spite of all the opposition, in spite of all the wickedness, you continue. Then there's the charge, and it's found in that little word continue. You just continue. You say, preacher, continue in what? The things you've learned, the things you've been assured of. Continue because you know of whom thou hast learned them. Someone said the last days are not quitting days, they're continuing days. There are days that you and I need to just go on with the Lord, but continue thou. And then we looked at our concern, and it's in that one little word, thou. Somewhere in the journey, you've got to decide, though no one go with me, still I'll follow. Somewhere in your Christian life, everybody's going to fall away. And I don't mean that everybody's going to turn away, but the Lord's going to orchestrate things to where it's just you and Him. And the decision of your heart has to be, Lord, I'm going to follow you no matter what. I'm going to follow you no matter who, who doesn't or who does. I'm just going to go with the Lord. But continue thou. Now, as we go on in our study of this and take these three little words and magnify them, we come to the very next verse, and the very next verse talks about salvation. In fact, Paul is referring to Timothy's salvation. He's going back to the time and he says, Timothy, I want you to remember You continue in this thing of salvation. And I want you to see it this morning. I want you to see very clearly because the great need of this hour Now, if you were to ask a hundred people what's the great need of the hour, they'd probably give you a hundred different answers. Some might be political answers. Some might be economical answers. Some might be social answers. But the real need, the great need of this hour, is that every person needs to be born again. That's just the great need. That's more important than what they uh believe politically. That's more important than where they stand socially. That's more important than what's happening even in their lives morally. Every person must be born again. And it's God's will. Listen, it it God's not willing that any should perish. We read that. But he is long suffering. And boy, we ought to thank God for that this morning. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. All men need to be saved. All men can be saved. Now all men will not be saved. But it is the great need of the hour And the business of a local church, if you I don't like to put those two together because the church isn't a business, it's a body. But if we could put those two words together, we would say that the business of the church is to preach the gospel message and to present salvation to every man so that everybody can be saved. To give every man an opportunity to be born again. It is the main thing. Now, Paul said Timothy, continue thou. Continue thou in this thing of salvation. Because he's going to go on, and we may get there eventually to chapter number four, and he said, the time will come when they'll heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. They will not endure sound doctrine. In other words, the main thing will not be the main thing any longer. That there's going to be a turning away from the truth. And beloved, we're living right there. We're living there this morning. We're in those days where uh church isn't about salvation anymore. Church isn't about the gospel anymore. We're living in the days where the church is just about anything that you can imagine, except for the main thing. And so there's a lot of attention on all sorts of uh matters except for the thing that really matters. I do believe that we must continually declare the gospel. Our Sunday schools ought to be evangelistic Sunday schools. Meaning that we get the gospel through the Sunday School Avenue to young minds and hearts so that they can hear the good news of salvation. I believe our services ought to be saturated with the gospel of Jesus Christ. There ought to be gospel in our music, in our singing. There ought to be gospel in our preaching. Look, there ought to be gospel in our praying. There ought to be a measure of the gospel when we bow our heads and pray. And I'm not talking about preaching to people through praying, but when you pray, I'm glad you can talk about the gospel through the one who gave you the gospel, who saved you by the grace of God. and and make even our praying about the gospel. We ought to make our purposes about the gospel. Every ministry ought to be something gospel oriented. It really should be There ought to be an effort in all that we do to point men and women to Jesus Christ. I remember years ago a man came over from Northern Ireland and he said you advertise on your website that you preach the gospel. Preaching Christ, I think was our theme that year. Preaching Christ from the open Bible. And he said, I just wanted to see if it's so. He said, in the average church in my country on Sunday morning, the gospel's never mentioned. He said now they'll have sub they'll have gospel meetings on Sunday night. They'll have evangelistic services where they'll preach But he said, most of the people that go to church on Sunday morning are usually unconverted people. They're just in the tradition of going. And he said, no one utters a word. And I said, What a tragedy. You know, when when men gather, I think they need to hear the gospel. I believe the gospel ought to be preached whether we're gathering for a wedding or we're gathering for a funeral or we're whatever we're gathering for, we must preach Jesus Christ and His power to save. Why? Because it is the pressing need. It's what every man needs. You, as the scripture says clearly in John chapter number three, you must be born again. And that is the main thing. So Paul said now, Timothy, you continue. But continue thou. And then tie that to verse 15 and say, And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. I want you to notice number one the door of opportunity. That from a child You say, preacher, when's a good time to get saved? The best time to get saved is when you're young. Do you know every year you live unconverted, you're just that much closer to hell? And your heart is hard. You know, we read about uh some older people getting saved, but not many. You don't read about a lot of older people getting saved. Not a lot of older people get saved. Now, you read about people getting saved in their youth, in their teens, maybe, maybe in in in young adulthood, but you do not read about a lot of people getting saved. I'm reminded of what a very affluent lady in England said. She said, I was saved by the letter M. And she quoted 1 Corinthians 1 26. Not many mighty, not many noble. She said, I'm glad the Bible didn't say not any, it said not many. She said, I got in by the letter M. Amen. Now, not many, I I'm not saying not any, I'm saying not many. Not many older people get converted. Early in our ministry, we saw a gentleman get saved. Brother Lynn was way up in years and had rejected Christ. He was one of these men that lived good. And that was his problem. He would say, Preacher, I've done everybody honest that I've ever dealt with. He says, best I know, I don't tell lies. And he went on and on. And he was just a good man. And everything I heard about him, he is a good man. He was good to his family, raised his children, took care of his family, did everything he's supposed to do. He was just a good man. But he wasn't saved. And he he he was hard. He got so hard to the gospel as he got older when you try to share the gospel with him. He had hearing aids on and he would turn them off right in front of you And then sometimes he would turn, he would turn his chair. He sat by a little old stove in that little house he lived in. And I remember sitting there and I'd start talking to him. And when I just mentioned the name of Jesus, he'd go And he'd turn that chair around and look at the wall. And I could tell the gospel, and I'd hope that he could hear, I didn't know if he could hear or not So I'd just speak a little louder and keep preaching the gospel. And somehow or another he must have could uh could heard just a little bit, because when I would get through preaching the gospel and just be quiet for a minute, he'd turn back around, turn his hair aid on. He'd listen. He got real sick, had a had a tumor in his brain, and visited him in the hospital, he'd do the same thing. He'd turn over in the bed, turn his hearinade off, and not listen. His daughter called me one day. She was a member of our church. She said, would you please go talk to Dad one more time? They say he's not going to live. And I walked in the room and I started and and all the way I'm driving up there to Asheville and I'm thinking he's not going to listen. I know what he's going to do. He's done this to me a hundred times. And I walk in the room, I greet him, I say, how are you doing? He tells me how he's doing. We talk a little bit. And I said, you know, I'm not here to talk about all that stuff. I'd like to talk to you about something serious. And I just honestly I was waiting for eh turnover in the bed, paid me no attention. But not that day. He said, Preacher, I'm glad you came. He said, I want to talk to you. And he he asked the Lord to save him right there. And the mercy of it is God let him live beyond that. He had his surgery, got the tumor out, they took care of that thing, and God let him live six or seven years beyond what he thought was the end. And do you know what he did? He lived every bit of it for Jesus. I'm just saying that there is a door of opportunity. Not only is that door of opportunity often in our youth, but that door of opportunity is definitely in God's dealings. Jesus taught us something in John chapter number five. You remember there was a strange thing that happened at the pool of Bethesda. There was an angel who had come down once a year. And that angel would stir those waters and trouble those waters. That must have been an unusual thing to behold. And it said that when you stepped into that water, if you were the first one who stepped into that water, they were healed of whatever ailment. And because it was such a miracle, people laid all around that thing. And people, some had laid there for years hoping to be the first one in. Because if you got in, you got healed. There's two words in that chapter, John chapter 5 verse 4. There's a there's a it says that Whosoever stepped in the water, that's a big word by the way. Because whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. I'm glad it says whosoever, because I'm a whosoever. And you're a whosoever. It said whosoever. And then I like this next big word. It said, whatsoever disease he had. So you could the impotent man got healed, blind healed, the ones with withered hands were healed, lepers were healed All sorts of whatsoever, that's another big word that says, whatever ailed you, whatever made you sick, whatever was wrong with you, if you got in the water after the angel stirred that pool, then you were healed. But do you know what's missing? Whosoever's there, whatsoever's there, not whensoever. It's not a Church, let me tell you something, it's not a whensoever gospel. The Bible tells us Jesus taught us that except the Father, draw. There's got to be some drawing. You say, what's that? That's the work of the Holy Ghost. If God's not dealing with the man's heart, he he can't just decide to get in when he wants to get in. There's a window of opportunity. Today is the day of salvation. When God the Holy Spirit is dealing with your heart That's the moment to get saved. That's the day of salvation. You don't put it off. You don't decide. Say, well, I'll get saved down the road somewhere. God may never deal with you again. I'm talking about a door of opportunity. There's a door of opportunity. Is God dealing with you? Don't take that thing lightly. It's a scary thing to deal foolishly with the dealings of God To to s to sit and and the Holy Ghost deal with you and convict you a and show you you need to be saved and that you're lost, and then get up and walk out and pay it no mind, friend, you you're you're gambling with far greater things. than the earthly riches. You're gambling with your soul. You're saying, well, maybe maybe tomorrow You remember was it was it Felix who said, I'll send for you in a convenient season? I I mean when when I when everything gets settled and and and when I'm ready, uh how many times have I heard this? When I'm ready Folks, it's not about when you're ready. It's about when he's ready. The dealings of God with a man's soul. That's a door of opportunity And so young Timothy was reminded the continued vow of salvation. And and I just want to park here a minute and say that there are there's so much perversion to the gospel of Jesus Christ That even churches that preach the gospel of Jesus Christ have often gone off the ditch on either side. And we tell people, well, look, whenever you're good and ready, you just ask the Lord to save you. Well what we're telling them is that it's in their hands. It's in their hands, not his. Now please understand me, the work of God is the work of God's salvation is of the Lord. And it's not in your hand or my hand, it's in his hand And when God's dealing with us, I'm talking about a door of opportunity. And that from a child, young Timothy, as a young tender boy, heard the gospel, perhaps at his mother's knee Maybe at his grandmother's knee, and it was in those times of tenderness that he yielded to God, and God dealt with him and saved him by his wonderful grace That's a good time to get in. I'm going to tell you something. If you're sitting here unsaved, today would be a good day too if God's dealing with your heart. God's dealing with your heart, dear friend. Today would be a real good day to be saved. Talking about a door of opportunity, but then notice the dynamite of power. That from a child thou hast known, look at it now, the holy scriptures. Timothy, you know something that has the power to save. The Holy Scriptures. You know, sometimes I think, we think, that it's our pitch that converts people. I've sat in a few soul winning classes, and I'll be honest with you, that's all it was. It was salesmanship tactics Let me tell you how. You know, years ago a lot of foolish things were done, and and especially these that said, you know, how to win a soul at a red light. For the light changes? Well, I believe God can save a soul that fast, don't you? But most people are so biblically ignorant it's going to take a lot more time than that. Because your pitch don't save them. It's not what you try to slip over on them. I I read one book somebody sent me one time and it said how to get somebody saved without them knowing it Okay. Why why in the world would you want to get somebody saved and then not know it? Huh? We're not trying to slide some snake oil over on somebody. We're preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that from a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures. Do you know what the catalyst was for his conversion? It was the blessed word of God. The Bible says in Romans 1 16 Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. It's power in the gospel. Look at this text over in Peter with me, would you? 1 Peter 1. 1 Peter chapter 1 Verse twenty three Being born again Not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever If I can say it like this, the saving seed is the scripture. That's the seed that we plant. I'm not interested really in trying to get people to think the way I think. I'm not trying to get you on my side of opinions. You know there's a lot of people that try to make folks Baptists before they get them born again. And and and look, you can be a Baptist and go to hell. Because being a Baptist don't save you. Being born again does. And so what we do is we plant the seed of the Word of God. That's the dynamite of power. And look, the power is not in the pitch, the power is not in the presentation. We put a lot of emphasis where God never emphasizes, and we've got to remember something. God's not depending on your presentation. Oh, we want a polished performance. Uncle Buddy Robertson was an old Nazarene preacher. And he couldn't speak plain to save his life. He stuttered awful. And he couldn't put words together. He had a terrible time communicating. And God called him to preach. And boy, they laughed and mocked and said, buddy, he went before a group of Nazarene preachers and asked for ordination. And they said, There's no way God calls you to preach. You can't speak two sentences plain, let alone preach. He said, Well, God's told me. And the very first meeting he went out on, they denied him, rejected him, said, Buddy, I think you've missed God on this. And Buddy went out and he set a big tent up. in a very wealthy part of a very large city and started knocking on doors. He went to this one house and when he knocked on the door, the lady of the house came to the door, very a mansion, really, it was a mansion, And and and he open she opened the door and Buddy got so nervous he started stuttering and and and he couldn't get out what he was trying to say and she thought he was a bum or something, so she told him, Get off her property and slam the door And Buddy was so brokenhearted over that he sat down on the step and began to cry. She watched him through the window a minute and thought kind of felt bad for being so ugly to him and so she opened the door and she went there and said, Sir, please don't cry and um if you'll just move along please and and he said, but I've got something I gotta tell you And so finally, out of exasperation, she said, Well, I'll listen. And she sat there and listened to Buddy. And do you know what? That dear lady got saved. His presentation wouldn't measure up to most standards among the average Christian, but he had the power of God on him, and he gave her enough of the Word of God that she could get born again. Here's what I'm trying to say, it's not in the presentation. Some of you are sitting around waiting to witness when you've got all the answers. You're gonna die first. Because you don't have all the answers. You won't get all the answers. Give them the scriptures. Tell them what the Bible says. Share with them that Jesus saves. It's not in your pitch, it's not in your presentation, oh beloved, it is not in your personality. We just get a hold of that. It's not you. It's not you. It's not who you are. You say, well, I can't talk to people. Well, beloved, can you give them a gospel tract? It's full of scripture. And listen, well y all you gotta do is hand them what the Bible says. If you can't speak then then then surely you can give them a a portion of scripture on a piece of paper and say, hey, this is what the Bible says, this is how to be saved. It's not up to your personality. Now I believe we ought to be our best for the Lord. Let me just put a parenthesis here before I go on. 'Cause a lot of people think they can be nasty and gnarly and ugly and faithful and think people will be glad to hear what they gotta say. And that's a lie. If you're a curmudgeon, if you don't want that is, look it up in the dictionary. Don't expect people to hear want to hear across from you. They're not they're not gonna listen. You know. You you don't pet a porcupine because of what he carries around behind him. And folk don't want to talk to somebody that's that's nasty or ugly. And what I'm trying to say is it yet it's not in your personality that does the saving. The power is in the scripture. God took a rooster and used him. God used the donkey. God used bones. Look, if God can use all of those things, surely to goodness, He can use some saved men and women who will say, Lord, here am I, in all of my weakness, in all of my failing, Lord, here am I, just do something with me. Surely God can use us. I want you to notice the dynamite of power. Oh, the dynamite of power is this blessed old book. Being born again, not of the incorruptible seed. Or excuse me, the corruptible seed, but of the incorruptible seed by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. So we see the door of opportunity. Now here's what Paul's saying, Timothy, you continue. You keep preaching the gospel. You keep preaching it like it is in the Word of God. You keep preaching the scriptures. Don't entertain itching ears. Don't turn to fables and stories. Don't just give men what they want, give them what they need. Then notice the deliverance that's provided. Back in 2 Timothy 3. 15 we read this, and that from a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures. Look at this, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. Isn't that a beautiful word? You think about it, salvation. Salvation is of the Lord. Salvation, look, salvation means change. That's what it means. Salvation means a new creature. Salvation means the work of the Lord. We're not talking about reformation, but regeneration. We're not talking about turning over leaves. We're talking about becoming a whole new plant. We're not talking about straightening up and cleaning up. We're talking about getting lifted up out of the pit of sin and having your sin washed away and being put on a rock. The rock is the Lord Jesus Christ. In John chapter 3. In John chapter 3, when the Lord Jesus spoke of salvation and Nicodemus' need to be saved. Here's what he said, you must be born again. Your life has got to start anew. There's got to be a birth. What does a birth do? A birth brings new life. A birth brings new life in in into being. A birth brings new life to the to to this planet. Look look, if more people die than live, there's not going to be people after a while There's got to be birth. Birth brings life. Birth brings something new When a baby is born, it's not the recycling of something that was, it's the beginning of something that has not been. The Bible does not teach reincarnation. Wouldn't it be awful? I mean really. Wouldn't it be i you know what would be judgment to me if I had to come back as a cat? I hope it'd be a wild cat. I wouldn't want to be no tame one. But wouldn't it be awful? And the Bible don't teach that silliness Life don't recycle itself. It's appointed unto men once tonight after this the judgment. There's a period of time that's permitted. Life is permitted. God gives a window of opportunity. You live, you die, you go to be with the Lord, or you go to live eternally in hell. There there's there's there's an appointment here. There's a containment, if you will, and all life is new life. And especially when it comes to spiritual life. You're not recycling something. It's not a redoing. Look, a Christian's not in a remodeling process. You go out here and buy an old house and you start remodeling, right? If you want to be poor and aggravated and frustrated, just go about it, right? Go remodel I've got some friends in North Carolina bought a chicken house, one of these commercial chicken houses, and are and turned that thing into a house. I should say are turning it into a house. They've been working on it now almost 40 years. And they're about to get there And I said, you folk will be in heaven before this job gets done. More than likely. God didn't save you and say, I'm going to remodel you. I'm going to take that old man and fix him up. Do you know what the old man is? He's still the old man. That old man will be that old man till the day you die. I'm glad God put a new man inside of me He didn't just take me as I was and leave me in that condition. He made a new creature out of me. He put new desires, a new heart, a new love, a new direction, and a new passion in my heart. When he saved me. Now listen, some of you got saved when you were young. You might have been in Sunday school, you might have been in church. And you didn't go out here and rob banks. You didn't kill nobody. You didn't live evil. You say, Preacher, my my life hadn't changed like I hear all these people who went out here and did all this bad stuff. So do do I need to be saved? Let me tell you something. If you got saved in that way, you did get a new heart. You do have new desires. If you're saved, you got new desires. What you hated, you now love, and what you love. I I remember going to church the first time as an eight-year-old boy, converted. I didn't like going unconverted. I didn't like going unconverted because it bothered me. They talked about stuff I didn't want to hear about. Every Saturday night, my dad had one of these big old stereo turntable things, play the record Big record, some of you kids, look it up in the dictionary. Or go on the internet and you'll see it. And Dad would play the inspirations. That was his favorite group And he would play that and they'd sing about dying and going to heaven, and I'd go off somewhere and cry, because I wasn't ready to die, and I didn't want to die, and I knew I wasn't going to heaven. And it bothered me. I hate it. When he'd start rustling, digging those records out, I thought, oh mercy. Why can't he just play Whalen Jennings or something like that? I mean, I wasn't saved. Understand? I wasn't saved I didn't want to hear all of this. And we'd go to church and the preacher got there and talk about hell. People talk about going to heaven and they'd shout about it and enjoy it. And I was the most miserable little fellow you ever met I couldn't wait till it was over. Get me out of here. Man, I couldn't wait to tear out the back door and get in the truck and start home and forget about all that stuff. Every time it come time, especially as God was dealing with me, got to go to church, boy, how it troubled me. But boy, I remember when I got saved, I thought, you know, this is good. I didn't know everything that was going on, didn't understand all that was being said, couldn't comprehend it all, but in my heart that fear was gone. I got a new heart. I got a new desire, I got a new love. I I hadn't robbed banks or killed nobody or done anything very wicked or awfully wicked But the truth was I got a new heart. I was made a new creature. And everybody who gets saved is made a new person in Jesus Christ. And thank God. Wouldn't it be horrible to be saved from the penalty of sin and yet still live continually in subjection to the power? And then all of eternity to the presence of sin. Thank God for salvation. Young Timothy, our Lord reminded him But continue thou, and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. I want you to notice the person of deliverance. The person of deliverance through faith which is in Christ Jesus Salvation, please hear me, salvation is in a person. Just a person. I'm not saved by a plan. Not saved by a plan. People say, well, I know the plan of salvation. Well, let me tell you what the plan is, Jesus. I don't believe I'm oversimplifying it either. The plan we talk about plans. Listen, I'm not saved by a prayer. I know some take exception to this, and the Lord bless you. May He show you the wisdom of it. But the truth of the matter is, there's a lot of people who believe that simply they pray a magic prayer, they get born again. I have prayed. How many times have I been told this? I have prayed the sinner's prayer. Pray tell me in the scriptures what the sinner's prayer is. Oh, you know that prayer on the back of the track, by the way. God didn't write that in the Bible. That prayer, that that prayer they tell you to pray. That repeat after me. I I wouldn't degrade this place and be so foolish, but do you know I could stand here and say now repeat after me I, everybody says I, want to be, want to be a car, a car. Would that make anybody here a car? Not going to change it. And I'll tell you a lot of people say, now if you'll pray this little prayer right here, you'll get saved. And you know what? We make idolatry out of words. We made a God out of that little thing. And we say, well, look, there's people I I don't remember what I prayed. There's people that uh my uh dear brother uh who served with me years ago, he said I pulled over on the side of the road and he said, Here's what I prayed Lord, if you can do something with an old rotten sinner like me, here I am. Got born again. You know why? Because it's not in a prayer. Be careful when you deal with souls that you don't just sell them a little magic charm. That's all that's become. Remember back in the day some of you, how many of you old enough memor when people carried rabbit's foot, a rabbit's foot? Remember that? I remember some old men down at the store where daddy'd stop and get gas and and everyone w every one of them have an old rabbit's foot on a chain hanging on their britches or have it in their pocket and they'd carry that thing around every once in a while they'd pull it out and rub it Now look, I was a little country boy, and I remember thinking, you know, if that thing was lucky, that rabbit still had it. If it do you any good he wouldn't have lost it. Because I knew what had happened to that little rabbit when he lost his foot. He lost his life. I'm here to tell you the the sinner's prayer is not a magic charm. It's not a rabbit's foot. It's the cry. Listen, all you've got to do is cry out That man on the cross is as I've said it again, I'll say it a thousand times, the Lord lets me. He's my favorite Bible character because that dear man all he did, Lord, remember me Maybe it took effort because he's dying. The blood's running out of his body. He don't have long to live. But he cries out, Lord, remember me. And the Lord said, Today shalt thou be in paradise. Hey, beloved, it's not what you pray, it's to whom you pray. Oh, listen, he's the saving person, it's not your prayers that you pray. Don't hang your soul on five or six little sentences. Rest your soul on the Savior. Acts 4 12 says, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's no other name. No, there's no other name. There's not a look, it's not Baptist, Methodist, Presbyterian, it's not any name like that It's not the Roman Catholic Church, it's not the Pope, it's not Peter, there's no other name given under heaven among men whereby we must be saved. What name? It's the name of Jesus. A lot of people think, you know, when they come to die that, well, I was a good church member. Oh, brother, sister, I hope you're a good church member. It's a whole lot better than being a bad one. But when it comes to die, just saying, well, I was a good church member, that's where I'm resting. That's going to be a cold place of comfort. But if you can say Jesus died for me. I I just read about yesterday. Yesterday was the anniversary of Charles Finney's death, that revivalist in upstate New York And he went out and took a walk before he died. He was 82 years old. And they said, as he walked, he sang that old Wesley song. Jesus, lover of my soul. And I'd heard some of it, but not all of it, and I looked it up. And when I read that, I thought, there it is. Because he wrote and said, I'm resting in Jesus and Jesus alone. You know, here's an old man getting ready to leave this world, and I believe he sensed it and he knew he was going to die. But he was comforted by the fact, not that he had prayed a prayer, not he had preached across the country, not that he had done great things for the Lord, but he was comforted by the fact that Jesus loved his soul And he was resting in the finished work of Jesus Christ. He had found that bedrock foundation on Christ, the solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand. All of it, all of it, prayers, plans All of it. Sinkin' sand. Sarah's little she had singing church, she called it stinking sand Had to sit her down and write it out. S-I-N-K. Not S-T-I-N-K. But you know, I didn't get after her too much because it's thinking and stinking are about the same thing. It's it's no good. It won't help you. But I'm glad when you rest home Christ, when all around my soul gives way My feelings go awry, my emotions are are unreliable, my thinking perhaps is scattered When all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay. Thank God I've got something under me bigger than me, something holding me greater than me. Salvation's in the person of Jesus Christ. But continue thou. Church, don't get sidetracked. Don't get sidetracked by those that'll tell you you've got to make it a prayer. You've got to make it a plan. No, no, stick with the person. Stick with the person. I hope till Jesus comes that sign hangs there. Because I hope that's what we do. If we ever stop doing that, we'd be better off to lock the doors and shut her down. Because the answer is not in a Baptist church, the answer is not in a preacher, the answer is not in the people, the answer is not in some organization, the answer is in Jesus Christ. You might be here lost or listening to this and you're lost and you've been looking for the answer. You're at church because you're looking for the answer. You think that maybe you'll find it if you straighten up and start doing what all these other people are trying to do who claim to be Christians. Let me tell you something. You'll look in vain. You'll get discouraged. You'll be disillusioned. You'll be disappointed. Do you know who you need to look to this morning? Jesus Christ the Lamb of God The dear Lord Jesus hung on Calvary for you. It was there. He paid your sin debt in full when he hung on the cross. He shed his blood to wash your sin away. They buried him, put him in the grave. Three days later he got up, and hallelujah, he's alive this morning, and he'll save whosoever will call on his name. He's what you need. He's what you need. We see the delivering person. Now, friend, continue thou. Oh, it'll the days have come where men don't want to hear Jesus is what they need. They want to go to church and be told they're good boys and girls. They want to go to church and have their back scratched and their ears tickled and and be told everything's all right. They want to go and and get in a social group and join a club and be a part of that that people and just do what they want to do and be what they want to be. I've got news for you, friend, that'll never do That's not the plan of God. That's not what we're to continue in. We're to continue in the gospel, the salvation of Jesus Christ. Continue preaching it. Continue pressing it. You ought to tell the gospel everywhere you go, every chance you get. You ought to share with people they need to be saved You can you isn't it funny how we can talk about all these things and and people talk about politics and they can talk about weather and they can talk about the heat and they can talk about the drought and they can talk about but why is it we get locked jaw when it comes to Christ? I'll tell you why there's a spiritual battle going on. And the last thing the devil wants you to do is talk about Jesus. Because he's the answer to this sick old world. I'll tell you what, we could have political reform, we could have economic reform, we could have social reform And still die in our sin. Because there's no answers there. The answer is in Jesus Christ. Everybody you see is going somewhere. Everybody you meet is going somewhere. Every one of you sitting here, you looking at this old preacher, every one of us are going somewhere. Every one of us either going to heaven or hell. And the determining factor is Jesus Christ. Don't misunderstand me. I'm not going, I know I'm going to heaven, but I'm not going to heaven because I preached this Bible for thirty years. I'm not going to heaven because I'm a member of a Baptist church. I'm not going to heaven because of who I am. I'm going to heaven because of him. He's the only reason. And if you're going to heaven this morning, you're going to heaven for the same reason. It's all because of him. He's a saving person. He's the one we put our faith in. We've trusted the Lord Jesus. And if you've done it, you know it You know there was a point in time where you believed on Jesus Christ and you trusted him and you say, Preacher, I struggle with it. Well, let me give you some encouragement. Who are you trusting now? People say, well I I can't remember, I don't know, I was uh did I mean di w and we have all these questions. Let me just be plain, what about now? What at this moment? Where are you right now? Do you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ? Boy, I thank God for the day that old preacher got stern enough with me. I battled for a year with my salvation, wasn't sure, didn't know, and and and and I come up and he I was down here praying and he reached down there and he tapped me and he said, Get up here And I thought, well I better get up there. I don't know what he wants. And he said, come up here and kneel beside my chair. And I he had a chair, something like this, and got down beside me and said, Now what's wrong with you? I said, I don't know if I'm saved. He said, why don't you know you're saved? I said, well preacher, I can't remember what I prayed and you know my life really hadn't changed a whole lot like all these other people talk about. So I never never been out drinking and partying and carousing and all that. I was just a little fella. I'm sixteen years old now. And he said, Well, what are you trusting now? And I honest, I just said, Preacher, the only thing I know to trust is Jesus and his blood. And that old preacher got down my face and he said, Well then just go to hell, trust in the blood. He got walked off. And I thought, well, who ruined your day? But I stayed there because I didn't want to look unspiritual and run off. And I got to thinking about that. And I got in the car and went home and went out to Dad had an old camper in the back and I'd been going out there and praying and just laying in the floor of that thing and saying, God, if I'm not saved, save me. And I went there and sat and I thought, go to hell trust in the blood. And I looked up some Bible verses and started, and I thought, you can't do that. You can't go to hell trusting in Jesus Christ and his precious blood. You you you can't be condemned if you've been converted by the blood. Oh, what a happy day it was. And let me say to you, what are you trusting now? If you're trusting in him, rest there. Tell the enemy to take a hike. Rest in what the Word of God says. Thank God for the saving blood of Jesus. But keep preaching. Continue thou. Now at the Baptist Church, if a day ever comes the gospel's not preached here, shut her down. Shut her down. Or get somebody who will. If I lose my mind and stop preaching the gospel, quietly send me home Be nice to me. But send me home. If we ever get to the place we're slow down That all we talk about are the times and all of the things that men want to hear. Lord help us. Deliver us. May God put a put a hedge around this old pulpit Let it ever be a place that thunders out. You must be born again. Let it be a place that Jesus and his gospel is preached. Why? Because he's what men need. It's what Elkin needs. It's what Cecil County needs. It's what Maryland needs. Hey, it's what this country needs. It's what this whole world needs. Needs the Lord Jesus. Keep on telling that old story. I like what old Vance Adner said years ago. I love that old man. He said, look, it's not our job to make sure they like it. It's our job that they get it. Don't change it to make men like it. They never will. You preach it so they get it. That's our job. May God help us. Friend, if you're not saved, you can be. There's somebody that loves you more than, look, I don't have words to tell you. He loves you enough to leave heaven's splendor to suffer in earth's misery. He didn't suffer just simply because of the misery of the earth. He suffered for the sins of the world. On him, God put your sin. My sin. Charlie, every wicked deed, thought, thing, on him. He took my wrath. He took my place. He paid it. And then he said to me, You're free. Precious words. Forgiven. Forgiven. Friend, call on him. Marinath can't do a thing for you. Doing some kind of religious ritual that won't do a thing for you. You cry out from your heart. It's with the heart man believes into righteousness. You cry out, Lord, save me. Lord, have mercy. And I promise you, He'll meet you on those grounds. He will meet you on those grounds. And he'll save you. You might be a Christian and boy, you know, we get so caught up in a lot of stuff, don't we? Hmm. I have to watch myself. I watch the news and I get mad I watch what's going on different places the more it upsets me. I I found uh something better than blood pressure medicine for my blood pressure, that's not to watch the news. That's helped me a whole lot. But you know, there's a lot of things that get us caught we get caught up. Man, the economies Politics, weather, everything going. We get so caught up in it. Living. Jobs Just life. Next thing you know, we're not doing what we've been left here to do. We're rushing to work, doing our eight, ten, twelve, whatever. Coming back home, sleeping so we can go do it all again, and we're doing all that, and all the while there's people going to hell passing by. And they're coming by you because you are a lighthouse that can say Jesus saves. Don't get so busy you forget what God put you here for. Maybe some Christians need to say, Lord, forgive me and help me to remember what's really important. To remember what the main thing really is. Let's let him have his way with us this morning. We sung about it now Let's just be honest and do it. Let him have his way. Would you stand with me, please