Aren't you grateful for the text this morning that says you are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time? I'm glad the keeping is in his business. If I had to keep myself saved, I'd be in trouble. And if you had to keep yourself saved, you'd be in trouble. But I'm glad we're kept by one who's omnipotent. And I'm grateful we're kept by his great power. And so we thank the Lord for his goodness in that way, don't we? Appreciate that song. I want you to open your Bibles this morning to 2 Timothy chapter 3. I want to begin a series of messages out of 2 Timothy 3 building on three little words I hope by the help of the Lord to sew these three words in your heart. I hope you hear them and get them and hold on to them and I hope they burn inside of you. There are three words that will make all the difference in the world if we will just let them. 2 Timothy chapter 3. I'm going to read the whole chapter, so I'll let you remain seated this morning. The 2 Timothy chapter 3 starts this way. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. Unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truce breakers, false accusers, incontinent Fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from such turn away. For of this order they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers. Ever able or excuse me, ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now, as Janes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth. Men of corrupt minds reprobate concerning the faith. But they shall proceed no further, for their folly shall be manifest unto all men, as theirs also was. But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long -suffering Charity, patience, persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra. What persecutions I endured But out of them all the Lord delivered me. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. And hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And that from a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures. Which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God , and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. My text this morning is verse number 14. And I'd like for you to look at that verse, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. And hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. The three words I'm praying God will put in our hearts are those first three. But Continue thou. But continue thou. I want to look at this statement by the help of the Lord this morning and ask him to Do something for us today. I don't know about you, but I need the Lord to help me. And I need something from Him. And so let's pray to that end. Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you for the time you've given us today Lord, we don't take for granted that we've got health and strength to be in this place. We appreciate, Lord, your mercy, and we ask now that you would speak to us through your word, by your spirit, for your glory and our good. And may your will be done. Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus and make much of him. And Lord, for all that you do, we'll praise you and thank you, for we pray now in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. As I've taught on many occasions, I do believe that there are keys to the Bible. I believe there are statements and verses that actually unlock the whole thing. Let you see what God's saying to us. I believe 2 Timothy chapter 3 verse 14, the first three words are the key to this book They're the key to the book of 2 Timothy. They open the door, if you will. They open the way so that we can see what God's challenging this young man to do. And very simply, he's challenging him to continue thou. But continue thou. I want you to think about the setting of this book. It starts off in verse number one with this. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. Timothy, there's a day coming that are going to be considered the last days. The last days. The last days of what? The last days of time. The last days of of men living upon this earth. Those last days. And you need to remember that while the days of man on earth are coming to an end, your days in mine are limited as well. It is appointed unto men once to die and after this the judgment. Our time here is very brief and very short But know this that in the setting or in the light of the last days the challenge of the Word of God is, but continue thou. Notice what he talks about here in verse 1. He says, These will be perilous times. You ought to mark that word. It's a very potent word, really. It's a powerful word. That word perilous means dangerous. Hard to grieve excuse me. Hard to bear. Painful days. In the last days, perilous times. It's often associated with the works of the devil Because we know in John 10 10 that the thief, the devil, cometh not but for to steal, kill, and destroy. And so the marks of his working are painful, grievous, and hard to bear. I do believe that if Paul was writing this letter today, he would not put it in the future tense. He says perilous times shall come. I believe he would write it like this: perilous times have come. I believe we're living in what Paul wrote in this text. We're living in perilous times. And in light of it, you say, preacher, what do we do in perilous times? You know, sadly a lot of people just give up and say, I can't do no more. I like historical things and I was watching this uh documentary or this story about these uh frontiersmen who uh ventured into the West and one in particular who was a land surveyor. That was his That was his forte. That was what he really enjoyed doing. But in the course of his life, he was uh made a lieutenant and he had a group of men that he had to lead. And it was in the midst of battle that he realized, even though it was scary and difficult and he was full of fear. that he could muster the courage to go on, even though he's looking at a formidable enemy. And I'm glad to report to you today that though we're in perilous times There is a God who's more powerful than the peril. There is a God who's more real than the enemy, who's more strong than all the adversaries And you and I can go forward, we can continue, even in perilous times. This know also that in the last days perilous Time shall come. But look what else he said. He not only talked about perilous times, but he referenced this powerless religion. Look what he says in verse five. Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. From such turn away. He said that not only are you going to face perilous times in the last days, but you're going to be exposed to powerless religion. A religion that's just a form. A religion that's just a shale. It looks real. It looks good. It Sounds good, but in reality there's no substance to it. The uh some time ago, I guess it's probably been over a year, back behind sight and sound, they started building that little village, they're shooting a uh a movie, I guess, of George Whitfield and they've they've built an old timey uh uh facade, if you will, or front to a village back there And if you look at it from the front, it looks like a bona fide place. It looks like a real community. But all you got to do is drive down the street a little bit and pull behind it, and it's two by fours and Props and everything hold it up because it's not real. And I'm here to tell you there's a lot of religion that is not real. It's just a facade. It's a front. Oh, they might sing they might sing good songs. They might carry the Bible. They might talk about Jesus. But it does not have life-changing power. Our God is not only a God of reality, but he is a God of power. When he delivered the children of Israel out of Egypt, he did so by blood and by power. He demonstrated his great power on multiple occasions, ten plagues, ultimately parting the Red Sea, and making it so the Bible says the dogs wouldn't wag their tongue at the children of Israel when they left. I don't know what kind of dogs they had down there. Make a dog be quiet takes some doing. And some of them it takes a supernatural doing. And these dogs didn't even bark at the God's little people because God said, You be quiet. Aren't you glad that He's a God of power? But he said, Timothy, watch out, you'll be exposed to in the last days powerless religion. There are all kinds of forms, and it's not my intent this morning to talk about forms. But if we were to talk about forms, I would warn you that there's forms of religion of all sorts and sizes and shapes and kinds. There's even a fundamental form. There is a form of godliness that is according to the fundamental structure, but has not the spirit of God and power. It's the most subtle and dangerous, I believe, of all the forms. It's one thing to be contrary to Scripture. It's another to be complementary to Scripture. And a whole lot of our religion is just complementary to scripture. A lot of it is just an acknowledgement in a tactful way that, yeah, that's probably what it says, but I'm not interested. I don't want to go that way. Don't change me. I'm happy the way I am. I can still remember Leonard Ravenhill preaching in my home church and he Hung that big old sign out on the front of the pulpit before he started, and it said, Please do not disturb. And he walked around the pulpit that straight, rigid Well spoken Englishman and he said, This is the attitude of most of you. But he said, I've come to do different. You know, most of us l it's very easy to fall into a fundamental form. We can we can say, Well, you know, I I believe what the Bible says, I I I I believe that King James Bible, I believe in salvation by grace through faith. and all of that, and we can give some sort of acknowledgement to something that we deny the very power to change our lives. It's just a form. Our form, look, our form can be, uh we can be rigid, we can be straight, we can be gun barrel straight and be just as empty. Because we have no power. My Bible tells me that where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's liberty. And along with that liberty, there is the power of God. Our God is a God of great power. Timothy, not only will you face perilous times, not only will you be exposed to this error or this danger of a powerless form, a powerless religion, but you're also going to have to contend with progressive evil. Look at verse 13. But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. Do you notice what the course of time is to bring or has brought and will continue to bring? Evil men will wax worse and worse. Have you ever listened to the news and thought, I didn't think we could ever hear anything worse? And then you turn it on tomorrow and you hear something worse. Evil men are waxing worse and worse Notice what it says that these seducers are deceiving and being deceived. Do you know we've gotten to the place where men believe their own lies? I mean they really they're passionate about their own lies. They believe the falsehoods, they live the era. Not only have they been deceived by the devil. But they're they're they're continually d deceiving and deceiving others and being more deceived themselves. In fact, the more in-depth in darkness men get, the deeper that darkness becomes And that's where we're going. That's the direction we're walking in. Evil men are waxing worse and worse. Now you say, preacher, Mercer, that don't encourage me much. I didn't come to hear what I already knew. I mean, I know that we're living in perilous times. I know that there's powerless religion. I know that there's progressive evil. So what am I supposed to do? Please hear me. The word of God says, but continue thou. But continue thou. Now, I'm I believe that if God commands it, he'll enable it. Did we not learn on Wednesday evening that if God says come, you can go? If you'll put your foot over the boat, you can walk on water if he says to walk. You know why? Because he enables what he commands. And he's enabling us to do just exactly what he said. But continue thou. Would you look at three things real quick about this statement? Number one I want you to see the contrast. See that little word but four times it's used in 2 Timothy 3. I'm not going to look at all of them, but I do want to point out a couple of them. It means in spite of. It means to the contrary It literally means, look, Timothy, perilous times, powerless religion, and progressive evil, but you be different. You go a different way. You choose a different course. You don't have to be swept downstream by the current of these things. You can be different. You know why he could be different? Because he is different. There's a lot of dear people trying to be Christians who've never met Christ. And you can't be different to save your life. You know why? Because you're not different. You take an old pig and wash that thing. You can put enough perfume on a pig to make it smell good. You can paint its um hoods, and you can brush its fur or hair or whatever a pig's got. And you can make that thing just look, I mean squeaky clean. And then you take that pig and turn it loose, and you know what it'll look for? A mud hole. And it will find the filthiest place that it can wallow in. Why? Because it's got a pig's nature He's going to be what he is. And every one of us are going to be what we are. Now we might put on our suit and cover our pig nature We may put on our perfume and hide the stink of sin. And we may deceive men and people and religious leaders and everybody around us, but there's a God in heaven who knows what we are. And friend, if the salvation you profess hasn't made you something that you're not, without Jesus Christ, you need to be born again. You cannot, my friend, just simply say, well, you know, a lot of times we just excuse the evidence of death. And we make excuses for it. We say, well, it's just my makeup. Aren't you glad God gives you new makeup? He changes your want to. Years ago I had an evangelist come preach for me and he got up. And here's what he said the first I didn't know the man that well. I heard about him from other preachers, and so I semi-trusted him. And he got up and he said, Well, I just want you to know that I drank all the liquor I want to And then when he said that, I thought, oh brother. He said, I run with all the women I want to. I mean, he went on and on. And I'm looking at one of my deacons, I said, tackle him. I'm looking at him like, take that turkey out of the pulpit. And then just before he got snatched off the platform He said, but God changed my want-to. He said, I don't want to do what I once did. He said I've got a brand new want-to. And listen, if you get born again, you will get a brand new want-to. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Friend, God will make you brand new. Now you say, preacher, does that mean I'll not sin? No. But it'll make you hate what you once loved. And it'll make you walk in a whole different course. Why? Because God's changed. You want to please the Lord. You don't have to please you want to please the Lord. But Timothy, you do different. You're different because I have made you different, and I want you to continue thou. He talks about these impostors in verse 8. They're called Janeys and Jambries. That's a reference back to Exodus 7, verse 11. These are believed, this is believed to be two of the names of the magicians who served at Pharaoh's side. And remember when Moses confronted Pharaoh and said, God has said, let my people go. God said, I want you to show him my power by taking that rod that's in your hand, and when you throw it down, it'll become a serpent. And so when he confronted uh Pharaoh, Moses took that rod, threw it on the ground, and that thing became a serpent Pharaoh now commands Janies and Jambries to do the same, and guess what? They take their rods and they throw them down and they become a serpent. Now listen to me, don't think for a minute the devil don't have power. The devil does have power. He's not all powerful, but he does have power. But what I like about the account is my Bible says, and here's how it words it, it says Moses ' rods swallowed up their rods. So I take that to believe that while Moses ' rod was still a serpent, it swallowed those two serpents, and when Moses picked it up, he had it all in his hand. You know what that demonstrates? Greater is he that is in you than he that is in this world. Our God has greater power than the devil's power. And he goes on to say that these men resisted the truth. They were corrupt-minded. They were reprobate concerning the faith. But look at verse 9. But They shall proceed no further. For their folly shall be manifest unto all men as theirs also was. Other words, I'm going to show you, God says, I'm going to expose the impostors. I'm sure down in Egypt, those were pretty big dudes. Those were pretty popular fellas. They had power. They had th they they sort of remind me of some of these native tribes where these medicine men and these that these that that conjure up spirits They have power over those villages and power over those people because they do things that scare them. And these impostors, friend, listen to me. These impostors are very real, and the world's full of them this morning. But know this: God's getting ready to turn the spotlight on them. And and there they will proceed no further. Listen, when Moses and the children of Israel left Egypt, and Pharaoh and his army lay in the bottom of the Red Sea, The folly of these foolish men who resisted the truth were reprobate concerning the faith was made manifest to everybody. It does not pay to walk in the devil's steps. But thank God we can continue, but continue. Notice the contrast here. Again, we've already talked about verse 13: evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. Listen, because it's getting darker doesn't mean you need to turn your light off. Just because it's getting darker doesn't mean you need to shut the light out. It doesn't mean that you need to go along. You know, I think a lot of times w what we see is the world's way over here And the church is here. Now she's not in the world, she's different. But do you know where she used to be? Church used to be over here. But because the world's went that way, we've gone with it, and instead of maintaining our place, our position, we've drifted right along the current. Now we're not in the world. No, no, we're still separate from it, but we're not near where we once was. I've often thought if the Apostle Paul were to visit one of our churches today, I wonder what he would say. I wonder if he would look at our lives and question our kind of Christianity. But notice what it says, though evil men will wax worse and worse and seducers deceiving and being deceived. Here's what Paul says, Timothy, you just continue. You chart your course and stay with it. You don't drift with the rest of the world. You don't wander. Look, just because you're not in the pig pen Hey, by the way, do you know if you get near a pig pen, the stink of that thing will get on you? It sure will. That's kind of a rude uh crude rather uh illustration, but you get what I'm saying. Daddy used to take me to the livestock market every Thursday. In fact, I about failed kindergarten in first grade. That'd been an achievement, wouldn't it? Because I wanted to go to the stockyard instead of school. And so on Thursdays we'd go to the stockyard. And I remember he took us one day and he said, Now, son, I don't want you back where the pigs are. We drove at his little Jeep, fifty eight Willis, and it was cold, and I can remember him running the heat in there, and we we were playing around and and I I don't know what it is, it's our sin nature I reckon. Our sin nature says If I'm not supposed to, I'm going to figure out why. And I thought there must be something charming over at the pig pen Daddy don't want me to see. And so I made my way over there. Well, what I didn't know is that between where they kept them was uh a sewage pond where they washed all of the things away and it had grown like a hard shell on it and it looked like ground to me. And so when I started across there, I took a deep dive. Well, I knew I was in trouble So I found the hose and I and I got washed off and cleaned up. And I went and hid somewhere till I got dry. And I thought I had a good plan until we got in the Jeep. And dad turned the heat on and we started home and he's going. He said, Son, did you go around those pigs? First I tried to lie. I said no. He said, son, are you sure you weren't near those pigs? He said, you sort of smell like one. And I said, Yes sir, I did. And I told him the sad story. I'm gonna tell you what, I think probably i it was a month before I quit smelling like them pigs. I took lots of baths, but you get near them and the smell gets on you. You know what the problem with a lot of God's people are? We're too close for the pig pen. We're just happy enough to live just as close as we can get without getting in it. We're just living on the edge. Paul says, Timothy, be different. Timothy, you stay away. You get way over here. But continue thou. You be a living contrast to the world that you're living in. You live different, not just for the sake of being different, but you live different because I've made you a new creature in Jesus Christ. You be an example. You go with God. If I could encourage you in one way this morning, I would simply say to you, go with God. Go God's way. Walk in the way that's straight. Follow the Bible. Stay close to the Savior. Love the Lord Jesus. Live your life for Him. You'll never regret doing that. Be a contrast to the world that we're living in. The problem is too many are pulled that way. They're pulled that way. And let me warn you, the direction you're leaning is the way you're going to go eventually. But continue thou. There's the contrast. Then notice the charge. The charge is very simple. Continue That means don't quit. The last days are going to be uh challenging days and troubling days, and it's go th there's going to be the temptation to quit, but know this, these are not days to quit. These are not days to get off the exit. These are not days to get off the highway. These are days to keep going on. But continue thou. What do I continue in? Notice what it says. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. That's doctrine. The things thou hast learned. I'm talking about the clear teachings of the Bible. What the Bible says, thus saith the Lord. Now look, that's not flashy, but God's word sure is faithful. Develop a holy suspicion of everything proclaimed to be new. Somebody says, Man, I saw something in the Bible that's never been seen before. Immediately a radar goes up and says, I don't know. Better watch it. Why? Because this Bible's not a privately interpreted book. It's a Bible God's given all of us. And if somebody comes to you and says, hey, I see something that nobody has ever seen, you might want to start smelling for sulfur because that's Satan's talk. The truth of the matter is, dear friend, that we continue in the teaching, the things thou hast learned. If the Bible has taught it, if the Bible ever taught it, it's still true because the Bible don't change. If God ever made a man and a woman and he said he did in Genesis, nothing's changed. If the Bible says that Jesus is the way to heaven and it does, nothing's changed. If the Bible says there's a real heaven, a literal heaven, and a real hell, nothing has changed. We need to stick with the clear teachings of God's Word. Take the Bible, the things that thou hast learned, and continue. Timothy, you just continue true to the Word of God. Not only do we continue to the doctrine, but we continue with the things that are definite. Look what he says. Not only continue thou in the things which thou hast learned, and hast been assured of. That's things I'm sure about. Things I'm convinced of. Did you notice how verse 1 starts, this snow also? Aren't you glad there's some things you can know? Look, you can know you're saved. Aren't you glad for that? And it don't have a thing to do with how you feel about it. Oh, I like I like have a good feeling, but I'll tell you what, I don't always feel saved. It has nothing to do with my emotions about it. Sometimes my heart's just thrilled and I feel the emotion of the nearness of the Lord. But at other times it seems he's a million miles away. This know also. There's some things you can know. I know I'm saved because of what the Bible says. There's some things that I know. Church, listen to me. There's some things you can know. You can know the Bible's true because God said it is You can know that there is a real place called heaven and hell. You can know that you're safe. You can know your sins are forgiven. You can know that you've been justified. You can know all of that. You can know that he's a friend that sticks closer than a brother. You can know that he's the shepherd and bishop of your souls. You can know that he'll never leave you nor forsake you. You can know that he'll provide for every need. You can know all of this based on what the Bible says. He said, Timothy, don't only continue in the doctrine, but continue in the definite. I'm amazed at our Interest in things we can't know. It's just curiosity Religious curiosity. We've been trying to study the revelation together, and I've tried, and I pray the Lord's help me in this. I have tried to make it very clear there's things that we just don't know. And I don't want to be a fool and say, well, I know it means this and I know it means that when I just don't know. And by the way, a whole lot of things that people declare declare to know really don't matter if you know them or not. I've known a lot of people that are professors of useless information. They know a lot of stuff that won't do you a lick of good in life. I mean, listen, I remember my pastor saying when I went to be ordained, he said, now they're going, some of them men might ask you dumb questions. And he said they don't deserve answers. Don't be tempted. How many angels can set on the head of a pen? Do you know I've heard that question ask in a council? I don't know. If God wanted a million to sit there, he could do it. We don't know their dimensions. We don't know their height and weight and width and all of that. We don't know all of that stuff. How foolish it is to travel in territory we don't know. Listen to me, we got enough that we do know to stand on and to not deviate from and to rest in. Why? Because we got the word of God. There's some things you can know. Timothy, stick with the things you know. Walk in the path that's definite And then watch this, he says, knowing of whom thou hast learned them, continue, continue in the doctrine, continue in things definite, but continue with the devoted. Timothy, you got some good people in your life. You say, how do you know that? Well, Paul said that his grandmother and his mother had unfeigned faith. Said they weren't hypocrites. They were the real deal. He said your grandmother and your mother were the real deal. And he said, I believe you've got the same faith. That's the crowd you need to continue with. Hear me, please. There's always a crowd that wants to take you away from Jesus Christ. They're not your friend. And I know we say that and we say, Oh yeah, preacher, you tell them young people, I'm telling you old people, that crowd that wants to take you from Christ is not your friend. Because I don't care how old you get, we've all got peer pressure. There's a crowd that says, Come go with me. Yeah, but that's not right. Think about Amnon. What a what what a friend he had in a man who made him lose his life. Because of what he encouraged him to do. Be careful that you're in the right crowd. Be with that crowd that loves God. Be with that crowd that loves Jesus Christ. Be with that crowd that's following the Bible. Why? Because they're going where you want to go. You can't travel in the wrong crowd and end up at the right place. You can't run with the wrong crowd and and end up at the at the right destination. You're going two opposite directions. Or there's a crowd. Notice the devoted. He said, look, of knowing of whom thou hast learned them. I don't think Paul's talking about himself. Because my Bible goes on to say that and from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. Where do you learn them scriptures? Mama, grandmama, learn that. Listen, there's a lot of folk this world despises that God delights in There's a lot of people this world looks at and laughs at, but the Lord says, that's mine. Y'all be in that crowd. You ought to get in that company. That's the company. He said, Timothy, don't forget that crowd. You continue. You continue with the devoted. You continue with those disciples. You continue to walk in that way. Not everybody in church is in Christ. And not everybody who's in church and in Christ is following Jesus Christ like they should. Go with the devoted. Continue. Continue Now let me give you the last word. It's the word thou. This is the concern. We've looked at the contrast and the challenge, and now I want to show you the concern. And it's very simply this: you You continue. This is personal. It means you. Thou is a personal pronoun. Second person. It's talking about you. Timothy, you continue. Yeah, but what if Titus don't? Don't worry about Titus, you continue. What if Paul doesn't? By the way, Paul won't in this sense. He's going to die soon. This is the last letter he had write. Nero 's soon going to lift his head. And Timothy's going to be left alone. What do you do? You continue. You don't stop. It don't matter who doesn't continue. What does matter is that you continue. You've got to make this thing personal. You've got to get to the place that you say is for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And if me and my house won't, then I will serve the Lord. It's got to get personal. Some folks need to make up their mind that they're going to follow the Lord. Some folks need to take this thing personal. Some folks need to just say, now preacher, I believe God's talking to me. God's dealing with me. God's speaking to me. I'm talking to you. A lot of times we like to say, boy, I wish those so-and-so was here. They would have got it this morning. Well, guess what? They ain't here, but you are. And that may be bad English, but I think it's spot on preaching because the reality is I need this too. You gotta remember something. I'm preaching to me just as much as I'm preaching to you And and maybe a whole lot harder because the reality is I'm responsible for me. If you don't do right, that don't excuse me from doing right Hear me this morning. There's a whole generation of people that are being told you can do what you want to do because the people around you didn't do right. And it's become a living excuse that has introduced a moral chaos. Well I tell you, I I'm doing this. My my fifth grade teacher hollered at me. I'll tell you what, if your fifth grade teacher done to you what they did to me, you'd have a whole lot more excuses, right? And I deserved it by the way. I deserved it. But what I'm trying to say is that we need to make this personal. We need to stop passing the book. We're just like Adam, that woman you gave me. Adam, what'd you do? Her fault. You hadn't given her, and by the way, indirectly he's saying, God, you did it. Because you're the one that gave me her. And if you hadn't given me her, I wouldn't have done this. And don't you read that and say, Adam, that's not it ain't her fault. It's it's your fault. You're the one that took and chose And the truth is, we're in the same boat. Listen, I am what I am, but as a an accumulation of the choices I've made in my life. And so are you. Please know this this morning. This is personal, but continue thou. You know what? We need a whole church load of people that'll say, by the grace of God, I'm going to finish well. I'm gonna finish well. Look, if those people on that pew beside me don't, I I can't help it. I I it'll break my heart. I'll pray and weep, but I'm not quitting. I'm not quitting. I'm not stopping. I'm going on. I'm going to follow the Lord I'm going to stay faithful to God. Listen, it it may get discouraging and it may get difficult and the burden may get heavy, but it's not up to what others are doing. I'm responsible. One day I'll give an account for my life, not yours But continue thou. It's personal, by the way, this ought to be practical. You say, what do you mean? That means if you go on, there may be some things that need to change. If you're listening to compromisers, you're gonna compromise. Now folks, we've got media galore. We've got every kind of opportunity, advantage imaginable, and the sad thing is a lot of folks are not listening to people that are going on. They're listening to people that have deviated the course. And they're listening to these that tickle their ears and scratch their back and make them feel good, and they come to the house of God and say, My preacher don't do that. I'm gonna have to find well Listen, brother, it's not my job to pet your to you know like an old cat, you know, a cat don't like his fur turned backwards. I know that from experience I promise you, Gypsy, if I go down there to to a pilgrim and uh get Gypsy to come out of hiding and pet his fur the wrong way, you know what? He ain't gonna like it. He's gonna go hide somewhere. Cats don't that I mean they want their fur to go there and and you know what the problem is the cat just needs to turn around Your problem is, and my problem is, we just need to turn around. We need to change our lives. Look, this Bible is not going to change the suit you. You can write a million of them and make them suit you, but it doesn't change the Word of God. You need to change to accommodate the Bible, not make the Bible change to accommodate you. Folks want their church to change so it'll accommodate their sinful lifestyle. Shame on us. We should change to accommodate the truth that our church declares so that we can go on following Jesus. Oh, may the Lord help us. Old Percy Ray used to say when we would preach, he said, now you young men, he said, I want to get blowed off my perch. And I didn't quite understand that language. He said, look, every old buzzard could fly higher. He said, shoot the perch out from under us. All of us need to go further with God. Nobody has arrived. Can I say it again? Nobody has arrived You're not living so please close and clean that there's not something in your life you ought to change. It's practical And then it's purposeful. I say that to say this simply. You will not continue if you don't decide and determine some things in your heart. Daniel goes down to Babylon and Daniel chapter 1 verse 8 says he purposed in his heart not to defile himself with the king's meat. He made a decision not up here in his intellect. He made a decision down here in his will. He said, I will not be defiled with this meat. I'm not going to eat this. I'm not going to be a part of this culture. I'm not going to fall into this compromise. I'm going to stay true to the God of my fathers. And he purposed in his heart. I was talking to Josiah. He was telling him about a community he founded. And I said, that was the first community I ever got to preach in. That was the first time I preached indoors. When God first called me to preach, I preached out at the uh bus station and campgrounds and on the street corner and I sort of got a little proud about that because I thought, you know, compromisers preached in a church house And I went down to a little community called Irenduff and Joe was over there this week and he was driving through the that little community said, Man, it's pretty over here. He said, A great big church. I said, I know that's the first church the Lord let me preach in. But there was a lady in that church. And she was a faithful widow. Her husband had been a pastor for years. And she would always say, I'm going to finish well. I'm going to finish well. And I thought at times she was a bit arrogant about it. And I said to her one day, I said, What do you mean you are going to finish well? She said, I've determined it already. She said, if you don't decide it, son, it'll never take place. She said, if you don't purpose some things in your heart, you're easy pickings for the devil. I love you folks, but some of you are easy pickings for the devil. Because you have not made up your mind to follow Christ. You're just hanging on the fence. You're just living on the edges. Oh, you get your foot in on Sunday in the house of God, then you get out here on Monday and you got it back in the world. You hovnob over here where it fits and you're comfortable, you use the same language, tell the same dirty jokes, act the same wicked way. You get to the house of God, you carry the Bible and smile, and you fit in that crowd. You're just a chameleon. And I don't know if you need to be truly converted, that may be the case, or you just need to get committed to the Lord Jesus. And surrender your heart. Only you know that answer. But somewhere you need to make up your mind and say, I don't care who goes or doesn't go, who follows or doesn't follow, I'm going to go with God. Timothy, go with the Lord, but continue thou. Don't you work, you know, when Peter was being dealt with by God's mercy in John chapter 21 God in his mercy came to him and restored him. Did you notice what he did? The Lord saying, This is what's going to happen in your last days. They'll carry you somewhere you don't want to go. Tell him how he would die. And immediately he says, what about that man? And you know the Lord just basically told him, mind your own business. Because it don't matter what happens to John, what hap matters is what's happening to you. And it's awful easy to sit here week after week and say, Well what about him? What about her? What about that one? What about that deacon? What about that Sunday school teacher? What about that person in the choir when we ought to be taking the mirror of God's word and saying, now Lord, what about me? Lord, I need some help here. But continue thou. An old pastor stood some weeks ago and he told a group of young people All of them were high school graduates, excited about serving the Lord, raised money to go on this trip. And what here's what he said. He said, all things being what they are. He said, five years from now, 80% of you won't even be in church. And some of them got a little upset with him. But he said, I've been living for the Lord a long time. And he said, I've watched a lot start. I've seen very few finish. And I thought about this this morning. As I look over this congregation, five years from now, how many of you are going to be living for the Lord? How many of you gonna be going on with God? How many of you are gonna be faithful to the scriptures and loving the Lord Jesus? How many of you? You know how many? Everyone that takes a personal charge and takes this command to heart and says, God help me to continue. Everyone that purposes in their heart By the grace of God, like the old song says, though none go with me, still I will follow. That's who will go on. I don't know about you, but I want to be found in that number. The last days aren't quitting days. They're continuing days. They're days to go on. Will you go on? You might be here and not be saved, and you hadn't even started. You need to be born again. Jesus died for your sin, paid the debt in full. They put him in the grave and three days later he got up. And he'll give salvation to whosoever calls on the name of the Lord. He will forgive your sin and put it away. You don't need to do anything but come to him a broken, helpless sinner, cry for mercy from the Almighty God, and find in him eternal life, because he's the only one who has it. Then you can continue because you've got started. But for you dear people who have been saved by the grace of God , May the Lord challenge our hearts with this statement. But continue thou. Would you stand with me, please?