Sand and inscribe our trials in marble. When we should Inscribe our blessings in marble and ride our trials in the sand. Appreciate that song this morning, don't you? Thank the Lord for that. I want you to turn with me again, please, to Acts chapter number 4. And when you find your place in Acts chapter 4, I'm going to start reading in verse 5 down to verse number 12. And I'll invite you to stand with me, if you would, please, as we honor the reading of God's Word. Acts chapter 4, we'll start reading in verse number 5. The Bible says, and it came to pass on the morrow that their rulers and elders and scribes And Anas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem. And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power or by what name have you done this? Then Peter filled with the Holy Ghost said unto them, Ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel, if we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, By what means he is made whole, be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth Whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. In reading this account, there are two words that really got my attention. And I want you to see them in verse number 10 because they're going to be the two words that we study together today. It's the two little words by him They might be little words, but they convey a great truth. It's by him this man was healed. And it's truly everything comes by him. And may the Lord help us to see that. Father, we ask again for your help once more. Again, Lord, what the heart of this dear people gathered needs and what my heart needs has got to come from you. So we look to you, Lord. We pray That you would undertake for just the great need of all of us, Father, and help us to see those things that you wish to teach us. Draw us close to you. Open the eyes of our understanding. And we'll be careful to give you all the glory. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. Now, this account starts all the way back in Acts chapter number three And I just want to give you a brief outline quickly of this portion as we consider by him. I want you to notice in the first ten verses of Acts chapter number three, that an undeniable miracle occurred. We read about Peter and John going up to the temple to pray. And as they're going to pray, there's a man who's sitting there by the temple gate. That man's been lame since his birth. This man has been crippled. He's unable to walk. And he's there begging, he's there asking, give me something, give me alms, and he's trying to make a living the only way that he can at this particular point. But when Peter and John see him, Peter does something rather unusual because he puts his eyes on him. Verse 6 says that Peter said, Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And look what happens. He took him by the right hand and lifted him up. And immediately aren't you glad God does things Immediately. It's not a process that you go through. It's immediately he notice what it says. His feet and ankle bones receive strength. Look in verse 8. And he leaping up stood and walked and entered with them into the temple. Watch this, walking and leaping and praising God. And all the people saw him walking and praising God, and they knew that it was he which sat for alms at the beautiful gate of the temple, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him. It's an undeniable miracle. There's no other explanation for it. I mean, you can you can dissect it, look at it, do whatever you want to with it. But at the end of the day, an undeniable miracle took place. Here is a man who could not walk who now walks. Here is a man who was unable to move about of his own power, and now he's not just walking. The Bible makes it clear that he's leaping. That he's so sound and so whole that he's able to jump about and he's walking and leaping and praising God as they go to the temple. It's an undeniable miracle. But then I want you to notice the unworthy vessels. Verse 11 and 12 point this out. It says, as the lame man which was healed, held Peter and John. All the people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly wondering. Now they're trying to figure this out. What happened? What took place here? And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this, or why look ye so earnestly on us as though by our own power or holiness We had made this man to walk. You know what they're saying? We didn't do this. We're unworthy vessels. We're not the ones that made him walk. We couldn't make a man walk. We don't have that kind of power to make a man walk. So we're unworthy vessels. Now, that was strange to the ears of these people because the scribes and the Pharisees like the attention when anything was accomplished that somehow made them look better. Remember they love to be called master and they love to be called rabbi and they love to be recognized out in the public eye. And these men are doing right opposite. They're saying, we didn't do it. You know, we didn't do it. And then as you go on, you see their unashamed preaching. And I wish you'd take the time to read that, starting in verse number 13 down to verse number 26. And you'll find that the preaching was very straightforward. The preaching that Peter did here was very powerful. He calls in verse 19 for them to repent, be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. He preached to them that again, how it must come to pass that every soul which will not hear that prophet shall be destroyed from among the people. He preached a very strong message here. He talks about how unto you first in the last verse, verse 26, God having raised up his son Jesus, sent him to bless you. in turning away every one of you from his iniquities. So he he preaches a message here, the unashamed preaching. But then following the unashamed preaching is an unexpected outcome And when I read this, I thought, well, I expected this in verses 1 and 2, they spake unto the people, the priests, the captain of the temple, the Sadducees came upon them. Being grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead, and they laid hands on them and put them in hold unto the next day, for it's now eventide. That don't surprise me It don't surprise me that they arrested them , whisked them away, threw them in s in some jail, and said, Now we're going to hold you here because we don't want to hear this. That don't surprise me. The unexpected outcome is verse number four. How be it. It's the Spirit of God saying, in spite of that. Howbeit, many of them which heard the word believed. And the number of the men was about what? Five thousand. This was not a conducive atmosphere to preach the gospel in. This wasn't pleasant company to be in to be preaching the gospel. But somehow God worked and saved 5,000 people. Five thousand men we're told. Five thousand men in that great multitude. Now Peter and John didn't know that until after. As I've studied this, I've often thought that we often see things as failures that God says they really are successes. These men get carried off to jail. It doesn't look like they really did much good except make a bunch of religious people mad. But when the accounts being recorded, the Holy Ghost said, Oh, by the way, put this in. Let them know that there were five thousand people saved, regardless of the fact that the Pharisees, the priests, the capital, all those people didn't want to hear it and carried them away and put them in prison. And aren't you glad God works when we don't even recognize it? That's the power of that unashamed preaching. We have the unexpected outcome And then in the part I read already, in Acts chapter 4, verses 5 to 12, we see their unflinching boldness. Peter and John are brought into this council. They're examined. And I don't know about you, but did it strike you how many of the, for lack of a better term, the big whigs that are gathered? Rulers, elders, scribes, high priest, Caiaphas, John Alexander, kindred of the high priest, all the who 's who in the religious realm were right there in Jerusalem. And they bring these two men in and they say, We've got some questions for you. You've got to answer to us. We want to know how this happened. We know that man was lame. We know that man couldn't walk. We know he's born that way. We come in and out of here every day. He sits right there. We've never seen him walk. We know he can't. We know that the condition he's in, he was born with it. But we also know that whatever you did or whatever happened We saw that same man walking, leaping, praising God all through the temple. And we want an answer. And this answer better satisfies us. This answer better be conducive to what we are looking for. By the way, most people who are asking for truth don't want the truth. They just want their own minds soothed with what they've already decided to be so. But I love what he said. Again, back to the text, verse number 10, be it known unto you all. And to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you hope. Note again, you know what Jesus or what uh Peter and John said? Jesus did it. He's the one that did it. By the way, these men weren't just passing blame, you know. I was thinking the other day when I was a little boy, my sister had a holly hobby doll. Some of you older folks remember those? Holly hobby dolls. And they had and I believe the girl doll had a long uh shed braids. Yeah. And I remember thinking, I just the wee little thing, I don't know where I found the scissors, but I found a pair of scissors and I thought It would be neat to give her a haircut. And so I gave that holly hobby doll a haircut. And I remember when uh my sister came home and she found it and she cried and told mom and daddy And uh mama was questioning me, she said, now who did it? And uh I don't know why, but the first thing that came to my mind was my dad. I said, he did it. And my dad's looking at me like, boy, have you lost your mind? You know? That was one offense I got dual spankings for, one from mother and one from father. But nevertheless, these men weren't pointing blame. These men were giving glory. He did it. It's by him. Peter didn't do this. Peter didn't say, Now look, I did it. He wasn't part of the uh the the faith healing crowd because they always take the credit. He didn't say I did it. He did John didn't say no no I did it. No no no no they said he did it. By him. By him doth this man stand here before you, hope. You want an explanation? Do you want to know how this happened? Do you really want to know what uh what brought this this man that is notably, visibly Altered and changed and affected by what happened. Do you want to know who who did this? Jesus did this. And you know, all through the Bible, there's a multitude of things that only Jesus can do. It's by him. By the way, that phrase is used over and over and over again. I want to look at some of those in just a moment. But in his answer, I want you to notice in verse number 10, the person that's magnified. He says, by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Isn't it interesting that he didn't call him Jesus Christ the Son of God? Or the Lord Jesus Christ? He said, by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Why did he identify that particular name And why did he magnify the name? Well, he's obviously magnifying the name of the person of Jesus Christ, but the Jesus Christ of Nazareth is the Jesus Christ that these men were full aware of, who had walked the earth, who had lived among them. who had been condemned by them, who had been found guilty by them, and said, he must be crucified. They wanted them to know that this same Jesus This same Jesus that they knew, this same Jesus that they were aware of, it was this same Jesus who healed this man who couldn't walk. By the way, I'm glad that this same Jesus is the same Jesus we're preaching here this morning. He's the same Jesus who will save every lost man who will come to him. He's the same Jesus who will strengthen every believer that will lean on him. He's the same Jesus that has the ability to do what seems impossible in the eyes of men. But it's very possible when you factor in this same Jesus. So we see his person. And then notice what else is magnified in that text. He makes it very clear by him. doth this man stand? It's by him. There's the power. The power is always in him. It's by him. By the way, that word by means it's the agency or the vehicle through which it comes. The agency by how how was this man healed? It wasn't Peter taking him by the hand. It wasn't Peter saying special words, you know. He did say in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth up and walked, but that wasn't a special formula. That wasn't an abracadabra, if I can put it in those kind of terms. Wasn't that? No, no. It it he simply said, It's by him. It's his power. I I you know, I really believe Peter could have said many things and the and the outcome would have been the same. Because it's not in what the words, it's not in those words that are uttered. See, we're not superstitious. I read about Paul preaching there in Athens, and he said, I perceive ye are superstitious. I look around here and you got every kind of God you can imagine on this hill. And you're worshiping, and you and you've even gone so far as you've gone over here and you made an altar to the unknown God. Just in case one's been missed. And we're not preaching superstition. Peter's making it very clear here that the power that raised that crippled man Was the power that was invested in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Beloved, we do not trust in superstitious silliness. We are not saved by just the repetition of words we've been told to repeat. We're not saved by prayers that we form with our lips. You know what? We're saved by Him. By him and by him alone. It was by him you see the power. And then again notice the product. By him doth this man stand here before you whole These men could say nothing. Here he is. You knew he couldn't walk. You remember him sitting there. You've watched him all these years. Here he is. The explanation is Jesus did it. He's the one that made him whole. And I would say to everyone who's a Christian, everyone who's been born again, everyone who's genuinely saved here this morning, you are a living testimony of the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because you stand as what you are, like Paul said, I am what I am by the grace of God. You stand as what you are as a product of what Jesus Christ can do. You're not a product of a Baptist church or you're not the product of a preacher. You're not the product of some man's work. You're the product of the Lord Jesus He's made you what you are. It's by him you're saved. It's by him you're made whole. And it's to him we are careful to give all the glory to God. Wasn't it Moody, I believe, that was walking down the street one day and he was walking with the man who was he was trying to get saved, trying to tell him about the Lord and and he saw this they they both saw this man staggering towards them. And that man said, I believe that's one of your converts, Moody. And Mr. Moody said, Well, it must be. Because if he was the Lord's, he wouldn't be walking that way. The truth is, salvation and all that goes with it is a product of the work of God. It's his working in us. It is God that worketh in you both the will and the do of his good pleasure. It's the Lord that's doing that work in us. If there's any good thing in us, we have to attribute it to the person of Jesus Christ, period. It's not plus something or minus anything. It's all him. It's by him. And notice again, he says, by him doth this man stand here before you hold. I love when the Lord raises up individuals who defy the devil's arguments. And just destroys it. I mean, how what what are you going to say? What what were they going to say? Hey, by the way, obviously the law couldn't do what was done. He had been at the gate of the law, so to speak, his whole life. And he was still crippled. He had lain at the gate of the law his whole life, couldn't move. He he had looked the scribes and the Pharisees and the high priest and the priest and all this crowd that examined had at some point or another walked by him and not one of them could help him. Not one of them. They didn't have anything to offer. But when Peter and John came along , and again, they they didn't have anything to give him. They made that clear. We don't have any silver or gold. But we do know Jesus. And we believe that Jesus can do something for you. And so they said, in his name, rise up and walk. And suddenly that man who was not helped by the law, was not helped by religion, suddenly met the Lord Jesus, and boy, he makes a difference. Please don't tell me salvation does not equal change. Because that's not true to Scripture. That's that's that doesn't run in line with the Bible. Everywhere in my Bible I see Jesus coming, he makes a difference. Everywhere he comes. Listen, I remember when I first went into the ministry and the first funeral I had to conduct. And boy I was nervous and scared, didn't know what to do or say. And I remember thinking, well, I'll just do what Jesus I was always taught, do what Jesus did. And when I started studying about funerals and death around Jesus, I found out that ain't gonna help me. Because the people didn't stay dead around him. He always raised them up. And I knew I didn't have that kind of power, so I reckon I'm going to have to go another direction. But the truth of the matter is Jesus can is the only one. He exclusively can do things and people's lives. And again, it all has to be attributed to him. It's his doing. Tis great work. Oh how we see the mighty hand of God working here in this this lame man's life Can I give you a few things this morning to take home with you that are exclusively by Him? You will not find them anywhere else. And I've alluded to this first one already, but the first one that is by him is salvation. It's by him. In fact, Peter made that clear, didn't he, in verse 12? Neither is there salvation in any other. Don't you know that kind of rankled inside of them? Boy, they didn't want to hear that. There's no there's not salvation in this temple. There's no salvation in the ritual. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. He said, I want you to know something. Salvation's by him exclusively. Hebrews chapter 7 and verse 25 says, Wherefore God is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God how? By Him. By Him. You see, if you try to come to God through the church, you won't get there. If you try to come to God through your religion or through your religiosity or through your good works, you won't get to Him. If you try to come to God through any other way than the Lord Jesus Christ, you will fail. But every man, woman, boy, or girl, no matter how small their faith, no matter how weak they may be, no matter how wicked they are, if you come to God through Him, you get to Him. You get to him because he's the only way. He's the way and the truth and the life. It's by him we're saved. It's by him we come. Oh friend, listen, it is through the Lord Jesus we find salvation. There's no other. We're not being arrogant when we say that we're being honest. We're not being boastful because you know what? We all had to come the same way. Everybody here has to come the same way Everyone here has to come by him, by him and him alone. And so salvation is by him. Thank God. And there's so much more that goes with that according to Acts chapter 13. In fact, we're there in the book of Acts. Look at this real quick. Again, along with salvation is this truth of justification. And when you look at Acts 13, 39. Acts chapter 13 and verse 39, and by him all that believe. Are justified from all things, from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses. Justified? You mean I'm justified in the eyes of God? When the Lord looks at my record, he doesn't read a crime-laden list. He simply sees me justified. Declared righteous. Made whole. Listen, when he healed that lame man, he didn't put him in rehabilitation for twelve weeks. And say you've got to learn to walk again. Some of you dear people, I know you've been through more than that. You've been through long times of rehabilitation. Some disease or surgery or sickness, whatever, has put you in a place that you had to learn to walk again. Maybe you had to learn to use your hands or arms again. Maybe you had to learn to speak again. And and all of that was the process of time. You had to learn little by little, had to learn to swallow again. And yet when Jesus came along, it was not in baby steps this man started walking. It says he stood, he walked, he leapt, and he praised God. It it it's as if that man and it's not as if he did. He went off skipping. You know? Do you remember how to skip? If some of us did that, we'd have to have a hip replacement. And and if we did it, we better do it with a knee brace on and all sorts of gear to hold it up and hold it in and hang on And hope she don't come apart. He didn't. Though can you imagine those legs had never felt the weight of his body. Those legs had never supported him. They had never held him up. But but he he wasn't worried about that. He wasn't like a little uh little newborn colt when it's born. And you know they're they got them big long legs, but they don't know how to use them, and they get up and they're trembling and they're just kind of dan, you know, until they get comfortable standing up. He wasn't like that He immediately was made whole. He immediately stood up. He immediately leaped. Why? Because Jesus Christ had done for him what nobody else could do. And I'm saying that when you get saved, you don't get half saved. You don't get partial in, you don't get a little bit in, you don't get just uh a a portion of salvation. When you get saved, the moment you got saved You 're as saved now as you're ever going to be. You're never going to be any more saved. You say, but when I get to heaven, I'll I'll be I'll be more saved. No, you'll you'll just be in heaven, not be on earth The reality is if a person is saved, you're as saved now as you'll ever be. Now religion says, now hold on a minute, that's boastful. Hold on a minute, don't talk like that because how can a person be sure? Well we got a Bible, and that Bible makes me sure, and my Bible tells me that that I had passed from death unto life You don't do that in stages either. You're either dead or alive. And so here is a man who was healed and as a picture of salvation, he's immediately made whole. When you got saved, you got good and saved, and you're all you're saved, and you're just as saved as you're ever going to be. Now you might not be where you ought to be spiritually. You certainly aren't all you're going to be. John said it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know when he shall appear. We shall be like him. We're all a work in progress. But as far as salvation goes, we are as saved as we're ever going to be saved. Need to let that soak into your soul. Because again, you know what it is? It's by him. A lot of times we wrestle and struggle and we say, but preacher I i if if I was saved, then I and I and I and I. And here's our problem. We got our eyes on I. When we get our eyes on him, salvation, salvation, your testimony should not start with I. It should start with he. Salvation testimony is not I did, salvation is he did. A salvation testimony is not about what you've done, it's all about what he's done And when you realize that, there's a rest, there's a place of security there because you know it's a work of God. It's a work of God. Salvations by the Lord. Can I give you one more? Would you go over here to Colossians? Colossians chapter number one. And not only are we saved by him, but would you look at this one in Colossians 1, verse 17? Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians Colossians chapter 1 and verse number 17, and he is before all things, and here's that phrase again: by him all things consist. You're sustained by him. You're sustained by him. You say, what do you mean, preacher? He's the one that keeps you going. When you get a hold of that, you'll keep going. He's the one that that that he's the how can I say it? He's the fuel in your tank that never runs out. Now some of you drive on a prayer and a promise and a vapor, right? And you know what? You you run or close you it'll happen, won't it? You'll be like, uh oh, done went too far. But when you run, listen, by him all things consist. That 's a beautiful word because it literally means to hold together and uphold. That's what he's doing. A preacher I I've I've done this. I mean you cu you you come in church like I'm I'm just trying to s stay faithful. I'm just trying to hang in there. I'm trying to finish my course. I talked to a preacher, brother, trying to encourage him. He said, Preacher, I'm just trying to get to the finish line. And I thought about that. That's kind of our mindset. We're just, and you know what a lot of that is? That's us. That's us. I'm trying It's my effort. It's my determination. It's my commitment. But listen, my Bible says it's by him all things consist. The upholding and the strengthening and the sustaining and the a and the going on is because we've got one in us who's carrying us on. Thank God there's one who will sustain us. That's why I do believe, and I hope not to upset your little apple cart, but the truth of the matter is I don't think man has the ability to destroy what God is consider is holding up. Man's not going to destroy this earth. God is. And and he's upholding. He's upholding. Don't you listen to the news, I was listening, uh one of my downfalls is I like talk radio. One of the curses is nobody else in my family does. So when we ride anywhere, um I listen to talk radio, and they don't like listening to talk radio. But I I was listening to this thing about the climate and he was going on about all of the the alterations and and no doubt things are changing, whether it's cyclical or whatever it may be, uh things are changing It's been I I as I've been here ten years and I don't remember June 1st starting off with 50 degrees. It's been closer to 500 a time or two, but it's not been 50. And and and whatever all that is. But but listen, what I'm trying to say is and and and man's man's all fretting and worrying and consumed with with all the possibilities. But know this, there's a God who said springtime and harvest. There's a God who set him up holding all things. All things consist. I'm the one who's holding it. And listen, if he's going to keep the earth going, don't you think he's going to keep you going? If he cares, didn't Jesus say if he cares for the little sparrows of the field, will he not care for you? If he'll not robe the lilies that beautifully bloom so much more beautiful than Solomon, will he not put clothes on your back? Will he not hold you up? Will he not take care of you? Little children of God rest in the good shepherd who takes real good care of his sheep. David said, I'm uh young, I've been uh um what do you say, help me. Yes. What a testimony. But I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. Thank you, brother. You know what he said? I want you to know something. God's took good care of me. Isn't that what the Hitchens were singing about? He's took good care of us And sure there have been storms and sure there have been trials and sure there have been needs and sure there have been battles and sure there's been hell to fight, but there's been God over all of that. Who's upheld us? Who's in control by him? By him all things consist. My Christianity is not an endurance test. It's not a grip my teeth and hope I get to the end. It's a work of God that carries me forward because I consist I live on Him. Years ago we had to dig a well, and the well in our home that I grew up in was a hand dug well. It was about eighty foot deep. It was one a deep well to be hand dug. And we had to always be careful with water. If more than two or three people showered, you'd run out of water And that'd mean daddy'd have to spend time in the basement priming them old pumps. You remember them old pumps you had to pull water in and prime them up to get them going? He'd have to spend time down there priming that thing and getting it going. So we were super careful with water. And I remember when they drilled that well there at Dad's house, and I forget how many feet it was. It was a very deep well, and it gave a lot of water. And the guy said now, he said, I want you to run this thing twenty-four hours. My dad said, Twenty-four hours. He said, run the hose down the backyard there and just let it run. He says it's got to clean it out, gotta clear up, make the water good. And he said, well he said, won't I run it dry? And I still remember that well driller. He laughed and laughed. He said, You're not going to run this dry. He said, you could let that thing sit there and run a full week and you wouldn't pump this well dry. There's more water in there than you will ever need. Now that was a new thought to us because we had always had to be so careful with water. And a lot of us live like Jesus is nothing more than a hand-dug whale. But I've got news for you, he's an artesian whale. You will not exhaust him, you will not outstrip him, you will not call upon him for help that it's not available, you'll not need more than he's got the ability to supply. Why? All things by him consist. What a Savior is the Lord Jesus Christ. And notice it's all by Him. It's all by him. I got six or seven more, but I'm just afraid you can't take it. I don't want to overdo. But it's all by him. Take this last one home. First Corinthians chapter one. First Corinthians chapter one Look at verse four, please. I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ, that in everything ye are enriched. By him. In all utterance and in all knowledge. You know what he said? You're enriched, you're equipped. You're outfitted by him. Say, preacher, I I just can't live the Christian life. Oh, yes, you can. He'll outfit you for it. He'll enrich you. And I believe Paul's referring to the spiritual gifts that, and again, here's a carnal church, but they're saved. These are saved people And all the saved people have the Holy Spirit, and all the saved people have hope have the Holy Spirit have gifts that enrich them, that equip them for what God has called them to do. We've been loaded, like David said, daily, he loads us with benefits. And it's all by him. He would go on and remind them that we don't have anything to boast about because everything we have we've received. He 's given it. He's the giver. I mean it's i i i if you if we've got anything, if we if there's anything good in our lives, we have to say it's by him. It's by him. We're enriched by him. Oh dear friend, can I say to you this morning, if you don't know him, you all know what you're missing. The reality is you're dead in your trespasses and sin. Your sin has separated you from God, and you're just as dead on the inside as a man laying in the grave. You're spiritually dead. And what you need is not to join a church or get in the waters of baptism or light a candle. Or rubber rosary, or any of that religious ritual. What you need is to put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Dead men don't raise themselves. Take somebody else. And that somebody else is Jesus Christ. And He will give life. He'll make you live. And if you're saved by the grace of God and you're not where you ought to be, aren't you glad there's a God in heaven who gives mercy? If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Friend, He'll put you back in order. If you're out of order, He'll put you back in order. And oh dear brother, sister, you might be going through a bit of a trial. That song the Hitchens sang this morning. That fair breeze isn't fair your way. It may be a foul breeze that's blowing. You're saying, preacher, I don't know how I'm going to get on the other end of this thing. I don't know that there's hope or light at the end of this tunnel. Well, he upholds all things. By the word of his power. I promise you this, on the authority of God's word, by him you'll consist. He'll give you strength. There's grace for every trial. There's help for everything God calls us to walk through. His enablement, his enablement is enough. And you will find he is faithful. Will you look to him and just say, Lord, help me? As a Christian, you may just need to pray here in a few moments when we have our invitation. Lord, I need some help here. Be honest and open. Lord, I need some help right there. I need help in this. And I know this to be true, you'll find him to be an ever -present help. Because he's an ever-present God. Stand with me if you would please our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Brother Dow, you come please with the invitation. Father, you know