Bibles, please, internal meet of the Gospel of Luke, chapter number twenty-three And I'd like to read one verse this evening, Luke chapter number 23 and verse number 33. Luke chapter number 23 and verse number 33. And when you have found your place there, let's stand and I'll read the text. Luke chapter number twenty-three and verse number thirty-three And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him And the malefactors, one on the right hand and the other on the left. I want you to notice that statement when they were come to the place which is called Calvary. Calbery is certainly one of those red letter places. In fact, when you think about all the places in the Bible, and there are lots of them, coming up soon, Dr. Hitchens is going to be teaching a Bible geography course Here for three evenings and then three more down in Dover. And there are so many places in the Bible that are fascinating And places that you read about and you say, you know, I'd like to see that place. I mean, that's a place I'd like to go. The garden tomb, that that sudden certainly comes to mind. That's a place be something to see. Mount Sinai, that would be a place where the law of God was given. That'd be a place to see. But you know, there's no place quite like the hill called Calvary. And while there is debate down here as to where that place is, you don't know that, there's a debate that some believe it's in the old church there and Others believe it in in it's Gordon's Calvary, another uh place, but regardless of the debate that's going on where Calvary is, God knows where it is. And there's a place established called Calvary Father, help us tonight, please, as we linger around Calvary. Would you speak to our hearts? We'll give you the glory. We pray in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated Calvary is a Latin word that literally means the place of the skull. In every gospel, and all four Gospels, I should say , this place is mentioned. In Matthew 27 and 33, it's called Golgotha. In Mark chapter 15 and verse number 22, likewise it's called Golgotha there. John, in John's Gospel, in John 19 and verse 17 , says that it is a place of the skull, the place of a skull. And then here in Luke chapter 23 and 33, we're just simply told it is a place called Calvary. Now, when you think about Calvary, I want you to think about three things this evening. Because why we are here this evening is because of what happened on Calvary. On the cross of the Lord Jesus, there where he suffered and died, that hill called Calvary, we've come tonight to commemorate or to remember the fact that he died there for us. We're here to memorialize that. We're here to do this in obedience to the word of God that says, For as oft as you drink this as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. And we're showing the Lord's death. We're remembering the Lord's death. But as you think about Calvary, I want us to linger there for a little bit. I do believe it is a place that will get us some help. You know, often in the Bible places were memorialized for what God did there. I think about Bethel in our Old Testament. I think about that place, the house of God. It was a place where God had met and God would work and And Calvary is one of those places, and you know, oftentimes when you you look at Isaac, Isaac would go back and dig the wells that his father Abraham had dug. And he did that because there was water there. There was life there. There was help there. And you know there are some places we need to go back to and get some help there. Because there's still help to be had there. There's still some some help to be gotten there. And Calvary is one of those places that if we'll just go back to, we will get the help we need when we go back to Calvary. So go back with me to Calvary. And for a few moments here this evening, I want you to think with me first about this place called Calvary. This place called Calvary. Notice it said, when they were come to the place. You see that in the text? Which is called Calvary. Oh, this place was a very significant place. You think about the reality of what happened there. By the way, it was a place notorious for death. Jesus was not the first one to die there. Nor was Jesus the last one to die there. But if I can say it like this, he was the best one who ever died there. He's the one that matters. But o on that place, that that place, this specific place It was a place of death. It was a place where people went to die. When you spoke of going to Calvary, when you spoke of going to Golgotha, when you spoke of going to this place, You understood that you went there to die. It was a place of punishment. It was a place where penalties were exacted. It was a place Where those that were uh wrong, the perpetrators, were put to death. In fact, we read about two malefactors, one on the right and one on the left. If you will, in that day, it was as if this was the place where sentences were carried out. And so criminals were led up this hill. I don't know how many, uh we we don't have uh deep records or lots of record, but we do know that it was a place where many, many people were put to death. And so, as we think about this place of death, we think about this place of punishment, what is it that makes it have such an attraction for you and I who are saved? When you think about first all of the songs that are written about Calvary, I just happened to look in our little hymn book here, and there's 25 or 30, and this is a fraction. A fraction of the songs about Calvary. In fact, when you start searching it, the the reality is that there's almost so many that it's hard to count them all. Someone has said there's at least over 1,500 songs that have been written about Calvary. And yet we sing them with joy and reverence and worship. When we sing about at Calvary or at the cross, or we sing songs like Alas and Did My Savior Bleed. Or we sing things like burdens are lifted at Calvary. Or we sing a song like we did this morning, Calvary covers it all. It is a special place. We sing about this place called Calvary. You think about all of the songs, and I'm hoping that there are multitudes of those songs flooding your mind and heart as you think about that place called Calvary. We sing about it because something worth singing about took place there. Then you think about the sermons that are preached about Calvary. In fact, no sermon's much of a sermon unless it gets to Calvary at some point or another. Somewhere in the preaching, we must get back to the cross. Somewhere in the preaching we must get to the cross of Jesus Christ. I love Mr. Spurgeon's statement on the subject, and he did it well. In all of his preaching, he said, wherever I take my text, I head as fast as I can to Calvary. As soon as I can, I head towards Calvary. And listen, a sermon that's worth hearing is a sermon that will take you back to Calvary. It was on the cross of Jesus Christ. That our hopes were secured, and that our soul salvation was purchased. Oh, thank God for Calvary. Think about all the sermons about Calvary. And then think about the significance tonight. I'm talking about a place. A place that is significant, it's a place like no other. I know there are important places around the world There are places, in fact, we were uh we were in a building uh back this summer uh called the Confederation Building in Charlottetown, P. I. And it was where the four founding fathers of the Canadian uh the nation of Canada, the country of Canada, it was where they signed uh the papers to declare themselves and ask permission from the British government to be free. And so it was a significant place. It held a historical significance. There's all kinds of places like that that are significant around the world. But the significance of this place has nothing to do with the real estate. It has nothing to do with the view. How many of you know that if you want a place with a view, you'll pay for it? If you want a place that has a view, I mean you're you're going to pay for it. If you want a place on the water, you're going to pay for it. Its significance is because of its situation. Calvary is not significant because of its situation. It's not significant simply because of historical means. It is significant because something eternal was accomplished there. I like how one person put it. The umbilical cord of eternity was tied to Calvary. The umbilical cord of eternity. You know a little baby has to have that umbilical cord to live. That's its life source That's where it draws its nutrients. That's where i its very life is hung. That life is in that that source. And I'm glad that there is a place on this earth. There is a place that listen my friend that is significant because God hung an eternal umbilical cord for the life of man, and through the Lord Jesus Christ, you and I can live because of Calvary. Now folks you can take away Calvary, you can stop singing about Calvary, you can stop preaching about Calvary, and Christianity is no more. Because Christianity is built on the reality of what happened on that mighty cross where the Lord Jesus Christ died. Oh, thank God for a place called Calvary. And you know, one of these days I believe one of the reasons that confusion exists over the place is because of the tendency of man to make idols. You know, you think about how uh I believe uh Moses was hid, the body of Moses was hid, because there would have been idolatry big time. The uh his body was hid away by the Lord because I'm telling you, had it not been, man may have worshipped everything from his big toe to his right ear or anything that survived. Because man's tendency is to idolize things that do not matter. Oh dear friend, it's not so much the place that matters, it's the person who hung in that place. I want you to think about that person now, the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Who is this person? You know, persons make significant the places. I learned here a few weeks ago that there's an N, an old N, across from the American Home and Hardware. And George Washington stayed in that place. And if you've driven anywhere around this part of the country, you know, I I I've often said, I'd like to count the number of places that it said George Washington slept here. He must have did a lot of traveling and a lot of napping because he slept in a lot of places all over this country. But you know that his his presence as a person made that place a significant place. Now just oh average you or me It don't really matter. I mean, but uh you know, not I I I've never read anywhere, y you know, I can fill in, I'm not gonna do that, but we can put a name and say, hey, the so-and-so slept here, you say, big deal Who cares? I I I've often thought I ought to hang that on some pews and say so-and-so slept here. There's a there's a little boy No, seriously, listen, there's a little boy, and uh he's uh he's a man now, and uh he he never stayed awake through a message. I was his pastor for uh all of his life and until well he was what 16, 17, little Matthew. And little Matthew could hear my voice and he'd be asleep like that And that little rascal, he slept probably on every pew in the church. And I mean he didn't just just take a nap. I mean he slept with drool and he slept with snoring. And and I told him, I said, one one of these days the thing you're going to be remembered for, son, is that you have slept everywhere in this building Everywhere. Slept in the floor. I I'd even had to move him off the pulpit. He would run around till he lost energy and he would just collapse and he'd lay right there and I'd get tired of stepping over him and take him and Put him on a pew somewhere. Man, that kid could sleep anywhere. But you know something? The Lord Jesus made significant the place called Calvary What's important about Calvary is not so much that little piece of ground where that cross was was uh put down into the earth, but what's important is the person who hung on that cross and shed his blood for you and me. I want you to know that person was God's sacrificial lamb. When John the Baptist saw him. John the Baptist said, Behold, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. Boy, when he saw Jesus, he didn't see just a prophet, he didn't see just a teacher. He didn't see just some common ordinary man. He saw God's sacrificial Lamb. He saw the one who would pay the sin debt of the whole world. He said, Look at him, behold the Lamb of God. And I'm glad for what he said, which taketh away. Aren't you glad for that statement? Which taketh away the sin of the whole world. And then we've studied and read this text in Revelation, the lamb as it had been slain. Listen, hanging on Calvary. The rocks, the wood , the piece of real estate, the ground, none of that is significant. That is not the important. The important is is that Jesus Christ was there. Jesus Christ shed his blood there. Years ago, when Joe was a little boy, we climbed a mountain and we took our pocket knives and we cut our names in a big old tree. I don't know that I can find it now. I don't know if I can remember how to get there. I hope you do. Don't forget. Because our our our agreement was back then, I said, now boy, when you have kids I want you to take them back up there and you tell them that me and Daddy climbed this mountain and we've , carved our names in that old tree and we put our names there and said we were there. Now it's not a significant mountain. I don't even know the name of it But it does have a good view. And it is a pretty place. But what I'm trying to say is it's not that mountaintop that's important. It's who was there and why we were there together that made it so important to us. And Jesus, when he died on the cross, look, there were all kinds of people up there, uh going up there to die. I mean they killed him for m for murder, they killed him up there for Stealing, they killed them for all sorts of reasons, all kinds of crimes, would bring a capital punishment and bring you to a place where you would have to pay for it with your life. But when Jesus hung there, he did not die for sins he committed. He died as the sacrificial Lamb of God. For your sin and for mine. Not only do we see the person as a sacrificial lamb, but we see him as the shepherd who laid down his life. Remember in John chapter 10 he said something like this, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. Aren't you glad that he gave his life for the sheep? Isn't it interesting that the Bible portrays him as the sacrificial lamb and as the shepherd too? He's both one and the same. And so as a sacrificial lamb, he laid down his light. As a shepherd, he laid down his light. He gave his life for the sheep. And you know the beauty of that thing is? He said, No man taketh it from me. I lay it down. No man took it. The Roman soldier didn't kill Jesus. Those spears in his side, that spear in his side, those spikes in his hands and feet didn't kill Jesus. That crown of thorns didn't kill Jesus. The act of crucifixion did not kill Jesus. Jesus laid down his life. In fact, the Lord Jesus was so much God hanging there that there wasn't a man on earth who could take his life. His life was perpetual. He was eternal. He was the eternal Son of God. He would have not died had he not dismissed his Spirit. But thank God for the day that he bowed his head and gave up the ghost and said, It is finished. He dismissed his spirit and he died for you and me. He's the shepherd who laid down his life. And then I want you to notice he's the Savior who made salvation possible. In 1 John 4, verse 14, and we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Who do we see hanging there? Oh that one malefactor on one side, the one on the other? Only thing we know, we don't know their names. In fact, the only thing we know is that one rejected Christ and one received Christ. That's all we know. We don't know what they did. They said we'd we're dying for what we did. We deserve what we did we what we're getting. We deserve this. We don't know much about them outside of the fact of their association with the Lord Jesus. But what we know about Jesus, friend. Oh my, we know that he was the Savior of mankind. We know that what he was doing there was making salvation possible for every man. There he was opening a door that no man could shut. He was making a way that no man could create He was doing for me what nobody else could do. He was purchasing my soul. He was pardoning my sin. He was putting it away eternally. Thank God for the person who hung on Calvary's cross, the precious Lamb of God. We come to this memorial tonight to Just remember not so much the cross, not so much the rock of the hill, the place called Calvary, but we're here to remember the person of Jesus Christ. Then I want you to notice the purpose. What was the purpose of it all? You say, preacher, uh was there a reason for it? Was this a A random thing. Oh, no, no. There was a purpose. In fact, salvation could not be purchased any other way. I know this because our God does not act without purpose. He's a God of wisdom, He's the God of all wisdom, He's the omniscient one, and all that He does, He does on purpose. How many of you have ever done something and it turned out good and you took credit for it knowing that you just did it accidentally? Didn't mean to do that. You know? There was a car bowed up in front of me and and and uh I wasn't paying attention to be honest with you. I was enjoying something with the Lord and and I wasn't paying a lick of attention and all of a sudden I looked up and there's brake lights and and uh a car and and so I swerved and and and when I swerved I sort of scooted in the gravel. When I scooted in the gravel I come back around and before I knew it was right back in front of 'em and I drove off and I thought, I bet they think I'm some kind of driver. But it was, I promise you, it was all on accident. It was nothing it was nothing purposeful or intentional. In fact, it likely had more to do with angels than anything else. It likely was just the Lord answering prayer and saying, I'm not going to let this dummy wreck himself. I'm going to get him home safe. But listen to me, dear friend. Everything God does, he does it on purpose. Creation cries that out. Creation testifies it clearly that what our Lord does, he does it on purpose. There's no accidents with the Lord. There's no mistakes. There's no oops with God. Everything he does. And Calvary, Calvary, I read something that turned my stomach. Some theologians said that Calvary was simply an accident. That he wasn't meant to die in this way. That that things got out of hand and it got bigger and beyond and and he died. Oh, how foolish. How treacherous a thought. Jesus did not die accidentally. He died on purpose. There was a reason behind his dying. There was a reason for the cross of Calvary. The reason number one being that he satisfied the righteous demands of the law, thus satisfying God. I remind you tonight that the wages of sin is death. The soul that sinneth it shall die. God 's requirement for sin is a death. When Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, he didn't go pick a bouquet of flowers. He didn't go harvest a bunch of fruit or vegetables from the garden. He went and he killed an animal. And he took a skin, that coat of skin, and he placed it on their bodies, and he covered them up Death was demanded for sin. Death is God's requirement for sin. And when I see my Lord hanging there, I read Isaiah fifty-three, ten, and it says, Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. When I look at Calvary, I see that the righteous demands of God's law were satisfied. You see, sin required a payment, sin required a death. There had to be the shedding of blood. But thank God, God in his mercy didn't require my blood. He didn't require my death. He gave his only begotten Son. And the Lord Jesus died and met the righteous demands of God. Now you know what you can do tonight? You can take refuge in what Jesus did. You can run and hide in the finished work of Calvary. You can run to him. There's a lot of people, you know what you worry about? Did I pray the right thing? Was I sorry enough? Did I cry enough? Did did I do the right thing? Listen to me. You run to the cross of Calvary, you run to Jesus Christ, you rest in the finished work of Calvary, and know this, he met the demands of God in full. He paid your sin debt in full. He met God's righteous demand. Let me say quickly, number two, the purpose of the cross was not only to satisfy the righteous demands of the law, but it was to settle the sin issue. And they got it settled. It settled. You say, well, what about the judgment seat of Christ? That's not about sin. Thank God for that. That sin issue was settled on the cross. That sin issue was settled on Calvary. That sin issue was taken care of. The Bible says in Hebrews chapter ten, verse twelve, but this man, Jesus, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever Sat down on the right hand of God. Aren't you glad he did it? He settled it. It's done. It's finished. There's no need you worrying about having to top up, having to tip in, take part Having to do anything to help make sure the debt gets paid. He's not walking around looking for your contribution. He simply cries on you or cries out to you to call upon him. Friend, he doesn't need your help. He doesn't need your assistance. You and I don't need to prop ourselves up. We, friend, are saved by the grace of God and kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation because the sin issue was settled. It was settled. When the Lord Jesus shed his blood, winged his way into the celestial heaven, offered up himself, gave that blood on the altar of God and glory. He became the final sacrifice. God said, I'm pleased. I require no more. There's nothing else you can do. Trust in my son. Rest in my son, come to my son, and salvation is full and free. Some of you precious people have wore your nerves out trying to get in and hang on and go up And hope you get through. And now let me say to you tonight, just rest in the good arms of God and trust in the finished work of Christ and rest in what Jesus did, because what he did was enough. He settled it, church. He settled it. Brother Ben, imagine going and buying a new truck And paying for it full. Writing a check and it s and being done. And then your son comes along and says, Now Dad, I I know you paid paid for it. You paid the full price. But I I want to help out. Let me let me pay a little on it. And you say something there's nothing to pay for. It's already paid. I mean right here's the receipt in my hand. I mean look right here. Look look it it says I don't know if even give receipts that way anymore but anyway paid in full And you look at it and you say, Pay , yeah, but but but I want to help. Well you may want to help, but you don't need the help because it's already paid for. And can I say to you tonight that your soul's already been paid for? He don't want you to say, Lord, let me help with my church membership Let me hurt help with my baptism. Let me help with my good works. Let me help my holding on. No, my friend, he says, look right here, it's paid in full. And by the way, that empty tomb is the receipt stamped Sealed, delivered, that says it's paid in full, there's nothing else you can do. Thank God for the finished work of Jesus Christ. Where he paid our sin debt in full. That sin issue was settled That sin was paid by the sacrifice of himself, and it was paid once and for all. Once and for all. It's paid for. You and I can rest in that tonight. Not only rest in that, we can rejoice in that. Say, preacher, that's awful good. That's too good. By the way, the Bible is the only book that contains stuff that seems too good to be true that is true. Right I told somebody the other day they they're reading something in an email. I said it's too good to be true. It's too good to be true. It's not right. That's not true. Don't believe it. Don't click on it. Don't go that way. It's Oh true It's too good to be true. Hey, buddy, I'm telling you something tonight. It's it's not too good to be true. It is true. My sin issue was settled. Thank God it wasn't settled when I was an eight-year-old boy and trusted Christ. It was settled long before that. It was settled as far as God's concerned 2,000 years ago when the blood of Jesus Christ was shed on my behalf. Thank God the sin issue is settled. What's the purpose? Satisfied the righteous demands of God. Sin issue was settled. Let me give you one more. It's where my soul was purchased. Would you go with me to this verse, First Peter one? First Peter chapter one Verse number eighteen. First Peter chapter number one and verse number eighteen Our Bibles clearly say, For as much as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, who verily or truly was foreordained before the foundation of the world. But was manifest in these last times for you, who by him do believe in God that raised him up from the dead and gave him glory, that your faith and hope might be in God. He purchased your soul. He paid the price in full. When he cried, they tell me that that little statement, it is finished, was a market term. It was the term of a dealer. It was the term of a man who made a transaction. To telesty, they say it is. And they say that when a good deal was struck, And the price was paid and the purchase complete. They would cry those words to Telesti. They would cry, it is finished. And when the Lord Jesus gave himself on the cross, he cried, It is finished. I bought them, paid for them, purchased them. I have pardoned them. I have redeemed them by my precious blood. Now you hear me out, beloved. You have not been bought, you have not been bought with some church tradition. You have not been bought by your own good deeds. You have not been d bought by your efforts. You have not been bought by something that somebody else has done for you or will do for you when you die and go uh and step into eternity. This thing of purgatory and praying and paying people to get you out of a place of of holding is a lie of the rotten devil. It holds people in bondage. It's made wealthy that old harlot church of Rome. And my friend, it's a wicked, evil thought. Because Jesus Christ paid the sin dead in full. He purchased your soul when he died on Calvary. He bought you. Listen, he bought you and he paid the price and you're his. That's why salvation isn't some silly little shallow thing. It's a serious matter because you no longer are yours. If you're saved, by by the way, listen, do you know one day you're going to a place where he's the Lord and Master? I'm afraid there's a lot of people who think, well, I'm going to heaven because I prayed a prayer. Well, you know what you have a problem with? You've never bowed the knee. You're not gonna fit. I heard a fellow say the other day, he said, I'm looking forward to being in that great company who who who up yonder know what it is to bow the knee. Because ever since I got saved, he's been telling me what to do, where to go, and how to live. And he said up yonder nothing's going to change. It's just going to be on a higher level. Hear me now. My Bible tells me that I am not my own. I am bought with a price. I don't belong to me. You don't belong to you. You say I can live however I want to. Well, yes, you can, but if you're saved, you can't. Because you're the Lord's. He paid you He per He purchased you. You're His by pavement of blood. You belong to Him. He's in your possession. And when he's in your possession, listen, beloved , you and I are under his control. And thank God for that. Thank God for that. But you're bought with the blood of Christ. This wasn't a this wasn't a cheap transaction. How many of you have learned what you buy at the dollar store is about worth a quarter? You ever hear the saying you get what you pay for? Right? You know what I'm talking about. First time I was at the shop, this fella, he said, man, I got a good deal on a tool. I said, where'd you get it? He said at the dollar store Richard, you know, because you're a mechanic and man of all trade. You buy a tool at the dollar store, how many times are you gonna use it? Maybe once. You probably won't get through the job with it, right? You'll be replacing it. You get what you pay for. See, that price says something about the value. That price tells you something about the worth. I don't understand this or really comprehend it all, but I know this. My soul must be awful precious to him. Because he shed his blood for it. My soul must be something special to him because he bought me with the blood of his darling son. Oh, listen, dear friend, what's the purpose of Calvary? It was there, the soul was purchased. No wonder we've been instructed to remember his death till he come. There's no greater message. There's no greater truth. There's no greater reason to worship and love the Lord. Than this place and this person and the purpose of Calvary Don't get far from Calvary. Maronatha Baptist Church, don't get far from Calvary If this pulpit ever deviates from this here we preach Christ, we've gotten away from our purpose. If you as a believer forget about Calvary and drift away from Calvary, you're missing the mark. Missing the mark. It's the theme of our songs, it's the truth of our sermons, but thank God it's the rejoicing of our soul that there is a place called Calvary. As we come around this table, we're not taking in elements that have mystical power. We're just simply taking simple bread and juice. That represent what he did some 2,000 years ago. They're physical, tangible reminders, tokens, if you will. Of what actually took place back there. They're meant to stir our memories for he said, this do in remembrance of me They're meant to stir our worship and gratitude because we we need to be reminded that he paid a price for us. We need to be encouraged with the reality that He loved me enough that He gave Himself for me, that He might redeem me unto Himself. They're meant to evoke our worship and say, Church, he's worthy. He's worthy. Because he did what nobody else could do when he went up that hill called Calvary. You know the world went on, time went on, people went on. And for those that didn't know what this was all about, oh, there were some strange things happened around that place that day. And there would be others that would other things that would take place that'd make a man shake his head and say, What is going on? But for the most part the world went on and said, just another day, just another death. But I'm glad up yonder in heaven. Oh listen, there were some things going on that would change time and eternity. Changed it for me. He saved me by his grace. Changed it for many of you who were saved by the grace of God. Don't ever get over Calvary. Father, for these few moments we pray