I want you to take your Bibles, please, and go to 1 John. 1 John chapter number 3 Sometimes referred to as Little John, but 1 John chapter number 3. And I would like to read verse number 16. I'm going to focus on seven little words that are found there in verse number 16. By the way, a good study in your Bible would be all of the three 16s. John 3. 16, being the most well known, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. but have everlasting life. That's a a good starting place, John 3. 16. Now let me say this the chapter verse divisions are not inspired, but you can see God's hand in them. And it is interesting how the Lord puts all of that together. So 1 John, 1 John chapter 3, verse 16, is what I'd like to read this morning. I invite you to stand with me, please. We'll honor God's word together. 1 John chapter 3 and verse number 16. Look at what the Bible says. Hereby perceive we the love of God. Because he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. I want you to notice that statement. He laid down his life for us. He laid down his life for us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the time that we have now to open our Bibles. I pray the Spirit of God would do his work in all of our hearts. We truly need thee. Lord, I pray that you would have your will and way, and we'll be careful to give you the glory. Please save the lost or claim the backslidden in heart. Just work among us, Lord. We need thee, Lord. And we look to you this morning. Hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus. Lord, I pray that you'll be glorified and magnified and have the preeminence in this place. And we pray and ask all these things in Jesus' name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated Here is a very short and simple statement found in the Word of God. And I love the fact that the Bible is not near as complicated, I think, as we sometimes try to make it. The Bible is very straightforward and very simple, especially in things that are important. Mr. Spurgeon wrote about this verse in preaching on this verse. He said, every word is a monosyllable word. This is the most easily understood statement made in the whole word of God, but yet it's the most profound. He laid down his life for us. He laid down his life for us. The Lord helping me this morning, I want to preach on Calvary's love When we look at this statement, he laid down his life for us, it doesn't need an explanation. We understand it. He laid down his life for us. It doesn't need defense. We don't need to come to its defense and say, well, let me prove it. We know there's a hill called Calvary. There's a place where Jesus died. It doesn't need my defense. It doesn't need my embellishments. The Bible simply says, He laid down his life for us. But it does call for my worship. When I take that statement and believe it at face value, it causes my heart to bow in worship and say, what a God is He that He would lay down His life for us. What kind of God would do such a thing? Oh, the God of the Bible, the true God, the God of heaven, He's the one who will do such a thing. If you this morning are saved and have gotten over Calvary's love, may the Lord help you. May the Lord do something in your heart afresh today to cause you to appreciate the fact You know, they tell me that when you get around things so often, you often lose the wonder of it all. People who live in a beautiful place. Let's take for instance some beautiful mountain region and they live in those mountains and and they live there and and they begin to lose the wonder of the mountains. I was raised in the mountains, and I I remember thinking a mountain's a mountain, you know. And we moved away, and we've not been in the mountains since. And as we and when we go back, I'm often struck by, man, how big these mountains are. Lived there my whole uh you know, growing up years, but now you go back and you think, wow those mountains are big and That's so beautiful, and how did I miss that for those 27 years? Well, the problem was the mountains are just the mountains They've always been what they are. But the appreciation of them is what was missing in my heart. Calvary is Calvary Since Christ died on the cross, it's been what it is. It is the where Christ paid for our sin debt. But listen to me, it's awful easy to sing about it we just did this morning. It's awful easy to preach about it. It's awful easy to read about it and to believe it, and yet to miss the wonder of it all. To get so used to it that the grandeur and the glory and the splendor that He laid down His life for us Just sort of don't bother us or move us or stir us. May the Lord take his word and move us towards him this morning to understand he laid down his life for us. When you think about what he did here, notice what it says hereby. The word hereby means simply for this reason or by this reason: perceive we the love of God. We understand God's love by looking at Calvary. There's no other way to know the love of God without first going to Calvary. God's love is demonstrated there in a way like no other. You say, well, I just want to feel God's love. We'll look at the facts, and then I believe the feelings will follow. You say, but preacher, I I just want to hear it. I'd like to hear it. Well, let's look at it because seeing it is better than hearing it. We see at Calvary, the love of God. Calvary was God's demonstration, and it says very clearly here, hereby perceive we the love of God. You say the love of God is something I want to understand. I I want to get it. I I want to know how much God loves me. And Paul prayed for those Ephesian believers that they would know the depth and the breadth and the height and the width. of the love of God in Christ Jesus that passes knowledge. Now he prayed for them to know that. How do you know the love of God? You've got to go back to Calvary I I really believe we can't stray far from Calvary and be what we ought to be. We gotta stay close to the cross If we'll just stay close to the cross, isn't that what the songwriter uh wrote for us, Jesus keep me near the cross Being near the cross of Calvary is where I need to be because it's there I'm convinced of the love of God. Hereby perceive we the love of God. Here's how we understand it. You say, preacher, how do I know how much God loves me? Let's go to Calvary and just see what He did for us. And John said it very simply, he laid down his life for us. I want you to notice, number one, the choice of love. The choice of love. You know, when we think about Calvary, Calvary represents a lot of things Calvary represents the place where Jesus was crucified. We read it in Luke 23, 33, that he was led to this place called Calvary. It was there he was crucified. It not only represents the place where Jesus was crucified, but it represents the place where sin was judged You say, what happened on Calvary? God judged man's sin in the person of his Son. God took your sin and my sin, and my Bible says that He, Jesus, became sin who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. You know what? He literally became my sin, and all the wrath of God that was stored up for sin was poured out on Jesus. What a place Calvary was. No wonder it is a place that made the earth tremble. The Bible says that as he gave up the ghost, the earth trembled. No wonder it was a place where darkness would cover the face of the earth. In the very midst of the day, God would shut the lights out. This this such a solemn scene is unfolding on earth. That no human eyes should behold what was happening between heaven and earth, between Jesus the Son and God the Father. What a place Calvary is Calvary, we sung about it in Sunday school this morning, and it said Calvary covers it all. I'm glad Calvary does cover it all. All my sin, all my past, all my guilt. Calvary covers it all. We sung about it as we started the service at Calvary. At Calvary. It was at Calvary new life began. It was at Calvary that I was converted. You say, preacher, I got saved in this church. Or I got saved in my car. Or I got saved in my home. I'm not talking about that physical location. It was at Calvary your sin debt was paid and Jesus secured eternal life for you. Don't think for a minute, my friend, that you have a hand in salvation. You don't. Salvation's of the Lord. We take from him the wonderful gift that he gives and and the work was done two thousand years ago. You know there's nothing else you you don't add to salvation. There's nothing else that you can contribute. You've already contributed your sin. He gives you salvation. But Calvary was the place where sin was judged. I like this. Calvary was the place where the devil was defeated. Calvary was the place where the devil was defeated. It was on Calvary that his head. You remember in Genesis 3, we're told that the Son of Man would have his heel bruised. But the serpent would have his head crushed. When did his head get crushed? His head got crushed when Jesus cried those three words. It is finished And he crushed the old devil's head. Sin was defeated. But here was the greatest display. Of God's love for mankind. Of all the things Calvary is, Calvary is a display of love. Do you know there are things that are better said by action than by words? I love you's awful cheap. I love you can mean very little. We've all probably heard it and then watched the opposite. I love you. I I I was thinking of this and and I've mentioned this before, but uh my dad was old school dad. He didn't say I love you a lot. In fact I was a grown man before I ever heard him say those words. But here's what he did do. He showed it. He showed it in things when I remember we first got married and And uh you know how it's like when you first get married, it's uh, you know, you're just trying to stay alive. Uh, and you don't hardly have enough sense to stay alive, but you're doing your best to stay alive. And uh he he would he would always say, have you changed the oil in your car? Like, Dad, I I'm just trying to get to work every day. I don't think about things like that. Or he'd walk around it and he'd say, You need to get some tires. And I remember when Sarah was born, now, oh boy, he got a whole lot more dogmatic about that kind of thing He said, don't be driving my grandbaby around on something that's bald tires. You put good tires on that car. And I thought, I wish he'd just worry about his tires. Let me worry about my tires But you know what Dad was doing, he's saying, I love you, son. I love you, son. And I'm just trying to help you He was showing that love more than just saying saying it, anybody can say it, but showing it's a whole different matter. I want you to notice on Calvary, God didn't just say I love you, he showed you he loved you. He just didn't speak it in words that had no meaning. He showed it as every drop of blood flowed down his broken body. He showed us his great love. I want you to notice this morning the choice of love. Look what it says. He laid down his life. The life of the Lord Jesus was not taken from him. Jesus' life was not stolen. The Roman soldiers did not force life out of his body. The Bible says he laid it down. That means he willingly gave it up. And by the way, go over to John 10 with me for a minute, would you? The Lord Jesus talked about this. It's such an important thing that we understand this love of his was a choice that he made. He laid down his life. In the Gospel of John, chapter 10, in verse 17, Jesus is talking here about being the good shepherd and being the shepherd of the sheep and being the one who would give his life for the sheep. But in John chapter 10, verse 17, he says this, Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father. I want you to notice the affection of the Father for the Son. Why? Because he laid down his life. The choice made. It's what the Bible says. The Father loves me because I lay down my life. He made a choice. He said, I'm choosing to give myself. You know A lot of times I love good songs and sometimes we'll sing things that are just not Bible. And we'll sing the song, and I've heard the song as search went over heaven. And we were looking for someone who would be willing to die. Well, the problem with that song is there was no search made Jesus gave himself willingly. He offered himself up, the Bible says, as a lamb slain before the foundation of the world. Before there was ever a mud seal laid on the earth, before there was ever a man who walked the face of the earth, before there was ever a sinner who needed a Savior, Jesus Christ was the crucified Lamb. He gave himself. And the father loved him for it. But not only do we see an affection here, but we see an authority. He said, I have power. To lay it down. I have power to take it again. He had the authority. Now we believe in something around here called the sanctity of life. You say, preacher, what does that mean? That means we believe God's in charge of both life and death. And be careful with this terminology, the quality of life. That's really a humanistic idea. And we say, well, that person don't have much quality of life. Who are you to determine what the quality of life is? God makes man live, and it is God who appoints death. It is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. Life and death are not in our hands to control. They're his. He's the one who's in charge. He has the authority. And Jesus said, I have power. I have authority to lay it down and I have authority to take it up again. Listen to me. There's not one thing they could do to him on Calvary that could have took his life until he dismissed his spirit. They could pierce him with all the spears, they could uh nail him with all the nails, they could crown him with all the thorns. They could beat him with all the Roman uh uh catanine tails they wanted to, but until Jesus said it is finished, it would never be finished. Jesus had the power, he had the authority, and he said, I'm choosing to lay down my life. I'm laying it down. By the way, I love this part. I have power to take it up again. Not only do I lay it down, here in a few days we're going to celebrate that, and we're going to worship the reality that Jesus Christ is not dead. He's not in the grave. He's not on the cross. Thank God he's in heaven, seated at the right hand of the Father. He's alive and well. Because he had authority. He had the power to lay down his life, had power to take it up again. And I want you to notice the action here is very clear. He says, No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down on myself. They tell me that when men were crucified, it was a gruesome scene. Normally they were beaten prior, and most died before they ever made it to the cross. They would be disemboweled from the beating, and it was a gruesome scene. And but yet when they got to that cross and those nails were driven, can you imagine that It's the agony of a nail being driven somehow through your body. We were working this week and I was cleaning cabinets. And I was up there cleaning and I was just scrubbing. I was in a hurry to get done. Sarah gave me a lecture. She said, Dad, you're not in Maryland anymore. Calm down. She had to drive with me to the store and I was fussing about all these slow people that wouldn't get out of my way because we needed to get there and we need to get back. And she said, Dad, just relax. Nobody's in a hurry here. I said, I get it, but they should be. Get out of my way if you're not going to be in a hurry. But anyway, and I'm scrubbing away and If you've ever seen how they put cabinets together, they'll sometimes put that panel on with uh with a staple like thing that and it'll shoot through there. And that thing was sticking out just like a a perfect dagger I'm scrubbing away and that thing stuck. Now, what is it about something bad? I mean, it wasn't a big deal. But it hurt. I mean it felt like somebody had shot me and and uh being the man that I am I squalled and hollered and they thought you know they thought something bad had happened. Oh you just got a little old thing stuck in me, you know But can you imagine a nail? And we're not talking about even a ten-penny nail or eight. We're talking about spikes that were driven. And they say when those men and others were crucified that way, that they would struggle and they would resist and they would fight because it's in our nature to protect ourselves. We don't want pain like that. But my Bible says in Isaiah 53, he was led as a lamb to the slaughter. Jesus willingly I don't believe those guards had to wrestle his arms and hold them down. I think my precious Lord went. I don't believe that there was a struggle or fight there on Calvary. Why? Because he laid down his life. He was the one who gave it up. Love made a choice. Oh, what a choice love made. We benefit this morning. Oh, listen, what love must God have for you and me? You think about it, he would choose to die, he would choose to leave leave the glory and splendor of heaven He would choose to leave the worship of angels and the praises of all the eternal beings, and he would come to this wicked old earth. to become the vilest thing you could imagine as he hung there in my place and paid my sin debt in full. No wonder the hymn writer said that if we were the ink with the ocean uh fill and and every man were ascribed by trade to write the love of God above, you couldn't get it all in It's such vast love and great love. It's a love that you and I can't comprehend. The choice of love. But then I want to say it again. He laid down his life for us. I want you to think about the consideration of love. He laid down his life for us. Notice those are big words for us. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 13 that love or charity seeketh not her own. What does love consider? It considers the object of its love. Love considers the individual that it loves. It's love's consideration. If you love someone, you consider that individual. You consider their needs, you consider their situation, you consider what you can do or be to be an assistance to them, the consideration of love. Can you think about this for a moment? That God considers you and I? That he laid down his life for us? Us who are poor, lost. Hopeless? Helpless? Hellbound sinners? Now I know some of you, I don't even have to have my glasses on to know some of you don't believe what I just said. And you're looking at me like that's not me. I've got news for you. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every one of us, that includes me, every one of us are in that same boat. And boy, she's sinking fast. Every one of us have broken the law of God. Every one of us have transgressed against God's law. Every one of us are in that same place. But listen to me, he considered us Love considered us. I know you've heard that song when uh he was on the cross, I was on his mind. That's love. He considered us. Look over in Ephesians 2 with me for a minute, would you? Ephesians chapter number 2, and here's some powerful words. about what we were and and how God considered us and saved us by his grace. The Bible says in Ephesians 2. Well let's go down, start reading in verse 11. He's writing to Christians now, and he's saying to them, Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh. Who are called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands. That at that time ye were without Christ. Being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise. Look at these words. Having no hope and without God in the world. That's what every person is without Christ. That's the condition of every man, woman, boy, or don't matter. That's all of us without Christ. We were without hope, without God living in this world. There's no lonelier place to be than lost. You think about it, there's no lonelier place to be than being lost. You have no no hope, you have no God, you you you you're lost, you're you're in that state of needing a savior. And he said, that's what we were. That's the condition that we were in. But I love this. But now in Christ Jesus. You notice when you put Jesus in the situation, it always changes? When you put Christ in the equation, it always comes up to a different total. When you factor him in, think about Jesus when he lived on this earth. Every funeral he attended, there was a resurrection Every sick bed he stopped by, there was a healing. Every time there was a need, he was there to supply. Why? Because he changes everything. But now in Christ Jesus. Now, do you know there's only two kind of people in this church? Really, there's only two kind of people. You say, Well, preacher I'm a Baptist, I'm a Methodist Science. No, that that that's irrelevant, really. There's only two kind of people. There's people who are in Christ and there's people who are out of Christ. That's all. That's all that's in this building right now. That's all that's listening to this broadcast. You're either in Christ or you're out of Christ You're either in Christ by faith, you've been saved by grace, or you are out of Christ, and you're in a condition of being without hope and without God in this world. They're one of the two. And notice this, when Christ comes in, what a difference he makes. But now in Christ Jesus, look at this. Ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. See the cost? What did it cost for me to get close to God? What did it cost for me to come to God? What did it cost for me to access God? The precious blood of Jesus. Jesus had to shed his blood on Calvary. Salvation could come no other way, we're told in the Word of God. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. That blood had to be shed. Calvary had to happen for you and I to get to God. But thanks be unto God that He made the choice and He considered you and me. and said, I'll go to Calvary, I'll shed my blood, I'll lay down my life, so that they can have eternal life. What a consideration. No wonder the psalmist said, What is man? What is man that thou art mindful of him? And the Son of Man that thou thinkest upon him. Who are we? Have you ever thought about that? Who are we that he would think about us? And he would lay down his life for us. And he would pay our sin debt. I told a man some time ago that he paid the Lord paid his sin debt. He said, I'm I didn't ask him to do that. I said, Isn't that even more marvelous? That you didn't ask him, you didn't beg him, you didn't demand it, that he just did it because he loved you? Oh, what love is Calvary's love? That he considered me. And that he would consider. And by the way, I believe this with all my heart. Had I been the only sinner, he'd have died for my sin. Had I been the only one who needed to be saved, he would have paid my sin debt. Oh, what consideration his love has for you and I. Then I want you to see something here. I want you to see the call of love. Look what it says again in our text. 1 John 3. 16 Hereby perceive we the love of God because he laid down his life for us. You know what that love's doing? That love's giving a call. It's calling out. It's calling to the sinner. Do you hear it? Some of you have heard it. The call was, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. You heard the call of love. Someone said, I heard the threatenings of Sinai and ran the other way. It was not until I heard Calvary's call that I came through Jesus, the life, the truth, the way. Know this, that that threatening of the law says you're condemned, and the thunderings of the law says you're lost, and it should make us tremble inside. But the call of Calvary has a different tone. There's a different voice. It's the voice of God, but it's it's a different tone. How many of you know your your mother, let's use her for a moment, your mother can say your name in two different ways She can say your name in a way that you think is comforting, right? She can say your way your name in a way that's troubling. I I believe the only reason we got a middle name is so that we'll know when we're in trouble. I never use it. The only time it was ever used is when I was troubled. When my mother said Jamie Daniel Groves, I thought, oh boy. I may go see Jesus today. This is not gonna go well. That was the only time she used my middle name Our Lord has a tone and a different tone. Sinai has a tone of threatening. But Calvary has a tone of love. Calvary's tone is, Come unto me. You come, you weary sinner, you laden sinner, you burdened down sinner, you broken sinner. Listen, with all the baggage of life, you come unto me and I'll give you rest. You'll find a place to pillow your weary head. You'll find a place to find your sins forgiven. You'll find a place where your soul can find a refuge. You'll find a place where you can say, my faith has found a resting place. Hear that call of Calvary's love. Jesus in love calls you to come with all your load of guilt. A man told me years ago, he said, Preacher, when I get my life straightened out, I'll come to the Lord. I called him by name. I said, Sir , it'll never happen. It'll never happen. As far as I know, unless something's happened in the last few months that I hadn't heard about, and I'm sure I will hear. He's still not saved. Trying to straighten up, trying to fix his problems, trying to change his life. People say, well, I'll turn over a new leaf, and we find out that the leaf's just as bad on one side as it was the other. Bats Habner said the problem's not with the leaf, the problem's with the bush. He said the bush is bad. You need to change. But you and I can't change. You can't change. The Bible says the leopard can't change his spots. You can't change your heart, but I know a man who can. I know somebody if you'll come to him, he'll take that load of guilt, he'll take that load of shame, he'll take that load of sin, and he'll make you a new creature in Christ Jesus. Thank God for that. Have you heard that call? Did you hear him? Oh, what a day it was when he called you by name. You know, I I was thinking about when I got saved, and and the preacher didn't call my name, probably didn't know I was there, but I do know this, God did And that whole thing was so personal, it was scary. I'm sitting there and and and the Spirit of God's dealing with my heart, and I'm thinking I'm the only one in here, God's fingered He 's fingered around my heart. He's got his spotlight on me. I bet everybody knows that word right there is lost and he needs to be saved. That's how it felt. And I thought for sure that somebody had been telling this preacher how lost I was, and what a hypocrite I was, and how I'd played church, and how I had religion, but I wasn't really born again. Boy, I'll tell you, I'm glad I heard the call. There's a call. That call of love. Can you hear it? If you'll listen real close, you'll hear it. The Bible says he laid down his life for us. But you know this call gets so personal, you can say he laid down his life for me. Because he calls you. He's calling you, sinner. He's calling you, dear lost soul. He's calling you in all of your sin. Don't try to straighten up and fix up and do all that. Know this. He wants you to come like you are. He'll take you just like you are. He's not going to leave you like that, but he'll take you like that. And he calls you to come. But dear Christian, did you know there's a call to you? There's a call from Calvary to us who are saved by the grace of God. Will you go back to 2 Corinthians with me real quick? 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. And I want you to see two verses here with me in closing. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Look at verse fourteen, please. The Bible says, For the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead. And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. Hear the call? Calvary's love is calling you and I to a life of surrender. No longer can I live selfishly centered around my selfish desires, I must live for him. Why? He died for me. He gave up his life. The least I can do is give my life to him. He laid out, the Bible says he laid down his life. The very least I could do is give my life to the Lord. You say, but preacher, w w what will he do with it? I'll tell you what, he'll do the best thing with it. He'll do the best thing with it We say, but no, no, preacher, I I I'm going to do my thing. I'm going to do my thing. And and many of us here have lived to do our thing and found out our thing was the wrong thing. And we've lived to do our own, we said, well, I'm going to pursue this and I'm going to go that way and I'm going to chase this and I'm going to follow that. And it only brought heartache and misery and devastation and and and we we just have to throw up our hands and say, God, you know best. What a place it is to get to when you realize that God just wants the best for you and I. Surrender is not the end of everything, surrender is the beginning of everything. And when we lay our life down, he says, look, here's, we judge this. We know that if he died for all, then they which live. Should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. Two Moravian missionaries left the shores of their country. They were the first of the real modern-day missionary movement, the Moravians. And these two young men sold themselves to be slaves so they could go tell the people who lived on those distant isles about the Lord Jesus. And they did so knowing that they would never come back to their families. They did so with the understanding that this is our life now, we've given ourselves. And with great joy they boarded a ship. And set sail. And there was such joy in their hearts, it was hardly containable that they would be able to give themselves in this way for Jesus. You say, preacher, that's insane. No, that's in step with the Bible. When we lay down our life for him who laid down his life for us I really believe a lot of Christians don't have peace and joy because they're not surrendered. You're still trying to fight or drive your own ship. You're still trying to Captain your own ship, you're trying to still be in charge. And you know what you're doing? You're constantly wrestling with the Lord. Jacob was a miserable man till he got to the Brook Jabbuk. He was a trickster. He was always trying to get a leg up on somebody. He was constantly scheming, planning, deceiving. And and and all of that. And when he got there and had that wrestling match and lost, thank God, he realized that there's only one who should be in charge, and it's not Jacob. And he bowed the knee of surrender. Now he might have limped across that brook, but he was leaping in his old heart with joy. Because he had finally surrendered to God. I believe a lot of things in our lives are just God's workings to bring us to the place where we put down our fighting and we put down our resisting. And we just simply lift our hands and surrender and say, Lord, not my will thine be done. There's joy in surrender. And listen, when Christ died, do you hear that Calvary's call? Jesus prayed those words just prior to hanging there. Not my will, Father, thine be done. Oh, the joy. Hebrews talks about it. Now, it's hard for me to understand this, but the cross was a place of joy for the Lord. The Bible says, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross and despised the shame and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. You know what got him through Calvary? Do you know what got him through that period of time, that darkness? It was the joy of doing the Father's will. And knowing that in doing the Father's will, redemption's plan would be secured, and souls would be saved, and heaven populated, and lives changed by the sacrifice of Himself to God. Do you know the joy of that surrender, dear brother, sister? Some of you precious Christians, you're headed to heaven just as sure as your name is what it is, but you've never surrendered really to the Lord. You've fought him tooth and nail. You've struggled. You've tried to do your own thing. Live your own life. Go your own way. I've got news for you. You'll never be a joyful Christian Till you lay down your arms and surrender to God and say, Lord, thy will be done. But oh, what joy will come when you let the Lord have his way. Will you surrender to him today? Do you hear that call, Christian? It's Calvary's call. It's a call that constrains us. Hear it again. He laid down his life for us. Now, friend, what will you do with what you heard today? What will you do with it? If you're not saved, can I urge you to do this with it? Take it to heart? Believe what the Bible says Christ died for your sin? That he was buried and rose again the third day. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and the finished work of Calvary. Trust him with all your heart. Cry out to him for mercy and watch him save your soul from sin, death, and hell. Dear Christian, do you do you take that call serious from Calvary? You can walk by and ignore it all you want to, but one day you're going to have to face not just it, you're going to have to face him. He laid down his life for us. Have you surrendered, Christian? Do you hear that call? May the Lord help us today to hear his voice. We're going to have the invitation here in a moment, and as we do, I want you to just mind the Lord. If God spoke to you, we have an altar we open, we just say, this is where we want to come pray. Get on your knees here and pray. You can use the front pew and pray. But it may be that you would like somebody to pray with you. And if you do, just lift your hand. And if you're a lady, a lady will join you. If you're a man, one of our men will join you. And they'll pray with you. If they've got questions, this Bible's got answers, and we'll open it together. But friend, listen. Don't ignore The wonderful reality. He laid down his life for us. Let's stand together, please.