The Bible tells us that He's come to seek and to save that which was lost. Amen. And I'm thankful for the Lord's faithfulness to search out and deal with our hearts. And do his work of grace within. And this morning I want you to hear gladly, Brother Joseph Teague And uh he's going to bring the morning message, so you pray for him. And let's ask the Lord to speak to us. I'm glad God's word will deal with our hearts as we let him work. So let's let's let him do that this morning. Well Joe, you come. Amen. I'm glad through his blood I now am saved. Amen. For the longest time I always thought that uh uh song said Through his blood I now am changed which either way it's really good but I it's I thought that I never I never picked up on I don't hear very well so But I got it that time. It's I'm saved, amen. I'm glad of that. Mark chapter number nine is where we're going to be this morning. Mark chapter number nine. And uh this passage of scripture, the beginning of it, uh sure most of you probably know, it's when the Lord was on the Mount of Transfiguration with Peter. James and John and he transfigured in front of them and and what a blessing that is. It's a prime picture of being on the mountain top And then they come down off the mountain and there's trouble. And that's what I want us to look at here. Verse number fourteen of Mark chapter number nine. Mark chapter number nine. And uh verse 14 says, and when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them. And the scribes questioning with them, and straightway all the people, when they beheld him, were greatly amazed, and running to him saluted him. And he asked the scribes, What question ye with them? And one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit. And whether he taketh him, he teareth him, and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away And I spake to thy disciples, and they that they should cast him out, and they could not. He answered him and saith, O faithless generation, how long Shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him unto me. And they brought him unto him, and when he saw him, straightway the spirit tear him, and he fell on the ground and wallowed foaming. And he asked his father, How long is it ago since this came unto him? And he said, Of a child, and oft times it hath cast him in the fire. and into the waters to destroy him, but if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us And Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. And straightway the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe, help thou mine unbelief. When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him. And the spirit cried and rent him sore and came out of him, and he was as one dead, insomuch that many said, He is dead. Verse 27, but Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up. Amen. And he rose. And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could not we cast him out? And he said unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing but by prayer and fasting. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for this beautiful day that you've made and the day that we can come and worship you. Lord, I pray that you'll help us now that we can do that. I pray, Lord, you'll speak through your word to each heart that's here and each mind. Lord, I pray that you just Do your work. Lord, I need your power, Lord. I pray that you empty me of yourself, of myself, and fill me with you, Lord. Fill me with the Spirit. I need your help. I can do nothing on my own. Lord, I need your touch this morning. Lord, I pray that you help us I pray, Lord, you'll just um take a few thoughts that you've laid on my heart, Lord. I pray that you help me direct them the right way and say the right things, Lord, that it could help us here this morning. Lord, I pray that you'll just uh speak to a lost soul that might be here. And Lord, I pray that if there's someone lost, Lord, I pray you convict them. Let them know they need you as their Savior. Don't let them leave here lost. Lord, I pray for the Christians here. I pray that you'll help us this morning. Lord, we love you, we thank you, we need you. And it's in Jesus' name, the name that is above every name we ask all this. Amen. Here we come to this passage of Scripture And I wanted to point out the key my key verse is going to be verse number twenty-three, where Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. And my title for t this morning's message is uh Can We Trust That God Can. Uh it's funny that Brother Hitchens mentioned br Dr. Harold Seitler this morning in Sunday school, and I had an introduction here. I mentioned He preached a message back in the 70s, a famous message, can God? And I've listened to that message many times. In fact, I just listened to it again yesterday. It's a blessing to hear these messages that have been recorded, but he preached a message out of Psalm 78, verse 19. He said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness. And of course he answered himself and said, God can. He asked the question, Can God? And he said, God can. And he went on, he he preached a message bragging on God and what God couldn't do And I know it's true. My question this morning isn't if God can, but can we trust that God can? Um you know my text here Brings us to a point where there's some faith and unbelief in question. There's some issues with the disciples' faith, there's issues with this man's faith, and he to the point where he asks the Lord if the Lord could even do anything And the Lord asked him, if you can believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. And that's what I want us to look at this coming into the new year especially. I think about how There's a lot of things in our Christian life that we say we want to do, we wish God would do, but we don't really trust that God can or will do those things. And I want us to just look at this for a few minutes. I got three simple points that we'll go home. We're going to look at what happens without faith, what will happen with faith, and how to build our faith. I think these are a few three key things that we can use in our our Christian life every day, but especially coming up in a new year as I think about something new, the lost world. has no clue about a new birth or anything like that. They turn over a new leaf in the new year, but I I want us as Christians to have a new look on things and apply these things and help our faith a little bit. We pray with me as we go through this this morning. I know that we're familiar with this passage of scripture, and as we look at it, We know that God is all powerful. I don't have to try to stand here this morning and tell you that God is all powerful. If you don't know that, uh maybe we c we'll pull you aside and tell you that, but everybody in here I'm sure knows that God is all powerful. God needs no introduction to say what he can and can't do because there's nothing too hard for God. There's a song that it's impossible or that there's nothing too hard for God and He can do anything but fail, and I love those songs. I believe they're true. But I believe as we read our Bible and I study, I think it's it it has appeared to me that without faith there's some things God can't do God has to have a measure of faith to work in individuals' lives in certain areas. And I don't know if anyone's ever if I heard this from a preacher or if this is just something that's come to my mind, but I believe faith is the hinge on which God's work swings. Faith is the hinge on which God's work swings. Without faith, there's a lot of things that he can't do. Uh he won't save a soul that doesn't trust in him. That's just that's the way it is. The all-powerful, all-creator of the universe, God, he can't save a soul that doesn't trust in him. He wants that soul to be saved, but he can't force that soul to be saved. That's a prime example. The Bible tells you in Ephesians chapter number 2 and verse 8 and 9, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should both. Faith is what saves a soul. Romans 5 and verse 1 and 2, therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. By whom we also have access by faith into the grace wherein we stand. Amen. What a blessing it is that that faith is what saves a lost soul. I'm glad faith saved my soul one day. If you're not saved today, I I recommend you get saved before you leave here. We're going to look at what happens, number one, what happens without faith. Here in this text, what happened without faith It stirs up the people. Without faith, the people are all stirred up. Without faith, there's it slows the work of God, and it also leaves souls left unhelped. We see here how it stirred up the people in verses number 14 through 18. Jesus comes down off the mountain, he sees the multitude of them, and they're questioning with the disciples. And when they saw the Lord, they run to him. They're happy to see him. And they run to the Lord and he asks them, what are you questioning about there in verse number sixteen? And they the man speaks up there in verse 17, he says, Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit. Whether soever he taketh him, he teareth him, and foameth, and then he gnasheth his teeth, and he pineth away, and then he says, And I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out, and they could not. See, here's a problem in verse 19. The Lord says, O faithless generation, he sees the lack of faith. There's your problem. But I notice in verse 17, this stood out to me. The man said to the Lord, He said, I have brought my son unto thee. But you weren't here, you were up on the mountain, and your disciples were here, but they couldn't do anything for me. And this this lack of power, this lack of faith that the disciples had displayed here caused a panic amongst the people They they couldn't uh they couldn't see this this boy going through this terrible thing and it caused chaos and panic amongst these people. And when the Lord gets down there, I believe the disciples were thankful to see him because they were probably a little bit worried with what was going on as well. I don't know. I try to put myself in the scenario there and think about these disciples. This guy comes to you. They they know you've been uh the disciples were casting out devils. The Lord gave them power to do that. They've been healing people and doing different things. He they had power. So this this man brings this boy and as it the disciples try to heal him, they can't cast out the day the devil And everybody starts to doubt the power of God. And they're doubting these men. And I can imagine these men are kind of getting a little fearful, thinking, boy, I hope they don't try to turn on us, you know. And as the Lord comes down, they're happy to see him. There's a midst of chaos and panic, and the Lord sees it. You know, I've I noticed this, all this problem. Was caused by the disciples lack of faith and power. If the disciples could have healed this man, none of this would have ever happened It would have been peace and tranquility and everything would have gone on. They'd have been going, wow, that's amazing. The disciples killed this boy. There was nothing amiss. It was just amazing to see this happen. But they couldn't do it. And that's what caused the problem. And I think about how the same thing is in our world. The world is in chaos and panic. The world around us needs the Lord Jesus Christ, just as this man needed to bring his son to the Lord, verse 17. And what's left here on the earth, as Brother Hitchens preached on it this morning in Sunday school, about how we're the church, the body of believers, or what represents The Lord Jesus Christ, and we're to be working within the power and demonstration of the Lord Jesus Christ, because He's living through us, right And that's what as the world looks on us and and they're in chaos and they're in panic. Unfortunately the world looks at Christians in the church today and our lack of faith, our lack of pro of power leaves them in chaos because we didn't help their problems. I think about how many people look at so-called Christians in Christianity and they say there's nothing to it. It's just empty religion and it's vain and it's just a waste of time. And on the list goes the people's excuses against the church. And I think it's it boils down to the same scenario here is because the disciples couldn't perform what was needed to be performed of them. And what they had power to do in the in the in the past, and what the Lord said they had power to do also. If you continue reading, that's what he said in verse 29. He said, You can do these things. There's steps to get there. We'll get there in a little bit. But I look at this and I think about the world. We're in a chaos and panic in our world. And the world looks at Christianity and Christians and they say they can't help us. And they begin to even doubt if the Lord can help them. That's where a lot of people are today. They say, God can't help me. I went down there, I tried this, I've done that, and there was no help for me. There was no hope for me. And I know a lot of people maybe in this room can relate to that. They've been there. But once you get a dose of what the Lord Jesus Christ can really do for you, And you see it real for yourself and real in your life, hey buddy, it changes things. And it's a blessing to know that if we have the faith to trust God, He can change a life. He can heal just as He did this little bo this young boy But I see here without the faith the people were stirred up, but it also slows the work of God. Turn back just a couple pages in Mark to Mark chapter number six. One day in my Bible reading a couple years ago I come across this and I made a note and I've this has always stood out to me in Mark chapter number six and verse number five. Well, we'll read verse number four. Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, but in his own country And among his own kin and in his own house. And verse five says, and he could there do no mighty work Save that he laid hands upon a few sick folk and healed them. And verse 6 says, And he marveled because of their unbelief. And he went round about the villages teaching. It goes on, but I look at that and I thought about how because of their unbelief they didn't believe that God that Jesus Christ was the Son of God. They didn't believe he had the power And the Bible says there in verse 5 that he could do no mighty work. I thought that's amazing. When the Lord Jesus Christ couldn't do a mighty work, it was because of their unbelief here. And I think about that's what's happening over there in Mark chapter number nine in our text, where these these men can't work, the Lord is hint his work's hindered because of unbelief. That's what he says in verse 19, O faithless generation. The Lord's work slows down because of our unbelief in Him. I think about the same thing applies with the church and how we're to be doing the Lord's work, but yet the Lord's work is hindered because of our unbelief. Our unbelief, our lack of faith in God to do things slows us down where we don't do them. I know it's not just here, it's in every church across the country that's a good Bible-believing church. We come upon the new year and as my dad and I we're talking about different things for this coming year on things we want to try to do this year. And there's a lot of things we say, Well, I don't know if it'll work or not. And we say that out of our human mind. I don't know if it'll actually work. I don't know if this is But God can do anything. Do we trust that God can do it? I believe that coming up in 2025, God can still save a soul. Why? Because I've seen him save souls in twenty twenty four, I've seen him do it in twenty twenty three, all the way back all the way back to the creation as as Brother Hitchens talked about. We they're all saved by faith. Why? Jesus still has the same power. He's the same yesterday, today and forever. Do we believe that going on into twenty twenty five he can still do it? I believe he can. I I I remember last year we were talking to a church that was dwindling in numbers and a lot of older people and they said, you know, that's just the way it is all across the the country. I said, well no. It's not. There are churches that are doing well because they're adhering to the word of God and they're trusting God to do a work. If you put God in a box, he's not going to work. And that's what I think about so many times we get into this where we just put God in a box and say, Well, he used to do that. I don't know about you. I'm sick of hearing about what God used to do. I love hearing about it. Let me change that. I love hearing about what he used to do. I would like to see him do it now. I've read books, I've heard stories. I talked about Brother Ho Brother Harold Seitler. I I love listening to the old preachers of the past There was God was doing something in those days. I I talked to different men here and the pastor about the tabernacle over there and the old camp meetings. God did things. God 's not dead. God is still alive and well. He's still on his throne. And he still has the same power to do what he used to do today. But can we trust him that he can do it? I think that's where a lot of it's boiling down to us is God's not the one dropping the ball, but our faith is dropping the ball. We're not believing that he can do it. And I want us to believe that God can do it today, just as he did in years gone by As these people without faith, they were all stirred up. It slowed the work of God, and the soul ultimately is left unhelped. You can see that here. I don't know how long this man was with the disciples trying to get this demon cast out of them. We don't have that in the Bible. You can read the parallel accounts. in uh Matthew and Luke, and we're not told how long the disciples tried to cast this demon out. I don't know if every one of them that was left there, we know three of them were up on the mountain, but the rest of them were down there I don't know if they all took turns trying to cast it out, if they tried to unify and try to cast it out. I don't know. We're not given that. But what we know is that they couldn't do it. The work of God was left uh stopped here because this boy is still unhelped. He's still the demons still tear at him, he's still gnashing, and he's still foaming, and all the different things that are happening here He's still in this horrible condition. He was left unhelped. He's still unsaved. He's still unhelped. And you know, that's the same thing that happens without faith today. Souls are still left unsaved. Souls are still left unhelped. Without faith a soul will die and go to hell. That's the sad reality. I wish it weren't so. You know, I have I hear different people in today's world with the modern evangel evangelicalism or whatever they call it and the non-denominational movement and all this garbage That they don't believe God can do anything. They don't believe God can take a drunk and make him a sober person. They don't believe God can take a drug addict and straighten them out. They don't believe God they need all these steps. I think God can still do all those things. Why? Because it's he's done it in the past. And you know, I think we just doubt God so many times, but the same thing goes on with salvation. Souls still need to be saved. The world out there doesn't want to tell anybody they're a lost sinner on their way to hell. Why? Because no one wants to hear that As Brother Hitchens said that one day when he found the Lord found him and he found out he needed to be a sa be saved, what a day that was. What a day it was for me when I realized I was lost and my sin needed a savior. And guess what? Trusted him by faith, and he saved me. And then things aren't the same anymore. I I sing a song Uh my wife and I we sing it, it it's different now. Why? Because he saved my soul. I'm not the same as I used to be, because the Bible says that therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold all things become new. That's what the Bible says. 2 Corinthians uh 5. 17, that's what it says. We're to be new. It's not to be the same. Uh there's a preacher in Pennsylvania, he said some some old mountain preacher used to say, if you is what you was, then you ain't. If you is what you was, then you ain't. It's bad English, but it really is good theology when you break it down because it's true. If you're still the same person that you were when you met the Lord Then there's something wrong with your relationship with the Lord. The Apostle Paul on the road to Damascus, he met the Lord face to face, and things were different for him. Night and day different for him. If that hasn't happened to you, I don't know if you've encountered the Lord Jesus Christ. If you haven't had a night-and-day difference, Then you may still be lost in your sin. And without faith you will perish and you will spend eternity in hell. Listen, friend, don't leave here thinking you're okay Don't leave here thinking, well, I said a prayer some years ago, but if that never did anything for you, if there was never a change in your life, if there was never a a difference made, or you have a hunger for the Lord, you never felt that Holy Spirit living within you, there's some problems. I've heard it said something as big as God moves in, you're gonna know it. That's what happens at salvation. Without faith, you're gonna die and go to hell. We have all the Romans wrote, you can read Romans 3. 10, there's none righteous, no, not one. Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You got Romans 5, 12, wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin. Death passed upon all men because of Adam and Eve in the garden. We're all sinners, born a sinner, and then we sin willfully from that time on until we trust Christ our Savior and He makes us a saint. We're still a sinner. But we're saints in Jesus Christ. As he as Brother Hitchin said about the the cleansing of the church, what a blessing to be cleansed in the blood of the Lamb. If you haven't been, you need to be. Amen. Look with me at John chapter number three. John chapter number three Nicodemus came to the Lord Jesus Christ by night. He was a ruler. He was a religious Jewish man. He was a Pharisee, and he came to the Lord by night, and the Lord told him, You must be born again. And he can Nicodemus was of course confused by that. The Lord explained to him, you needed your physical birth, which you have, but you need a spiritual birth. You gotta be born again. But as I was talking about here, without faith, you're gonna die and go to hell. And this is true. Look at uh John three Familiar verses, verse 16: For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Everybody loves that verse. That verse is read a lot, but a lot of people stop right there. Verse 17 says, For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Verse 18, He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. This is the condemnation that light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. And then over in verse number 36 it says, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. Without faith, my friends, without faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, you will perish. You will die and go to a literal place called hell for all eternity. You have to have faith to be saved. That's what happens without faith. Without faith, you the world's in chaos, and you'll die eventually, and you'll go to hell. What a terrible tragedy. Please don't be here today, lost and leave that way. If you're lost, maybe you've been in church your whole life We're not going to judge you. No one's going to be like, wow, I'm I thought she was saved or he was saved forever. We're all going to rejoice that you finally got it taken care of. Don't let that hinder you from getting saved today. If you don't know if you're saved, please don't leave here without getting saved. We see what happens without faith. The people were stirred up, it slowed the work of God, and ultimately souls are left unhelped and unsaved. But now let's look at what happens with faith. In Mark chapter number 9, we see here with faith what the Lord can do. As the man asks the Lord there in verse number 22. He said, If thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us. And as I I saw that it just Stood out to me so bold how this man looks directly into the Lord Jesus Christ's face, looked him eye to eye, and said, if you can do anything. Have compassion on us and help us. I think about it, he does not have a clue who he's talking to. Just as the woman at the well sat there and she had no idea who she was talking to. She was talking to the Son of God. That's what he said. He said, If you knew who I was, you'd ask me to give you living water I'm paraphrasing, of course, that's over and read that in John chapter number four. The woman at the well, she says, I'm at a well, and he says, You got w living water, you don't even have anything to draw with. She's going on, she doesn't have a clue. She's talking to the Lord Jesus Christ. This man here is the same way. He has no idea. He says, your disciples couldn't help me Can you? So think about that. Looking at the very creator of the world. John 1 1, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And nothing was made that was you know, it goes on and says that he was in creation. The Lord Jesus Christ was there, he is God. And you know, this man's looking at the creator of all, the incarnate God in the flesh, and he says, Can you do anything to help me? And I love what the Lord asks him. Sir says to him there in verse 23, the Lord said unto him, If thou canst believe, the man says, Can you do anything? And the Lord looked at him and said, Can you believe? I love that. How the Lord just looks at him and said, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. What a powerful verse that is. Read it all the time. It's been, I'm sure many people have heard it preached upon. But if we can just wrap our mind around that, if we could believe what God really could do for us. I think a lot of us we have a faith problem in the Lord Jesus Christ. This is this man looked at the Lord and he says, Lord, I believe. Help thou mine unbelief. He said, I believed that you could heal him. That's why I came here. You know, he said that in verse 17. I came, I I wanted to bring my son to you to get healed. But listen. We've been here for how long and nothing's happened. My son's still in this terrible condition. Now think about how the Lord looks at him and he had compassion on him. And he sees what's going on around him and he he calls out the demon. What a blessing that is. But then think about how the Lord he says, can you believe? Our faith is what's lacking. That's what my title, can we trust that God can? We can say we know God can, we know God's able, but do we really trust that He can do it? Luke chapter number one and verse thirty-seven, you can read we I'm sure you've just recently been reading that in the the account of the Lord's birth. It's when the angel was telling Mary that Elizabeth was with child and that she was going to be with child. And the angel told her, For with God nothing shall be impossible. Amen. Look with me over in Mark chapter number eleven, just a couple pages away. Faith is what we need in this day and hour. Christians, we need to have a faith that's unwavering and unmoving, an actual true faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, knowing that He can do exactly what we need Him to do. Look at Mark chapter number eleven and verse twenty-two. And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God. For verily I say unto you that whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed. Be thou cast into the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass, he shall have whatsoever he saith Therefore, I say unto you, what things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. As I read this verses , the Lord's not just being uh I don't know, he 's not being sarcastic here and saying, if you you want to cast that mountain into the sea, the Lord Jesus Christ doesn't make jokes like that. Lord's being serious. He said, listen, I'll draw on a blank here now where he told the disciples after he rose from the dead that they had the power to do things greater than what he had done. To think about that, they could have power to do more than what the Lord Jesus Christ did. He said, You can have that power. Here he says, you can have the power to move a mountain if you pray, believing in your heart. It could happen. Anybody in here move a mountain lately? Without heavy equipment? No. We're we're not why w but Or faith. Think about the things we pray for. And I'm telling on myself because I know that if I've done this, I'm sure other people have. And if not, I I'm just the only one that's this bad, I guess. But I've prayed things and as I prayed it, thought in the back of my mind, there's no way. And guess what? Those prayers don't get answered. Because I'm saying there's no way my God can do this. The one who spoke the world into existence, and yet I'm saying he can't do that. Listen, that's why the Lord says, Hey, anybody if you pray shall not doubt in his heart, shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass. He shall have whatsoever he saith. Lord's saying, listen, we need to get a grip on trust in God. Can we believe that he will do what we ask of him? I know myself, I fall short of this very many like all the time. I I I I so many times I'll pray and ask the Lord to help me do things, and then I'm inwardly doubting that He'll do it. And and and I'm sure if I'm the I'm not the only one that's like that. I'm just telling on myself now. That's what I pray, Lord. I'm just like this man over here, Mark 9. Lord, I believe. Help thou mine unbelief. How many of us are in that boat where we we say I've got a lost loved one that I've been praying for for a long, long time? And I'm praying that they'll get saved. But how many of us truly believe they'll actually get saved? I've talked to people that they that oh pray for my loved one, pray for this one, pray for So-and-so, because they're lost, they need to be saved. But inwardly, after you talk to them a while, they don't really believe they'll ever get saved. Do we not believe God can still save souls? Some would have thought the Apostle Paul was too far gone, but God didn't. Amen. Pray and believe that God can do great things. I believe God can still do all the great miracles that was done in the in the New Testament and the Old Testament. I believe he can still do all those things. Why? Because our Bible tells us He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. In Hebrews, we're told in Malachi 3:6, I am the Lord and I change not. Hey, he's not weakening over time. He's still the all-powerful, almighty God, if we could just trust him. He can meet physical needs when we pray and believe that he can. Now some physical needs, it's not God's will to take those things. We can read that in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. You can read where the Apostle Paul He had a thorn in the flesh, he had a physical need, he prayed for the Lord to take care of it, and the Lord said, It's not m your it's not my will for that to be taken care of. So some physical needs may not be God's It may not be a lack of faith on that thing not getting taken care of. It may just be God's will. But spiritual healings, I know God will take care of those. God will heal all your spiritual issues because God wills that all and whosoever will be saved. He wants all to be close with him and have communion and fellowship with him. That's what God wants. The Bible says in 2 Peter 3, 9, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish. But that all should come to repentance. Romans 3 10, or 10 13, rather, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's a blessing blessed promise. God won't go back on that. I know that he will carry through what he said on saving souls and helping us spiritually. But do we trust that God can do it? Without faith, people are stirred up, it slows the work of God, and souls are left unsaved. With faith We see here in this passage that things are settled down. You can read that in verse 25 to 27. The Lord calms things down when He tet he takes that dumb and deaf spirit and casts it out of him. The people are wired up before that, but then after that everything's Like the Lord when he stepped out on the water and said, Peace be still, right? Things change when the Lord moves in and when God's work happens, when he calms that storm, it settles things down. With faith, things get settled down. With faith, this man is saved. In verse number 25, the Lord removed that dumb and deaf spirit from him and said, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him and enter no more into him. And it says there that the spirit, verse 26, the spirit cried and rent him sore, and he came out of him, and he was as one dead. Insomuch that many said, He is dead. Verse 27, but Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. And I I wrote read that this morning. I got a little excited about it. But I'll rain a lap around the dorm thinking about how Ephesians told us that we were dead in trespasses, in sins, but we've been quickened by God. He rose us from the dead. Amen. He breathed some life into this dead carcass when I trusted him as my Savior. Faith, it saved my li my dead, dying soul. That's what salvation did for me. Amen. What a blessing It is when God gave you some life. Just as this boy, he was he looked like he was dead. He was so dead looking that everybody said, I think the Lord just killed him. That's what it says, right? The Lord says he tells this demon to come out of this boy, and the boy dropped and looked like he was dead. And they said, My soul, I think the Lord just killed that boy. But he didn't. You know, every every funeral the Lord went to, the dead people got up. If you read the Bible. Trying to find out how to preach a funeral. When you read the Bible, uh try to look at examples of how do you do a funeral? Well, the Lord made up his come up, so I don't know how to do one because I can't raise dead people like the Lord did. He he was saying I'm uh he every funeral he went to, he just took all the money from the undertaker, poor guy. Just trying to make a living. But you know I think about it this the Lord took up that dead boy. They looked dead by the hand. Lift him up. What does uh what does let me look at it here real quick. I just had a verse come to my mind. Psalm chapter number 40. Psalm forty and verse one, I wait waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon the rock, Amen, and established my goings, and hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Amen. What a blessing. Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust. Amen. I'm glad when he heard my cry. He lifted me up out of a miry clay and out of the pit. He set my feet on the rock. That rock is Jesus. Yes, he's the one. Amen. I'm glad that I was saved. Amen. I'm glad the Lord lifted me up by the hand and I arose. And I'm glad one day He's going to come in the clouds. And he's going to blow that trumpet. And the dead in Christ will rise, and them that are alive and remain will be caught up together. Amen. To meet him in the air. Praise God. He's going to lift me up. I'm going to arise once more. Amen. I saved he lifted up this dead carcass, and then if I die before the rapture, one day he's going to lift up this dead carcass again. Amen on that, amen. Woo, that's good stuff That's what happens with some faith. The last part of that is he says he I in verse twenty nine, no twenty-five, I'm sorry. The boy with faith he's sealed. He's settled, he's saved, and he's sealed. That the Lord told the demon, enter no more into him. Amen. Aren't you glad for eternal security? Aren't you glad that the devil can no longer enter into you? You can be tempted, you can sin, but listen, you're never lost again once you've been found by the Lord Jesus Christ. If you put your faith in him, you're sealed secure unto the day of redemption. What a blessing that is. What a hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what happens with faith. Now, how do you build your faith? And I'll be done. How to build faith? We look here at this passage. The first thing we've got to do to build our faith is admit that we're lacking the faith. Look at this man in verse number 24. He said, Lord, I believe. Help thou mine unbelief. He realized that he had an issue with faith. He realized he was unbelieving. That's the first step. They say the first step to realizing you got an addiction problem or a problem is realizing you got a problem. The first step to recovery is realizing you got a problem. This man here realized I got a problem with my faith. We gotta realize we've got problems with our faith, folks. If you're lost here today, you need to realize you've got problems with your faith. You're either trusting in religion or trusting in yourself or trusting in whatever it might be, but if you're not trusting in Jesus Christ You have a problem where your faith is lying. You need to trust Jesus. If you're saved, maybe we just have an area where we're just doubting that God can actually do things That we want him to do. Admit we're lacking in faith. The man admitted that in verse 24, but also the disciples admitted it there in verse 28. He was coming to the house, and his disciples asked him privately, Why couldn't we cast him out? His closest followers also admitted, Hey, we've got a problem with our faith too, Lord. Why couldn't we do this? And the Lord told them. So the first problem is admit that you're lacking. The second problem is I kind of already mentioned is ask the Lord for it. The man in verse 24, he asked the Lord, Help mine unbelief. The disciples asked the Lord, why can't we do these things? We need to realize we've got a problem with our faith and then ask the Lord to help us with it. He'll do it. Thirdly, how to build your faith, adhere to his advice. In verse 29, he says unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing but by prayer. And fasting. Here we have the Lord's promise on something. They asked him how to get their faith built. God gave us his word. The Bible tells you in Romans chapter number 10 and verse 17: faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. God's word builds your faith. You want to build your faith? Get in this book. Read it daily. The Bible says you should want it more than your necessary food. It's the bread of life. Get in it. Eat it up. You want to build your faith? Stand on the promises of the Lord Jesus Christ. It'll help you build your faith. The more you read it, the more you see it, the more you see Him work in your life, the faith's going to build. So we have his promises also his pleading. He says there in verse 29, This cometh forth by nothing but by prayer and fasting. You're pleading in prayer for the Lord to help you with your faith. Now think about how the third thing there is with fasting, it's our pleasures. Getting in the Word of God, praying and fasting, these are things that are self-denying. Your physical, uh, your old man, the old sinful nature, the flesh doesn't want to do those things. The flesh doesn't want to read the word of God, the flesh doesn't want to pray, the flesh certainly doesn't want to fast. God says if you want my power, if you want to build your faith, this is how you do it. The reason we're lacking these things is because we're not following his word on it. It's like uh someone gives you a recipe for cookies, and you say, Well, I don't think we need that, I don't think we need that, I don't think we need that. Well that's certainly too expensive. We're not buying that. We'll just throw some flour in there and some sugar and some water and we'll make a cookie. Well, they won't be any good. It's just it you need to follow the instructions to have a good cookie. Uh my niece the other day they were making cookies. I don't know what happened to those instructions, but they were not good cookies. They were supposed to be sugar cookies, but they tasted like cardboard. And she says, Aren't they good, JoJo? And I said, Hmm. Not really. Actually I they're missing something. I don't know what it is. Hate to break your little heart. I'm glad you tried. But you know what? We're in the same boat. We're saying something's missing with the recipe. It's not the recipe's fault. We have a perfect recipe right here. If you're holding the King James Bible, you're holding the very Word of God for an English-speaking person. You have the recipe If you're saved, you have the Holy Spirit to understand the Word of God. It's not the recipe's fault that we're making bad cookies. We need to understand that God gives us everything we need. He told them, he said, this can come forth by nothing but by prayer and fasting. That verse, if you look in uh, I encourage you not to, but my one Bible program has a translation comparison, and you can see what these phony Bibles take out and put in and so on and so forth. Most of them remove that verse, not the whole verse entirely, but some of them are completely, but most of them just remove the word fasting. Listen, if you take away part of the ingredient, you don't have the recipe complete. And that's what the they take away fasting. You wonder why the devil's monkeying with these w these phony Bibles out there and people are eating them up and that's why everybody's pushing, leaning towards this and leaning towards that and saying, Oh, your King James Bible's too hard to understand. No. It's the full recipe. And the devil don't want you having it. You want to build your faith, get in the Word of God, spend time in prayer, and do some fasting. Deny yourself self-pleasures. That's what that principle of fasting is, saying I'm not going to give myself what I want. I'm not going to have the food that my body wants. I'm not going to maybe have do whatever whatever kind of fasting it may be. I'm denying myself something That's what gives you some helps build your faith and gives you the power of God. Can we trust that God can do it? He still can. But it takes a little effort from us to build that faith, but have faith in God. Ask Him to help you with it. As that man said in verse 24, Lord, I believe. Help thou mine unbelief. If we genuinely, earnestly want God to help us with our faith, He'll help you. You know, it's funny to me how The devil knows how to get you in different things, and how dumb we are to fall for it all the time. The devil's sneaky and he's tricky and he gets you. But you know what's funny? He gets everybody differently, but the things that I know he always attacks me in, and I'm sure he attacks other people in, are those three things. Are self-denying of things In an instance of fasting or whatever it might be, but our denying ourselves, prayer, and Bible study. Those are the three areas that the devil wants to attack you all the time in. Why? Because he knows that's where the power of God is. Can we trust that God can save souls? Can we trust that God can still do a mighty work in 2025 and on till he comes back? Maybe we just need to have him help our faith. Without faith, we can do nothing. That's what the Bible says. Without faith, it is impossible to please him, is what it says in Hebrews. But with faith, what a blessing it is. I don't know where you stand here this morning. I don't know if you're saved or if you're lost, but I'm going to tell you, if you're lost here, don't leave that way. Without faith, you will end up in hell. Get saved before it's too late. If you're here today and you are saved, Maybe we just need to build our faith a little bit. I don't know where where the message hit you. Maybe you're just thankful for what God's done for you. But the altar will be open in a little bit. You do business with God where you see fit. Let's go ahead and pray. Our Heavenly Father Lord, we're just thankful and grateful for your word and what you do for us. Lord, I'm thankful most of all for saving my soul