The trouble with trying to comprehend eternity is that we try to do it in the measurement of time. And it's utterly impossible. to really understand fully the reality that one day time will be no more. And uh but thank God whatever eternity as it unfolds will we will be praising the Lord for Who he is and what he's done for us. Well, I appreciate that. I want you to take your Bibles this evening, please, and go with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. 1 Corinthians chapter number 12. And I'm going to read just three verses here this evening. It's the last three verses of the section here where the Apostle Paul is dealing with the church as a body. 1 Corinthians chapter 12, I'm going to read verse 25, 26, and 27. And I'll invite you to stand this evening, please, and we'll honor the reading of God's word together in that way. First Corinthians chapter twelve, verse twenty-five says that there should be no schism in the body. But that the members should have the same care one for another. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it. Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. Now ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. I want you to think with me for a few moments on this thought of care among the saints Care among the saints. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you again for the privilege that we have to be in this place. We thank you, Lord, for your precious word. We thank you for your goodness to us, and we thank you for what we've already been encouraged with. As we've been reminded in song, Lord, especially, that one day we're going to leave this realm of time. And we're going to live in eternity, and in eternity we're going to praise you for who you are. Help us, Lord, on this side of eternity, to be practicing what it is we're going to be doing. throughout all of eternity. Would you quieten our hearts and speak to us this evening? For we need help, Lord. And I confess first and most that, Lord, I need your help. Behind this sacred desk, would you empty me of me and fill me with you? Have your way in the meeting. Get glory out of our lives. Help us to lift you up. Please you And we'll thank you for what you do, for we ask these things in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. Thank you for standing to honor the Word of God. Now, as I said, these verses that I've just read are a conclusion of what Paul's been teaching and really the whole previous part of this chapter He's talking about how the body should function, or rather the church should function as a body. Now, let's just be honest. Sadly, most don't But it is still God's plan, and it's still God's purpose, and it still pleases the Lord when we do. Now, in this particular passage I've read, we find here that there's care to be expressed among the church, or care among the members. I want you to look at four things here this evening, and I hope they'll help us to understand some privileges and responsibilities as the people of God. Number one, I want you to notice the condemnation of schisms. The condemnation of schisms In fact, the Bible makes it very clear here that there should be no schism in the body. No schism in the body. Not a little schism, not a partial schism. He says just no schism in the body. Now, we don't use that word schism. Some of you are looking at me like, what does that mean? Well, the word schism literally means that there's to be no tares, no dissension, no division If you think about a cloth, if you were to take a cloth and and you were to tear that cloth, you're making a schism in that cloth. If I were to take this handkerchief and I were to rip it in two. Well, my wife would have something to say about it if I ripped it in two. But beyond that, it would no longer be an intact piece. It would have a schism, it would have a tear, it would have a rip. And so the Bible says there's to be no schism in the body. Now, I want you to notice that when he does this, he emphasizes this in the illustration. He's talking about a body. The body is not to have any division in the body Now, what happens when your body turns on your body? And by the way, it does happen. My brother's wife uh went to heaven here several years ago. And it was because of a disease in her body that made her immune system attack her body. And when her immune system began to attack her body the normal healthy cells, it caused all sorts of havoc and it was just a period of time before she passed away. Because the body can't live when it attacks itself. Not very long. When the body turns on the body, the body's in trouble. And the Bible says here, he's condemning the schisms in the body, and he says, I want you to remember the illustration. A healthy body helps itself. It ministers to itself Uh you know what, if if you've got an itch, just a a poor illustration, but aren't you glad for a hand that can go find it and scratch it? I mean it's a blessing to have some help, isn't it? And so I'm talking about the the emphasis of the illustration is that the body schisms are condemned. Number two, we find the exhortation of Scripture. What does the Bible have to say about it? Well, go back to the first part of this book, 1 Corinthians, and in chapter number 1, verse number 10. Paul's writing this church, and he says these words, and we ought to hear them and take them to heart. He says, Now I beseech you, brethren. By the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions. Can I write over top of that word schisms? That there be no divisions among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. Now you say, preacher, how is that possible? I mean just look out over this congregation at the different people and the different personalities and so on, and you tell me how we all get the same mind and the same judgment. I'll show you how. Right here. If we're gonna get on the same page, we've got to be reading from the same book. We gotta be following the same directions under the same orders, and I'm saying that this coming together of same mind and same judgment is the work of the Spirit through the Scriptures in the heart of every single saint. And so we see here there's the exhortation in the Scriptures. But we have something even further than the illustration and the exhortation. We have an example. And oftentimes when God does things, he gives us an example. And if you'll turn over with me real quick to Acts chapter number 2, you'll see the example that I'm speaking of. The example is found in that early church, that first church, the church at Jerusalem. And here you see a body with no schisms. There's no division here. There's no disunity. There's no breaking apart or tearing apart. Here is a body that is intact, a body that is united together. Listen to what it says. Then they that gladly received his word were baptized, and the same day they were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they. That's that 120 and that 3,000. So now we're talking about 3,120 people, and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine. They were one in doctrine. And in fellowship, one in fellowship. And in breaking of bread, and in prayers, and fear came upon every soul. And many signs and wonders were done by the apostles. And all that were bel all that believed were together and had all things common. Now I want to protest about something here because a lot of people say, see Communism's in the Bible. And you know what I say? I say that's not communism, that's Christianity. Communism is is is taking unwillingly uh from those that have and given to those that have not. It's really a form of judicial thievery. But this isn't thievery, this is Christianity They came together of one accord. This was coming out of hearts that were united and made one in the person of Jesus Christ. And they sold their possessions, goods, and parted them to all men as every man had need. And they, goes back to that 3120, continuing daily with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart Praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. Can I say to you that this portrait drawn for us in Acts chapter 2 is a high watermark in the history of the church It is a feature of God's intention of the local New Testament church. It's what God meant. It's what God designed. It's what God ordained. And when you read there in Acts chapter 2, you see the church functioning without schism. Now, it's not going to last long. It's not going to last long. It's not going to be long. They're going to start saying, hey, you're showing those Jewish widows more attention and taking better care of them than you are these Greeks. And there became a dissension. There there became division. And it goes on from there. You find by the time we get here to 1 Corinthians, you've got a people that are saying, well, we follow the Apostle Paul. And then you had others that said, well, we're following after Apollos. We're following that eloquent, uh, well-spoken man. By the way, Paul was the direct opposite, it seems, of Apollos, because he talked about his rude speech or his inability in speech. But you've got to understand that Paul rebuked the church for that and said, hey, look. And then you had that spiritual crowd. Listen, that spiritual crowd said, well, we don't follow anybody but Jesus. Well, hold on a minute. Paul said to them, You follow me as I follow Christ. And so there's got to be somebody leading, and and of course that's true. We learn that in the New Testament. But what I'm trying to say is Is that there was a dissension or a division or a schism in the body. And the Bible completely condemns it. The Bible wholesale condemns schisms in the body. Now look, I've told you I'm Baptist by conviction. But I don't believe there's just going to be a Baptist heaven. I I I don't believe there's going to be a little section. Now there's some. I I tell you, I tell you, Brother Dow , if they when they get to heaven They're either going to have to be changed a whole lot, or the Lord's going to have to quarantine them in another spot. Because I don't think they're going to be able to get along too well. But the reality is that there's no schisms. There's going to be no schisms in heaven. There's going to be no Methodist quarters or Presbyterian quarters. Listen, I'm telling you, my friend, there's to be no schism in the body. And I'm not preaching an ecommunical movement coming together. I'm telling you what brings us together is the Word of God. And where the Word of God draws the line, we draw the line. But in the local New Testament church, the Bible says there's no schism. He condemns the schisms, he condemns the division. So, what's the answer for that? Well, look what he goes on to say. The latter part of the second part of this verse, there should be care for the saints. Notice that there should be no schism in the body, 1 Corinthians 12, 25, but that the members should have the same care one for another. but that the members should have the same care one for another. You'll notice that contrast, the Spirit of God puts this little word in there that that causes you to put them together and understand what he's saying. He says, but no schisms. But care. No division, but a devotion. Not just to the Lord, but an exercise of that to one another. He contrasts, and he says, instead of the body being divided, and instead of the body being torn apart, instead of the body being sided one against another, he said, care one for another. But that the body should care or that the members should have the same care one for another. I want you to see the care of the saints, not only in the contrast But but notice the concern here. He said the members. The members. And I want to remind you that as a Christian God put you in the body of the Lord Jesus. And you say, well, preacher, do you believe in a universal body? Well, there will be in heaven, but down here on earth it is a local body. And that body it's expressed in a local church. And he said, those members, those members, you uh the concern is is that we care one for another. And let me just say this, there are no insignificant places in the body, and there are no insignificant people. You go back and read that and he talks about uh listen, he he says one's an ear, one's a foot, one's an eye, all of that, all the different parts. And he said they're all necessary. And in fact, he stressed those things or those parts of the body that we don't think are necessary are even more necessary. I don't know who I heard preaching last week, but they were talking about parts of the body that people used to think were uh of no value. Remember when they used, I guess they still take tonsils out, but they used to do it just, I mean, like you removed a wart. It was something you didn't need. But now they find out that a large percentage of our immune system in that section of our body lives in those tonsils And it is a way of defending and helping the body. You see, God didn't put something together, just sort of throwed it together and say, well, I'm going to stick something here because I don't have anything else to put there. No, he created everything on purpose. And let me say that every one of you who are saved with the grace of God, he created you on purpose too. He's put you in the body. He's put you in the family. And you've got a purpose. There's a reason. There's a place. There's a position. And it don't have to be a formal position. I'm going to say more about that later. But we often look at and we say, well, I'm not a teacher, or I'm not a deacon, or I'm not this, that, or the other. Listen, there's a position in the body that God will give us, and you don't need a formal position to serve the Lord. Well, let me go on. I see the concern, but then notice this care. He says in verse 25 that ye should have the but that the members should have the same care One for another. The same care one for another. Someone said, this is where the golden rule applies Remember what Jesus said in his sermon there in Matthew 7, do unto others as what? You'd have them do unto you. That same care. That same care. It's a universal care among the members of the body. Now, again, I want you to see that this is the opposite of schisms. You know when there's division in the body, there's not much care among the saints? When the body's all torn apart, and when there's division among God's people, there's not a lot of care being shown. There will not be any care be shown. Simply because division is the opposite of that care. Quickly, I want you to notice number three. Here is a connection that strengthens. Look at verse 26. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it. Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. I'm going to be honest with you, I've pastored now for well over 30 years, and you don't see this very often. You don't see it a whole lot. You say, what are you talking about? Well, I I want you to see this individual here. He says, one member. Just one member. One member suffers, one member is honored. Just one. By the way, do you know what we are? We're a compilation of ones. That's what we are. As an individual, you you and I we we're we're put we're ones. We're part of these these ones. And he says, if one, just one, just one were to suffer, or just one were to be honored, there's a response that's required of the whole. Out of the one. Just because of the one. I think it was D. L. Moody who rebuked someone who was telling him that they had uh two and a half people saved in a meeting. He said, What? Two and a half. He said, I mean by that we had two adults and a child. He said, Well if we're going to use that math, that really uh should be one and one and a half He said, what do you mean? He said, because those two adults have wasted most of their lives and don't have much left to live for the Lord, that child has his whole life to live for the Lord. But the thinking, the thinking behind that is this, that sometimes there are ones that do not matter. And I've got news for you, that's a lie. Young, old, it doesn't matter age, stance, or whatever, each member matters Oh he said whether one he didn't say whether it was a a a well known one or an old one or a young one. He just said one. When one member suffers, we all suffer. If one member rejoices or is honored, we all rejoice. I want you to see the individual. And then he talks about these instances and he talks about suffering and being honored. And really that's the that's the extreme on both ends. He's really covering everything. He's saying whether it's a place of suffering or a place of honor, that we ought to rejoice regardless of what happens, because what happens to one affects the whole Now if you don't believe your little pinky toe is important, I mean it don't do much, just hang out down there by itself and you know, some of them are awfully ugly looking things and And uh it don't do much, but when you get up about two o'clock in the morning and go feeling your way through a dark house and you stub that pinky toe on some piece of furniture. Then tell me it's not important. Because that little thing that you don't pay a bit of attention to, once you stop and it begins to hurt, your whole body starts to pain. Do you know what I'm talking about? Who's not cried out in pain over an incident like that? And that thing you thought wasn't important, buddy, it certainly all of a sudden becomes very important to your body. I'm just saying, my friend, that there's no insignificant individuals in the body of Jesus Christ. He says what happens to one demands a response from all. From the whole. You'll notice the identification here in this text. He says, again, whether one member suffer, look at this statement. All the members suffer with it. Or one member be honored. All the members rejoice with it Now look, this will transform our church if we'll practice it. This will transform this assembly if we'll exercise what's being taught here. When you see members begin to care so deeply that they watch an individual suffer, and you know what? They begin to suffer along with them. They identify so with that individual, and they identify so with that person. That's my brother, that's my sister, that's a member of the body That's a part of the family. That individual is connected to me as connected as my arm is to the main trunk of my body. And and they begin to suffer alongside or or begin to to empathize or or have compassion and go along and realize that, hey, there's suffering and my heart's broken over that suffering. I'll tell you what, that will demonstrate the reality of Christianity like nothing else I know of. Maybe this one's harder than that. One member be honored. One member be Blessed, prosper, recognized, exalted some way. Here's what he says: all the members rejoice. I could stop and tell a lot of tales, but I'm not going to But when's the last time you just got thrilled to the very boot that God did something special for somebody else? For your church family. Somebody in your church family. I mean it just thrilled you. I remember in our early days up north there the folks the there just wasn't money there. It was just hard and And uh I'll tell you what, when we come together on Sunday morning, you couldn't quite tell if we were a junkyard or a church parking lot, because of of everything that was parked there. And I remember as God began to bless people and they got better jobs and began to make money. And I I can rem I still remember this one old brother. He was a machinist there and he drove in this new car And I was standing getting actually standing up there getting ready for the prayer meeting, and everybody was in the window. And they were watching it. Look, and they called his name and said, he's got a new car. And the the sheer delight that was on their face that he was able to drive a new car. But you know what sadly we often do? Oh, wonder who he thinks he is. Well he he must think he's better than everybody. Am I not telling you the truth? And and the reality is that often I that old green-eyed monster of jealousy and envy rears up in our hearts And instead of rejoicing with the honored, we begin to complain and criticize and fault-find and point fingers and say, oh, that ought not to be. I'm just saying here's an identification with the body that suffers when the body suffers and rejoices when the body rejoices and says, Praise God for his goodness to the people of God. This is the true outworking of the reality that the body is one. And we come to this concluding statement, verse 27. I want you to notice what it says. It says, now, ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. And really, here's the sermon. The sermon's in the statement. The sermon is in the truth that's being spoken right here. He says now. Now, that's present, obviously. And what was true then is still true today. Now. Right now. We're not talking about some ideal thing that's going to exist out yonder in the future. We're talking about right now. Now, today, this very evening. Now you say, Preacher, for that to be true, there's something got to change. Well then let the Spirit of God Change that and yield our hearts and say, now Lord, take that out of me because it's not supposed to be, or Lord, put it in me because it's not in there, and Lord, help me to do this now. Notice the now here, in this present moment. You know, we talk about a lot of things that are needed in the church today. And yes, we do need revival. And yes, we do need the Lord to do a mighty work. But I'll tell you what we what we need now is we need a sense of urgency, of obedience to what the Bible says. I don't think we're suffering from a lack of knowing, we're suffering from a lack of doing. If we just did what we know's right, I think we would have revival before the sunset. If we just put in practice, the Bible says, be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake had forgiven you. If we just practiced that one thing right there, the flood tides of heaven would be opened up and washed over the body. I believe if we would just take that command, be ye holy, for I am holy, and we were to just simply obey that simple command. I don't doubt within my heart that we would not see a fresh working of the Spirit of God. Why? Because we've just been obedient. We often sit around and say, Lord, I don't know what to do. And by the way, God's not going to tell you any more to do than you already know to do. And if you're not doing what you know you should be doing, don't expect Him to tell you to do anything else. Because he's already spoken. You remember what he said there in John, happy are ye if ye do them. If you do them. You say, but preacher, I believe it. Well, really, belief is more than just mentally acknowledging that something is so. I can say amen to something. I don't live, and really my amen is null and void. It's just marked out. Why? Because it's not true. Now I believe with all my heart if I stand out here on uh old Elkneck Road, somebody run over me. And if you live in this area, you know exactly what I'm talking about. This is Indy 500 down through here. And I believe with all of my heart that if I were to venture out there, I would not last very long. You know what I do? I don't venture out there. Because I believe that. I believe that with all my heart. And if I believe what the Bible says, then you know what it'll do? It will change my conduct. It'll alter the direction I go. And so we see it's present. He's saying now, now, right this very moment. Church, don't be thinking about some high ideal operating up in heaven. We're not talking about heaven. We're talking about earth. We're talking about today. We're talking about this moment. He said, right now, at this present moment, now. Then notice he gets personal. Now ye are the body of Christ. Ye. Who's he talking to? The Corinthian Christians. He said, I want you to know that you, as a local church, you're that body. You, you are that body. Marinatha Baptist Church, you're that body. You you are the body. We're not again we're not talking about something that exists up yonder in heaven. He's dealing with something that's working and operating down here on the earth. He's saying now you, you, individuals, you Uh Marinatha, you are the body of Christ. It gets real personal, don't he? You see, a lot of times we're so worried about everybody else that we forget about our personal responsibility. Me. You know, we live in a in a in a county. We have a lot of different churches, and I thank God for those that preach the Bible. But as far as what they're doing, that's none of my concern. I'm concerned about this body You are the body. And that body needs to be concerned about this body and what this body is doing. How this body is living. And then he uses this particular, this word particular. Look at it. He says this: now ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. Now the word particular means a section or an allotment. A section or an allotment. You know what he says? You've got your place. Fill it. You've got your place, fill it. You've got your place in the body. You're a member in particular. And every Christian who read this letter or who heard this letter read to them in the Corinthian assembly, they understood that that as I, as an individual, I have my place. I need to fill it. I have my responsibility. I need to exercise it. I have that place of uh of filling my place, whether I'm an eye, an ear, a mouth, a nose, or whatever it may be, a foot, I've got that place and I need to fill it. Can I challenge you tonight to feel your place so well that when you're gone, you'll be missed? Can I use this illustration? As you get older, there are things that don't work. Can I get a witness? Okay And how do I say this graciously? Help me Lord, because the reality is there's some things that ain't worked in so long, you don't miss them no more. And if they were to start working, you'd be shocked because you forgot about what it was like when it did work. Alright? The reality is this There are some people who never feel their spot. And therefore their absence Doesn't make the effect had they not filled that spot to the full. Do you understand what I'm trying to say? Fill your spot. Be what it is God has called you to be. Do what He's called you to do. He's saying, look, and you know what we do? We're like Peter. Peter's Getting right with God there after the resurrection and the Lord's telling him some things about his life. And all of a sudden, for whatever reason, Peter says, what about him? Talking about John. And our Lord says, If if I will that he tarries till I come, listen to this. What is that to thee? Can I put it in just my plain old mountain language? That's none of your business. Whatever happens to John is John. You're not John, you're Peter. Peter and here's he followed that up by saying this, follow thou me. You just follow me Don't you worry about John and don't you worry about Thomas and don't you worry about this one, Andrew. You worry about you. You follow me. You make sure you're filling your place. You make sure you do your part. You make sure that you're exercising those gifts God's given you. You be an ear, if that's what God's called you to be, don't worry about the nose. You be a hand, don't you worry about the feet. You do what God's called you to do. Oftentimes we get worried so worried about everybody else we forget our own responsibility. Even Solomon said, they made me the keeper of the vineyard, but my own vineyard have I not kept Let me make this real practical and I'm done. As we know, our sister Lana went to heaven here this week. She first came to this church, she really wanted to do something for the Lord. And a couple of times she'd come and she would say, you know, I I I I'd like to have something to do. What can I do? And We'd pray and talk, and finally she didn't come and ask anymore, and she carried on and Many of you may not know this, but she said she began to pray and say, Now, Lord, I want you to show me what you want me to do. I want you to give me that place. Give me that purpose. Give me that spot that only I can feel, that I can do what it is you want me to do. She said the Lord put on her heart to be an encouragement through writing cards. And many of you got birthday cards or anniversary cards or get well cards or just because cards By the way , you didn't get a box, she hated this, you wouldn't go buy a box of generic cards She went and specifically picked out cards with some person in mind. Every time. Filled her spot. The last six months, about every two days, sometimes every day, about every two days, I get a text. And I would get a text from Miss Lannon. She would say, she would say things like , I watched the sunrise this morning. God sure paints a beautiful picture. Love and prayers coming your way. She would say uh she would say things like, uh, Good morning. Hope the VBS kids didn't wear you out. Looking forward to church on Sunday. What a wonderful day. Love and prayers coming your way. Beautiful day to enjoy God and His blessing and creation. Have a great day. Love you and prayers coming your way. Every couple days. Sometimes every day. One morning she went Mr. Rogers on me. Good morning, lovely day in the neighborhood. Loving prayers coming. You know what? She filled her spot. She filled her spot. She became an encouragement. She became a a a a cheerleader, if you will. She she was not she was wanting you to know that, hey, I'm praying for you, I'm thinking about you. And I'm here to tell you, in the world we're living in, if you don't start encouraging one another, there's going to be a lot of casualties down the road. As you know, Miss Lana was very honest. Painfully so She came to me one time, she said, Preacher, so-and-so don't like me. I said, Well, how do you know that? I know things I said, well, d have they ever said it? Well, no, they don't have to. And I said, look, I I'm not gonna um say yay or nay, because I don't know. But here's what she said, you know what I'm going to do? I thought, oh please. I hope it's something good. She said, I'm just going to love them. And they don't have to like me and I and it don't bother me. I'm just gonna love them. I said, Amen. That's what we ought to do. Huh? But don't we often get so juvenile in our attitudes that that we we often give what we get, and sometimes what we get isn't right. And and we say, well, they didn't talk to me, so I ain't gonna talk to them. Well, just grow up I don't know how to say it. And say, Lord, help me, help me to be uh the Christian I'm supposed to be. You know, I'm glad my arm don't go on on strike and say, I'm not feeding you fat boy anymore. I'm glad that this thing continues to cooperate because it knows that the strength it receives is going to come from the service it gives. And the church, the body of the Lord Jesus Christ, builds its strength on the service that it gives one another. That's why Jesus in that upper room took that towel and basin and went around that room and washed those men's feet. And he said, I'm your master, but I become your servant. And he said, Go and do likewise one to another. The church shines when it serves. The church shines when it serves one another, when it cares for the members. And they exercise that care. I'm going to leave you this statement. We exalt Christ when we exercise care one for another We exalt Christ. And I'm going to tell you something: the reason the devil battles us on that front and makes that a point of contention. is because he knows nothing dishonors our Lord quite like Christians who turn on Christians. But when we care one for another, you know what we're doing? We're exalting Jesus Christ. We're drawing the spotlight to the Master. We're saying, look how good he is. because of what he's done and the difference he's made in our lives. Now Ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. Dear brother and sister, you've got a spot. It don't have to be officially recognized or voted on by the church. Find it and feel it. Find it and feel it. I read the story of a dear lady back in the mountains that she wanted to serve God some way. She couldn't teach. She was unable to read. She couldn't prepare a lesson. She couldn't sing. She said if she did, nobody would come to hear. There was just absolute, but she heard one day about a cup of cold water. And she said, I got a spring on my property. And I got a good spring, and it's good water. And so she began to carry water to the church and put it up there for the preacher to drink Now some people look at that and say that's silly and that's not a big deal. I've got news for you. I believe God literally meant that a cup of cold water in his name would be honored. And I believe her reward was great in heaven. You know why? She found her spot and she feeled it. Oh church, find your spot and feel it. Brother, sister, find your spot and feel it. Get along with God and say, now Lord, just show me what it is you want me to do, and rest assured He'll show you if you're serious, He'll show you if if you really mean business. And don't be looking for the spectacular, because it might be something that nobody else will see but everybody needs. Maybe something behind the scene. Something unknown. I I'm thankful somebody cleans the restrooms. Aren't you? Amen. Don't let let 'em go about a month not getting clean. You'll change your tune if you don't appreciate that. That's a big deal. There are a lot of things that have to be done behind the scenes that are often not very fun to do and not very uh don't get a lot of applause or attention, but they're necessary. Find your spot and feel it. They tell me in Switzerland there was a man given the charge to keep a spring. By that he was to clean it out. The town below depended on that water for life. He said, I never got a letter from the council thanking me for cleaning the spring. I've not had one person from that town climb up this mountain and say, thank you for keeping the spring clean. He said, I tell you what I'm going to do. I'm just going to quit and let that spring go. And it wasn't long. If you know anything about springs, if you don't clean them out, the water won't flow. And things will get in that spring that will contaminate that water. Suddenly the townspeople didn't have the water that they were used to. And suddenly people began to get sick, and so a a commission was put together to go visit the keeper of the spring, and they began to talk to him, and he said, Yes, but I've never been thanked. I've never been uh uh appreciated and and on and on. But they said, sir, we're dying down here because you're not keeping the spring. So this is more important than a piece of paper of accolades and applause and appreciation. You've got to keep the spring. We're dying down here. And I'm telling you, my friend, the church is dying because some people aren't keeping their spring. The people of God are struggling because somebody's uh uh over here feeling sorry for themselves and they're not filling their spot and doing their job and keeping the spring. I'm just saying if we're gonna have life, if we're gonna be the church the Lord wants us to be We gotta feel our spot, even if it's doing a job that's uh unthanked and unappreciated, but it's necessary. Just do it. Hey, we need some people praying. I mean really praying Prayer warriors getting in their closet. You might have time that others don't. Find you somewhere and get with God and get a hold of God. Folks, we're done if we don't have that. Keep your spring. Feel your spot. Do what it is God has called you to do. Oh, what a difference it'll make. That the members would have the same care one for another. Oh God, make this a reality. Make it a reality. Would you stand with me, please?