True. I'm grateful that the Lord said these words, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. And I'm grateful that we can rest in that great truth. I want you to take your Bibles this morning and turn with me again to Philippians chapter 1, verse number 21. I'm going to invite you to stand when you find it. I'm going to read it, and I'd like for you to say this verse with me as well after I read the text. Philippians chapter 1, verse 21. When you find your place, let's stand together, please. And we'll read this verse. Notice what the Bible says. It says, For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. I'd like for you to read that with me, please. Would you read it? Let's begin. For to me to live is Christ and to die is gay. Our Father, we bow in Jesus' name and we thank you. For the inexhaustible nature of your word. Lord, I'm grateful that it is a well that never runs dry. We ask for your help this morning to see something fresh. Lord, would you speak to us right where we are and help us as only you can. And for all that you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. Lord, hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up Jesus. Would you please give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith? And a heart that will obey. And we'll thank you for what you do, for we ask it in Christ's name. And God's people said, Amen. You can be seated. I want us to look at this text one more time and consider What is being taught in these words? There's seven words that we've been trying to magnify in your hearing in these days. Those words, for to me to live, is Christ. We started our study by looking at the commencement of this life. Where does this life begin? You don't accidentally fall into it. It don't just happen to be. This begins at conversion. When you get born again, that's the starting point. And by the way, that's the starting point of everything. You must be born again. The Bible doesn't make it a suggestion. The Bible doesn't make it a good idea. The Bible makes it a clear command that you must be born again. And so this life commences at the new birth. And I I would ask you this morning, have you been born again? And a lot of times people will say, But preacher, I'm a member of such and such church. That's not the answer to that question. You say, but preacher, I've been a Christian my whole life. Let me say this, that is not the answer to that question. You say, but preacher, I I I'm sure I I'm I'm an American. I was born in this country. I must be a Christian. My dear friend, let me say to you that none of that is equal to salvation. Salvation is a work of God in the heart of a sinner when they understand they're lost and Jesus saves. And they go to him in an act of faith and simply receive the gift of eternal life that only he can give. And friend, if you'll do that, he'll save you today if you're not saved So I ask again, have you been born again? That's the commencement of this life. Now last week we looked at the Confession. This statement is more than just something that started in Paul's life. It was a confession. He's making a confession, an acknowledgement of truth. He's saying, for to me to live is Christ. And we talked about the dependence in this confession. He's literally saying that if I live, I'm going to live depending on the Lord. Not only was it a confession of dependence, but it was a confession of defense. He was saying, for to me to live is Christ. Nero, you think you've got my hand my life in your hands But I've got news for you. There's bigger hands than yours. And I'm glad to report to you this morning that our defense is of the Lord. I'm glad to be in his good hands. And then we talked about the defiance, and and it is a reality in Paul's life. He was not sitting in Nero 's prison Worried to death about what tomorrow might bring. Nero had put him there for his faithfulness to the gospel. He was there because he preached the word and the Jews hated him and wanted him dead. But the truth is, he wasn't worried about any of that. There was a spirit If I can put it like this, godly defiance about him that said, like the three Hebrew children, whether you throw us in the fire or God keeps us from the fire, we will not bow to your God. And thank God for that kind of defiance. And listen, it was because he understood, for to me to live is Christ. Then I want you to notice this morning. We've looked at the commencement, the confession, but I believe there's even more to this. For to me to live is Christ. I believe there's a choice here. There's a choice. Paul's making a choice. He's making a choice. You say, preacher, what do you mean? I mean that Paul said, for to me to live is Christ. That means he chose to die daily. He said, I die daily. In Galatians chapter 2 and verse number 20, he says this. He said, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. That's a choice. It was a choice that he made every day. Do you realize sitting here this morning, you are a sum total of the choices you've made up to this point? Good or bad? To a great degree, all of us are a reflection of the choices we have made. Now I'll tell you who's the author of that. It is God who gave us the freedom to choose In the Garden of Eden, when he planted the the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, he gave man a choice, and man had a choice. God put him in that garden and said, Now you can eat of all the fruit of the trees. That grow in this garden, but there is one tree you're not to eat of, and you've got a choice. You've got a choice to make. And listen, don't tell me choices aren't powerful. Eve made a choice. Adam made a choice. And do you understand we're still affected by the choice? Did any of you get up this morning and creak and moan and groan and pop and snap and crackle? And you weren't eating rice krispies neither for breakfast. You know what that is? That's the result of Eve's and Adam's choice. Every time you drive by a graveyard, every tombstone says, Man made a choice. Death came into this world through that choice. And we're still, look at all of this time later, we're still reaping from that choice. We're still realizing the effects of that choice. Listen, choices are mighty powerful things. You think about the choices that Paul made, and I think the greatest Christian that ever lived on this earth was the Apostle Paul. The greater part of your New Testament is a result of his human penmanship under divine inspiration. God gave the bulk of the New Testament through this man. I believe because he made some right choices. He is historically recorded as establishing some 2,000 churches. Now we send a missionary to the field and they start one church and we think it's a wonderful thing. Or perhaps they mount they might start two or three or four and we think, wow, that's incredible, maybe six or so I remember Dr. Earl Jessop with the Baptist Church planning ministry. God let them start about 200, and I thought that I'd never heard of that. But throughout the United States and even in Canada, the Lord had helped them to start that many churches. And I thought that's amazing. That's a That's a wonderful thing, but can you imagine uh 2,000 churches God using the Apostle Paul to start But I say all of that is simply a reflection of the choices Paul made in his life. Paul made some choices. And I'm going to come back to him a little later, but when we think about choices, the man who comes to my mind that I want to bring before you this morning is the man Joshua. Joshua made some choices that made Joshua the man he was. Now listen, your your choices reveal something about your character. When you make a choice, you're you you 're not being forced. By the way, we're Baptists, and you say, what do you mean by that? I mean that we believe in soul liberty. If if I had the power to make someone believe what I believe, I wouldn't do it. If I had the and by the way, that's the difference between New Testament church and something that is a counterfeit. You'll never find historically a state church being a Baptist church. You won't find that You won't find that because one of the tenets of our faith, one of the identifying marks of our people, is that we believe in soul liberty. We believe that God is able to take His word and convince you of truth without pressure from a government or pressure from a religious leader or pressure from any other outside source. The Word of God, the Spirit of God working in the heart of a child of God is able to work out things and make people be what they ought to be. Now, understand that God gives us the freedom to choose. But know this: the consequences are always a result of our choices. When we think about this man named Joshua, I want you to go back with me to the book of Exodus, and I want you to look in Exodus 33 in verse 11, and I want you to see a choice Joshua made. Now remember Joshua was a contemporary of Moses. He followed in his footsteps. He had the charge to lead the children of Israel over into the promised land. That was Joshua's purpose But long before Joshua ever got to do that, he was a servant of Moses. He helped Moses. He was under his leadership. And I want you to notice in verse 11 of Exodus 33 what the Bible says. And the Lord spake unto Moses Face to face as a man speaketh unto his friend. Now stop there for a minute. Can you imagine what it must have been like? For God to come down and speak to Moses. By the way, this isn't figurative or allegorical, this is real. God spoke to Moses face to face like a man speaks to his friend. If I had to walk down off this platform and Stand up here in front of Brother Charlie and and talk with him like a man does to the friend. That's the way God communicated with Musk. Can you imagine that? But notice this who's in the background, the very next sentence. And he turned again into the camp. That's Moses. He's been in the tabernacle. God has come to the tabernacle and talked to Moses. And Moses returns back to the camp, but watch this: his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle. You ever notice that? God came down and had business to do with Moses. It doesn't say that he spoke to Joshua. It doesn't say that he even said hello to Joshua. He spoke to Moses. By the way, God's very direct. And God dealt with Moses directly. God dealt with him individually. And yet Joshua was there, and watch what Joshua did. Joshua stayed back at the tabernacle. If you're making notes, I want you to notice choice number one, he lingered in the Lord's presence. That's what Joshua chose to do. Joshua said, you know something? God's been here. And because God's been here, I want to stay here. Moses had business to attend to. God came down and spoke to him. He went back to the camp to do his business. And Joshua said, But I'm just going to stay here. By the way, there's still something about the presence of God even after he himself is passed. It was Moses who was allowed to see the hinder parts of his voice. I don't know how to put it any other way than just the afterglow. The fact that the Lord had been there. You just knew that there was something different about that place because the Lord had been there And and the truth is, here's Joshua, and Joshua was there with Moses. God didn't say a word to Joshua, but Joshua was there. He witnessed this account. He witnessed this event, and then he just wanted to hang around. Where the Lord had been. Can I say something to you this morning? You better be careful about where you choose to hang around. What you choose and who you choose to hang around is going to make the character that you have or don't have. You'll notice that he chose the right person. He was with Moses. He didn't have to be there. Where he was he he was instructed. Now Joshua, you come and and you say, no, he he just chose to be there. He chose to be around the right person. And oh, how we need to be around the right people. You need some right people in your life. I I know God's people aren't perfect, trust me. I pastored for over thirty years, and I I can tell you things that make your hair stand up if you've got any But the truth of the matter is that the reality, they're still God's people. And here he is, and he's he's wanting to be around Moses, he's wanting to be around that man who knew God. I don't know how I want to be in the presence of people who know God. I I'm I'm not interested in the religious crowd or the put-ons of the fakes. Get I want to find some people who know God, who communicate and are close and near to the Lord. Those are the kind of people you need to be around. And so he made a choice to be with the right person. But not only that, he chose to be in the right place God had given clear instructions that the tabernacle is where he would meet with them. He said, I'm going to come there. That's where I'll be. That's where I'll deal with you. That's where I'll instruct you. That's where I'll meet with you. And by the way, the New Testament church is not the tabernacle in that sense. The New Testament church is the assembly of saints, but we do have a New Testament teaching in the book of Revelation that says the Lord Jesus assembles where his saints gather. He's present among his people. Where is he in all of those seven churches? He's walking among the candlesticks. He's walking among his people. He was in the right place. Can I stress to you, you need to make some choices that will put you not only around the right people, but you need to make some choices that will put you in the right place. I'm talking about the Lord's house. You know, I believe that God is big enough to meet the needs of his people the way he's established in his word. I think that we've gotten to an age and and everybody wants counseling and everybody wants some instruction. But I'll tell you what, I think the way God will counsel and instruct us is across the pulpit and through the sacred desk as the word of God is preached. And if you and I are negligent of being in the house of God and there's a need comes in our life, I I'll tell you something. There have been times I remember looking back I I was I was going to school and had a young family and buddy you talk about limited on time and and I can remember Coming home, beating and saying, You know, I I don't know if I'm going to go to church tonight. And I thank God that thought didn't last long And I got myself ready and I made my old tired carcass go. And I'll tell you what, it never failed. When I didn't want to be there physically, I needed to be there spiritually, and God gave me something I needed in my life I believe that God meets the needs of his people. You and I need to make some choices. And I'll be honest with you, there are times God will give me a message. And I don't preach to individuals. God knows I've never used the pulpit as a coward's castle. But I do pray and say, God These are your people. These are your sheep. Give me that that they need. And there have been times I believe God's given my heart something that would help an individual and you stand up and you know what? They made the decision not to be here They made a choice to stay home. They made a choice to not be in God's house. And you know what the sad thing is? God had made the meal. They just didn't show up to eat it. How many of you dear ladies cook a good meal? Don't wouldn't it kind of aggravate you if your husband don't show up and and and uh you know he just oh I got a hamburger on the way home You you're you may not be married to a mountain woman like I am. There's no stopping and getting a hamburger on the way home if she's made a meal. And by the way, stinking old hamburger is no comparison to a good home-cooked meal, in my humble opinion. But I 'm I'm saying there are things that God gives us, there are places we need to be. I believe the place where we're going to grow strong and the place where we're going to mature in our faith and the place that we're going to be equipped to fight the good fight of faith and the place where we're going to get gas in our tank spiritually and to get strength in our person. Listen, I believe that place is in the house of God under the preaching of the Word of God. As God has ordained it. And listen, God will help us. Joshua lingered. He knew he could get some help there. He lingered at the tabernacle. And then I want you to notice he was in the right presence. He was in the presence of the Lord. The Lord was there. I wish I had the time this morning to highlight even, and I don't, but but if I highlighted all the places where the Lord was and the difference it made because he was there. The Lord's presence will change something. Let me say it like this: the Lord's presence will change somebody. His presence will change you. Whether you're in your prayer place where you meet with God with an open Bible or you're in a local church where God's working, I'm going to tell you something. When God's there, it makes the difference. He makes the difference. The Lord's presence. We have traded and counterfeited today personality for the presence of the Lord. Or put on for the presence of God. I remember hearing the old preachers in the mountains say things like this you can't stand the smoke if you've been born in the fire. I didn't quite understand that for a while, but I got it after a little bit. There's something about the counterfeit that turns your stomach when you've been around the real thing. I'm here to tell you this this morning that that you need to be in the right presence. You need to be in the Lord's presence. And our choices, our choices We'll have a lot to do with this if we'll get ourselves where we need to be, around the people we need to be around. And the choice that Joshua made was a wise choice. You know why he could step into the room of Moses or into the place of Moses and lead the people of God? Because he had made the right choice to linger in that tabernacle. I believe it was back in that tabernacle God taught him things that fortified his soul, that strengthened him spiritually, and put him on the right path so that he could be the man God wanted him to be. I want to ask you something. What kind of choices you've been making lately? Have you been choosing the right places, right people? the right presence? Have you have you made some choices that will get you the help that you need from the Lord? Quickly number two, he made another choice. And this one's quite interesting because it often reflects something we do. Turn over here to Joshua with me real quick. Go to the book of Joshua. Chapter 7. And for sake of time, I'm just going to read a few verses here, but you know the account here. Israel has come off of the victory of Jericho. And boy, God gave them a great victory there in Jericho. And there's a little place called Ai. And they say, we don't need a whole lot of people up here. I mean, look what an outfit we are. We've gotten this great victory over here at Jericho. And by the way, you know what that is? You can write over chapter 7, P-R-I-D-E. They were full of pride. Now we've done it. We've done this before. Ai 's small compared to Jericho. We'll just take a few people up there. They went up there and they got whipped. And they come running back. And Joshua gets on his face. Verse 6, look at it. He rent his clothes, fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of the Lord. Until the even tide, he and the elders of Israel and put dust upon their heads. And then he prays. And when he finishes praying, verse ten says, The Lord said unto Joshua, Get thee up. Wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face? Israel has sinned. If you're making notes, I want you to notice number two that Joshua made a choice to listen to the Lord. He listened to the Lord. He didn't lay on his face a moment longer when the Lord spoke. When the Lord said, Joshua, get up. There's sin in the camp. We got to do something. He got up off his face. He stopped his prayer meeting, and he got into action and did what the Lord told him to do, even though it was hard. Do you realize that he had to single out an individual? He had to identify a family or a tribe and the family of that tribe and the individual in that family until he got to uh to this man Achan and he ri and Achan he he he said, Confess your sin. Tell us what you did. Obviously you're the the reason that we're in the trouble we're in. And he told him what he did. And then he had to execute judgment and they stoned him. And all of his house. And listen, my friend, understand this. Joshua had to make a choice that was hard. To listen when the Lord speaks. I think we sometimes get used to giving God a deaf ear. And that's dangerous. I know I've told you this. I can remember my dad. We'd be out working in the garage or the woodyard or something, and mom would say, Supper's ready. Daddy'd just keep on working a little bit. A few minutes she'd come back, she said, Did you hear me? His name was JD, but she called him Jay. She said, Did you hear me, Jay? And he'd turn around. After about the third time, he'd listen. And we would go in. I asked him one day, I said, Dad, did you not hear mom? Now look, I had an appetite. I had, I I should say I have. But I can I can remember thinking, I'm hungry, let's shut this wood splitter off, let's quit this foolishness and go eat. And my dad would say, I don't know that it was good marital advice, but my dad would say He said, I'll go when I get ready. I know. Well, I I can feel the sting of that, boy Women's live is live and well. Anyway, you start treating God like that and you'll get in trouble. I'll listen when I'm ready to listen. You know what Joshua said? Joshua's on his face before God, and the Lord says, Joshua, get up. You know what he did? He stood to attention. He listened when the Lord spoke. You know, sometimes God will speak to us and we say, not now. It's a mercy that he ever speaks again. I don't know. Maybe you're like this, you didn't get saved the first time you heard the gospel. In fact, you may have gotten to a place that you gripped the pew and your knuckles turned white as you said, not now, not now, not now. But you ought to get on your knees somewhere and thank God that he ever spoke to you again about the need of your salvation. He showed you mercy in coming by your way again. He didn't have to do that. But do we listen when the Lord speaks? You know how he learned to listen? Number one, through a failure. Verses 1 to 5 describe it, how Ai beat the children of Israel and chased them back, and men died all because he didn't listen. If you've been saved any length of time, you've got some failures back there. And hopefully those failures will say, listen, listen. It pays to listen to the Lord. I believe anybody's honest here this morning would say, preacher, there's a time or two I should have listened, I didn't listen, but I'm learning to listen. You look back and you say, hey, I failed the Lord. But by the way, don't let that be a final. This failure wasn't final. They didn't it didn't end here They got the thing right, and then God said, Now here's what you do to Ai, and God gave them the victory. Aren't you glad that even in our failures God's not finished and he can go on and do something with us? But we gotta learn to listen. I remember running away from my mom in a parking lot, and boy, she lit me on fire. You say literally, it's pretty close. I don't know if the hickory was smoking or my person was, but buddy, it was on and I I thought, what did I do? I was just running to the car. And I'll never forget, she was almost in tears, and she said, you've got to learn to listen. You might get run over. Something might happen. You know, and she had me scared to death, buddy. When we went out the parking lot from then on, I grabbed her hand, her skirt, and everything else I could hang on to, because I didn't want to get squashed like she I mean she described it graphically But you've got to learn to listen. Hey, there's a God in heaven who knows the way. And I don't know the way, and you don't know the way. And I don't know what's best, and you don't know what's best. And I don't know if I need to turn right or left or go straight or go back, but he does. I love the old song, My Lord Knows the Way Through the Wilderness. All I have to do is follow. You know what 40 years of doing this was about? 40 years of going in a circle in the wilderness? Learn to listen. Learn to listen. You wouldn't listen, but I'm going to teach you to listen. So we're going to walk around in this wilderness until you learn that I know what's best. And aren't you glad, look, it don't take 40 years. If we'll just tender our hearts and listen to the voice of the Lord, further calamity was prevented when he listened. No more lives were lost. Ai was defeated. Sin was dealt with. All because he listened. Can I ask you something? Are you listening to the Lord? You know, sometimes God will move and speak. It might be in your Bible reading. You'll open your Bible in the morning and you start to read and God speaks to you. Do you just brush that off? I got to read my chapter. I got to read my verses. You ought to stop right there and say, Lord, I'm listening. What is it you want me to do? Stop right there. If you don't get your verses read that day, read them the next day because it's more important to listen than it is to finish what you're doing. Learn to listen to the Lord. The Lord's got something to say. It might be in a message God speaks to your heart. And you know what we'll do? I'll take care of that when I get home. How many of you have lived long enough to know you don't even get to it when you get home? Because time you get home, that thought or that dealings is not near like it was when you were sitting there listening to that message Learn to listen. He made a choice. Let me give you the final one. Not only did he make a choice to linger in the Lord's presence, and he made a choice to listen when the Lord speaks. But let's go all the way back to chapter number 24 of the book of Joshua. And I want you to see as an old man The place that he's at, and I want you to see something here. I want you to see in Joshua 24. I'm going to read two verses. He made a choice To be loyal to the Lord. He made a choice to be loyal to the Lord You say, preacher, what does loyal mean? We have a society that doesn't know anything about it. We really do. Loyal. You say, what does it mean? It means just to be faithful to. To be faithful to, to to honor, to to to respect, to to give an allegiance, if you will. He was loyal to the Lord. Joshua, well let's look at those verses. Joshua 24, verse 14 and 15. Now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth. And put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers served that are on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose lands ye dwell But look at this. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. You know what he did, he made a choice. He said, I'm going to make right now, I want to get it clear. I want to make it clear. And he's not a he's not a young man. If you'll take the time and read the previous chapter, he said, I go the way of all the earth. In other words, he knows he's getting ready to die. He's come to the end of the of the race. And he says, Israel, he's challenged them. He's charged them to be faithful to God. He knows what's coming down the road, that they're going to turn their back on the Lord. And he says, you serve God, serve him in sincerity, serve him in truth. Don't don't just just partially uh follow the Lord. You follow him with your whole heart. But he said, whatever you choose, know this. I choose. My family chooses. We choose to serve the Lord. He said, I'm going to be loyal. And can I say something? Do you know where Joshua learned to be loyal? He learned to be loyal back yonder, lingering in the tabernacle. He learned the importance of being faithful to God from Moses as he set the example before the children of Israel and before Joshua. He's loyal. He said, Lord, I'm committed to you. I'm going to give myself. By the way, that doesn't happen on accident. Loyalty is purposeful. If you're loyal to the Lord, you do it on purpose. You determine in your heart, by God's grace, I don't want to fail the Lord. I want to be faithful to my Lord. I want to stay true to my Lord. As for me and my house. And by the way, you're going to have to make your mind up many times over that you'll just serve God no matter what. Man, I remember years ago when we went up north and that little church, n none of them nobody come to prayer meeting, hardly sometimes one or two ladies. And and and they would say, well, I mean, I've had deacons that were so no account, they wouldn't come to a prayer meeting. And I can remember saying, we are going to have prayer meetings. Because I don't believe a church will live without a prayer meeting. If you don't have a prayer meeting, you're dead. A prayer meeting is a thermometer of a church And if the prayer meeting is not alive, then that church is dying dead. It's going to die. It's in the death throes. And I told him one Sunday morning, I said, we're going to have a prayer meeting if it's just me and Elizabeth and Sarah. And the message is going to be real personal. It's going to get real close. I'm only going to be preaching to two or three But we're going to have prayer meeting because we've got to pray. You've got to make your mind up. You know, we get out, we let we let fickle man affect our faithfulness to God. We get so I mean we get knocked off course. Somebody looks at us crossways, and next thing you know, we're out of sorts. Well, God bless us. Help us now. Help us, Lord, not to be so fickle. Man is man. I don't care what man he is or where man is. Man's just going to be man. You're going to find it here, you're going to find it there. I don't care where you go, people are going to be people. But we don't serve people. We serve the Lord. And we need to learn to be loyal to the Lord Jesus as long as we live. I'll tell you something, Joshua finished well. Dr. Ms. Hitchens sing that challenging song, I want to finish well And I'll tell you what, it 'll take loyalty on our part to the Lord if we're going to finish well. Well, when Paul said these words for to me to live as Christ, he's saying, I want you to know something. I made a choice. I've made a choice. I've made a choice to linger. I believe Paul did these things, and I'm going to look at that maybe a little later. But Joshua most definitely made some choices. He said, I'm going to linger in the Lord's presence. I'm going to listen when the Lord speaks, and I'm going to be loyal to the Lord. Can I ask you a question? What about you? What about you? What are you going to choose? What are your choices? Let me ask you this. What are your choices saying about your character? May the Lord search our hearts here this morning. Would you stand with me, please? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.