If you don't know him today, I highly recommend it. The truth of the matter is, as many as received him, that's Jesus. To them, them are the ones who received him. Amen. Gave he eternal life. And dear friend, this morning the real issue is: do you know Jesus? It's not about the name on a sign or situation. We need the Lord. Amen? Yes, sir. He's got it. Brother Joe. And I want you this morning, as we look forward to what the Lord has in store, to hear the word of God. Brother Joe Teague is the assistant pastor at Truth Baptist Church in Atwater, Ohio. He serves alongside his father, Brother Roy Teague, Pastor Roy Teague. And uh we appreciate them and the ministry out there. Uh he's also my son-in-law, so and I'll claim him publicly Uh especially now that he brings Jack to see us. So that's even better. But I appreciate him. You pray for him. Let's hear him gladly, please. Amen. Grab your Bibles if you have them this morning. Go to Galatians chapter number five. I love that song the lifeboat. That third verse says, By the eye of faith I see. I didn't see the Lord on the cross of Calvary, but by the eye of faith I've seen. I don't know why I'm so emotional today, but the Lord is good, isn't he? I thought about this morning as I was thinking about Memorial Day as tomorrow. It's a reminder to us all that freedom isn't free. I didn't serve in any military and I didn't have any close relatives that did, but we still hold a great debt to the many servicemen and women that have given their lives. I looked up the other day and they estimate between one point two and one point three million have given their lives on battlefields or directly after battlefields. Uh from the founding of our country, 1. 2 to 1. 3 million. What a what a lot of lives that were shed so we could have the freedom to be here today. As I thought about that, we have the national liberty we have is what blessing. And I love our country. I believe it is still the greatest country on earth, even though it had a lot of problems. And our freedom is something we shouldn't take lightly. But along with that, we have something even better than that that I want to talk about this morning, and that's spiritual liberty. Praise God for the fact that the blood of one could purchase freedom that no one else could. Galatians chapter number five. If you want to stand with me while you have that, we're just going to read one verse. Out of reverence for the word of God, we'll read and pray. Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 1 says, Stand fast, therefore, in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free. Be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. I want to emphasize on the fact that that second line of that says, Christ hath made us free. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father. Lord, I thank you and praise you for the opportunity that we can be in this house this morning. Lord, I thank you for the fact that I felt the Spirit working already in the songs. Lord, I pray that you empty me in myself, fill me with the Spirit to speak your word. Lord, I pray that if there's someone here this morning or listening in, I pray, Lord, if they're lost, that today would be the last day of their lost. God, I pray that you would call them and prick their heart. Let them know that they're in a place that we love them, we care about them, and we'd share the love of Christ with them. Lord, I pray for the sinners and the saints alike here. Lord, I pray we'd all be a little drawn closer to you. God, I pray for the hearts of each one. Go up now each row, Lord, do what only you can do. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Thank you for standing. I want to look at this and thinking about the text here. In Galatians chapter number 5, Paul is the writer here to the Church of Galatia, and he's reminding them of the freedom that they have in Christ. He's reminding them of this because some folks had come along and had tried to add to the grace of God Trying to tell them that they need to keep the law and the things of the work works of the law and things like that to have salvation. And Paul was reminding them stand fast, therefore, in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free. Be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage, as he says there. I thought about this with uh with liberty and with the fact of Memorial Day. There is a responsibility of liberty But I want to look today and see the same thing as Paul reminded the church here that they were given their liberty by Christ. But also along with that there was some responsibility. I want to see the same thing. But I want to notice, first of all, the provider of the liberty. The provider of the liberty is none other than Jesus Christ himself. It says up there in the verse, Christ hath made us free. And I think about the Uh the fact that as we think about Memorial Day being tomorrow and the many lives that have been uh given so that we would have liberty as a nation, but as I already said, it only took one, the precious, lovely Lamb, Jesus Christ. to give us liberty in Christ. I think about how the provider of our liberty was none other than Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us in Acts chapter number four and verse twelve that neither is there salvation in any other But there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. There's none other. It's exclusive along with Jesus Christ and him alone. If you're here today or you're listening in and you're trusting in Jesus Christ plus anything, you're off track. If you're here today and you're not trusting in Jesus, but you're trusting in something else, well then you're definitely off track. It's Jesus and Him alone. Neither is there salvation in any other. As those young people stood up here and sang, or no, it was the choir, rather, I'm sorry. They sang basically John 14 6, where Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And the Bible tells us that no man cometh unto the Father but by me. It's pretty limited. The provider of the liberty is Jesus and him alone. He says over in John chapter number 8 and verse 32, and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. The Lord is the truth. He's the provider of liberty. I think about this the price of liberty The price of liberty came at a great cost for our nation. I already mentioned the many lives that have been shed, and I hope that we don't take that for granted. And we've ri we we glaze over that by thinking about the many the days that we represent. Memorial Day comes along and we all eat a hamburger or a hot dog and we wear a pretty red, white, and blue, and we we think we're being real patriotic, but let's think about that. The families across this nation that are mourning the death of someone that gave their life so that we could eat those hamburgers and hot dogs. And the other men and women that made it home and struggled for the rest of their lives with the things that they they had to encounter there. Freedom came at a great cost. There was a great price for our nation's liberty, but Our liberty in Christ, the the freedom of spiritual liberty, that cost something as well. It cost the lovely Lord his life The ver the verse tells us over in First Peter. You can look with me if you'd like. First Peter chapter number one tells us this If I can get there, we'll be alright. 1 Peter. 1 Peter chapter number 1 and verse 18 says, For as much as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. For your vain conversation received by the tradition of your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. The precious blood of Christ. As a lamb without spot without blemish and without spot. Amen. I'm so glad that I wasn't my salvation wasn't paid for by silver or gold. And things that'll corrupt I think about our nation's money and the money across the world. It just takes a matter of seconds, and that money you carry and hold so dear to you can be worthless. I I like history and I read about and around here there's a lot of it that's right here close, a lot of history happened, but the Civil War, hey man, it that Confederacy once the war was over, all that money was worthless. It was just paper. I think about this. We weren't redeemed with paper. We weren't redeemed with corruptible things Or or or or the things that are going to perish or pass away. I think about the Lord told us he said, Lay not up treasures here on earth where moth and dust corrupt. Hey, lay 'em up in heaven. The thing that's worth something came from heaven, the lovely Lord Jesus Christ. The precious blood. Of Christ. Churches today and a lot of people want to remove the blood, but without the blood, the Bible tells us without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. You want to get rid of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ? You don't have salvation anymore. I I think it's important to know we need we have to have the blood. That c that flag right there with the red in it, that represents the blood of the millions that shed their blood for us to have liberty in America. The blood of the Lord was shed so we could have liberty, freedom from the penalty of hell. I want to remind you that because we're an American doesn't mean you're going to heaven. The blood that was shed for the American flag and the country we have does not get you to heaven. The blood of Jesus Christ will get you to heaven. I think it's important to know that the price of liberty, Isaiah chapter number 53, gives us the description of the suffering of our lovely Lord. The Bible tells us that he was despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But verse 5 there It says he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. I'm so grateful that our Lord went through that. Verse 10 there tells us that it pleased the Lord to bruise him What a staggering thought. I remember several years ago I was discipling a man that we were in discipleship class, and that verse was was there, and he said, That don't make any sense to me. Why did it please God to bruise his son? Why did it please God the suffering of the cross pleased God? And we explained it, what a blessing. It pleased God because that's the only thing that would please him. See, man can try for all for all the years and do everything they can, but the problem is we're sinful in a sin-cursed body, in a sin-cursed world, because of Adam and Eve. The Bible tells us that all have sin and come short of the glory of God. The only one that didn't have sin was Jesus. The only one that could please God was the death of his son, saying, I'm going to die in their place. I'm grateful for the fact that he was willing to go, weren't you? But there's a price to liberty. It wasn't free Salvation is free for us. It doesn't cost me anything. That's the other thing people want to they want to try to work their way to heaven or do things. The Bible says in Ephesians Chapter 2 and verse 8 and 9, for by grace are you saved through faith, and then not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Freedom costs, but it didn't cost us anything. I think about how from my in my own case, I didn't serve in any wars, I didn't go to the military, I didn't do anything, but I'm a free American. But it cost somebody else something. My salvation did not cost me a thing, praise God, for it. Because I didn't have enough money to pay for it, and I certainly don't have enough good works to pay for it. But Jesus did. The precious blood of the Lamb of God paid for it. It's a free gift. All you have to do is receive it. What a blessing. The Bible tells us in Titus chapter 3, verse 5-7, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. By the washing of regeneration, renewing of the Holy Ghost, which He shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Lord, that being justified by His grace We should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. I'm gr I'm so grateful it's not by works of my righteousness. The Bible reminds us over there in Isaiah, I believe it's 64, that our best, our righteousness Is as filthy rags. The best we can do is valued as filthy rags to the Lord Jesus Christ God looks down from heaven and he says, uh, you know, you're doing a real good job. You dressed up today in your Sunday best and you're looking real good. You think you're looking spiffy? Maybe you walked up to the mere this morning and did like the fawns and was like, Yay, looking good God looks down from the portals of heaven and said, You're filthy rags. But I love the fact there's a song, When He sees me, He sees the blood. When he sees me, he sees me as worthy and not as I am. He views me in garments as white as the snow. Why? For the Lamb of God is worthy, and he washed me, this I know. Praise God. He don't see me. We do our best to dress nice and look nice and respect the Lord and respect the Lord's house, but listen, that's not getting you to heaven. And listen, you can come to church, you can hold your Bible, you can know where they're at, you can find follow the preacher along, you can amen at all the right times, but if you're not born again, you'll die and go to hell. I think many are going to stand before the Lord like Matthew 7 says. They'll say, Lord, Lord. They'll say, I went to Maranassa Baptist Church for all these years, and he'll say, Depart from me, I never knew you. Why? Because they had religion. They had a form of godliness, but denied the power thereof. Let us remember there's a great price to our freedom, and it's nothing that we have. It's Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us in Romans 5:8 that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. What a blessing. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. I love that song. That's one of my favorite hymns. My two favorite hymns, There is a fountain filled with blood, and Jesus paid it all. I'm so grateful. All to him I owe. We see the uh the the next I want to see the protection of liberty. You know, the verse here says, Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. We need to protect the liberty that we have. As a nation, we need to protect the liberties that we have as a nation. There's people that are wanting to turn over the liberties and freedoms that we have that men fought and died for. But we need to protect those liberties. The same thing is true for the Christian liberties. We need to protect them. Protect the fact that we have God's word right here in the King James Bible. Protect the fact that God has given us and preserved His Word so that we could know we had eternal life. Protect the fact that the Bible is clear to tell us that it's not by us that gets us to heaven, but Jesus Christ. Now when I say we need to protect our liberty, does that mean that we're trying to keep our salvation? Certainly not. The Bible makes it clear that salvation is secure in the hand of the Lord Jesus. John chapter 10 makes that clear. He says that you're in his hand, and no man can pluck them out of the Father's hand, and I and the Father are one. He says in John 10, 31, What a mighty big hand God has. And I'm glad I'm securely in it. I'm not protecting my liberty in Christ's so that I don't lose my salvation. No, I'm protecting my liberty so I don't get entangled with the yoke of bondage. See, I think about how quickly and easily we can entangle ourselves with the yoke of bondage. In in this this the epistle here For the Galatians, what was happening? They were mixing in the fact that they were pe these Judaizers were saying, hey, you've got to work to keep your salvation. You've got to keep the law and have salvation. There's churches all around us that are still saying the same thing. They're saying you've got to be saved and baptized to get to heaven. Well, hear me clearly. That baptismal pool will do nothing for your salvation. If you're not saved before you get in it, you're just gonna get in it and get out a wet center. It's not gonna wash your sins away. One of the biggest pet peeves I have with these modern churches that they have, they do their baptisms and they all give out little t-shirts. It says, Washed away in the water. Listen, they're going straight to hell wet. Because salvation is not in a baptismal pool, no matter how deep it is. It's sprinkling from whatever church, that's not going to do it either. The baptismal is deep. We say Baptists, we didn't we get them all the way under. That won't do you any good either. Salvation is not in the baptismals. Salvation is not in the offering plates. Salvation is not in the catechism. It's not in anything you can do or try to do or want to do. It's in the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, we entangle ourselves so many times with things. We think, oh, I got to go to church today. Why did you come to church today? If you came today so you get to heaven, you're going to go to hell. Coming here does not get you to heaven. You gotta go to him. Lord Jesus Christ is the only one that'll get you there. Listen, the problem is the world today we've got a lot of dead religion. They're going through the motions of things, but they don't have the Lord. They're entangled in a yoke of bondage. What can entangle a Christian in the yoke of bondage? Sin. Worldliness I might step on some toes this morning, I'm going to step on my own, of course, but listen, we're to live holy, separated lives as Christians. The Bible tells us, he says in there, the Bible says, Be ye holy, for I am holy. Listen, we're to be a different people. He says he's calling us out to be a peculiar people, zealous of good works. That means you're eager to do good things. We shouldn't be eager to sin. I think about all these Christians, so-called, that live like the devil every day of the week, but they go to church and claim to put on their Christian face. That's not godliness. That's a yoke of bondage. And if you're saved, you need to untangle yourself from that directly. The worldliness, the carnality, the things that we tangle ourselves with It's very easy to do that. I think about how I'm not sure what's going on here We 'll just turn that off. I'll stay right here, Jerry. The devil the devil don't want us to say what we're saying here today, amen. Because salvation's in Jesus and Jesus alone. And the devil knows that. The devil's been trying to entangle people in the yoke of bondage so they go to hell. Now think about this from a Christian. I said we're protecting liberty, not so we keep our salvation. So you say Why would would the yoke of bondage, what would it do to me? Well, i you're not gonna lose your salvation. We're secure in Jesus' hand. I already said that. But what happens is we it affects other people. See, the yoke of bondage will discourage others from getting to Christ. We need to be careful that our liberty is protected so that others can enjoy the liberty. I think about how our freedoms in America, I think about this year this year, July, is going to be the 250 years since our nation's independence. And here we are, so all these years later, we still have freedom. Why? Because people paid the price. They've protected that liberty. We shouldn't easily hand it over, and we shouldn't easily hand over our Christian liberties as well. And you say, well, how do we protect this liberty? The verse here tells us this in the very first two words stand fast. Stand fast. Now to look this up, this isn't on our own behalf that we're doing this. It's not by our power, but this is more of a reminder. The word stand fast means to abide, to stay, to have confidence in We can stand fast on something grounded, settled, rooted there. Why? Because we're confident in it. We're standing fast, therefore, in the liberty wherewith what? Christ hath made us free. We protect our liberty by remembering that it only came from Jesus Christ. You protect your liberty and keep from entangling in the yoke of bondage when you remember and continually remind yourself it's Jesus and Jesus alone. They were we were sharing it there this morning in the the young adults class. Pastor was reading it and I it was it just was con confirmation to me what the Lord was wanting us to do. I had my notes here, 1 Corinthians 15, 1. This is the gospel. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received. Notice he says, and wherein ye stand. Our foundation is on the Lord Jesus Christ, the gospel. What is the gospel? He says, By which also you are saved, and if you keep memory what I preach in you unless you have believed in vain, for I deliver to you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins. According to the scriptures. And he was buried, and he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. Amen. How do we stand fast and protect the liberty we have? Remember the gospel. Remember that we're standing in the mercy and grace of God. What a place. If you're not standing in the mercy and grace of God, you're still standing in the wrath of God. The Bible tells you in John chapter number 3 that if you're not born if you're not a son of God, the wrath abides on you. You're still under condemnation. Listen, that's not where I want to be. The wrath of God, I read the Old Testament, listen, the wrath of God's mighty fears. Read the book of Revelation, the upcoming wrath of God's mighty fears. I don't want to be abiding in the wrath of God, I want to be under grace and mercy. I heard somebody say one time about wanting what they deserve. Listen, you don't want what you deserve from God because we all deserve hell. But for the grace of God. What a blessing. I think about the responsibility of liberty. We have the provider of liberty in Jesus Christ in Him alone. The price of our liberty was the blood that was shed from our Lord Jesus Christ. The protection of our liberty comes from confidence in Christ. Because it's all in him. It's all about him. I love the fact that we still sing from hymn books because it's all about him. You say, What is your responsibility of liberty? Well, like our nation uh our liberty, we didn't pay for it, we didn't provide it. Someone else did all that for us, but we should value it, we should respect it, we should enjoy it, we should protect it. Spiritual liberty is similar, but it's different because not only did we not provide it, we didn't pay for it We don't have the power to even protect it. But what can we do? This is where the application is, and I'll be done very quickly here. Do we accept the liberty that's provided? The Bible tells you in John chapter 19, I believe it's in verse 30, the Lord on the all-rugged cross, he cried out, It is finished. And he gave up the ghost. Listen, it's been paid for. Everything that you need to get to heaven has already been accomplished. All you need to do is call out to him. By faith ask him to save you. The Bible says in Romans chapter number 10, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. By faith, go out to him. Have you accepted the liberty that was provided? You sit here today and you say, Well, I've always been a Christian. I've always been an American. I was a natural-born citizen, but it don't work that way with God. There are no natural-born citizens in heaven. You're a natural-born citizen of hell. The Bible tells you that clearly. Romans five twelve, that by the sin of Adam death passed upon all men. We're all sinners. But Jesus Christ paid it all. Have you accepted the liberty that's provided? Have you transferred your citizenship? Have you been saved today? If not, you need to be saved. Secondly, for the Christians here, do we appreciate our liberty? Do you count the cost? I think about the amount of people in this country that don't appreciate the liberty that we have. Listen, they stand out there on the streets and they and I don't care what your political view is, but if you burn a flag in front of me, Lord help us. Listen, you have that freedom. You do have that right to do that. But God forbid someone do that. Do you value and respect? Do you appreciate the liberty you have? There's a bunch of people in this country that don't appreciate our liberty. But there's a bunch of people in Christianity that are in Christ that don't appreciate the liberty we have in Christ. Count the cost. Does the song Old Rugged Cross still bring a tear to your eye when you think about the cost? I love the hymn, Hallelujah, what a savior. That ought to do something to you. Do you appreciate the cost? We stand back and look at who you are in the eye of God and how filthy and ungodly and wicked you are and how we deserve every one of us hell. From the best kid that grew up on a church pew to the drunkard or drug addict from the alleyway, we all deserve hell. But God commendeth his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Do we appreciate our liberty? Count the cost, love it, guard it, and protect it, respect it. And I think about this lastly. Do we make liberty appealing? Do we make liberty appealing? How do we present our Christian liberty to others? Here in Galatians chapter number five. Down there in verse number 13, the Bible says, For brethren, ye have been called under liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. Now, in the context, here he's talking about how we're saved by grace, but listen, the Bible says in Romans chapter 6, 1 and 2, he says, What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Same thing's getting repeated basically here. He goes on a little bit further. He says the works of the the the flesh are these and the works of the spirit are these Listen, works don't save you, but there's going to be an outflow of the Spirit of God working in you. The liberty we have in Christ, the fact that we're saved, we didn't pay for it at all. We're free, free indeed in the Lord Jesus Christ. We should respect that, we should handle it well, but how do we uh is it appealing to others? I think about how sad it is. I heard a quote from somebody about a particular person that I knew And they said, if that person was a Christian, I don't want any part of it. And they said, I'm a better person than they ever were. And they had passed away and this person was talking about it. And sadly they were right. I said, well that was between them and God, right? I can't answer for anybody else but me. And at the end of life, that's who you answer for too. Hebrews tells us that as it is one in a man wants to die, and after this the judgment. When I die, I answer for Joe Tigue and Joe Tig alone. I'm not going to answer for any of you folks what you did with Christ, you do. If you're here today, you need to be saved. But if you are saved, are we making salvation appealing to others? I think about we'll read this verse and we'll be done. I 'm trying to hurry up here. 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. 2 Corinthians chapter number 5 and verse number 20. Well, verse number 17, we'll back up there first. He says, uh, therefore, if any man be Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things become new. And all things are of God who hath reconciled us un us to Himself by Christ, Jesus Christ, excuse me, and hath given us The mercy, the ministry of reconciliation, to wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespass unto them. and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. They said in verse twenty, Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God dis did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ said, Be ye reconciled to God. I think about this. We're ambassadors. There's ambassadors for nations that go around and they represent that country that they're ambassadors for. We are to be an ambassador for Christ. How do we represent the Lord Jesus Christ? Do we make the liberty in Christ appealing? I think about this, I I've heard different f Christians you talk to and they sound like the most miserable people in the world. I heard a this a preacher said one time, he said, You sound more like you got a terminal illness rather than eternal life. You may have a terminal illness, but listen, if you've got Christ, you have eternal life. Amen? The Bible tells us over there in ver in 1 Corinthians 15 That w the the death, hell, and the grave is swallowed up in victory. There amen. There's nothing holding me back. I'm not going to hell because Jesus Christ If I died today, well I'd be sad I didn't get to see Jack grow up and all that and I'd miss folks. Um folks would miss me, I'm sure, maybe, I don't know. But it's getting smaller and smaller, I think the number that would But listen, it's far better over there. Farther on, still go farther It's better farther on. What a blessing it is to know, hey, but we're ambassadors for Christ. Christian, what are we doing with the liberty that we've been given? As an American, what are you doing with your freedoms here? Are we helping our country? Are your hidden to it? I I don't know. I'm not trying to be political today, but just a parallel But as I thought about our liberty in Christ, that's the most important thing. If you're sitting here in this church house today and you don't know Jesus, you need to get saved today before it's too late. I don't know when your appointment with death is. It could be today, it could be tomorrow, it could be fifty years from now. I don't know. But listen, why put it off? James tells us that our life is but a vapor. So we don't know what's on tomorrow. Go to now. I think about that. But Christian, what are we doing? Do we appreciate our liberty? Do we make a liberty appealing? Let's stand on our feet and bow our heads in a word of prayer.