I want you to open your Bibles, please, to the Gospel of John in chapter number twenty. The Gospel of John, chapter number 20. And I'd like to begin reading in verse number 19. And I'm going to read to the end of the chapter. And then bring the message I believe the Lord's put on my heart. I'm burdened this morning about this subject, church, the way it should be. Church the way it should be. John chapter 20 and verse number 19, the Bible says, then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week. When the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. And when he had so said, he showed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord. Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you. As my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost. Whosoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them, and whosoever sins ye retain, they are retained. But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails. And thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. And after eight days again, his disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger and behold my hands. And reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing. And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed. Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed. And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. What a passage of scripture. And I want us to look this morning with the thought of church the way it should be. Now, I realize that we're dealing with pre-Pentecost days. In fact, we're dealing with the very day that Jesus Christ got up out of the grave. But I also know that we're dealing with the God who sets precedence in everything he does. This is the very first gathering at which Jesus appeared. This was the very first meeting of the disciples where Jesus showed up. This was a prototype of what things would be like in the coming days. You know, God puts a lot of emphasis on firsts in the Bible And uh you only have to study that very that very word first or firsts, and you'll find that that God often works in those first things And he sets a precedence and he does the same thing from there on out. Why? Well, because God is faithful and he's not given to change. But I want you to think about it, about a church and and how it should be. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us this morning. Our Father, we come in Jesus' name and thank you for the privilege to bow our heads together. I thank you, Lord, for every person who's made that effort to be in this place this morning. I pray, Lord, they'll not leave without first getting help from thee. We ask, dear Lord, that you would grant the great need, meet the great need, and Lord, grant our hearts request and help us in a special way this morning. And God get all the glory and Lord give the increase and be exalted. I pray, Father, for these few moments that we have together, would you please empty me of me, fill me with thee, hide me behind the cross, and help me to rightly lift up the Lord Jesus And for all that you do, we'll be careful to give you the glory. Lord, we come again. We feel as we truly are, an awful needy people. But we're grateful that we serve such a gracious God. We thank you, Lord. We heard this morning about grace for grace. We're asking for that again. And we'll praise you and thank you for what you do, for we pray in Jesus' name. And God's people said. Amen. I want you to notice again this meeting. By the way, everything God writes in his word is on purpose. You know there's nothing in your Bible that is there on accident. The Lord doesn't put things down and say, oops, I did not mean to write that. Everything in the Bible is there on purpose. And so I want you to see these disciples as they're assembled in the upper room, and suddenly the Lord Jesus appears to them. Now they're having a meeting. They're going to have a meeting. And God is doing some great things in their midst. But I want you to think about this and I want you to note first off about this church the way it should be, I want you to notice the consecrated day. You say, preacher, what does consecrated mean? It means set aside for the purpose of Here is a day that's like no other day. You say, what day is it? Well, go back to the Bible with me, please. In John chapter 20, verse 19, it says the same day at evening. So that don't help me any. What's the same day at evening? It's the same day, go back to verse number one, the first day of the week. So it was the same day that Jesus Christ got up out of the grave. It was the same day that Mary and others went to the tomb and they realized he's not there. He's alive. It was the same day that the Lord Jesus arose. And on that same day, notice it again, in the evening. Now it goes on to say this, being the first day of the week. Now knowing the Jewish calendar, the Jewish calendar, of course, would begin with Sunday. Our Sunday, our Lord's Day. And so here they are with a and they're meeting on a consecrated day. They're meeting on the Lord's Day. You remember what the Bible says over in Revelation chapter 1 and verse 10? John is exiled on the Isle of Patmos, and he said, I was in the Spirit when? On the Lord's Day. On that first day of the week, on Resurrection Sunday, it was the day, that consecrated day. Now you say, Preacher, what do you what are you pointing that out for? I'm pointing that out for Because God would have his people assemble on the Lord's Day. And it is the Lord's Day. It's special, it's different from any other day of the week. Now I realize where I live, I realize what a day it is, what uh what year it is and I understand the attitude and the culture and all of that, but I've got to remind you this morning that the Bible doesn't change. It is still the Lord's day. And isn't it interesting that they gathered in the morning at the empty tomb and they gathered in the evening in the upper room? You say, well, that's just a coincidence Well, I read on in John chapter 20 and verse number 26. Here they are again, eight days later. What day's that? That's the first day of the week. That's the Lord's day. What are they doing? They're in that upper room again. Isn't it a beautiful thing to see God continuing to work on the Lord's Day? When John received the revelation in John chapters 1, 2, 3, into chapter 4, it was the Lord's day all this was taking place. It was the Lord's day, those Christians in Ephesus and Smyrna and Pergamus and Thytira and Sardis and Philadelphia and Laodicea. It was the Lord's day, they were gathering. And as they were gathering, the Lord was walking and working among them. And so you say, preacher, what are you saying? I'm saying that there is a consecrated day for you and I together. It's not Saturday and it's not Friday and it's not Monday, but it is Sunday, which is the Lord's day. It is on this day we commemorate the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. It is on this day that we're reminded though he was dead, yet he lives, and he lives forevermore. It was it is on this day that we acknowledge the fact that we serve a risen Savior. And I believe if we want to be a church that God blesses and smiles upon Then we must give him that consecrated day. It is a day dedicated unto the Lord. You know, isn't it awful good of the Lord to give us six other days And by the way, he set the example in creation. For six days he created, and on the seventh day he rested from his labors. You say, was he tired? Not at all. It was not because he was tired, but he was setting a principle and a precedence of one day out of seven is to be consecrated, to be set aside for the Lord Jesus Christ. I remind you that regardless of how the attitude of our culture may change and has changed about this thing we recognize as the Lord's Day, some of you sitting here are old enough to remember When no business is operated on the Lord's Day. Who's old enough to remember that and not afraid to admit it? All right Amen. I think you were. I'm not just but but you remember when no business is operated on the Lord's Day. You know, there are places where they had great revival in in the past century that uh were affected by that to the degree that only recently uh have they sort of relaxed their laws about the Lord's day Do you know it wasn't until just about ten years ago that in Wales they would allow television to broadcast on the Lord's Day? It was ten years ago that started. Because up until that time, the Lord's Day was the Lord's Day. No stores were opened, no television broadcasts were put out, no radios aired. It was just a complete day dedicated to the Lord. You say, that's that's terrible. No, I say it's wonderful. I believe it's wonderful because our Lord is worthy. He's worthy of the Lord's day Church, let me remind you that the Lord's Day is not fun day. It's not uh it's not day to uh for me or for you. It is a day for the Lord. And here is a consecrated day It appears to me in the scriptures that they gave this day in its entirety unto the Lord. I told my children growing up, if you get a job, you tell them you don't work on the Lord's Day. And I and I know, I felt it, I get it. Well you'll never get anywhere. Well they're doing all right But if they don't do all right, they better do right. Did you hear me? If they're not if they're not if they i i if they're not doing right, th th they they won't get blessed from the Lord. I'm telling you, if more people said, you know what, Sunday's the Lord's Day, that's the day we honor the Lord. We're going to go to church and worship him. Amen. It's true. It's true. And we've gotten so soft on this thing that we have told the world, you know what, God doesn't matter. We've told the world that you know what, there are some things that not they're they're more important than the Lord. I got news for you, there's things that are way more important. But there are things, there is nothing no more important than Christ than honoring him on the Lord's Day. I want you to see that there was a consecrated day given to the Lord. Years ago I worked on a dairy farm. And I was thinking of this this week for some reason, and I I work for this old gentleman, and uh he always rashed me about going to church. Now I'm Now I I know there are things you've got to do on the Lord's Day. Cows have to be milked on the Lord's Day. Guess what? They make as much milk on Sunday as they do on Monday. And so you had to milk them in the morning, you had to milk them in the evening. But I said to him, I said, Mr. Forbes, I work any time any hours you want. And I milked the cows that because just by the grace of God that time fell, so I could go to church in the morning, come go back to church in the evening, and still get my milkings in. I said, but I'm going to give those moments of worship on the Lord's Day to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now he was a professing Christian, and I remember what he said. He said that's that's just too old-fashioned. He said, Don't you know God accepts your worship? He said, Why don't you go on Saturday night so you can work all day on Sunday? I said, Well, sir, I don't know much about the Bible, but what I've discovered is they didn't assemble on Saturday night. They assembled on the Lord's day. They gathered on that day and they said, Lord, this is the day that you arose and we're going to recognize that and we're going to worship the Lord. I can still I can tell you one place I was standing in the middle of that feedlot and we were putting hay in one of these round feeders. And he turned around and he said from the tractor, he said, I'll tell you what, you never amount to much believing that. Well, he might have been true, but I still believe it. Whether I am out to much or not, I still believe that the Lord's Day ought to be the Lord's day. It was a consecrated day, a day given to the worship of the Lord. Does he deserve anything less? Look at this. They were there in that upper room, gathered together and worshiping the Lord on that Lord's day. But then I want you to notice something else here. I want you to see not only a consecrated day, but I want you to see a congregation who assembled. Look in verse number 19, the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews. Now, here is a people gathered. God's people had gotten together. God's people were together. They were drawn together. They came together. You ever heard that old saying, birds of a of a feather, what do they do? They flock together. They come together. Why? There's something that draws them together. Turn over just a few books, uh one book rather to Acts chapter 2 and look at these early Christians. These are the first converts after Pentecost. In Acts chapter 2 and verse number 41. I want you to notice something very peculiar about them. Acts chapter 2 and verse 41, then they that gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and breaking of bread and prayers. I want you to notice that they continued doing what the disciples had previously been doing. They continued to carry on those traditions, if you'll let me say it that way. uh that had already been started. What were they doing? They were gathering together. There was something in them that said, we want to gather together. Now look, you say, well that's a Jewish thing. Well, mark this text down and read it sometime. Acts 1734. Acts 1734, Paul's in Athens, and he's preaching to Gentiles, and he's telling them about Jesus Christ. who who who alone can save, and that he's the only savior of the world. And he begins to leave. And when he gets ready to leave, do you know what the Bible says there? They clave unto him. In other words, there was something brought them together, Brother Andy. There was something that drew them together. There was something that brought them to one another. They said, hey, we've got to get together. We've got to assemble together. I'll never forget a man getting saved on visitation years ago. He got saved on a Tuesday night. That was visitation night. And he had promised his wife he would go to church at Christmas, which at that time I think was about three weeks away And so he thought, Well, I'll wait till Christmas and go to church because I told her that's when I would. Now come about Friday night, he said to his wife, He said, You know, now this is the Friday night after he got saved on Tuesday He said, Do you think it'd be okay if I could go to church on Sunday? She said, Well, you can go to church anytime you want. He said, Oh, I didn't know that. He said, I didn't know you could just go anytime you want. He said, I know I promised I'd go on on Christmas but he said uh I just feel like I need to go. Now he never heard a sermon about going to church. He never heard a message about needing to gather, but I'll tell you what he did. He had the Holy Ghost living inside of him and the Spirit of God said, You got to gather together. I'm leery of a Christianity that neglects a gathering together. I'm suspect of it. I'm suspect of that which says well it don't matter if I go or not. I'm suspect of that which says it's not important. It just really ain't a big deal. You say, well I'm saved. Well can I ask you a question? How in the world do you think you're going to enjoy heaven if you don't ever get around folks that are going there too? Yeah They gathered together. Look at them as they come. It was inevitable that they would come together. And by the way, it is irreplaceable. Now I'm thankful for technology. But listen the radio and watching the internet is no replacement for going to church. Did we not learn that in COVID? During that time period, I mean it's one thing. It's one thing to watch a sermon. It's one thing to watch a service. It's another thing to be in a service. It's another thing to be gathered together with God's people. There's a lot of things you can't do sitting at home on your couch. Do you know that? You can't encourage another brother or sister. You can't edify another believer. You can't participate in the singing of hymns. I I I love to hear I I love to to hear, but the problem I have when the choir is singing and others, I I want to help them out. I want to join in. Now they may not want me to join in, but I want to join in. And uh I I try to join in in a respectful way, but the truth is we can't we can't do that sitting at home. You can't sing praise of God. You can't be involved in corporate worship. Sitting at home. Oh, you say, preacher, I can worship God anywhere. That's absolutely correct. You can worship God anywhere you have a saved heart that acknowledges the wonder of a great God. Yes, you can worship God at home, you can worship him on the job, you can worship him driving down the road, but you can't worship like the church worships without assembling with the body of Jesus Christ. The saved are drawn to assemble by the Holy Spirit who lives inside of them. So I see a congregation assembled. Notice those disciples as they all gathered together. You know, I find something interesting here that there was no announcement made. I don't read where they advertised and said we're meeting at number 2 Jerusalem Street in the upper room. There was a bringing together. You know they tell me in times of revival that oftentimes Christians are strangely drawn to a place of worship that God is working, and usually sometimes there'll be a preacher there, and and And the services begin? That sounds strange to our ears, but it's very true. In days gone by when when you didn't have the ability to communicate rapidly with each other I read somewhere that uh Christmas Evans, he was one of the preachers in the Welsh Revival, that uh that he had went with a burden to pray in a local church. And he said much to his surprise that when he got there it was packed full. And people had come from villages all around And they were sitting in the pews and waiting, and many said, I don't know why I came here. I just felt drawn to come. I felt an urge to come. I felt felt a a drawing in my heart. I just needed to go And it it commenced one of the greatest moves of God in that part of the world. I'm just saying that there is someone inside of you, if you're saved, who will draw you to others who are saved and who will encourage you to assemble. If you have to be drugged to church by force, you might want to make sure your heart is right with God. Well, I'm gonna go this morning because if I don't, you know what'll happen? That deacon will call me. That pastor will be wondering where I'm at. Now listen, I'm grateful that there was a period of time I had somebody who would drag me when I wouldn't go. Talking about being a kid. I remember being a teenager and bowing up on my parents and saying, you know what, I'm not going to church no more. And I remember my dad said, Well, that's cute. He said, but as long as you eat my groceries and sleep in uh my house, you're gonna do what we do. And he said, What we do is we go to church on Sunday. And you know what I did? I got mad. I got mad about that and that bothered me. I remember taking and I was working on a farm at that time. I was milking then and I remember saying, I'll take extra shifts and I'll milk and and offer to do things for the boss afterwards so that I don't have to go to church and I'll tell you what, I had parents that were so crazy about this thing That they would come to the barn and say, Hey, you ready to go to church? And I'd say, Well, but I smell like a cow. They said, That's good, you go in church. I don't have no church clothes. They said, I don't care, you're going to church. You should have thought about that before because we're not doing anything new. Now look, I'm not I'm what I'm trying to say is that saints want to assemble There's a gathering of God's people. These saints got together and they gathered. That's the way church ought to be. It makes a difference when you want to be here. Yeah, it does. It makes a difference when you want to be here. I had jury duty at the first part of this week. And if you've ever served on jury duty, you sat in rooms full of people who do not want to be there. I have never seen such angry people having to be I walked in, nobody spoke, nobody looked up, everybody's angry, they're sitting there like, okay, when are we gonna get out of here? You know, it was a freaky feeling there for a little while. And uh, you know, thankfully I sat down by a fella and he kept looking at me real strange and I thought, well I better speak to him and and we had good conversation. He didn't want to be there, but he was glad he didn't have to be at work. So he he was the one happy soul in the building. But but you know it it makes a difference when you come to church and you just want to be here. You want to be with the people of God You want to be with the with those that are saved by the grace of God. Hey, brother, sister, check your heart. If you don't want to be here, ask yourself why? What's going on that makes me not want to be with God's children There was a congregation assembled. Then notice and I think this is the most important truth, Jesus Christ was present. Look what it says in verse number 19. The Bible tells us very clearly Jesus came Jesus and stood in the midst. Jesus was there. Do you realize that when the saints assemble, our Savior is present? He's here. In Matthew chapter 18 and verse 20, by the way, when you read that, he says, if you've got a problem and you go to a brother and can't fix it, take two or three more with you, and if they can't fix it, tell it to the church. Deal with it with the church. And then here's what he says in verse 20 where two or three are gathered together in my name. There am I in the midst. He's talking about church. He's talking about God's people. When they come together, he said, We're two or three. Aren't you glad that he used such a low number? I I'm glad that he didn't say where the w now you gotta get a quorum, you gotta get a hundred there, or you gotta get two hundred. Oh he said just two or three will come together. He said, I am right there in the midst. Thank God Jesus Christ is present when his church assembles. When God's people get together and when they come, you say, Preacher, I don't see him, where is he? Well, if you're saved, he's living in here. He's living inside of you. And friend, according to John, John let us look into heaven and see what's going on in the unseen realm. And in Revelation chapter number one, he says that there is someone that someone walking in the midst of the golden candlesticks. And he gives a description of him, and the description of him can be nobody but Jesus. And he said , he's walking. Those candlesticks were the church. The churches, the seven churches of Asia Minor. And then Jesus is walking. He's present. When those churches assemble, he's keeping his promise. Like Dr. Miss Hitchin were singing, he's with us. You know why? Because he promised to be with us. He promised where two or three will gather together, that he's there in the midst. He's present. He's walking among us. The most important person is here this morning on the authority of the scripture, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. Now if we come to church with that in mind, we'd come to church a whole lot different. I'm thankful for my brothers and sisters, but I'm not coming to see you. I'm thankful that we have this privilege and freedom, but I'm not coming just for the privilege and freedom. I am coming to see him, to worship him. Why? Because he said he'd be in the midst. By the way, he didn't say he'd be anywhere else. When I first started pastoring, this old fellow said to me, he said, Preacher, my church is the lake. I said, Sir, the only problem with that is that's not in the Bible. The Bible says he's in the midst of the church. He's in the midst of the assembled believers. He's in the midst of those two or three that are gathered together in my name. That's where he is. And I want to be where he is. Because he's the one I need most. He's in the midst. Remember that when the church assembles, Christ is I'm talking about church the way it should be. On a consecrated day with the congregation assembled with Jesus Christ present. I'm afraid sometimes we're so worried about being likable. That we never even think about the Lord. Well, you know, we just want folk to Feel comfortable. And I and I do want you to feel comfortable. Uh we put a lot of effort in trying to keep the heat and the air right and And uh the buildings comfortable and lit and cared for and cleaned and all of that business. That's a uh just a very minimal thing. But but what's more important If we had to stand out in the parking lot because we couldn't get in here, or if we had to meet under the trees over under the tabernacle Or if we had to go out here in the field somewhere and assemble together, what's more important is that the Lord is present among us. It's more important that He be here than anybody else. And if it comes down to grieving him or you, I believe we ought to just grieve ourselves and not and not grieve the Lord. The Lord was present. He was present. He was there among them. He was walking and working among them. Do you know how shocked they were? And by the way, it was a manifest presence. That means they knew he was there. Okay. He was he he he was resurrected. He was in a different form than he had been on the earth. But yet they knew he was there. He was there. When's the last time you come to church and say it, he's there? I know he's there. He's working in my heart. Speaking through a song. Hears me when I pray. There's something in my life. You know, when Jesus went on the Mount of Transfiguration, he went up there in the body that he came to this earth in, and then on top of that mountain, he was transfigured. So what you have is the visible presence of God, but also the manifest presence of God, because who they saw once he transfigured himself was not the same one that they saw walking up that mountain. They the the humanity of Christ was eclipsed by his deity. And they saw the Lord. And Peter said, It's good to be here. But if you come to church and see the Lord, you can say, It's good to be here. If you can come to the house of God and say, Hey, He's met with me there, He spoke to me there. He's working in my heart there. You can say it's a good thing. Why? Because Christ is present. That's church the way it should be. He must come and walk among his people. You pray that way? You say, well, he'll be here anyhow. Don't take for granted. Oh Lord, come. Make yourself known. Take my dull heart and wake it up. We're often like people looking and not seeing, you know We were taking a ride the other day looking at some leaves and my wife said, there's some deer. And I couldn't see them for the life of me. I don't see any deer. I was looking, but I didn't see any deer. As I turned around, people probably thought we were casing the place because I turned around four or five times trying to see them. I don't know if I'm getting blind or slow or what my problem is, but I could not see them and they were right there in plain view And when I saw them, I was like, oh. She said they've been laying there the whole time. That's why I see them now. I see that. And I believe sometimes we'll come in this church, we'll sit on these pews, we'll sing our hymns, we'll carry our Bible, we'll we'll join in, we'll take part, we'll pray, we'll say amen, and we'll go home. But our hearts are so dull we do not see the Lord. May the Lord help us to have eyes to see and ears to hear what the Spirit of God is saying. The Lord was present, He was there. Thank God He's there. He's there when the saints assemble. Then I want you to notice number four, there was a clear word spoken. Look at verse number 19 again. When he came and stood in the midst, he saith unto them, look at those words. If you have a red letter edition of the New Testament, These next four words are in red. Christ spoke these words. Here's what he said. Peace be unto you. God will speak if we have ears to hear. Notice it was a relevant word. The Bible says they were assembled in that upper room for fear of the Jews. So what did he do when he showed up? He said, Peace be unto you. In other words, he addressed their need. He spoke to the situation. He spoke to the uh to the need of their hearts, and he he does that, beloved. It's amazing when God's people come together. And they come with a tender heart to hear God's voice, that God will speak, and when God speaks, it'll be just what they need to hear. And what amazes me is God can take the same message and speak to everybody. He can take the same passage of scripture, speak a hundred different ways, and meet the need of every heart. That's just how big our God is. A young brother said to me not long ago, he said, you know, I prayed before I come to church that God would speak to me about something, and lo and behold, you preached on it. Well, you know what that is? That's God given a word , a clear word. God speaks from his word to his people. God doesn't speak from stories or illustrations, or he doesn't speak necessarily from all of these other things that we often use. God speaks from his word. By the way, I believe the word is still powerful. I read this morning the book of Nehemiah, chapter number eight, that when they first went back and the walls had been built And Ezra came to reorder re-establish worship and to organize their worship, that he took the law At the behest of the people, the people said, We want to hear the law. And so on the first day of the seventh month, which by the way is the Feast of Trumpets. They gathered in that upper room and they gathered at the water gate. These Jews gathered at the watergate. Now, this is a beautiful picture if you'll get it. The water gate is where the springs of Gahon are. It's there where they got water for the city. It was also there where the priests were ritualistically cleansed so they could go in the temple and do worship. So it was a place to get refreshed. It was a place to get ready on the day that they blowed the trumpets. And by the way, the blowing of the trumpets on that feast day was a recognition of the Lord's return. Just like we're waiting for the sound of a trumpet. So isn't it interesting? On the first day of the seventh month they gathered where they could be refreshed. They gathered where they could get ready, and they gathered where they were reminded that the Lord Jesus was coming. That's all in the Old Testament. That's all preparation for things to come. And Ezra stood on a pulpit. That's why we call this a pulpit. He stood on a raised platform where he could speak to the people. And he read from the book of the law from early morning to the midday, and the people stood the whole time. Now look, if we get a little long, we're just trying to be biblical. Don't fuss about it. They stood from the from from the early morning to the midday and and they stood and they read the law and they gave the sense. He expounded, he explained. And by the way, there were eleven other men standing with him. He had some men who were who were for him. He had some men who were saying we agree with what you're reading. He had some individuals who were exhorting him and encouraging him. Look, it don't hurt that the preacher knows there's some folks that are standing with him when he's preaching the word of God. Thank God for that. And and here's what he had. And then he and then he he began to pre and when he did, the Bible says when he read the law, the people wept. In fact, they wept so much that Nehemiah had to say, Stop weeping, please. This is the day of gladness. This is the feast of trumpets. The joy of the Lord's your strength. Stop the crying and let's get right with God. We're back in the land. We're reordering worship. We're doing what we're supposed to do. Let's go home and rejoice in the goodness of God. We're getting right with the Lord. All of that's a beautiful picture of the Old Testament, in the Old Testament, of what God intended, even in the New. That our hearts would be tender to the Word of God. Can I just say this? Be careful about hardening your heart towards preaching. If God speaks to you, let Him deal with you and get it right. Don't let that preaching become like water off a duck's back, because you may harden your heart right into judgment You may set your spirit and say, I you know, I've heard that. I first started pastor, I had a man in the church, he sat right there in the middle, so I'd see him when I s when I stood in the pulpit, and he folded his arms like this and he scowled the whole time I preached. And the first message that I preached in that church, here's what he said. He said, Young fella, you'll never tell me anything I've not heard before. I said, actually, sir, that's my intention. My intention is to preach what the Bible says, and if I preach anything outside of the Bible and it's something new, then it's likely not true. But he never got a thing. You know why? Because he had hardened his heart. He would yawn and look at his watch and make all sorts of Weird gestures and fee was not interested, he didn't want to hear from God and and God was working, I believe. But you know what? His heart was hard I caution you, dear brother, sister. You may sit in this church fifty years, but you'll harden your heart to the preaching of God's word. And if you don't let the Holy Ghost break through every once in a while and speak to you and you deal with what he's speaking to you about, You are just hardening yourself to face judgment. There was a clear word spoken. Peace. Don't you know those disciples? I don't know about you, but I look at them up there, and they're in that upper room for fear of the Jews, and it's very real fear, because they likely could be next. They could as easily lose their lives as anybody else. I mean they are on dangerous ground because word is they stole the body. That's what those fellows were paid to spread. And so all through Jerusalem, man, these guys are thieves. They stole his body and turned him back he's alive. And so they're public enemy, number one, to a whole lot of Orthodox Jews. And so here they are on the run, perhaps, and they're afraid, and Jesus shows up and says, Peace be unto you. Well, I'll tell you what, some of the sweetest times have been sitting under the preaching of God's Word when He has spoken to my heart. And by the way, you don't have to be sitting under it. God will speak to you while you're preaching it. God's able to speak. Doctor Ich, Dr. Ichens, I'm sure over the years you preach something, God says, Hey, I'm talking to you And I've had the same thing. God, I'm God I'm talking to you, I'm speaking to you. You might be preaching to them, but I'm preaching to you. Thank God for the word that does that. But there was a clear word. Church, you and I need that word from God. We need to hear from heaven. We need to hear what the Lord has to say about things. I need a clear word about the times I'm living in. I need a clear word about the direction I'm to take. I need a clear word about the condition of my own heart. I need a clear word from God. And thank God he gives it. He's faithful to give it. Well, I've got about five more points. I ain't got much wind left for some reason. Somebody lend me son, I'll give you the rest of these notes if you want to finish it for us. You take over. Go to it. You probably could and a whole lot better. But let me say this God does some things for us when we assemble that He will not do when we're alone. He'll do some things for you. He'll do some things in your heart. Things will come clear that you just can't see no way no way else or nowhere else. Because you've been obedient to gather together. When the church church the way it should be, it ought to be on a consecrated day. It ought to be a congregation who's a symbol. And oh, how we need Christ to be present. And we must hear, we must hear a clear word from him. You know, it wasn't in an old church house where I heard you must be born again. And I praise God for it. It was in the house of God as a young boy that the preacher stood and preached the gospel, and the Holy Ghost did his work and saved me by the grace of God. It was in that same church where God gave me full assurance of faith. I mean just settled it deep down in my heart that I had been born again. It was in that same church that God the Holy Ghost called me to preach his word. As much as I argued and doubted and feared and and said, Go find somebody else, the Holy Spirit wouldn't stop and dealt with my heart and said, Preach the word. You know it was in that same church God said that girl right there is supposed to be your wife. It was in that same church. It was in that place that God did uh uh his his work on so many levels and and and and did things that Oh, only heaven knows. But what I'm saying is, friend, look, uh church i i is is clearly described in the word of God. This isn't a place where we entertain each other This isn't about you having fun or me having fun. This is about God speaking to us, God helping us, God meeting with us, God doing some things that need to be done. Church the way it should be. May God help us to have a church like that. Oh, it bothers and burdens me today that we be a church like this. Oh, may God help us to see the great need of this hour, to be a church the way it should be. We're not peddling trinkets and toys. We're to be the church of the living God, the pillar and the ground of truth. Oh, may the Lord help us. Friend, if you're here today, now I want you to know something. Going to church won't save you. No more than setting a car will make you sitting in the garage will make you a car. If you've got a garage at home, you can go out there and sit and make all kinds of sputtering s noises like a car. Squeal your tires and shift your gears, but you'll never be a car. You can sit in a church and sing hymns and pray prayers and read Bible and hear sermons and never be saved. Never be saved. Salvation is not from sitting on a pew, it's by trusting in Jesus Christ. And if you're here today and you've never trusted him, old friend, cry out to him. Cry out to him while you have the chance. For Jesus and Jesus alone saves. It may be your heart's been touched, God's dealt with you in some way. And you have a spiritual need. We still believe in using old-fashioned altars where people kneel down and pray. Or some come and sit on the front row because they can't kneel, but they want to talk to God. And so if that be the case this morning, during this invitation time, brother, you come on. I want you to just mind the Lord. I want you to be obedient to him if he's dealt with your heart in some special way. Let's mind God this morning, please