Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And I'm glad he does, amen. And we can do as 1 Peter 5. 7 says, casting all our care upon him, because the scripture says he careth for you. And we thank the Lord for that. I want you to take your Bibles, please, and open them to John chapter number 20. John chapter number 20. And I'd like to begin reading in verse number 19, and I'd read the whole text again this evening. And try to finish our study that we started this morning on church the way it should be. John chapter number 20, beginning in verse 19. The Bible says, then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews. came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. And when he had so said, he showed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord Then said Jesus to them, Again, peace be unto you, as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost Whosoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them. And whosoever sins ye retain, they are retained. But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didiomus, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing. And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed. Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed. And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. What an incredible gathering that must have been. When seated in that upper room with those Disciples, those men were fearful about what lie ahead. Here comes Jesus, and he really changed everything. And I believe this is a precedence-setting meeting. I know we're pre-Pentecost. I know that we're talking about a day before. the coming of the Spirit of God who would indwell every believer. And by the way, those 3,000 that were saved in Acts chapter number 2 They didn't have to wait for another Pentecost. They were filled or indwelt with the Spirit of God at that moment. Because the Spirit of God began to come in that fashion and live inside of everybody who's saved. And everybody who's been saved from that point forward has the Holy Spirit living inside of them. And so uh we see these these men as they've gathered in that upper room and the Lord comes. And again, I believe it's a prototype of of how church should be. We looked this morning at a few things, I believe four things in number. First we looked at the consecrated day. It was the first day of the week. It was the evening of the first day. It was what John called on the Isle of Patmos the Lord's Day. It is that consecrated day. And by the way, we don't go to church. I heard a fellow said, he said, you know, we go to church on Saturday night so that we can go to the golf course on Sunday. I said, well, there's only one problem with that. God's people in the Bible did not meet on Saturday night. They met on Sunday The Lord's Day. It was Resurrection Day. And so I I don't believe the Lord needs to work around my schedule. I need to work around the Lord's schedule. But it was a consecrated day. And then we looked at the congregation who assembled. Notice the disciples had gathered together. In other words, they it says clearly the disciples were assembled. And certainly there must be an assembling of a congregation. There must be a gathering together of God's people. There is no substitute for that. And then we looked at what I believe is one of the most important truths is that Christ was present. Christ was present. When they assembled together, the Lord Jesus showed up. He was there. It says suddenly he was in the midst. He came and stood in the midst. Now, church, please remember this, that when you gather in God's house, there's someone here of great significance. There's someone here you can't lay your eyes on physically, but uh you can know that he is here. The Lord Jesus is present among his people, and what a precious thing that is. That we've not come here to celebrate someone who's not uh not not alive anymore or who isn't even among us. The truth is we're here to worship a living Savior who walks and works among his people. Jesus Christ is present And then we looked at number four, and I believe this is where we ended. There was a clear word. You see that in verse 19, he spake, and watch what he said, peace be unto you. Peace be unto you. You know, after the resurrection, when he spoke, there was such a transformation of the people who heard his voice Mary at the garden tomb was on her face crying, saying, thinking this man who approached her was the gardener, and said to him, Where have they taken my Lord? And all he did was call her name. He said, Mary. And she cried out, Rabbona. Oh, she knew who he was. It was that voice of comfort that she had heard so many times before, and thank God after the resurrection, she heard it again. You know, it's a comforting thing when God speaks to his people. When these disciples were gathered together and he appeared to them, he said to them very clearly, Peace be unto you. These men were troubled, they were afraid, they didn't know what the future held. They possibly, I mean, just let's be honest, they they they're thinking that uh we may lose our lives here soon It their lives were on the line. This was serious business. And yet here comes the Lord. And isn't that just like the Lord to come in our time of need? And speak right to the point of need. He knows what we need and he speaks in such a clear word But I want you to notice several more things. Number five, I want you to notice tonight the concentration emphasized There was a concentration emphasized. Look at verse 20 with me, please. And when he had so said, he showed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord? Do you see where their emphasis is? Do you see where they were constant? He said, Look Here's what he did. He held out his hands. He said, Here's my hands. In case you're wondering who I am, these are the hands that just were nailed on the cross. In case you're wondering who I am, he showed them his side, and the spear piercings were left, and that piercing of the spear was still there. He showed them. And then I love that sentence, and it it's a profound sentence in the Word of God. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord. Now, if you have perfect vision or good vision, what do we call that? We call that 20-20 vision. Right? 20-20 vision. Here's John 20, verse 20. And it says they were glad when they saw the Lord. You know what? We need some Bible vision like that today, and we need to see the Lord. I'm talking about when the church comes together, the church the way it should be, the emphasis ought to be on the Lord Jesus Christ. The concentration of God's people needs to be upon the Lord. If our coming together gets our eyes anywhere else except on Jesus, we're in trouble. If we come together and we get our eyes on the preacher, we miss the mark. If we come together and we get our eyes on each other, we miss the mark. The Bible teaches us in Hebrews chapter 12 that we are to be looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. One of the purposes of coming together is to help you get your concentration fixed back on the Lord Jesus Christ. We live in a world that wants you to get your eyes on politics. They've always been crooked and they'll always be. And we live in the world that wants you to get your eyes on the economy. Many of you have lived long enough to know it goes up and it goes down And then it goes up and then it goes down. It's like a roller coaster and you don't know when it's going to go up, and you don't know when it's going to go down, but it's going to do that eventually. And we live in a world that wants you to get your concentration fixed on the problems of society. And society's always had problems. But my dear friend, I'm glad there's a day of the week that the God of heaven has created for me to come among a people and get my concentration fixed back on the Lord Jesus Christ. Every hymn we sing, every choir special that's sung, listen, friend, we don't have time to have our eyes put anywhere else except on the Lord Jesus Christ. If we cut look our concentration, we've got to fix our eyes on Him. When that choir sings, didn't it encourage you tonight to get your eyes fixed on the reality that we're going to see Him one day? That we've got a home just beyond the river that we're looking forward to. And it may not be near as far as we think it is. It may be a little bit closer But yet it encourages. Why? Because our concentration is back where it needs to be. Oh, how I pray that the Lord would help me to preach in such a way that would get your eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. He is altogether lovely. And I'll tell you something the devil will try to do. He'll try to get you f fixated or get your eyes on yourself. And you'll be struggling along, and you'll be talking about how miserable, low down, rotten, no good, and all that's likely true, but the reality is your eyes don't need to be there. You have this treasure in an earthen vessel. God in his wonderful infinite wisdom has given you eternal life, perfect life. in the person of his dear son, and he put it in a fragile little clay pot like you and me. And so that here's the reason it goes on to say that the excellency of the glory may be of God and not of us. Oh, aren't you glad that God has done some things that points to him? If there's anything good in you tonight, you have to say Jesus did it. Look, I'm looking at people I know you quite well. And listen, you would be a shell of what you are were it not for Jesus and his good salvation. And so to him be all the glory. We need our concentration fixed on Jesus Christ once again. I do believe that the crucified risen Christ must take center stage in the life of the church The crucified, risen Christ must be what the local assembly revolves around or lives around. It is in him we live and move and have our being. It is in the Lord Jesus Christ that we find life and that more abundantly. And God's people, look, dear friend, I I believe that church the way it ought to be The emphasis of our concentration has got to be on Jesus Christ. We cannot afford listen, we cannot afford to play games in God's house. We cannot afford to be just a mere social outing. Can't afford that You say preacher, but but but but we need so well we we need that and and you have that in certain ways, but ne but the Lord's day's not for that. The Lord's day is i i is for our concentration being emphasized and fixed back on the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you know when those disciples saw the Lord, uh look, they got their eyes off the Jews who were wanting them dead? And they got their eyes off of the disappointments they had just experienced. Remember, Peter denied the Lord. Remember the Bible says all men forsook him and fled? They got their eyes off of all of their failures and all of their problems, and and here's what they're doing. They're all looking at Jesus and they're just glad he's there They're just glad he's there. Church listen, church the way it should be oughta make us walk out of here saying, I'm just glad he's there. I'm just glad Jesus Christ is alive and well. Oh, thank God for the concentration that was emphasized. Number six, I want you to notice there was a commission given He didn't stop with the concentration. Look in verse 21. Then said Jesus to them, Again, peace be unto you. As my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. He gave them a commission He said, the Father sent me on a job. The Father sent me on purpose. And I'm sending you just like he sent me. I'm going back to heaven. But I uh the Spirit of God is going to come. But I'm commissioning you or sending you to do what I was doing. Now what was he doing? Luke 19, 10 says that the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. And then I love 1 John 4 14. We have seen and do testify. That the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. That's what he sent him for. You say, what 's the mission? What's the co mission? The commission that has been given is that we are looking for the souls of men to point them to the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's our commission that's been given. He said, just like the Father sent me, I'm sending you. Now look, God can save anybody he wants to i in any way he wants to, but he has chosen human instrumentality. God 's choose God's chosen to use people. He's chosen to take people and say now, I want you to be a witness and I want you to be a testimony. And by the way, you and I are just in a long line of people who are pointing somebody to Jesus. The Lord may use 50 people. He may use 100 people to point one person to Jesus Christ. Don't be the weak link in the chain. Don't be the one that lets the thing down. Be the person that God wants you to be, being a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ If we ever, if church like it ought to be, if church ever becomes about anything other than preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ so people can get saved and hear how to be saved, we've missed the mark. Somebody said to me, and I I've heard it said to other dear preachers, I heard it said about Pastor Dixon, people that you just preach the gospel too much. You preach the gospel too much. Well hold on. You say, why do you do that? Number one, because people need to be saved. And you don't know who's going to be there, who's going to be present, who needs to hear the gospel message. But number two, you need encouragement to share the gospel. And so it may be that you'll hear something in a message That will equip you to say, and you can go repeat it and say, hey, I heard this in church on Sunday. Listen to it. And tell them how to be saved through something that's been shared. We've been given a commission, church. We've got serious business to be about. The Lord Jesus said, I must be about my father's business. And he was just a boy when he made that statement. You know his his parents came back, these earthly caretakers came back looking for him, and and he was there in the temple and he was speaking and disputing and they were amazed and mesmerized. How does a boy of this age know this Well the r the reality is in that little boy's body was the ancient of days. He had all the wisdom of of eternity embodied in that little in that song He had all the wisdom of of eternity embodied in his person, and he was mesmerizing those dear men, and his his parents began to rebuke him a little bit, and and he said very simply, I must be about my father's business I've got a work, I've got a work, I've got a work to do. And dear brother and sister, we got work to do. And by the way, your work's not to convince everybody of your peculiarities that you believe. And we all got 'em. Let's just be honest. You listen to some people talk and you think, man, they believe some weird stuff. Well, they might believe some weird stuff. You might believe some weird stuff. But listen, the reality is I'm not here to propagate weird stuff. I'm here to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, as are you. Our job, our commission, there was a commission given. He said to this group of men, He said, Like the Father sent me, even so send I you. And if church is what church ought to be, church is about stirring you up to go do the job God's left you here to do It's about stirring you to the commission, reminding you of marching orders, encouraging you with the reality that souls are hanging in the balance and people need the Lord. There are people you can talk to, meet cross paths with that that the rest of us will never see. But God puts you there because He wants you to point them to Christ. He wants you to be a window pane through whom they can see Jesus. He wants you to be somebody who will be about the Father's business. Listen, church, the way it ought to be is the place where the commission is given. The gatherings, I love this statement. I don't know where I found it, but I just wrote it down. It says, the gathering of God's people ought to put the go in the gospel. The gathering of gospel. You know, sometimes the sad thing is it's sort of like a dinner table, nobody wants to leave. You 've been around the dinner table you didn't want to leave. And I'm telling you that food is something and and you're just poor I I think about my grandmother, and man, she was a cook of all cooks. And uh I I can still remember sitting around that table just as a wee little boy. And she was still able to walk then and she would circle the table with whatever food she had. And she would put it on your plate whether you asked or not. She was one of them grandmas. You you know who I'm talking about? I mean you i i if you start and if you said I'm full, I I can still hear she say, uh she'd she'd say, Honey, I think you're a little wormy. You need to eat some more That's what she she'd say. She said, You're little wormie, you need to eat some more. I just wish I just wish my worm could see me now. I'm not worming no more But she'd walk around and she just she'd keep heaping it up and laying it to you. And you know what I noticed, and I got to thinking about this, we never, when we visited her house, we never left the table Everybody stayed right there. You didn't wander off in the living room. You sat around the table. And and and best I can remember, she she was always bringing something Once the main meal was over, she'd sh here she'd come with her desserts. And she'd make her around. Here she'd come around, around. And and and when we got ready to leave, I can still remember we'd get up, turn, and go out the front door, and and and we would leave from the table. It was a table you didn't want to leave. Sometimes the church becomes a table folk don't want to leave. We want to enjoy the blessing of God, and I thank the Lord, oh how I need his blessing, how you need his blessing. I thank God for good fellowship. I thank God for wonderful hymns. I thank God for the privilege to sing his praises and to pray and seek the Lord. I thank the Lord for all of those things. But somebody's got to go. Somebody's got to go tell. Somebody's got to share the gospel. Somebody's got to go to the nursing home. Somebody's got to go to the neigh Next door Somebody's got to go to that coworker and tell the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ so people can be saved. Oh, thank God the gathering of God's people ought to be a place where a commission is given. But notice right along with that, verse number 22, we see a clothing of power. And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost I'm not going to take the time tonight to go into in-depth theological discourse about what happened here, but I do know something. The Spirit of God came upon these men and enabled them. That's what he said. He breathed, and he said, receive the Holy Ghost. Now in Acts chapter number two, the Holy Ghost came to stay. The Holy Spirit of God came to live within the Christian It was that uh that coronation gift, as Dr. James Stewart used to call it, the coronation gift. The Son of God had been seated in the throne room in heaven, and the Holy Ghost was given as a coronation gift to man And here, uh that is in Acts chapter 2, but here the power of God or the Spirit of God came on these men to enable them, and I believe It was for the period of time and the commission that was granted to these individuals particularly, and and the Spirit of God came on them and clothed them with power to do what God had called them to do. I'm telling you, dear friend, the Bible says in Ephesians chapter 5 that we're to be filled with the Spirit Did you notice what it goes on to say, speaking to yourselves in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord? Can I ask you a question? What do we do around here as we get ready to hear the Word of God? We sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and we sing and make melody in our hearts unto the Lord. Is that not what we're doing? I believe, listen, if you don't come full, you're believeful. You may not come full of the Spirit of God, you're lethal. There ought to be a clothing of power, an enduring of power. There is an enabling that comes as the people of God that gather together. And you know what we're praying? Come, O breath. We're praying, God breathe on me. I want to have the enablement of the Spirit of God. I'll tell you why a lot of our lives are powerless and useless and empty, because we don't have the breath We need the breath of God. We need God to enable us. Listen, dear friend, I'm not talking about charismania. I'm talking about Bible teaching. The clear teaching that the Holy Ghost must enable you to do what it is you do for Christ, or it is in vain. If God don't help your friend, it won't get done. You need to help you say, well, preacher, you need the help of the spirit to preach. Yes, I do. You need the help of the spirit to listen. You need to help the spirit to get up and go to work in the morning. You need the help of the Spirit of God to deal with lost people around you every day. You need the help of the Spirit in your family. Look, you always need the help of the Spirit of God. Paul admonished the Ephesian believers: if we live in the Spirit, let us walk in the Spirit. We live in the Spirit because He's the one who made us live. And we ought to walk daily in the Spirit of God. Do you know how not to fulfill the lust of the flesh? The Bible says if we'll walk in the Spirit, we will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. We'll not carry out those old nature desires if we'll walk in the power of the Spirit of God. Listen to me, church the way it should be, ought to be a place where the empty get filled. Where the Spirit of God breathes on people and they walk different when they leave that place. They live different when they leave that place. They act different because they've been made different by the power of God. Now you can't you can't work that up. You you've got to pray that down. I can still hear Brother Ralph say, now I don't care how high you jump just as long as you walk straight when you hit the ground. We had a young man in our church and he'd get excited. He'd just hop. He's like a rabbit. I guess he had a little rabbit in his lineage somewhere. But he would hop and hop and hop. I mean he just gets so full of the Lord and get excited and and and I know it'd scare most of you to death. You you'd leave home you'd leave oh angry or something. But anyway He he would and but Push would always say so, I don't care how high you jump, boy, you just walk straight when you hit the ground. You know what does that? The Holy Spirit. Now you and I can get excited in a meeting and that's good. I I I don't know why in the world or how the devil ever sold us a bill of goods that we ought to act like we're at a morgue when we're at church. I don't know why uh how we got that mentality s etched so deep in our minds that we've we've got to act like a bunch of deadheads when we come to the house of God. Listen, we're just talking about eternal life. We're just talking about going home to live forever in heaven, having all of our sins forgiven. I mean You know, we can get excited about our team winning the game and and cheer and and yell till we're hoarse and come to church and sit like a uh like a dead stump, you know. I don't believe that's right. I don't believe that honors the Lord If I've learned anything in my study of Revelation, this is the quietest world I'm going to live in. Because every time you see that crowd in heaven, they're up there worshiping the Lamb. And they're singing some new song, and they're giving him praise for who he is, and they're on their faces and lifting up their voices, and the angels are joining and lifting up the glory of God. Oh, what a place heaven's going to be. But dear brother or sister, hear me please. We have got to have the breath of God upon our lives. We have got you say I have the Holy Spirit, yes. But does the Holy Spirit have all of you? Is he enabling you and equipping you to be and do exactly what it is? You say, preacher, I got an awful temper. Well, the Bible has a cure for that, the Holy Ghost. The Spirit of God is the best temper quencher I know. Say, preacher, I got a sharp tongue. The Spirit of God's got a fowl to take the edge off. Well preacher, I I just I you know I had this struggle. I had this well let me tell you something, dear friend, there is power from on high to enable you to overcome Whatever it is that you may battle with. Why? Because that's the ministry of the Spirit of God. He's the great enabler You tell me how Peter couldn't even have a backbone enough to stand up there at the a at Pilate's hall when Jesus was being tried, and he denied the Lord three times in front of a little maid And then he can stand in front of a congregation of men who were guilty of nailing Jesus to the cross And say you by wicked hands have slew this man. You're the and and call him out. What changed that man? Did did he go through some personality revolution? No, he got the power of God on his life. And when the power of God will enables you to do what you naturally cannot do without Him. We need the Holy Spirit, Church. We need His breath on our lives. We need him to enable us. I s Dr. Stewart used to talk about when he was a young boy preacher, fourteen, fifteen years old when he first started, he would wear this sandwich board and preach in front of these big uh uh soccer tournaments in Scotland. He had been a rising star in one of their leagues and and so he would always go to these games and and so he would preach and during the intermission time he would he would walk out there and he said he would uh when when they were playing he would just walk with his sign, but then when they would have a quiet opportunity, he would turn and he would s he would begin to preach the gospel. He said he remembered uh one occasion there were thousands of fans standing in the stadium and gathered together for this big game. And he went in there to preach and he said he got so scared that he said, literally, my knees gave way. And he said, when I fell down in that sandwich board, he said I just stayed down there and prayed. He said I stayed in that little place. I was so thankful for a place to hide. And he said I prayed and prayed and prayed. He said I prayed until God gave me boldness And he said it wasn't long till the Spirit of God enabled me, and he said I couldn't stay down there hiding anymore. I had to come back up. And he said, when I came back up, I came up preaching. That's the power of God. That's the enabling of the power of God. Church, our lives ought to demonstrate something of another world. It ought to be a demonstration that somebody bigger than me has got a hold of me and is doing something with me that I can't do without him. It ought to be. If your Christianity don't have that, it don't have New Testament. It doesn't have the ring of New Testament Christianity Look at Paul, look at Paul as he's on the road to Damascus, he's getting ready to kill a bunch of Christians. And God saves him and changes him and turns him around, and now he's going around trying to make everybody a Christian. He's preaching the gospel. That's the power of God. And listen, when we, if church is what it ought to be, there will be a clothing of power There ought to be an enabling of God's Spirit in your life so that you'll walk out of these doors and live right and talk right and walk right and honor God and serve Him with the enablement of heaven itself. That's church like it ought to be. Let me quickly get to number eight. There is a correction. There was a correction made. A correction made. And we notice here beginning in verse 24 that Thomas, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came. Lo and behold, first Sunday night meeting, there's a Christian missing. And by the way, it was a Christian who needed to be there. You say, why? Well look what he said. He said, I will not believe. He's stubborn. He had an old hard heart of unbelief. And he said, I will not believe unless I tell you and really he was he was boasting of his ignorance. And the and the sad thing is, here's a Christian who needed help. But I I love this. If you read on a and and read the account here, you'll notice verse twenty-five, God used the disciples to put something in Thomas that made him want to be there next week. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord. That's all they said. Hey, they didn't say, You low down rotten rascal, where were you? You scoundrel? Why'd you miss church? They didn't they didn't uh uh vilify him and and a and and s and just get real critical of him. They said, We sing the Lord. I believe they had the glory of God on them when they said, We've seen the Lord. And Thomas said, Well, I I think I'd like to see him. I will not believe until I see him, but I sure would like to see him too. And so guess what? When you read on next Sunday night The Bible specifically says Thomas was there. He didn't lay out. He didn't lay out because he wanted to get in. He had seen these disciples and something had changed them. You don't want to draw folks to a church? Let a church get alive. I mean alive in the Lord. Let let the let it let let the Lord begin working in your life and my life and and you start seeing a difference and people say, Hey, he d he don't act like he used to. She don't act like she used to. They're different people. They they're going a different way. Something must be happening. There is something happening. Someone's doing a work. And that's someone's Jesus. Well, I'm glad he does that sort of thing. And watch this, when when Jesus came , when Jesus came Watch what he he went right to Thomas. Verse 27, he said to Thomas, Rich, reach hither thy finger. Thomas, you said you wanted to touch it. You wanted to put your feet your hands in in the in the pierced uh hands of the Lord Jesus. You wanted to touch my side. By the way, he never did. I don't see where he did It just says he wanted to. And the Lord reached him out and he said, See, here I am Thomas. You know what God was doing? God was correcting Thomas. Thomas, there was a correction made. You know, sometimes, listen, we we've got to get to the place where we're grateful for correction. Richard and I were talking yesterday and we were talking about getting spankins and uh he didn't understand that. He probably got near as many as I did maybe. I don't know. But we both uh both of us said we said you know what, there were many we should have got we didn't get. There's a lot of correction we did not get that we should have gotten. But I'll tell you something, when I come to church, I need the Lord to straighten me up I need the Lord to speak to me. That's why this constant positivity mentality that settles into a local church kills it dead as a doornail. Well, sir, it just just say happy things, good things, smiley things, you know, Joe Osteen things. Be that sort of way. I say, dear friend, every once in a while I need the Holy Ghost to say, straighten up, son. I need the Holy Ghost to make a correction in my life. It may be my attitude that stinks that the Lord says, Hey, change that. It's not fun. I remember getting big enough to set away from my parents in church. You know how far I got? The pew in front of them. And I and it was within flipping distance of my father's finger. And I can still feel, I you know, I think I may have a groove in the back of my head, where Pop's big finger would land on my head. And he and I would turn around and he would say That's all he'd do. He'd look at me like that, put his finger in there and I thought, I don't know sometimes I didn't know what I was doing. And so I just sat there and didn't do nothing. I was about afraid to breathe at times. But the reality is, is that I needed correction. I needed a correction made. Church, if you come to uh if uh dear brother and sister, if you come to church and there's no correction ever made, oh, I feel sorry for you. I feel sorry for you. In fact, Jesus says that that He He chastens those whom He loves. In other words, he corrects us. He comes along and says, Hey, I want you to straighten up the attitudes wrong. You're not doing right here. You're leaving this out of your life. Those are corrections that are made when the people of God Come to church. Church like it should be ought to be a place where we get corrected like we need to be. It may be that our lives are leaning one way and God says, Hey, you need to straighten that up. It may be that uh again, a a multitude of things that the Spirit of God is going to point out. I heard somebody say this the other day and I liked it. He said the reason we don't like preachers that preach against sin is because we like the sin they're preaching against. You think about that? Why they always gotta preach against this and so? Well, i i that just is a testimony that you like it and don't want to be bothered about it I need to be straightened up. I need the Lord to correct me. We're we're like we're like that mule that needs a bridle in a bit. Needs to be broken, made usable, you know. You take an old wild horse, it's not good for nothing, except to run around and look pretty. It don't it can't plow a field and it can't pull a piece of equipment, it can't do one little bit of work until it gets broken. But once it gets broken, boy, it can do a whole lot of work. And I'll tell you, God's people, we need the Lord to work. I said it earlier in the part of our study this morning, but you know something, if God speaks to your heart and you never respond, you're hardening your heart for judgment. The most dangerous place to be is sitting in a local church, stopping your ears to the voice of the Holy Ghost. That's not a good place to be. It's not a good place to be to not have a tender heart to God pricking it. I'd rather somebody say, well, well that person goes to after every service, let them And I better not hear anything said about it. Because I'm here to tell you I'd rather ride that altar into heaven with a tender heart than to sit on a pew like a mossy-backed Baptist, mean as the devil, hardening your heart and facing judgment with God, because you're not right. Amen. We need tender hearts. The Holy Ghost. And listen, we've not come here just to hear somebody speak about some topic that we have an interest in. I want to hear the voice of God. I want God's finger to reach down. I'll tell you, when old Samuel, uh or Nathan rather, went to David and said, Thou art the man, I'm sure that finger print more than his nose. I believe it went straight to his heart And he said, You're right, I've sinned, and I'm glad the report was that sin's been forgiven. You'll deal right with your sin, God will deal right with you. You deal honest with God about sin, he'll deal right with you There's no shame in saying, God have mercy on me and forgive me where I failed you. There's no shame in getting in an old-fashioned order and weeping before God and confessing your sin and getting it under the blood. That's the way church ought to be Our church authors have dried up, and the tears have dried up, and our hearts have got hard, and we've lost the presence and power of God simply because we won't listen to Him anymore. May the Lord help us. When God when when the Lord Jesus showed up here in that upper room, he said, Thomas, here You said you wouldn't believe here. He corrected him. And old Thomas, to his credit, said, My Lord and my God. He got right with the way he said, Lord, I believe now. And I love what Jesus said. He said, Blessed are those who haven't seen. You know who he's talking about? Us. He's talking about us. We're a blessed people because we hadn't seen what Thomas saw, and yet we believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh my, what a what a joy it is. I'm glad God I appreciate the Lord not leaving me alone. You know He don't have to do anything but just back off. It's a judgment when God says, I'm through bothering you. I'm not going to convict you. Go your way. Do what you want to do. Turn you over. Oh God, I pray he never does that. I want God to bother me. I want the Word of God to bother me. I want the Spirit of God to bother me. I want the preaching of the Word of God to b I don't ever want to get up here and sound like I'm preaching like I've got it all figured out. I've left this pulpit many a nights under so much conviction. I've preached myself under conviction The Word of God has bothered me. The truth I've proclaimed has bothered me, and I pray it always goes on like that, because I'll tell you what, I know who I am and what I'm made of, and I need correction made every once in a while. I heard the story of a battleship that was sailing, and as it traveled along in its pride, it called out, it saw a light way off in the distance, and it called out, said, Adjust your course. And the reply was, adjust your course. And he said, I'm Battleship so-and-so gave his name and title and said, I demand you to adjust your course. And the reply that came back was, I'm the lighthouse. Adjust your course. He was sailing for trouble. You know what this old book is? It's the lighthouse church. And if God says adjust your course, you're arguing with the lighthouse. It's as foolish as arguing with the lighthouse, saying, hey, you need to change. God's not going to change. God's truth's not going to change. God's word 's not going to change. But I tell you who needs to change. You May need the change Oh, thank God for the correction made. Let me give you one more. Not only was there a correction made, but there was a confirmation established. Look at those last two verses, and many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples. Now, we believe in taking our Bibles in context around here. That means what's said before and after we know belong together. So what John 's saying here is that these post-resurrection appearances, Jesus did things that aren't written down. And it says that these are written, the next verse, that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. You know what this confirmation established? It strengthened their faith. It strengthened their faith. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. You're not going to strengthen your faith sitting at home watching TV. You're not going to strengthen your faith even by doing acts of service for the Lord. The Bible declared will strengthen your faith. Their faith was strengthened. It said that believing. Here's a group, and Thomas's prime example. He had a believing problem until Jesus got through with him. And do you know Thomas Thomas and his doubting is never recorded again? He got some help. His faith got strengthened. I need my faith strengthened. You and I live in a world that's constantly eroding our faith. Your faith and mine is under attack. What you believe and hold precious is mocked, it's ridiculed, it's comedy, it's it's viewed as ignorant. And go on down the list. We live in a world that thinks you're crazy for sitting in a church house on a Sunday night. Just lost your mind. You're just religious lunatics. And there's a whole lot of other things that are said about you and I, but aren't you glad there's a place you can come? And we can open our Bibles and hear from heaven, and we walk out of here having our faith strengthened in the Lord. Man, I need my faith strengthened. I need my heart fed. I need my spirit encouraged. And that's exactly what happened in this upper room meeting. The confirmation established strengthened their faith. And it firmed up their belief. What belief? Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Firmed it up. Make them unmovable about that. We know who Jesus is. That's what they're saying. It's been made so clear to me that that's who Jesus is. Oh, dear friend, I'm glad to report to you tonight. There is a place where your firm belief in who Jesus Christ is can be established. That's why we study books of the Bible, like the Gospel of John. And that's why we look at the Revelation, and that's why we preach from the Word of God. Because you need a firm, established faith in who Jesus is. By the way, Jesus is everything he claims to be. Whether you understand it or not. Whether you believe it, whether you get a hold of it, whether you can get your head around it, the reality is he's all that. He's just simply all that. And then you'll notice this, as they uh had this confirmation established, there was a fullness of life. Look what it says, and that believing you might have life through his name. Hey The life of a Christian is found in the person of Jesus Christ. That's where we live. That's where we get life. That's where we get spiritual life from. That's why when we preach Christ it helps us. It gives you fullness of life. That's why when we sing about the Lord, it helps us. Fullness of life. That's why when we get our minds back on the Lord Jesus Christ, I don't know about you, but I've come in here feeling miserable at times. I stood to preach and felt lower in a snake's belly and said, Lord, you're gonna have to help me up. And I'll tell you what I found. You get talking about him. You get bragging on him. You get to singing and hearing songs about him. And there's fullness of life comes. Oh, it is not listen, the the vitamin we need is a vitamin C. We need a little more church vitamin and a little more Christ vitamin, and we need to get back to that place where he brings the fullness of life to us who believe. You cannot be a strong Christian and be slack about gathering with God's people. I didn't say you couldn't be a Christian. I just said you couldn't be a strong Christian. No more than you could be an athlete and never eat meals. You imagine running a race on a Pop-Tart? Do you know what a Pop-Tart is? All right. I wouldn't eat them for nothing, that's what it is. Don't eat them. I don't know why they taste so good, but don't eat them. You're not gonna run a race on it. And you're not going to run your Christian race living on the junk food of the world or a little bite here and there spiritually. You got scoot up to the table and say, I'm hungry. Feed me. So I can go out of here full of life. Full of life. Well, if church is what church should be, there will be that blessed time of come of a confirmation established So those nine things, we'll stop there. It's a consecrated day, a congregation assembled, Christ present, a clear word, a concentration emphasized, a commission given. A clothing of power, a correction made, and a confirmation established. That's what God intended church to be. And I hope sometime to go back yonder to Nehemiah 8 and look at that crowd gathered at the Watergate And watch them as the law is read because there's an Old Testament picture of a New Testament practice of God's people getting around this book Do something for me, Lord. I'm at the water gate, that's where you refresh me. I'm at the water gate, that's where you clean the priest-ups and go in. I'm at the Watergate on the seventh month, the first day, when the Feast of Trumpets, and they blow trumpets all day long I need to be reminded, Lord, you're coming again. This world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. We're pilgrims on a journey. We're just temporarily here. And I need a reminder of that so my roots don't grow too deep in this soil. Because my Lord's coming. And I'm glad this book's got the answers. You know, you read on in Nehemiah 8, and you know what they did? They went up on the mountain and started cutting uh branches, palm branches. And uh and pine branches and they came down, they built booths. And they started sitting in those booths. You know what? They they're preparing for the Day of Atonement. They're following the scripture's order, and it said they'd never done that. They hadn't done that since the days of Joshua. And I read that, I thought, you know what? There was a long time they didn't do right. But then comes the Bible. And I can say this, there's been many a time, it was a long time I didn't do right, until the Bible came along. Says, hey, this is right. This is what you need to do. Thank God for his word. May God help this church to be a church like it should be. There's a lot of pressure on you and me. To do what everybody else is doing. Had a preacher say to me, he said, So what's your fall what's your fall gimmick? I said, What do you mean? He said, What are you doing for the fall Stirring up. He said, We have give uh we have a pumpkin giveaway Sunday, a pie giveaway Sunday, a I said, Oh brother. We go to church and preach from the Bible. And I'll be honest with you, it shocked me that he looked at me like we had three heads. I'm going to tell you something, church. You don't need more of that out there in here. You need a place to get away from that out there in here. Shame on us if we think we gotta have the world's trinkets and treasures to get us prepared for eternal reality. We got the precious word of God. You've got the greatest treasure. Sometimes people will call, and I understand the question, but they'll say things like this. So what does your church offer? And I say very politely, we offer preaching from the Bible. We offer worship around the Word of God in the hymns. And I know what folk are saying. I hear it. I hear my brethren sometimes say it. Maybe some of you are thinking in those lines. You say, Well, preacher, we'll never grow, we'll just be what we are. Well, growing's not our business. That's God's. Being faithful is our calling. God gives the increase. You sow, water, let the Lord give the increase. And I believe he's big enough to save souls, change lives, work in our hearts, and add to the assembly as he sees fit. Because you know what? The real answers are always just right here. What men needs in this old book. Father, help us, please.