David said, What is man that thou art mindful of him? And I don't know why he loves me so, but I do know that he loves me so. And that's the joy of being a believer in the Word of God. I thank God for His Word. I want you to open your Bible, please, to the book of Leviticus, chapter number 14. The book of Leviticus, chapter number 14. And I want to read the first eight verses of this chapter. And when you find your place in God's word, would you stand with me? Leviticus chapter number fourteen. And beginning in verse number one, notice what the Bible says. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying. This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing. He shall be brought unto the priest. And the priest shall go forth out of the camp. And the priest shall look, and behold, if the plague of leprosy be healed in the leper, then shall the priest command to take for him that is to be cleansed, two birds, alive and clean, and Cedar wood and scarlet and hyssop. And the priest shall command that one of the birds be killed in an earthen vessel over running water As for the living bird, he shall take it, and the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water. And he shall sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times, and shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living bird loose into the open field. And he that is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes and shave off all his hair and wash himself in water that he may be clean. And after that he shall come into the camp and shall tarry abroad out of his tent seven days. I'm going to stop reading there, and I want us to see in this memorial a picture. Of the Lord Jesus. A picture of the Lord Jesus. Father, I bow once again, acknowledging, Lord, the need of my heart for help from heaven just now. And Lord, I pray that you might do in our hearts what only you can do. For Lord, we've come not to hear from man, but to hear from God. We need thee, O Lord. I pray that you'll uh help me to say the things that ought to be said and not the things that shouldn't. I pray you'd hide me behind the cross and help me to lift up the Lord Jesus. Give us ears to hear what the Spirit saith, and oh Lord, please open our eyes to see the Lord Jesus in a fresh way. We love you and we thank you for your love for us and for this time together. Lord, please, if there's one lost in this audience, perhaps listening on the broadcast, Lord in mercy, save their soul. Do a work that only you can do in every one of our hearts, and we'll thank you for it, for we pray in Jesus' name, and God's people said. Amen. You can be seated I hope that you know that the purpose of the Bible is to reveal the Lord Jesus It's to make him known. Oftentimes this Bible is used in different ways and distorted in its use. Some would say, well, well preacher, the the purpose of the Bible is uh so that I can take it and and uh i as a rule book and and and use it for the rules of life. Well mind you it's got certain rules and direction and principles and guidelines. But the truth of the matter is the Bible is much, much more than just a book of rules. You say, well, but preacher, the Bible's purpose is so that I can take it and win arguments. It's a book of apologetics. It's a book of defense And certainly if you're going to get in an argument, you better have the Bible on your side. I don't advocate using the Bible solely for that issue, but if you're going to defend anything, the greatest Defense we have is in the pages of the Word of God. But once again, that's not its sole purpose. The truth of the matter is the Bible from beginning to end is a hymn book. H. I. It's all about him. And my friend, if you read your Bible and don't see him, you've missed the point. If you come and hear a sermon and you don't see him, you've missed the the object of gathering. If you and I read the Bible and we go through our Bible and and and we study it and and we don't see the Lord Jesus, Well, we've missed the very thing that God gave us this Bible for. In reading this uh passage here, there's several things I want to point out to you this morning, a little different in my outline and and in the preaching this morning, but my goal is simply that you would see him. I see first a miracle by way of introduction, a miracle in this text. Do you see that here? The Bible says in verse 2, this is the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing. You mean a leper can be cleaned? Verse number three says, if the plague of the leprosy be healed in the leper. Now, if you'll read the previous chapter, you'll find out there in chapter number 13 that the plague of leprosy was a sentence of death. When you were discovered to have leprosy , you were declared unclean You were declared unfit to be in society. You were to be removed. You were to be taken away and put in a place all alone by yourself. And it was there you'd stay until you die But I find it interesting that God talks about lepers being healed even in the Old Testament. That there was the possibility of the miracle occurring. Now understand there was no medication to treat leprosy. There was no way to combat leprosy with any other interventions that would somehow or another reverse the disease. A diagnosis of leprosy was a death sentence to everybody who got it. But a miracle happened from time to time. And it happened enough of the time that God declared a law of declaring a leper who was unclean clean because of his healing. Now you say, why are you emphasizing that? I'll tell you why. Leprosy in the Bible is a picture of sin. All throughout the Bible, we're told that a leper Bears the marks of or a resemblance to this thing of sin. Do you know leprosy will disfigure you just like sin will? Leprosy, just like sin distances you from those that you love, it devours you. I still remember Brother Tommy Tillman. He was a missionary to lepers and I believe it was Thailand where he worked primarily, but he went in various places around the world. And God in his mercy kept that dear man. He ministered in these leper colonies. And and and I I saw pictures of him uh hugging lepers and and and and having services with them and eating at their tables and And they said, no one will do this in our culture because they're all afraid. And he said, so long as God gives me breath, I'm more concerned about your soul than I am your sickness. And he ministered among those people, and you know God kept him all the days of his life. He never got sick with lepers. He died of a I I believe it was a heart attack back here in the States after uh getting so old he could no longer travel and preach. But listen, what I'm trying to say is is that leprosy is a horrible picture of what sin does to a person. Somebody may be sitting here thinking, well, Pastor, sin 's no big deal. And it's portrayed like that in our culture, it's portrayed like that. In the media, it's portrayed like that. Everywhere we see it's it's just normal. We say it's just normal. Well, I've got news for you. It's devastating. It'll do just what leprosy did to a person's body, to your soul, and ultimately take you to a place that'll separate you from God forever in the lake of fire. But know this, there is a miracle that happens. Men can be healed from this disease, this leprosy. And I'm telling you there's a miracle in the salvation of a man's soul when God saves him or saves you, if you're a lady, saves her. saves by his marvelous grace. What was a death sentence can be reversed and life can come anew. I'm glad that we see that miracle happening here. The healing of the leper is a miracle that represents the work of salvation. But then I want you to see the memorial. Please notice this is not a sacrifice. Now there will be a sacrifice later in the chapter, and I hope you'll read the whole chapter because it just gets better and better. But this is not a sacrifice. He's not making a sacrifice offering it. He's observing a memorial that declares this man clean. Now the memorial required several things. It required two live birds that were clean, clean by the law standard. It required a piece of cedar wood and hyssop and a scarlet cord. They were to take an earthen vessel and fill it, it says with running water. And I believe that just literally means clean water, water perhaps it came from a spring or water that was moving water, fresh water, and they were to put it in that earthen vessel, and they were to take that first bird and they were to kill it and catch its blood And then they were to take the second bird and they were to bind that bird to that cedar board with the hyssop, and they were to dip that bird down in the vessel or the the basin, and that blood was to stain that bird. And then they were to take that whole unit, the bird, the hyssop, the cedar, the scarlet, and the priest sprinkled that leper seven times. And then he made a pronouncement. He said, You're clean. You're clean. God had healed him. God had healed him already. But now he's recognized Publicly, can I say it like this? Judiciously, as being clean. In fact, we read in verse number eight, he can go back to the camp He's allowed back among the people because he's been declared clean. Now, let me just quickly point out the message. There are six things here, six pictures. Of our Lord Jesus in this memorial. Six pictures. I believe if we look close enough in all of the Word of God, somehow we will find Jesus. And in finding Jesus, we'll get help. You know Jesus said he's the bread of life, and he's the water of life. And if your soul's hungry, your spirit's thirsty, it's found, relief is found in the Lord Jesus Christ. Note with me these six things just quickly, please. Number one, I want you to see the two birds. He said, take two birds. See that? He said, take two birds that are alive. And clean. Now that tells me they couldn't go out into the into the area there and the cook and and shoot them. They they had to catch them. These birds had to be alive and they had to be clean. I believe first these two birds represent the two natures of the Lord Jesus Do you know the Bible says he's the Son of God, but also the Son of Man? He has two titles What are the two titles? The two titles represent the two natures. Jesus Christ, the Son of God. He is God incarnate, God in the flesh. But he's also the Son of Man, meaning that he was a man born of woman, and here he is, just like you and me, minus the sin nature. Two natures are represented here or depicted here in the choosing of two birds. You say, why two? Because Jesus was only one. I'll tell you why too. Because nothing on earth can be used to perfectly compare to Jesus Christ. He's so unique and significant. There was only one man who had two natures in his being. There was only one individual who was perfect God and perfect man, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. But notice these birds had to be clean. They had to be clean. That didn't mean you had to wash them and get the filth off of them. They had to be clean birds by the law. You see, the law declared some birds unclean. Do you know eagles were unclean birds? uh the hawk and the owl and the vulture. These were all unclean birds, I believe, partly because they're scavenger birds. And he declares those birds run clean. They couldn't bring a bird that was ceremonially unclean. Had to be a clean bird. And I believe this points to the sinless nature of the Lord Jesus. Jesus could not be spotted with the taint of sin. He could not bear, people say, well, you know, what's the big deal about the virgin birth? I'll tell you what the big deal is. Had Jesus not been virgin born, he couldn't be my Savior. Because coursing through his body and his veins would be the blood of the of his father, his earthly father, and it would not save me. Jesus, listen, God required a perfect sacrifice. He required something that was pure and complete. And I'm glad, my friend, in the Lord Jesus we find the spotless Sinless, holy, undefiled, pure Lamb of God. Oh, listen, when John the Baptist saw him uh coming across the horizon there at the Jordan River, he said, Behold the Lamb of God. Not man's lamb, not a lamb that was prepared by by the hands of men, but a lamb that comes straight from the portals of heaven. The Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the whole world. He had to be clean. And I'm going to tell you, the Lord Jesus was clean. Clean sacrifice. Two birds. represent the Lord Jesus. The second object I see is the cedar wood. I want you to notice this cedar wood. God told them very specifically what type of wood to bring. Now, I think the most obvious picture here is the cross. The most obvious picture is the cross. You say, but hold on a minute, preacher. There was a living bird bound to the cedar wood. Well, I've got news for you. The cross didn't end the life of Jesus. He gave up the ghost. And then he took his life up again. Listen, he was the living one who was bound to the cross. And he lives today. This this bird or this cedar wood here represents the cross of the Lord Jesus. And my friend I I'm I marvel when I study my Bible how many pictures of the cross are found. You remember when the the the the sons of the prophets said The water's poison. It's poison. And it wasn't the sons of the prophets rather. It was the children of Israel. They said, Moses, the water's bitter. It's poison. It'll kill us. And God showed him a tree and said, Cut it down and put it in the water. And I've heard all sorts of crazy speculation. Well, it was a tree that had particular elements that purified the water. And I I just say all of that, shame on your unbelief. Because it was a miracle of God when the tree touched the water that that healing came, and the water that was poisonous no longer was. God did something miraculous and changed it. But that's a picture of the cross. It's a picture of the cross. You see, it is the cross of the Lord Jesus that can make every bitter thing sweet. When we bring it and surrender it to Him. What a picture. All through the Bible are pictures of the cross, and this Cedar wood is one of the other pictures of the cross. I like this about the Cedar Wood. Cedar was considered durable. Well, I'm not saying what, it still is considered a durable wood. It's considered one of those incorruptible woods. If you let me say it, it it's almost an eternal wood. We visited a museum, David Werther Museum, and this gentleman, since he was 17 years old, has made it his life mission to carve all of the sailing vessels. From the beginning of known time, as far as sailing is concerned, up until uh the present day. And he's carving all of this out of ivory. It's such a unique place to visit. But the tour guide told us about a ship. She said, this is an ancient Egyptian vessel. And she said it actually is on display over at the Great Pyramid in Giza. And there's a museum there. I said, the actual boat. She said, oh yeah. She said in 1954 they were digging around that, doing some work, and they discovered a boat under the burial place of the Pharaoh. And when they began to dig this thing out, they realized it's completely intact. And so they carefully moved it. I think it took them somewhere near 20 years. To move that boat piece by piece from underground, put it back together in a museum so that you can go see it today. That boat made of cedar, by the way, cedar of Lebanon That boat made of cedar is believed to be 4,500 or more years old. Now that's durable. You say, well, preacher, what in the world does that have to do with Jesus? I'll tell you what it has to do with Jesus. The cross of Jesus Christ is an eternal work. What Christ did on the cross will never need to be repeated. It will never be replaced. And it cannot be replicated. It's eternal. Listen to what Hebrews 9 says. Hebrews 9 says, and as well go back verse 26, for then he must have often suffered since the foundation of the world, but now once In the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And as is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many, and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation. One time. One time. And my friend, the work of the cross, by the way, you don't need to be saved but one time. One time. You don't have to get born again and again and again and again and again. Salvation is such an eternal work that when a man believes on the Lord Jesus Christ, he's birthed into the family of God, never to be unborn or rejected ever again. The work of the cross is eternal. Some dear soul struggling along thinking you've got to hang on to it, you've got to maintain it, you've got to uh you know, somehow or another support it and prop it up. You rest in the work of Jesus Christ. Jesus paid it all. And it's all to him that I owe. And my friend, it's an eternal work of God. There's one more I'll briefly mention and move on about the cedar wood. The cedar was considered the most majestic of all the trees It's the great tree. You read about that in the scripture. The great tree of the Bible is that cedar tree, that cedar of Lebanon. It was the largest and most beautiful. It represented majesty. That's why Solomon would use cedar in the building of his house. It was a majestic tree. And you say, but how could the cross be a picture of majesty? I'll tell you why. The king of love hung there. The throne that he sat upon on this earth was not a throne of ivory. But a throne of wood. And it was there he conquered sin. It was there he conquered death. It was there he conquered hell. And shortly thereafter he had conquered the grave. Thank God for the majesty of the Lord Jesus, even as he hung on the cross. Then I want you to quickly see the scarlet. Now, all we're told in the text is that it was scarlet. Take scarlet. But as we read on in the chapter, we find that there was a bringing together of the bird and the hyssop and the cedar. And so it stands to reason it had to be a scarlet cord, that it had to be something of a binding agent that could hold all of this thing together. That scarlet obviously represents the blood of Jesus Christ. Just like when Rahab was told that when the children of Israel came into Jericho If she would hang that scarlet thread out the window, that scarlet cord, that when they , uh came in there to to to to take the spoils of Jericho after God had defeated it That she would be saved if the scarlet thread was in the window. That was her only hope. And I've got news for you this morning: the only hope of any sinner is the blood of Jesus Christ. It is the blood of Christ that was shed to save me from my sin. And not only that do I see the blood, but I see it as a binding agent. Again, I said there's there's the coming together of this bird and the hyssop and the cedar. So something had to hold it all together. Something had to bind it all together. And this was the binding agent. You say, what does that represent? It represents the supreme sufficiency of the blood of Jesus Christ. Do you know what the Bible says in Hebrews 9. 22? Without the shedding of blood there's no remission of sin. Now, friend, listen, you you can't get your sin forgiven by getting in a baptismal pool and getting wet. You can be baptized so many times that, my friend, your skin look like a prune. And it won't save you. There's no salvation, my friend, in joining a church. There's no salvation in lighting a candle. There's no salvation in the rubbing of beads and repeating of rosary. There's no salvation in anything that you or I could do. There must be something that can remove my sin. Now you might consothe your conscience with a false peace, but you can't put your sin away. No more than a man could put his leprosy off. You can't put your sin away. You can say, Well, I'll do all the good deeds. You know what the problem is? All the bad ones still hang around the corner. They're still there. Well, preacher, I'm going to turn over a new leaf. Turn them over. Turn over every new leaf you can think of. But all the leaves you turn over are going to be just as rotten on the other side because you and I are corrupt of the core. You say, but there's got to be some way I can get rid of the guilt and the load of my sin. I'll tell you there is a way. There is a way. There's an old song we sing. What can wash away my sin? What's the answer? Nothing but the blood of Jesus What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. No wonder the writer went on to say, oh precious is the flow. That makes me white as snow. No other fount I know. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Friend, listen, the blood of Christ cleanses us from all sin. I heard someone give a testimony. They said, when I got saved, here's what they said. I felt clean for the first time. Clean. You know there's a filth in a man's soul that water can't take away. I see Pilate standing there trying to get that off his hands. He's washing his hands. He's saying, I'm not I'm not responsible. I don't want this blood on me. I I I I'm afraid of the people more than I am of God. And so I'm trying and you know something? I don't know that in hell that man's still not trying to wash that stain off. But he'll never get it off. He'll never get it off. I'm telling you, my friend, there is only one thing that can remove sin stain, and it is that precious fountain that's not opened on Calvary. And that blood, friend, that blood will put sin all away. His blood will remove sin for all of eternity. Oh, how it binds everything together. Take away the blood. And Christianity falls apart. I disagree. Some say, with people that say this, they say, well, it's just important that he died. That's not what the Bible says. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission. Blood had to be shed. His blood. In fact, the Bible says he offered his blood without spot unto God. That the Lord Jesus would offer that sacrifice, and that sacrifice is what saves and secures my soul. All throughout your Bible you see that uh typified when the children of Israel, the uh when when death come invading and took that firstborn. The blood is what kept them safe. Everybody behind the blood was safe. Everybody behind the blood. I've got news for you, friend. It's not your prayer that's got you saved. Not your prayer. Boy, that that rattled me. I've told you this. But somebody, uh an evangelist, stood in our pulpit and he said, as thirteen years old, he said, if you can't remember the prayer you prayed, you're lost. You're lost. Now I couldn't remember what I prayed. I couldn't remember. Did I say the right thing? Did I formulate the right sentences? Did I put it all together? God saved me at a young age. I didn't know all the right things, but I knew the right one. And I've got news for you. It's not the prayer you pray that saves you, it's not the words you string together that redeems you It's not the fact that that you remember it. It's not the fact, listen, time may tarry and and our our your your mind or my mind may be taken away by some dreadful disease and and you say, but what if I can't remember I'm his? Well he'll remember that I belong to him. He won't forget me. Thank God for the security. And what makes me so secure? It it makes me secure because the blood is what covers my sin and washes and takes it all away. Please note the binding factor of this blood. That scarlet thread held this whole thing together. I want you to notice the fourth thing that was used, and that was the hyssop. The hyssop. It was an herbal plant, a plant that was used for purifying. You might remember David prayed in Psalm 51, 7, Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. It was considered a purging. uh tool. It it would cleanse. And once again, I believe the hyssop points to the cleansing power of the blood of Jesus Christ. Oh listen, there's nothing will make you ever so clean. You might have come in this service and you're listening and you're saying, Preacher, I feel the weight of my sin. You're like old Pilgrim in that that old book of Pilgrim's Progress. And oh he said I just I felt the the weight it loaded me down. And it said he said he the further he went, the heavier it got And it seemed the more he tried to relieve himself of it, he couldn't get rid of it. It was just a growing weight day by day. That is, until he came up Calvary's hill, nailed at the cross. That weight was removed. Said it rolled down the hill and it went in an empty tomb, and I never saw it anymore. I've got news for you, my friend. There's a place that you can be clean. There's a place that you can be clean. Your life might be defiled and dirty. And and my my your my friend, your testimony might be one of debauchery, but know this, there is blood shed that'll cleanse you and make you brand new. Thank God for a Savior who cleanses, makes us whole. Not only do I see in Hiss at the cleansing power of the blood, but I see the humbling of the person of Christ. Hyssop was considered the least of plants. It was the least. The Jews had a A way of organizing plants. And the cedar was considered the greatest and the hyssop considered the least. It was small, it was everywhere. It was a plant considered to be lowly. The Bible says that Jesus in Philippians 2 humbled himself. He humbled himself. And he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Church, you've never seen one stoop so low as our precious Lord did. None have ever come so low. You know the problem with mankind is We're too high. We put ourselves too high. I I get a kick out of people that think they got some sort of power or authority and always showing it off. It's funny. That's like a gnat out here flying around showing off its great big wings to an eagle. He's nothing. What's man? What art thou? Listen, you know a man that thinks he's something when he's nothing deceives himself. Hear me now. The Son of God was something. And yet he humbled himself and became nothing. He humbled himself. Not only did he take your sin, but he became your sin. And I confess there's things in my Bible I don't fully comprehend how the Son of God could become sin, but it's what the Bible says. He who knew no sin became sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. He literally became my sin on the cross. And what God thought about sin and how God dealt with sin was all poured out and put upon the person of Jesus Christ for you and for me. I've got news for you. That's humility. He humbled himself. He came low. He stooped down. Thank God in his stooping I get to step up. Because had he not come down, I'd never been able to go up. Had he not ever made a bridge for the lowly and for those that are down in the degradation of sin, there'd never be a way for me to get to such a high and holy God. But on Calvary's wonderful cross, he took a wicked man and a holy God, and he brought the two together. And I say, Oh, what a savior. Oh, what a savior. The humbling of the Lord Jesus. Isn't it beautiful? Isn't it beautiful that God would take the Cedar and the Hyssop and put them both together in this memorial? We see the majestic and the least. And in the Lord we see both. We see the majesty of the Lord when he got up out of the grave. And I believe he declared those words that are recorded in Revelation: I am he that was dead. But behold, I'm alive forevermore. And behold, I have the keys of death, hell, and the grave. My, what majesty. But yet look at him hanging on the cross and what humility. But yet the two perfectly meet. In the Lord Jesus, just like the hyssop and cedar met in this memorial. Quickly, let me get to the application number five or the carrying out of this ritual. I want you to see the contents. They use the earthen vessel. And that earthen vessel held both blood and water. It held both blood and water. Remember in the Bible that when the soldier pierced Jesus' side, what came out? Blood and water. I believe there's a picture here not only of the death of the Lord Jesus on the cross, but there's a picture of the Word of God and the blood of Jesus, which both cleanse us. Remember what Jesus said to his disciples in John 15, 3? Now are you clean through the word which I've spoken unto you? Now are you clean. And then in Ephesians chapter number five, we're told that we're washed by the water of the Word. We're washed. You know, God's Word is a cleansing agent. It cleanses me. It's why He told me to read it, meditate on it, memorize it. Make it a big part of my life, he said to those Old Testament Jews, he said, put it on the post of your door, your house, your gate. Keep that law, keep that word. You know why? Because you need to keep clean. The Bible will cleanse you, but the blood will cleanse you too. Again, we've emphasized it, but I want to emphasize it again that we're redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. Peter wrote it in 1 Peter 1:19, that we're not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold. I pity dear people that think. I had a funeral one time, and uh the person had been saved Maybe six months out of Roman Catholicism, and the family held a Catholic funeral. And at written request, the person who passed away said, Well, I want it to conclude with my pastor having part. And so I had to go sit through that first part. And what a hopeless thing it was. I sat there and and and Basically listen to a challenge to the family to pay this person out of purgatory. It was done in flowery language, but what if you listened was being said is: you put enough money in, they'll be okay. And I thought, what tragedy. And I had the privilege to stand followed that, and I simply said the priest, he was trying to get out of the building before I started. But I I I hurried real fast. And I got to the platform and I said, I want you to know salvation is free. It's free. It's free. It's free in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm here to tell you that we are not redeemed with silver and gold. We're not redeemed by vain traditions that we receive. Be they Roman Catholic, be they Baptist, be they whatever tradition they are, we're redeemed by the spotless blood of the Lamb of God. The only thing that can save you this morning is Jesus Christ. So that earthen vessel held the cleansing agent. But I want you to notice what the priest had to do. He took that bird, that living bird, that block of cedar, that hyssop and that scarlet cord. And he dipped them in that vessel. He dipped them down in there. And so that bird became blood stained. And then that per that that leper would be sprinkled. And you remember what it said seven times. Seven times. He had to sprinkle him. Seven times. Not six. Not five, not three, not four. I got a dear friend. He carries candy with him all the time. And the little children come and they'll say, Can I have a piece of candy? He says, sure, here's three pieces Said, why? He said, one for the Father, one for the Son, one for the Holy Ghost. I got to think of this the other day, and I think this way, probably because I'm portly. But uh I I think this way, I was thinking you know, seven's the number of perfection. I think if I was a kid, I'd say, give me seven, right? I don't want just three. Give me seven pieces. Anyway, seven is God's number of perfection Seven is God's number of victory. It's God's number of completion. And can I say to you this morning that when Jesus Christ gives you salvation and pronounces you clean, It's perfect. It's complete. It's entire. It needs nothing. It's plus nothing. Minus nothing. You don't have to do something else. You just simply trust in him and he alone saves. If you're saved, you have a perfect salvation in the Lord Jesus. Nothing missing. Nothing missing. Then finally, number six, I want you to notice the release of the live bird. Notice what it says here. Let him loose. Let him loose. In an open field. Verse number seven. Just let him loose. Now picture this, will you? That bird Has blood on him from the dead bird. That bird's bearing the marks of being touched by death. And that bird's taken and he's let loose. And as he rises up into the heaven, he still bears the marks of being touched by death, but he's going heavenward. Can I say to you, when the Lord Jesus got up out of the grave, he bore the marks of death upon him, he's got nail prints in his hands, in his side, in his feet, but yet he ascended unto his father alive forevermore. What a picture of the resurrection of Jesus Christ when that live bird took off into the heavens. I find something else here. I find that he was let loose in an open field. Do you see that? Don't turn him loose in the wilderness. Don't put him in the city. Turn him loose in the open field. I believe that open field was his natural habitat. It's God's way of saying, put him back where he belongs. Put him back where he belongs. Don't take him, put him in a cage, and don't put him out somewhere in a city or a wilderness place, put him in an open field where just where he belongs. Can I say to you that when Jesus left out of here, he went right back where he belongs? He belonged in the presence of the Father, and the Bible says he ascended into his presence. He's at the right hand of the Father where he lives forevermore. He's right where he belongs. My friend, listen, he's back in his natural environment, and one of these days all that know him will be taken to be with him, and we'll be right where we belong. We'll be right back in our natural environment, if you will, because of what he did for us in salvation. You know, you're a s the Bible says if you're saved, you're a stranger and a pilgrim. This world's not your home. Aren't we strange creatures? We want to go home where we've never been. But yet we got something in us tugging. We're looking for a city whose builder and maker's God. We're looking for a home. We've never been there, but we know it's home. We've never walked the streets of gold, but we know we're one of these days we're going to get to. That's our home. We we've never walked we've never been uh in that environment, yet that's the environment our heart craves. You know why? Because you've got a new nature living inside of you. You've got the nature of the Lord Jesus. And one of these days, like that bird let loose in the open field, my friend, it might be death or it might be the rapture. I don't know which But both will do the same job. They'll cut you loose from this world of sorrow and let you fly into the heavens to be in your natural environment where you'll forever be with the Lord. My what a Savior Jesus is, and what a salvation He brings. Now, friend, none of this is accidental. You know why God so judged harshly the nation of Israel? Because they sinned against so much light. They had a lot of light. They had picture after picture after picture drawn for them. Every time that clean leper, that leper who had been healed, said, I'm clean. Got up, there's a miracle happened. My leprosy is gone. Go call for the priest. Observe this memorial. Everybody standing. Can you imagine how his family must have felt standing by watching this? They had already buried him in their mind. They had already done. But somehow or another, God gave him life again. And they stand around and they watch the memorial. And you know what they're watching? They're watching a depiction of the Lord Jesus who would come and die on a cross and shed his blood to save us from our sin and make a way for us to be born again. And I've got news for you folks. The people in this country have got a lot to answer for, and perhaps you do, even sitting here this morning, because the the the gospel of Jesus Christ has been declared and set before you. You are without excuse. The only hope you have is Jesus. If you're trusting this church, you're going to die and go to hell. If you're trusting your prayer, your good works, or your money, or your religion. You're going to die and go to hell. But if you'll come to Jesus Christ, you'll find eternal life, salvation full and free, and a cleansing of all your sin. He's the only hope. He's the only hope. You don't have two hopes. You don't have three options. There's only one way. Jesus is that blessed way. Oh, my friend, I hope the Lord's helped us to see Jesus again. And if you're lost, I pray that you see him as your only hope. I pray that God's opening your eyes to understand. There's no other way. There's no other way. You say, what happens when I see that? Cry out. Cry out. Remember that blind man sitting by the way? Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy. Have mercy. Well they didn't they didn't like that. I'd rather see an old broken-hearted sinner run down the aisles Screaming and crying and falling out in the altar, ruining the dignity of this this highbrow bunch, and mate and and crying out, God, have mercy, I'm going to hell. And some old stoic sinners sit there and say, I'm too dignified to do things like that. My friend, you'll dignify yourself right to death and hell for eternity. Cry out to him. Cry out to him. He's the only Savior. He's the only way. There's no other way. Brother and sister, my dear Christian friends, may God help us to see the Lord Jesus is so clear in his word. Why is that? You say why? Why is this repeated again? Why is it repeated in the sacrifice of the lamb? Why is it repeated In the consecrating of the temple. Why are all these pictures redrawn and redrawn and redrawn? You know why? So that it will capture the affection? And the loyalty of your heart to Him. Our Lord's not looking for mindless robots He's looking for loving followers. He said, be ye followers of God as dear children. You know one of the marks of a dear child? Is they love doing what adults do. They copy them. Mike, you've got a little boy, and I guarantee you he copies you. He copies you. You know why? Because he loves you. He loves you. He'll put them boots on, though you could probably put his little body in one of them Maybe not Tyler. Tyler probably feels two boots. But he puts them little boots on, he wants to walk like daddy. Wears a ball cap because he wants to look like daddy. Well so you know why? Because he loves him. He just loves his daddy. So he's gonna follow him. You know what the Lord wants you to do? He wants you to follow him because you love him. Lord, I love you, and I just want to follow you. I want to follow you like a dear child. That's why he paints all these pictures so that you'll love him. Isaac had a bride coming his way. And my Bible says there in the book of Genesis that this servant of Isaac told Rebekah all the way home. About Isaac. That's all they talked about. Told about his wealth, told about his wonders. Told about his works. I believe with all my heart, although Rebecca never laid eyes on him, she loved him before she ever saw him. She couldn't wait to meet him. You've got a heavenly Eliezer on the inside. And you know what he'll do if you'll listen to him? He'll just talk about Jesus. He'll tell you all the beauty of him, all the glory and the splendor of him. And though you've never seen him, the Bible says, Yet though we see him not, we love him and rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory We love him more and more. One of these days, like Rebecca, we're going to jump off of our uh earthly camel and fall in the f at the feet of the Lord Jesus and love him for all of eternity because we've been hearing about him all the way home. God wants you to follow him like a dear child. Oh, may the Lord help us to see Jesus. Would you stand with me please? Head